Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6708-MAS
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
M&kURITIUS
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
March 14, 1988
Industry and Energy Division
Eastern Africa Department
This document has a restided disribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not othenwise be disdosed withbout Wodd Bank autrin.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Mauritian Rupee (M Re)
US$ 1.0 = M Rs 12.5
M Rs 1 - US$0.08
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BOM           Bank of Mauritius
DBM           Development Bank of Mauritius
DC            Development Certificate
EEC           European Economic Community
EPZ           Export Processing Zone
GOM           Government of Mauritius
ISAL          Industrial Sector Adjustment Loan
PCC           Project Coordinating Committee
PFI           Participating Financial Injtitution
SCB           State Commercial Bank
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OMCIAL us ONLY
MAURITIUS
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PR...CT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY .....................                 (i)-(i)
I.  7HE SETTING....... **. 1
A.  Economic Setting      .....................................   1
B.  The Industrial Sector 1
Sector Background and Performance                         1
Structure of Manufacturing                                2
Government Strategy and Recent Policy Changes .,....   3
Tourism Sector .................. .............          4
C.  The Financial Sector                                            5
Structure, Performance and Policies  * *         **       5
Interest Rates      ......................... .           8
Industrial Finance                                        8
Prospects and Constraints    ........9..........   9
D.  Bank Country Goals and Sector Lending Strategy ..........  10
Bank Goals and Strategy                                  10
Rationale for Bank Involvement                           10
Performance Under Past Loans in the Sector               11
II.  PARTICIPATING INSTITUTIONS .................*...............  12
A.  Introduction                                                   12
B.  The Bank of Mauritius ...      .12
C.  The Development Bank of Vauritius                              12
D.  The State Commercial Bank  ... .15
_II.  THE PROJECT   ..............................                       19
A,  Project Background ..................................   19
Project Origin ........................         .        19
Project Objectives                                       19
B.  Project Description                                            20
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Mauritiu;.
in February 1987, composad of Zia Ahmed (Mission Leader), hariluz Cortes,
MoLna Varkie, Michael Rathnam (Bank) and Einar Sekse (COnsultant),
r  document has a mstcted distdibution and may be used by recipients only In the prfomace
of tbdr ofllcbl dude Its contents may not otherwis be diclsed without World Bank authorIaton.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)                                         Page No
C.  Project Implementation .0.0...... ......... ................  20
Institutional Arrangements .o......................   20
On-*ending Terms and Conditions ....................  21
Moiitoring 0000000000000000000 000000000000000  22
Procurement ...o...*. ..........o oo...o.ooooooeooooo  22
Disbursement 00 e..o...oo...o...oo....o....o.. 00000   23
Accounts and Audits o..........ooo...oo.oo.....oo.oo 23
D.  Benefits and Risks  ........                                23
IV.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AT NEGOTIATIONS ..............a...........  25
ANNEXES
1.  Manufacturing Sector 0000000000 0     0    0    0 .       0     26
Table  1 - Key Indicators of Manufacturing Sector   *00*0*0 26
Table  2 - Manufacturing Value Added                            27
Table  3 - Share of Manufacturing in the Economy ......o.  28
Table 4 - Structure of Manufacturing        ,.                  29
table  5 - Tourlsm                                              30
2.  Finaucial Sector ..00****00*0*000000000   31
Table  1 - Structure of Financial Sector                        31
Table  2 - Mauritius Banking System ooo...o...o.....oo.......  32
Table  3 - Sectoral Distribution of Credit to Private Sector   33
Table 4 - Principal Interest Rates ......................   34
Table  5 - Inflation Rate *.*..***.....*..****......*........   35
3.  Development Bank of Mauritius (DBM) .0...0..000..0..00.0.....  36
Table  1 - Basic Data ...o..................................  44
Table  2 - Comparative Operations:  1982-1991................  46
Table 3 - Analysis of Arrears over 3 Months as of
June 30, 1987 o0o00000o00000000oo00o0000000000o0  47
Table  4 - Actual Balance Sheets 1982-1986 .... ..............   48
Table  5 - Actual Income Statements 1982-1986    ...............   49
Table  6 - Actual Financial Ratios 1983-1986 .... ............   50
Table  7 - Projected Balance Sheets 1987-1991 ...............*  51
Table  8 - Projected Income Statements 1987-1991 ...........^   52
Table 9 - Projected Sources and Uses, 19a7-1991.............   53
Table 10 - Projected Financial Ratios 1987-1991 *ooooo..ooooo  54
40  State Commercial Bank (SCB)  *      0 0.............00...............  55
Table  1 - Basic Data o. o. ...................................  55
Table  2 - Actual Balance Sheets ..      ..........................   56
Table  3 - Actual Profit and Loss Account        ...................  57
Table 4 - Actual Financial Ratios ............................   58



TABLZ OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)                                              Page No,
5. DrtWt Eligibility and Accreditation of PFIs. .............            59
6*  Schedule of Disburs euente...................................  64
7.  Selected Documents Available in the ProJect File.,...........  65
NAP OF NAURITIUS



MAURITIUS
INDUSTRTIE-FINANCE PROJECT
Loan and ProJect summary
Borrower:              Bank of Mauritius (BOM)
Financial              BOM as the project coordinating agency, the
Intermedlaries:        Development Bank of Mauritius (DBM) and the State
Commercial Bank (SCB)
Beneficiaries:         Manufacturing, transport and tourism enterprises and
builders of industrial estates.
Amount:                US$10 million equivalent
Terms:                 Interest at the standard variable rate and charges.
There would be a flexible amortization schedule that
would substantially conform with the aggregate of the
amortization schedules of subloans made by the
participating financial institutions (subject to a
maximum of 17 years, lncludiag a grace period not to
exceed 4 years).
Project Description:  The project would consist of a line of credit of
US$10.0 million, which would be on-lent by the
BOM to two participating financial institutions
(PFIs), which would relend the funds for investment
projects In manufacturing, transport, tourism and
industrial building construction.
On-Lu.ding Terms:      The line of credit of US$10.0 million equivalent
would be on-lent to PFIs by BOM at the Bank's
variable rate. BOM would charge an administration
fee to cover the costs of coordinating the project.
The PFIs would bear the commitment charges, based on
preallocated amounts to each PFI which could be
passed on to their clients. The PFLs would relend
the funds to the ultimate beneficiaries at variable
market rates ensuring an adequate spread, and would
pass on the foreign exchange risk. DBM would relend
the funds in both foreign and local currency and
would charge an adequate premium under its Foreign
Exchange Fluctuation Fund arrargaments ta cover
foreign exchange risk for local currency lending.
Maturities of subloans would range from 5-15 years.



(ii)
Estimated Disbursements:
- B anBak Fiscal Year-
1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995    1996
Annual      0.30   0.60   1.80   2.00   1.80   1.40   1.20   0.60    0o30
Cumulative  0.30   0.90   2.70   4.70   6.50   7.90   9.10   9.70   lO.00
Benefits and Risks:   The project would provide funds for manufacturing,
transport, tourism and industrial building
subprojects, creating employment opportunities and
increasing foreign exchange earnirgs. The project
would also increase competition among financial
institutions in providing term finance by giving
access to long-term foreign currency resources for
the first time to a commercial bank, and creating a
mechanism that could be later expanded to include
other financial institutions. The project would also
strengthen DBM, which is the main source of long-term
finance. The level of risk associated with the
project is low because of Mauritius' good economic
performance and policies, and the flexibility under
the line of credit in terms of subprojects and the
number of intermediaries involvedo However, there
may be some initial procedural delays due to the
unfamiliarity of SCB with Bank requirements for
subproject appraisal and processing. In addition,
the project may be delayed if DBM is unable to
Improve its debt recovery and loan processing
capabilities as envis4ged in the project. These
risks have been minimized by the provision of
appropriate material to SCB to acquaint its
professional staff with Bank requirements prior to
Loan effectiveness. Also, DBM has taken initial
steps to strengthen its middle management and
organization and is implementing a debt recovery
action plan agreed with the Bank.



. THE SETTIN7G
A. Economic Setting
1.01      The Mauritian economy is in its fourth year of recovery.  After a
period of stagnation during 1979/1983, GDP expanded by 4,6% in 1984, a
further 6.5% in 1985, and an estimated 7.9% in 1986. The engine behind
this remarkable growth performance is the ongoing boom in manufactured
exports, which now account for over 50 percent of Mauritius' exports. Two
other sectors that contributed to the upswing of the economy are svgar and
tourism.  The sugar sector, traditionally the mainstay of Mauritius'
economy, recovered in 1986 from the previous year's low production levels
of 576,000 tons to more than 700,000 tons. The number of tourists visiting
the country increased every year since 1984. Based on tourist arrivals
during the first six months of the year, the tourism sector is estimated to
have grown by 12% in 1986.
B. The Industrial Sector
Sector Background and Performance
1.02      The contribution of the manufacturing sector to the national
economy increased rapidly over the past 15 years. The share of manufac-
turing in GDP increased from 8% in 1970 to about 17% in 1986; industrial
employment grew from about 8,000 in 1970 to 84,000 in September 1986 (from
6 to 35% of total employment) and, most importantly, exports of manu-
factured goods, almost non-existent in 1970, accounted for about 50% of
total exports in 1985. The import-substitution subsector is still an
Important contributor to manufacturing value added (46X), but it is losing
ground to the more dynamic export subsector, which now provides employment
to over 80% of the country's industrial workers and to 27% of total
employment.
1.03      Until the mid-sixties, Mauritius' industrial development was
negligible. In 1964, the Government introd-ced an incentive scheme to
encourage the development of import substitution activities (para. 1.09),
but this scheme did not have any significant impact on industrial growth
until the early seventies, when high world sugar prices stimulated local
demand for manufactured goods and contributed to the growth of import
substitution industries. In 1970, the Government introduced another
incentive scheme aimed at attracting local and foreign privete investors
into exporz processing activities (para. 1.10). This package of Incentives
proved remarkably successful in attracting foreign investors to Mauritius,
and in encouraging local entrepreneurs to invest in manufacturing.
Manufactured exports, which were almost non-existent in 1970, accounted for
nearly 24% of total exports in 1977. This rapid expansion, mostly of
knitwear and garments, was facilitated by the free access to the European
Economic Community under the Yacunde and Loms Conventions, of goods made in
Mauritius, and by Mauritius' favorable ratio of labor productivity to cost
as compared with other exporting countries.
1.04     Following a period of decline in economic growth and investment
during the late 1970s due to the 1976 drop in sugar prices, combined with
wage increases not related to productivity gains, an overvalued exchange



rate, and sluggish economic conditions in OECD countries, th3 Government
adopted a Stabilization and Structural AdJustment Program in the early
19808 and took several policy measures to stimulate industrial exports.
The policy changes and promotional efforts allowed Mauritius to capitalize
quickly on the recovery in world trade. Manufacturing exports grew by
nearly 9% in real terms in 1983, and by about 30% per annum in 1984 and
1985. Preliminary estimates indicate that in 1986 manufacturing exports
may have grown by 32% in real terms. Manufactured exports surpassed sugar
as Mauritius' main export for the first time in 1985. At the same time,
lmlort substitution manufacturing grew at only 3% per annum in the last
three years. mhe 1984-86 export boom was generated by a surge of new export
enterprises and the expansion of a number of existing ones. Gross domestic
fixed capital formation In manufacturing increased correspondingly, from
US$36.5 million in 1984 to US$47.9 million in 1985, and to US$79.5 in 1986.
1.05      The employment generation performance of the export industries is
also remarkable. Eport firms created an average of nearly 4,000 jobs per
annum during the growth period of the  970s and 1,000 per annuim during the
1977-83 recession. In recent years, while new auployment opportunities in
import substitution finms ceased, Export Processing Zone (EPZ) firma
created 12,000 jobs in 1984, nearly 16,000 in 1985 and an estimated 20,000
in 1986 -- helping bring down unemployment from 17% to an estimated 12% in
three years. About 75,000 workers are now employed in EPZ firms,
representing over 80% of the labor force employed in industry. The average
investment cost per job in the EPZ subsector is under US$3,000, a fraction
of the cost per job in import substitution enterprises.
Structure of Manufacturing
1.06      In 1986, there were 377 export firms operating within the EPZ
scheme and 334 enterprises producing for the local market, Of the latter,
169 operated under the Development Certificate (DC) incentive scheme
(para. 1.09) and 165 operated outside the scheme (most of them established
before it was adopted). There are also a number of small firms (less than
10 workers) producing manufactures for the local market. Textiles and
apparel are the dominant activities among export oriented firms, accounting
for about 77% of total output and 91% of total employment. Other manufac-
tured exports include jewelry, electronic watches, toys and plastic goods.
The import substituting subsector Is much more diversified and accounts for
most of the firms producing food and beverages, chemicals, and metal pro-
ducts.* mport substitution firms are predominantly owned by Mauritians,
who also own about 50% of export firms and participate in joint ventures,
with varying proportions of equity, in another 40% of them.
1.07      Markets.  Export industries were originally set up in Mauritius
mainly to take advantage of the preferential access to the BEC that
Mauritius enjoys under the Loam Convention. Although the EEC is still the
main market for Mauritian exports (accounting for 67% of total exports in
1985), the US and Canada are becoming increasingly important markets,
accounting in 1985 for nearly 27% of exports.



Government Strategy and Recent Policy Changes
1.08      In recent years, the Government of Mauritius has strengthened the
export-led Industrialization strategy initiated in the early 1970s, In
line with this strategy, the industry component of the Government's Struc-
tural Adjustment Program, initiated in the early 1980s with Bank support
through two structural adjustment loans, introduced a set of medium term
policy reforms for manufacturing industries focusing on: (a) restoring the
competitiveness of industrial exports through appropriate exchange rate and
wage polic'es; (b) extending the investment incentives to production for
exports to non-EPZ firms; (c) reducing protection to import-substituting
manufacturing by eliminating quantitative import restrictions, reducing
price controls and some tariffs; (d) attracting new local and foreign
investment and technology to export manufacturing by creating two new
agencies: one to function as one-stop-center for potential investors,and
the other to be responsible for investment and export promotion; and (e)
encouraging private investment by lowering income tax rates on companies.
In the context of the Industrial Sector Adjustment Loan (ISAL) approved on
April 1987, the government is carrying out further changes in industrial
policy, including reductions in maximum import tariffs, in order to
stimulate export development further and achieve greater efficiency in
resource allocation.
1.09      Incentives for Import Substituting Industries.  The Development
Certificate (DC) Scheme was introduced in 1964 to stimulate the growth of
Import substituting iudustries, The essential features of the scheme were
corporate tax holidays for five to eight years, according to the deprecia-
tion mathod chosen, ond tax free dividends for any consecutive five years;
loans for working capital at the prime rate from commercial banks, duty
free entry of capital goods, and protection from competing imports through
Import quotas and tariffs. In the initial years, these measures helped the
establishment of a number of import substituting industries. However, with
the growth of EPZ industries and an overall improvement in the economic
situation, the Government has in recent years modified a number of
incentives. Pbr instance, all quantitative import restrictions were
abolished in 1984-85 and the Government has reduced the number of DCs
granted in recent years. Under the recently approved ISAL, the Govetnment
has agreed to grant DC certificates only in exceptional cases. The next
step in the process of trade liberalization will be the reduction over time
of maximum tariffs on imported products. Under the ISAi., the Government
reduced by June 1987 maximum import duty rates. Further tariff reductions
would be introduced in June 1988.
1.10      Incentives for Export Oriented Manufacturing.  The EKport Proces-
sing Zone Act of 1970, aimed at. attracting investors into export processing
activities, granted tax holidays on corporate profits and dividends,
exemption from tariffs on imported inputs and on exports, priority
financing from DBM and credit from commercial banks at preferential rates,
lower electricity rates than domestic companies, free repatriation of
capital and dividends, protection against nationalization and greater
flexibility concerning the discharging of workers. Ihese incentives are



- 4 -
reserved for industries exporting the totality of their output, and local
sales by export industries are tightly constrained, These incentives have
been successful in stimulating investment in EPZ firms.
1.11      Over time, the Government hds modified the tax incentive
schemes. Originally, EPZ firms were granted exemption from corporate tax
for the first ten years of operation, and were taxable at half the normal
rate during years ll to 15 and at 75% of the rate durlng years 16 to 20.
Their dividends were tax free for any consecutive five years beginning with
the first year of dividend payment. In June 1984, the corporate income tax
rate was reduced from 65 to 35%, applied to all corporate profits before
distribution of dividends. In June 1985, EPZ and DC companies were given
the option between maintaining their previous tax holidays or changing to a
permanent corporate tax rate of 15%, with dividends exempted from income
tax for the first ten years of the firm's operations. MDst firms accepted
the new option. One main advantage of the new tax regime is that it closes
the loophole under which firms could formally close at the end of the tax
holiday period to start again under a new certificate. A system of
corporate tax benefits was also introduced for exporters who do not have
EPZ or DC certificates, in which the tax rate is reduced by 2 percentage
points for each 10% of output exported.
1.12      Export and Investment Promotion.  The Government created the
Mauritius Export Development and Investment Authority (MEDIA) in 1983 as a
parastatal organization responsible for promoting investment and exports
and for developing and operating industrial sites and estates, The
Government has also been active in assisting EPZ firms to obtain freight
rebates from major shipping companies and in negotiating the size of the
quotas imposed by the US and Canada on Mauritius' garment exports.
1.13      Prospects.  In the sbort term, during 1987/88, Mauritius' growth
and balance of payments performance should remain favorable. In a
generally favorable world economic environment, the export processing
industry is exnec-;ed to continue to grow rapidly, although at a somewhat
slower pace. plith continued growth of tourism, stable sugar export volumes
and current petroleum prices, real growth of GDP is expected to be around
5X per year during 1987/88. In the mediuu term, during 1989-95, to
achieve sustainel growth and a viable balance of payments position,
Mauritius will need to continue to diversify its export structure in
agriculture and manufacturing. In manufacturing, product diversification
and vertical integration will need to be accelerated, and new markets
outside the EEC and the US explored. The rate of growth in exports of
manufactured goods is expected to be around 6% per year during 1989-92. To
achieve this high growth rate the financial sector would have to be more
responsive in providing adequate resources, particularly long term.
Tourism Sector
1.14      Mauritius has been successful in developing the tourism industry
as an important source of foreign exchange and employment. Local and
foreign groups have set up hotels around the island catering mostly to the



- 5 -
higher income tourist. Tburist arrivals in Mauritius for the last three
years have increased at a yearly average rate of 10%. Tourist arrivals are
expected to have reached 165,000 in 1986.  France is the mst iaportant
long-Laul market with about 18% of total arrivals. The short-haul market
is dominated by Reunion Island with 25X share of total arrivals followed by
the Republic of South Africa with 16%. Tourist earnings In 1986 amounted
to about US$90 million. about 351 of the value of sugar euporta during the
same period. Between 1985 and 1986, the number of hotel rooms increased by
186 from 1,344 to 1,530. The room occupancy rate for large hotels was 68X
in 1985, and reached 711 in 1986. The restaurant and hotel sector contri-
bute about 3% to GDP. The Government has designated the tourism sector as
a priority sector together with industry and sugar in terms of access to
credit at the prime rate from commercial banks.
C. The Financial Sector
Structure, Performance and Policies
1.15      The financial system in Mauritius is fairly well developed.  The
institutions in the financial sector include: (a) the Bank of Mauritius
(the Central Bank); (b) twelve commercial banks, with combined assets of
M Rs 9,623 million (US$769.8 million), of which seven are foreign based and
five domestic; (c) the Development Bank of Mauritius (DBM) with assets of h
Rs 652 million (US$52.2 million); (d) three pension funds with combined
assets of M Rs 1,780 million in June 1985 (up 23Z from the previous year),
making them one of the most substantial sources of savings in the country;
(e) 23 insurance companies with assets amounting to M Rs 1,323 million of
which some 40% are in the form of loans to the private sector, largely
(751) mortgages; (f) the Mauritius Housing Corporation (MHC) with assets of
M Rs 352 million and mortgage outstanding amounted to M Rs 293 million; (g)
the State Investment Corporation (SIC), which was established by the
Government in 1984 to make equity investments in productive finms. TDtal
capital as of June 1986 amounted to M Rs 94 million of which 601 was
invested in equity and 40% in current assets; (h) the Post Office Savings
Bank, which receives deposits and is required to invest them in Government
securities; and (i) a leasing bank which was created recently but has not
yet started operations. Detailed descriptions of the Bank of Mauritius, DB)
and SCB which are to participate in the proposed operation are presented in
Chapter II.
1.16     The Banking System.  At the center of the financial system are the
commerciil-banks, which command nearly 70% of the resources of the
sector.mhe commercial banks are all privately owned, except the State
Commercial Bank which is owned by the Government and some parastatals. The
commercial banks have responded fairly well to the financial requirements
of Mauritius' fast expanding economy. They provide easy access to credit
through a network of 47 urban and 55 rural bank branch offices, Consistent
with the rapid growth of the Mauritian economy, commercial bank assets grew
at an average rate of 11.31 per annum in real terms between 1982 and 1986,
while credit to the private sector expanded by an average rate of 10.31 per
annum in real terms during the same period (9% per annum between 1982 and



- 6 -
1984 and 11.7% per annum between 1984 and 1986).  Despite the rapid growth
of bank credit to the private sector, the banking system remaius fairly
liquid due to the credit ceilings Imposed by the BOM on commercial banks,
as part of the Government's Stabilization Program (para. 1.30).  However,
the liquidity in the banking system is in the form of short term deposits,
which are not easily transformed into long term credit. To respond to the
long term Investment needs of the growing economy, the banks are in need of
long term foreign resources for Investment financing.
1017      Mauritius' banking system is highly concentrated.  The three
largest commercial banks are the Mauritius Commercial Bank (MCB), the State
Commercial Bank (SCB) and the Mauritius Commercial Bank Finance Corporation
(MCBFC), a subsidiary of MCB which accepts term deposits and lends for
medium term. These three banks together account for 86Z of the comercial
bank assets and 77% of the commercial bank loans to the private sector.
The fourth biggest bank is the Development Bank of Mauritius. MCB and its
subsidiary MCBFC account for about 50% of the banking system's loan
portfolio (including DBM), SCB accounts for 23%, DBM for 11% and the
foreign banks for the rest.
1.18      The banking system is specialized, with commercial banks
concentrating on overdrafts and loans for not more than three year term;
the MCBFC (and until June 1986 the State Commercial Bank Finance
Corporation, a subsidiary of SCB) specializing In medium-term loans (5-6
years), and the DBM as the major source of long-term financing (up to 15
years), This specializatIon in lending is largely technical and reflects
the maturity pattern of deposits of the financial institutions. Up to 18%
of the deposits in commercial banks are demand deposits, 39% axa savings
deposits and 43% ara time deposits. The latter are heavily concentrated in
the short term (80% are less than one year). The MCBFC, which until
January 1986 operated without a banking license, is financed by time
deposits with an average maturity of 3j-4 years and does not receive demand
deposits. Before merging with its parent -ompany, the State Commercial
Bank Finance Corporation financed its loans with a bond issue (5, 10 and 15
years and partially tax free, fully subscribed mainly by other financial
institutions) and with deposits having an average maturity of 3 years. The
DBM, which operates outside thz Banking Act, is the only financial
institution authorized to obtain loans abroad. Its funds are long term,
usually originating from abroad (World Bank, ADB, Caisse Ceutrale, RIB and
the Industrial Development Bank of India). It has also received long-term
quasi equity loaus from Government and in 1986 issued X Rs 50 million tax
free bonds.
1.19      Capital Markets.  There is practically no secondary market or
stock ecchange for marketing shares and securities.  Out of a total of
3,514 companies registered as of November 1985, only 325 are open to the
public and have more than 25 shareholders. These firms may issue bonds and
debentures and their stock is eligible for transaction in the stock
market. Growth of the capital market, both in the number and size of
issues, is desirable to achieve a wider distribution of equity ownership,
mobilize long-term capital and provide a secondary market outlet for



-7_
financial institutions which currently invest almost exclusively in
Government securities. A draft stock exchange bill is being discussed, aut
it needs strengthening with details about the rules to guide the activil.les
of the participants. The new Company Act enacted in 1984 provides for a
legal framework appropriate to the needs of modern business concerns.
1.20     Policy Framework.  Nbnetary policy in the past 15 years has
progressed through several distinct stages. From 1962 to 1973 the monetary
policy was expansiooary. Then came a period of quantitative controls that
lasted until 1977, when emphasis switched to interest rate controls. Since
1979, Mauritius has followed a tight monetary policy designed to ease the
pressure on the foreign currency reserves and to reduce inflation. The
absence of a well-developed capital market prevents operations In the open
market to influence the total volume of credit; the emphasis is thus laid
on quantitative controls and credit clhanneling. To this end, under the
stabilization program supported by the IMF, creait ceilings were applied to
the public as well as the private sector, together with sectoral
distribution of credit. The policy has been successful in increasing
foreign exchange reserves, reducing the fiscal deficit and lowering
inflation. Although currently there is no stand-by arrangement with the
IMF, credit ceilings continue to operate under an informal arrangement.
1.21      Credit Ceilings.  COly commercial banks are subject to credit
ceilings. DBN operates outside the credit ceilings (until mid 1986 SCBFC
and until the end of 1986 MCBFC did the same),  Every six months, BOM
specifies the credit ceiling, taking into account the overall balance of
payments target and expected bank financing of the Governmentts fiscal
deficit. Tbtal credit ceilings are then allocated to individual banks
based on their share in the increase of bank deposits in the previous
period and on their share in the increase in credit to the priority
sector,  Credit ceilings have been recently relaxed.  Banks are requested
to lend their allocation with the following breakdown: (i) a minimum of
75% of a bank additional lending has to go to priority sectors which
include: sugar and other agricultural interests, holders of valid or
expired certificates (EPZ, DC, EKport Service certificates, Hbtel
management certificate), small entrepreneurs, other manufacturing
industries, transport, hotels and perastatals; and (II) a waximum of 25% of
additional lending goes to non-priority sectors including traders, housing,
personal and professional, and financial institutions. Since priority
sectors are also the most profitable, the allocation of credit resulting
from the credit a.eilings has not created major distortions. Tb encourage
commercial banks to mobilize more savings in the form of time deposits for
the medium and long term, the BOK now allows commercial banks to make
medium and long term loans for productive Investment, provided they are
matched by corresponding long term deposits. The Government and the IMF
are discussing the replacement of direct credit ceilings with indirect
systems of reserve money management. The Government has accepted this
replacement in principle, but additional preparatory work is still to be
carried out by the BOM. The resulting liberalization of the financial
system would increase competition in banking and improve the efficiency of
credit allocation.



- 8- 
1.22      Other Bank Regulations and BOM Role.  Commercial banks are
governed by the Banking Act, which contains the requirements to be met by
banks. The most significant are the liquidity and capital requirements.
The liquidity requirements amount to 30% of total deposits (10% in cash and
20% in Government securities),, DBM is not subject to liquidity
requirements. SCBFC until it merged with SCB in 1986 and MCBFC until it
took a banking license in January 1987 operated outside the Banking Act and
were, therefore, not subject to liquidity requirements.Under the Banking
Act any equity investments have to be within the credit ceilings and have
to be authorized by BOM. Also, companies may not invest or operate bank
accounts outside Mauritius. EPZ firms are authorized to operate foreign
currency accounts with local banks in Mauritius in order to finance
imported inputs, thus avoiding the need to bring foreign currency into
Mauritius, sell it, then buy it again to pay for Imports. The BanKing Act
and the supervision by BOM are adequate for the present.
Interest Rates
1.23      Although the interest rate structure was liberalized a few years
ago, BOM still exercises control over the minimum interest rate paid on
savings accounts, which is at present 8% p.a. It also fixes the Bank rate
(the rate at which it lends to the commercial banks) which was reduced in
February 1987 from 11% p.a. to 10% p.a. The two fixed rates determine the
prime lending rate charged by commercial banks, which over the past three
years was 12% p.a, and was reduced to 11% p.a. in February 1987. These
rates are highly positive, given that since 1983 Inflation rates have
remained below 8% (7.3% in 1984 a,Ld 1.8% in 1986). In theory, the banks
are free to set their rates for different types of operations, but BOM
exercises moral suasion over the banks to charge the prime rate for working
capital loans to priority sectors, Lending rates for overdrafts for other
comercial activities range between 15 and 16.5%. Export financing bills
which are eligible for rediscounting at the BOM are rediscounted at the
rate of 10.25%. The commercial banks and DBi make term loans in local
currency at about 14 to 16.5% p.a. In practice, the commercial banks'
rates on overdrafts are variable because they are quoted at a few
percentage points above the Bank Rate and would automatically be adjusted
with every change in the Bank rate. Rates for term loans are also
variable; they are quoted as a few percentage points over the Bank Rate,
but with a minimum. This minimum prevented the rates for term loans from
falling after the recent reduction in the Bank Rate. DEM's rates are
presently fixed.
Industrial Finance
1.24      The manufacturing sector receives about 48% of the total credit
to the private sector. The share of manufacturing in private sector loans
has increased by 3 percentage points since 1982, and the distribution of
the loans among the different manufacturing subsectors has changed in favor
of EPZ firms which now receive over 23% of all loans; up from 19.8% in
1982. Another 23% goes to import substitution manufacturing and a little
over 1% goes to small-scale industries. Despite the recent spurt of hotel



- 9 -
construction in Mauritius, this activity receives only 4% of all credit to
the private sector (most term financing is provided by DBM). The
agricultural sector receives about 20% of all loans. There is no great
difference in sectoral distribution of loans anong the four major banks or
even between these banks and the other banks taken together. Among the
largest banks, DBM lends relatively more to manufacturing (53%), followed
by MCB (49%), SCB (45x) and MCBFC (40%). Of the largest banks, MCBFC lends
the least to EPZ firms: 16% compared to 27% for the other banks, Given
the growth prospects of the export sector, the share of EPZ in private
sector loans is likely to continue increasing in the near future. Although
about half of the EPZ firms are owned by overseas investors, the Government
policy has been to allow foreign-owned firms to borrow locally to a maximum
extent of twice the amount of capital they bring into the country. After
establishing a successful track record, foreign EPA investors are allowed
further local borrowing on a case by case basis.
Prospects and Constraints
1.25      Mauritius' financial system has served the country well until
now. During the rapid economic expansion of the last three years, credit
increased remarkably, despite credit ceilings; medium/long-term lending to
the private sector b:;' DBM increased by 30 percent in real terms, while term
lending from commercial financial inatitutions nearly doubled. TIhe future
capacity of the financial sector to expand or even sustain the current
level of medium-term lending may have been reduced, however, following the
recent merger of the State Commercial Bank Finance Corporation with its
parent bank and by MCBFC obtaining a banking license, which obligates it to
comply with the 30% liquidity requirements and credit ceilings. Similarly,
the capacity of the system to continue exp&nding long-term lending may also
be reaching its maximum, given that DBM, which has been the major source of
long-term lending, cannot continue expanding without a substantial equity
increase and a major organizational reform. on thb other hand, long-term
lending by commercial banks is constrained by their ilmited project
appraisal capability and the fact that their liquidity is in the form of
short term deposits, which is not easily transformed into long-term
credit. In this context, the proposed operation is aimed at providing
access to long-term foreign currency funds for medium- and long-term
lending to productive enterprises, and at taking an initial step towards
increasing the project lending capability of commercial banks, thereby
increasing competition and efficiency in term financing. As a result, the
financial sector would be able to respond better to the financial needs of
Mauritius' burgeoning manufacturing and tourism industries.
1.26      In the longer run, Mauritius' financial system needs to be
strengthened further to make it more effectiv-. in mobilizing local
long-term resources. The economy shows a strong tendency to save as a
result of the recent tax reform that drastically reduced taxes on
individuals and corporations. It would be desirable that a larger
proportion of these savings be on a longer-term basis.



- 10 -
D. Bank's Country Goals and Sector Lending Strategy
Bank Goals and Strategy
1.27      The Bank's current country assistance strategy revolves around
two main objectives. First, the strategy seeks to identify new areas where
further policy reforms could be introduced to increase investment,
emrloyment, economic di-versification, and efficient use of Mauritius'
scarce resources. In this connection, planned economic and sector work is
directed at assessing the environmental impact of industrialization in
Mauritius and at proposing reforms that would make the financial sector
more responsive to the requirements of an expanding economy. This would
include broadening and strengthening the financial intermediation process
and the development of the capital market. Second, the Bank is assisting
the Government in designing and financing investment proj ects that build on
reforms undertaken under the structural adjustment program and the ISAL. A
project aimed at supporting the restructuring of the sugar sector was
approved in FY86. In addition to the operation proposed in this report,
other lending operations are under active preparation for the development
of infrastructure and environmental protection, agricultural
diversification, and manpower training.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
1.28      The Bank supported the Government's adoption of an export-led
industrialization strategy through two SALs and further supported greater
trade liberalization through the recently approved (April 1987) Industrial
Sector Adjustment Loan (ISAL). The financial sector has responded well to
the financing requirements of the industrial sector. However, as indicated
in paragraph 1.25 above, the capacity of the financial sector to provide
adequate term financing in support of continued export-led growth is being
constrained by: (i) DBM's staffing and organizational limitations; (ii)
commercial banks' limited project appraisal capability; and (iii) lack of
adequate longer term resources, particularly in the form of deposits, In
the commercial banks. The Bank would help address these constraints by
setting up a mechanism whereby two banks, DBM and SCB, would have access to
long term foreign currency resources to lend for long-term investments.
Through this project the Bank would also be in a position to help
strengthen DBM's organization and management and develop SCB's project
evaluation capacity. The mechanism could be later expanded to include
other financial institutions. By increasing competition in the supply of
term financing, the Bank would help broaden and improve the efficiency of
financial intermediation in Mauritius. This project would also lead to a
close working relationship between the Government and the Bank in
identifying ways to Improve the ability of the financial sector to meet the
needs of Mauritius' expanding economy. TD this end, a preliminary
financial sector review was also undertaken during the preappraisal of the
proposed operation.



- 11 -
Performance Under Past Loans ln the Sector
1029       he WDbrld Bank Group has assisted the industrial sector in
Mauritius through several lines of credit to the Development Bank of
Mauritius (DBM) and through two structural adjustment loans. The
performance of the Bank loans and credits to DBM are discussed in paras.
2.07 to 2.12. Project implementation is generally satisfactory In
Nauritius, as the country has the administrative and technical capacity to
handle most project responsibilities. There have sometimes been delays due
to weaknesses in coordination among ministrJes and entities responsible for
project formulation and executlon. Dlsbursement performance is close to
ti. Bank-wide average.
1.30      The Bank has supported the Goverment's Structural Adjustment
Program through two SALs (1981 and 1983), under which the Government
implemented a number of policy reforms aimed at restoring the
competitiveness of Mauritius' industrial exports and encouraging foreign
and local investment and exports. The elimination of quantitative import
restrictions and price liberalization under SAL II were liportant steps
toward reducing protection to import substituting manufacturing. Under the
recently approved ISAL, the Government is further reducing protection to
import substituting enterprises by lowering maximum tariffs and reducing
price controls.



- 12 -
II. PARTICIPATING INSTITUTIONS
A. Introduction
2.01      Under the proposed project, the Bank of Mauritius would be the
borrower of the Bank loan and would on-lend the proceedc of the loan to two
participating financial institutions, DBM and SCB. The mechanism set up in
the BOM to coordinate the line of credit could be extended to include other
financial institutions.
B. The Bank of Mauritius (IOM)
2.02      BOM was established in 1966 as the Central Bank and monetary
authority with powers to regulate money supply, credit and foreign exchange
transactions, issue bank notes, and supervise commercial bank activities.
It is the banker to the Government and the lender of last resort to the
commercial banks. It provides rediscounting facilities to commercial banks
in respect of export bills, other than sugar, at low rates of interest. As
of June 30, 1985, BON's paid-in capital was M Rs 10 million (US$0.76
million) and general reserves were M Rs 23 million (US$1.74 million). It
made a net profit of about N Rs 61 million (US$4.6 million) as of June 30,
1985. Under the provisions of the Bank of Mauritius Act, it is required to
pay its net profits to the Government. BOM has professional staff of good
quality and has the capability to manage the proposed financing program.
C. Development Bank of Mauritius (DBM)
2.03      Background and Role.  DBM was established in 1964 as a
Government-owned statutory corporation to finance development projects in
4auritius.  Over the years, DBM kas developed into a major term-lending
institution providing finance for projects in industry, tourism,
small-scale enterprises and agriculture. DBM has also constructed and
operated two industrial estates and, since 1984, has made loans to private
sector developers for construction of factory space. Since 1972, the Bank
Group has provided financial assistance amounting to US$39.5 million to
DBM, through five Bank loans and two IDA credits. The last loan is fully
committed and all previous loans and credits have been fully disbursed.
Project Performance Audit Reports (PPAR) have been prepared for three Bank
lines of credit to DBM (LA. 979-HAS, Ln. 1168-MAS and Ln. 1481-HAS, PPAR
No. 6206 dated Hay 27, 1986) and for an IDA credit for the Coromandel
Estate Project (Cr. 411-1AS, PPAR No. 4008 dated July 2, 1982). The
conclusions from these reports regarding DBM have been generally favorable,
although they point to its dependence on expatriate management and weakness
in portfolio management as major shortcomings.  The DBN loans, which
financed a large number of export oriented firms, served as vehicles for
continuous policy dialogue between the Bank and Government on interest
rates and industrial estate development.  A more detailed analysis of DBN's
operations and main issues is available in Annex 3.



- 13 -
2.04      Management, Organization and Staffing.  DBM's Board of Thirteen
Directors includes representatives of Government (5); Government-owned
financial institutions (3); BOM (1); the private sector (2); the Mauritius
Esport Processing Zone Association (1); and the Managing Director.  At
present DBN is facing organization, management and staffing problems
stemming from DBMts parastatal status and the resulting lack of flexibility
in matters relating to recruitment, promotions and salary levels,
particularly as they relate to management positions. At present, due to
the lack of senior managers, all decision making rests largely with the
Managing Director. New competent senior managers need to be recruited as
the existing middle management is unable to cope with the responsibilities
and challenges, particularly in light of DBM's expanding operations.  This
has been ameliorated somewhat by the recent appointment of a Chief
Accountant (see para. 2.05 below). Moreover, the Government is in the
process of incorporating DBM under the private Companies Act, which would
enable DBM to exercise greater independence in matters relating to salaries
and recruitment. This would facilitate recruitment of quAlified staff to
strengthen DBM's management.
2.05      Agreement has been reached with DBM on specific proposals for a
new organization structure, recruitment of additional staff, and delegation
of responsibility.   In line with Bank recommendations, DBM has already
established a new division to monitor clients in arrears, and created a new
position of Chief Accomntant. A competent accountant, from within the
organization, has been promoted to this position. DBM is actively
searching for candidates for two other accountant positions (one of them an
internal auditor). 4greement has also been obtained from Government that
the appointment of any new Managing Director would be in consultation with
the Bank.
2.06      Policy Statement.  DBM's operating and financial policies are set
by the Board and documented in a formal policy statement.   During project
preparation, the Bank reviewed DBM's policy statement and suggested several
modifications and additions, including, inter alia: (i) adoption of
uniform interest rates in a given sector to the same category of borrowers;
(ii) inclusion of a rental policy which would be based on market determined
rents; and (iii) adoption of an accounting policy that would more
accurately reflect the treatment of accrued interest income, and past
over-accruals of interest income. The revised policy statement was
approved by DBM's Board in November 1987.
2.07      Operations.  DBM's operations, which include loan approvals,
equity investments and industrial estate construction, have increased
significantly over the last few years in line with the expansion in
industrial activity in the country. DBM's total approvals increased about
eight-fold from M Rs 31 million in 1982 to '. Rs 240 million (US$19.2
million) in 1986. Commitments and disbursements also followed a somewhat
similar path to approvals. In 1986, conmitments were M Rs 147 million and
disbursements N Rs 160 million.  A major portion of DBM's equity
investments was transferred to the State Investment Corporation (SIC) when
it was created in 1984. Consequently, as of June 30, 1986, DIM's equity
portfolio amounted to only M Rs 7.8 million, or 1.3% of its total



- 14 -
portfolio. Since the role of industrial estate construction has been
assigned to MEDIA, DBM plans to phase out its building program. The
gradual disposal of all DBM's industrial estates to the private sector is
viewed by DBM as not only enabling it to concentrate on Improving its role
as a development bank, but also to provide it with capital gains and an
improved cash flow. DBN's appraisal procedures are considered
satisfactory.
2.08      Portfolio Performance.  DBM's total outstanding loan portfolio
amounted to M Rs 610 million (US$48.8 million) at the end of June 1986 with
medium- and large-scale industrial/tourism loans accounting for M Rs 470
million (77Z), Small Scale Enterprises (SSE) loans M Rs 56 million, (9%),
and agricultural loans M Rs 84 million, (14X). Although the quality of
DBM'e loan portfolio has improved in the last year due to intensified
efforts at loan collection, loan arrears continue to be a problem. As of
December 31, 1986 actual arrears over three months amounted to about 14% of
the total outstanding portfolio, and about 31% of DBM's total loan
portfolio was affected by these arrears, down from 43% as of June 30,
1985. In terms of sectoral breakdown, as of December 31, 1986, 31% of the
medium and large scale industrial loan portfolio was affected by arrears,
40% of the small scale enterprise loan portfolio, and 282 of the
agricultural loans. The bulk of the small scale enterprise loans, i.e.
loans not exceeding M Rs 50,000, are fully guaranteed by the Government.
For medium and large scale industrial loans, 842 of the total arrears,
amounting to about H Rs 54 million, were over one year. At least 40% of
the arrears cases are considered to be wilful default, in some instances
resulting from DBM's past laxity in debt collection. Annex 3, Iable 4
gives an analysis of arrears over three months as of June 30, 1987.
2.09      DBM's level of provisions has increased from 4% of the loan
portfolio in FY85 to 5% in FY86 and as of June 30, 1986 it amounted to
MRs 28 million. DBM's unaudited financial statements for FY87 indicate
that the level of provisions has been maintained at 5% for FY87, amounting
to Rs. 32 million. The auditors are of the opinion that given the security
on the loans and the fact that most of the defaulting enterprises are
profitable, the provisions are adequate.
2.10      During project preparation, DBM and the Bank designed and agreed.
on several measures to Improve DBN's debt collection performance,
including: (i) creation of a separate division in charge of arrears
follow-up; (ii) recruitment of additional staff for iupervision and debt
collection; and (iii) formulation of a debt recovery action plan with
specific targets for recovery (Annex 3). The action plan calls for
scheduling reguldr visits to clients in arrears, sending updated accounting
information to clients showing current indebtedness, and developing with
clients an agreed program of action for reducing and/or clearing arrears,
including loan rescheduling, legal proceedings, etc. Half-yearly targets
for arrears reduction have also been specified. DBM has already started
implementing this plan and has achieved positive results; it has been able
to collect M Rs 30.4 million of arrears in the first six months of 1987
(362 of total arrears by December 30, 1986".



- 15 -
2.11      DBM's rent receivable for FY86 was M Rs 15 million, of which it
collected Rs 12 million (80%). As of December 31, 1986, DIM's accumulated
rent in arrears amounted to about M Rs 9.0 million (US$ 690,OOC). A large
portion of the arrears is attributable to a few clients who have been in
arrears for several years. DBM has started to take legal action against
clients who have rent in arrears over 1 year, and as part of Its Debt
Recovery ction Plan, has set targets for rent arrears reduction. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained from Government that it would cause
DBM to furnish to the Bank its debt recovery action program for each
financial year for its review and comments, until debt and rental areas
have been reduced to a level satisfactory to the Bank; and that, following
the adoption of a satisfactory program, Government would cause DBM to
implement such program.
2.12      Financial Performance.  DBM's past income statements, balance
sheets and relevant tlnanclail ratios are summarized in Annex 3, Tables
5-7.  In FY87 DBM's net worth was about M Rs 138 million (paid-in capital
of M Rs 65 million and reserves of M Rs 73 million), its portfolio (less
provisions) was N Rs 604 million, and total assets were M Rs 1,129
mi!lion. DBM's financial position improved in the last year due to
increases in rental income from industrial estates, decreases in financial
charges from savings resulting from cancellation of high cost funds and
issuing bonds which are a cheaper source of funds, and management fees for
administering the Socota Textile Mill Project (Rs. 140 million), the funds
for which would in part be channelled through the commercial bariks. Its
net profit as a percentage of net worth improved significantlr from lows of
4% in 1985 and 2% in 1986 to 9.9% in 1987. The ratio of term debt to
equity increased from 2.8 in 1983 to 4.0 in 1987. Assurances were obtained
at negotiations from Government that )BM would be provided with the needed
equity so as to maintain its debt to **%quity ratio below 4:1, as agreed with
the Bank under previous loans.
2.13      Resources.  At June 30, 1986, DBM had uncommitted foreign
currency resources of M Rs 129 million and local currency resources of M Rs
114 million. DBM's projections over the next 2 years (FY88 and FY89)
indicate that DBM would require new foreign currency resources amounting to
M Rs 137 million (US$ 10 million) to finance its medium and large scale
industrial lending program. The proposed financing programs would provide
US$6 million; the remaining US$4 million would have to be obtained from
other coflnanciers.
D. The State Commercial Bank (SCB):
2.14      Background and Role,  SCB was incorporated as a banking company
on June 4, 1973 under the Companies Act, and commenced operations in
September 1973. SCB's operating and financial policies are set by the
Board and are governed by the Banking and Companies Acts. Up to 1977, SCB
had not made much progress in expanding its operations, but in the past
decade, thanks to dynamic management, it has developed into the second
largest commercial bank in Mauritius. Its operations are mainly oriented



- 16 -
towards the public sector and parastatal institutions. In July 1986, SCB
absorbed its subsidiary, the State Finance Corporation, which was
responsible for mobilizing term deposits and mobilizing term loans.
2.15     Share Capital and Ownership.  As of June 30, 1987, SCB's
authorized share capital, held by Government and four publicly owned
financial institutions, was Rs. 100 million, of whi,..1 Rs. 72 million was
issued and fully paid in.
2.16     Management, Organization and Staffing,  SCB's Board of seven
Directors includes representatives of the Ministry of Finance (2), the
Prime Minister's Office (1), the Development Bank of Mauritius (1), the
State Insurance Corporation (1) and SIC (2). The Financial Secretary of
the Ministry of Finance is currently Chairman. SCB has had au expatriate
managing Director since its inception. He is assisted by two Assistant
General Managers; one responsible for the operations at urban branches and
the other for rural branches and inspections and audits. There are three
senior executives responsible for foreign exchange operations; small
development finance schemes; and industrial advances. 'The Personnel
Manager  f the Bank also acts as manage- of accounts.  There are 38 branch
offices and 2 extension counters, the highest number compared to any other
bank, and each is headed by a Branch Manager. SCB's total staff number
about 600: 48 professionals, 435 sub-professionals and clerical staff, and
117 others. SCB is able to attract reasonably good staff since it can
offer salaries above parastatal levels. SCB conducts several internal and
overseas training programs each year for new recruits, managers and staff.
Most of the overseas training is conducted at the Bankers Training College
in Bombay, India.
2.17     SCB's present management is considered good and dynamic.  In order
to adjust and be more responsive to its rapidly growing operations, SCB
plans a major reorganization.  The main objectives of the reorganization
would to be promote greater decentralization and improve manpower
development. At present more than 90 percent of SCB's total credit is
sanctioned by its Board. With more delegation of authority in approvals,
the Board would have more time to focus on more important policy matters.
SCB also pans to more clearly define its long term ojectives and
strengthen, inter alia, its middle management, management information
systems, customer services and training.
2.18     Operation.  SCB's operations have increased significantly over the
last few years in line with the economic growth in the country. Total
advances increased from Rs. 602 million in 1983 to Rs. 1475 million by
1987; a growth of about 25X p.a., and total deposits including contingency
reserves increased from Rs. 904 million In 1983 to Rs. 2960 million in
1987; a growth of about 34% p.a.
2.19     Loans.  As of June 30, 1987, total advances and other accounts
amounted to about RS. 1,475 million, of which Rs. 729.2 million represented
overdrafts, Rs. 524.8 million were total loans outstanding, and the
remainder were other accounts. in terms of sectoral distribution, loans In



- 17 -
Category I (priority sectors such as sugan EPZ, agriculture, etc.)
accounted for about 70 percent of the total loans outstanding; Category II
(transport, hotels, parastatals, etc.) accounted for about 20 percent, and
Category III (traders, housing, personal and financial institutions, etc.)
accounted for 10 percent. Within Category I, loans to the sugar industry
and EP2 units were by far the most important. Of the total outstanding
loan portfolio of Rs. 524.8 million, short term loans (1-3 years) amounted
to RS. 73.7 million (14 percent), medium term loans (3-5 years) Rs. 146.4
million (28 percent); ana long term loans ( 5years) Rs. 304.7 million
(58 percent). With the absorption of its subsidiary, the State Finance
Corporation, in July 1986, the composition of SCB's portfolio changed
s:gnificantly, with a higher percentage of longer term loans. The quality
of SCB's loan portfolio is good, with a very low level of loan arreas. As
of June 30, 1987, arrears of principal amounted to only about 1 percent of
the outstanding portfolio. SCB often obtains Government guarantees for its
loans to parastatals. The loan portfolio is adequately provisioned for.
2.20     Deposits:  SCB's average deposits grew from Rs. 917 million in
1984 to Rs. 2,090 million by 1987; a growth of about 32 percent p.a. In
FY87, about 70 percent of the total deposits were time deposits, compared
to only 9 percent of demand deposits and 20 percent of savings deposits.
?bst of the time deposits were from Government and parastatal institutions.
In terms of market share, SCB held about 40 percent of the time deposits of
the banking system compared to only 10 percent of the demand depos'ts and
14 percent of the savings deposits. In FY86, only 15 percent of SCB's
deposits were for a maturity period exceeding 2 years and only 5 percent
were over 4 years.
2.21     Appraisal and Supervision of Term Loans:  Applications for term
loans, along with feasibility reports, are submitted at the Branch level,
where they are initially screened by the Branch Managers. They are then
sent to the Evaluation Department at headquarters for a more thorough
appraisal.  The appraisal takes into account the client's existing
indebtedness, collateral, previous dealing with SCB, management and
shareholders, production, and present and projected financial position.
Confidentiality of the proposal and client is well respected. If a
feasibility report is well conceived and the project is sound, the loan can
be sanctioned within one week of the application. In any event, loan
approvals generally never take longer than 4 weeks. Term loans are often
released in tranches and are conditional on satisfactory reports fom SCB's
site inspectors. Supervision is carried out regularly, and for new
companies, as often as every month. SCB has no specific procurement
requirements, but generally satisfies itself that the clients' purchases
and procurement procedures are reasonable. SCB's existing appraisal
procedures are considered adequate. Appropriate material has been provided
to SCB to familiarize its staff with Bank subproject appraisal
requirements.
2.22     Interest Rates:  SCB's interest rates are positive in real terms,
are in line with rates of other financial institutions in Mauritius, and
provide SCB with an adequate spread. The interest rates charged by SCB are
linked to the Bank rate (presently 10 percent p.a.) and vary for overdrafts
and loans, and also vary according to the sector, At present, the minimum
rates SCB charges for its term loans (all in local currency) vary from 14
to 16.5 percent p.a. (para. 1.23).



- 18 -
2.23     Financial Performance:  SC8's past incomo statements and balance
sheets and relevant financial ratios are summarized in Tables 1 and 2. In
FY87, SCB's net worth was about Re. 113 million (paid-in capital of RB. 72
million and reserves of Rs. 41 million), deposits includlig contingency
reserves were Rs. 2,960 million, advances and tither accounts were Rs. 1,475
million, and total assets were Rs. 4,037 million.  In FY87, net profit was
Rs. 16 million down from Rs. 21 million the year before, mainly due to
increased provisions made for doubtful loans. Net profit as a percentage
of net worth was 14 percent. In FY87, SCBs average rate of interest on
deposits was 9.1 percent and average rate of return of advances was 13.9
percent. The average credit to deposit ratio was about 0.53:1 and its debt
(including deposits) to equity (including loan capital) ration was 20:1.
SCB's financial position is considered sound. Details on SCB's financial
performance and future prospects sr not shown here due to the
confidentiality of the information. The mission, however, is satisfied
that SCB's present performance and prospects are good.



- 19 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Background
ProJect Origin
3.01      Prellminary discusslons on the project began in December 1985
and continued during a supervision mission to review the Bank's fifth and
sixth lines of credit to DBM in May 1986. During that mission, DBM
requested the Bank for a seventh line of credit and at the same time, MEDIA
requested Bank funding for its industrial estate development program. The
Government supported both requests. Preparation work for a joint
DBM/industrial estate project was carried out in July 1986 and a
pre-appraisal was undertaken in conjunction with a financial sector review
in November 1986. During the pre-appraisal mission, the possibility of
broadening the scope of the project to include several financial
intermediaries wsa discussed with the Government, and it was agreed that
such an approach would be desirable to encourage competition among
financial Institutions. At appraisal in February 1987, it was agreed that
8aK would act as the apex institution, with Bank funds to be passed on to
DBM and several public and private commercial banks for financing medium
and large scale manufacturing and tourism enterprises snd for construction
of industrial buildings.  Given that the Government wai not yet ready to
guarantee loans to the private banking sector, Government and Dank agreed
on a limited apex operation including, for the time being, two
government-owned banks: DBM and SCB. Additional banks could later
participate in the operation, provided this were agreed by Government and
the Bank. A post appraisal mission visited Mauritius in October 1987 to
finalize details of the new project design. During the mission MEDIA
decided not to participate in the project, since its financial requirements
are being met by resources provided by bilateral agencies. Negotiations
were held beginning February 8, 1988 with a Mauritian delegatioii headed by
Mr. R. Tacouri, Managing Director of BCH.
Project Objectives
3.02      The proposed project is in line with Mauritius* development
strategy which gives great eamphasis to market forces to promote export-led
growth. The financing of enterprises in the tourism and manufacturing
sector, particularly those in the Export Processing Zone, would make an
important contribution towards creating employment and Increasing foreign
exchange earnings. Two banks, DBM and SCB, would bave access to the line
of credit. Access to long term foreign currency resources would enable SCB
to increase its medium to long term lending. Participation in the project
would also help develop SCB's project appraisal capability. By encouraging
greater competition In the supply of term financing, the project would help
improve the efficiency of financial lntermediation in Mauritius. The
mechanism established under the project could be later expanded to further
broaden the financial intermediation process and could include other
financial institutions, both public and private. Since DBM would



- 20 -
continue to be an important financial intermediary, another important
objective of the project would be to strengthen DBM institutionally, so
that it is better able to compete with other financial institutions and
perform its role more effectively.
B. Project Description
3.03      The BOM would be the borrower of an IBRD loan of US$10 million
equivalent. BQM would on-lend the funds to two PFIs, DBM and SCB to
finance investment projects in manufacturing, tourism, transportation and
industrial estates construction. As a condition of loan effectiveness, BOK
would enter into Subsidiary Financing Agreements with DBM and SCB.
3.04      The PFIs would relend the proceeds of the Bank loan for financing
medium and large scale manufactaring, transport and tourism enterprises,
and construction of industrial buildings. The line of credit would cover
commitments over a three-year period and would finance the foreign exchange
expenditures of economically, technically, and financially viable
subprojects. New enterprises as well as expansion, modernization and
restructuring of existing enterprises would be eligible. Refinancing of
old debt in existing projects would not be permissible. The proposed Bank
loan would finance the full foreign exchange costs of the project.  local
costs under the line of credit are expected to be financed by subborrowers'
own contributions and in some instances may be partly financed by PFIs' own
funds. There would be a "notional" preallocation of the Loan of US$6
million to DBM and US$4 million to SCB. However, since the line of credit
would be available to the PFIs on a "first come, first served" basis, these
amounts could be later adjusted according to the PFIs requirements. The
terms and conditions of financing of the line of credit are discussed in
paras. 3.09-3.11.
3.05      The PFIs have indicated that they would be able to commit more
than US$10 million over the next two years for financing medium and large
scale industrial, transportation, tourism and industrial building
construction (private sector) subprojects.  This amount is based on their
own demand projections and a preliminary review by the mission of their
project pipelines.
C. Project Implementation
Institutional Arrangements
3.06      BOM would establish prior to loan effectiveness a Project
Coordination Committee (PCC) composed of the Managing Director, Chief
Manager, Director of Research and Assistant Chief Manager, which would be
given overall responsibility for administering the project.  The PCC would
be responsible for:
(a) accreditation of Participating Financial Institutions in case a
decision is made for other institutions to participate in the
project;



- 21 -
(b) maintaining loan accounts including amounts commited and
disbursed; and
(c) coordinating and monitoring the overall execution of the project
and supervising the carrying out by the PFIs of their respective
Subsidiary Financing Agreements.
3.07      During negotiations, understanding was reached with BOM that it
would confirm appointment of PCC staff and their terms of reference prior
to loan effectiveness. Understanding was also reached during appraisal on
the mechanics for PFI participation in the proposed financing program.
This understanding was based on the Guidelines for PFI Participation
prepared by the appraisal mission (Annex 5). The substance of these
guidelines would be incorporated in Subsidiary Financing Agreements,
satisfactory to the Bank. The signing of these Subsidiary Financing
Agreements between e,ach PFI and BOM would be a condition of effectiveness
of the Loan.
3.08      Training.  Since the proposed project would be SCB's first
involvement in Bank operations, its professional staff needs to be
acquainted with Bank procedures, as well as project evaluation and
supervision. Documents relating to this have already been distributed to
BoM and the SCB, and are available in the project file. They include: (i)
disbursement guidelines; (li) a note on commitment charges; (111)
procur3ment guidelines; (iv) a checklist for review of PFI project
appraisal reports, including operating and financial criteria; (v)
application of the currency pooling system; and (vi) subloan processing
methodology. SCB has also received appropriate material on project
evaluation and supervision to be used to train its professional staff prior
to Loan effectiveness. To ensure that SCB follows adequate project
evaluation procedures, the Bank would require the approval of at least two
projects before a free limit is applicable. Since DBM is well acquainted
with Bank procedures and appraisal techniques, it would not need any
training in these areas.
On-Lending Terms and Conditions
3.09      The Bank loan would be made available to the BOM at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate plus commitment charges. There would be a
flexible amortization schedule that would conform with the aggregate of the
amortization schedules of subloans made by PFIs, (subject to a maximum of
17 years, including a grace period not to exceed 4 years).
3.10      The BOM would on-lend the funds to PFIs at the Bank's variable
rate of interest and charge them a modest administration fee to cover its
administration costs. The PFIs would be free to set their own relending
rates to the ultimate borrowers. Normally, a spread of 2%-3% is considered
necessary for the PFIs. The foreign exchange risk would be borni by the
clients. With the Bank rate presently at 7.72Z p.a., the rates to the
ultimate beneficiaries would be around 10.5% - 11.5% p.a. (Local currency
rates for medium and long term lending are between 14-15% p.a.) These



- 22 -
rates are in line with the rates DIM charges for foreign currency loans,
are positive in real terms, and provide the PFIs with an adequate spread.
DBM would continue its present practice of providing clients with the
option of borrowing in either foreign or local currency. In the latter
case, clients pay a 3% premium wmhich is deposited in an Exchange
Fluctuation Fund, which the Government has underwritten to replenish, if
necessary. So far, the premium has been sufficient to maintain and
increase the resources accrued to the Fund which presently has a credit
balance of over M Rs 14 million (Annex 3). The exchange risk for
subborrowers who earn foreign exchange is small, However, given the
preference of DBM clients for the local currency option, commercial banks
expect that, initially, borrowing in foreign currency will be acceptable to
clients in the EPZ sector provided they are authorized by BOM to use their
foreign currency accounts to service their debt (they are presently allowed
to maintain foreign accounts to facilitate imports of raw materials and
spare parts). BOM agreed that this authorization be granted not only to
EPZ firms but also to other foreign exchange earning enterprises in the
tourism sector. The enterprises would be allowed to maintain one
installment of the next principal and interest falling due. The BOM als2
agreed to consider expanding its forward cover facilities to cover the
repayments of this loan by sut-borrowers that do not earn foreign exchange.
This would be reviewed if the financial sector is fully liberalized.
3.11      The commitment charges on the line of credit would be absorbed by
the PFIs which would pass them on to their subborrowers. This would
provide an incentive to speed up disbursements. The terms of the subloans
would be up to 15 years. DBM would retain its free limit of US$600,000
equivalent, with an aggregate free limit of $3 million equivalent, agreed
under previous Bank loans. There would be a similar free limit for the SCB
applicable after the Bank has approved at least two investment projects.
The maximum loan amount for a single enterprise would be US$2.5 million
equivalent or 20 percent of the net worth of a PFI, whichever is lower.
Monitoring
3.12      The PFIs would be responsible for supervising the subprojects
financed by them and would be required to prepare semi-annual progress
reports on these subprojects, and make them available to the Bank. BOM
would obtain from the PFIs a statement of their operations (approvals,
commitments and disbursements) under the proposed financing program. Until
the financing program is well underway, Bank supervision missions would
closely monitor the PFI's performance and provide assistance as
appropriate.
Procurement
3.13      Procurement of equipment and goods under the loan in respect of
PFIs' subprojects would be in accordance with established commercial
practices acceptable to the Bank which include international or local



- 23 -
shopping from at least three sources, llmited international bidding and
international competitive bidding as appropriate, PFIs would be required
to ensure that the goods and services to be purchased by final borrowers
are suitable and reasonably priced.
Disbursement
3.14      The estimated disbursement schedule, based on the standard
disbursement profile for IDF projects In the Eastern and. Southern Africa
Region, is shown in Annex 7. The closing date would be December 31, 1995.
However, in view of the flexibility under the line of credit in terms of
the number of financial intermediaries and subprojects, it is likely that
disbursements would be completed earlier. Disbursements would be made for
100% of foreign expenditures for goods directly imported, 70% of locally
procured goods and 65% of works. Oonsidering the high import-dependency of
Mauritius for the various physical inputs in projects, these percentages
would be adequate to cover the foreign exchange costs of goods and services
to be financed under the project. In line with the Goverment's existing
practice under many loans in the past, eligible expenditures would be
pre-financed by the Borrower and reimbursement would be sought from the
Bank at appropriate intervals. Disbursement would be made against full
supporting documentation. Disbursements for these contracts would be made
against certified statements of expenditure and supporting documents would
be retained by the PFIs and would be made available for review by Bank
missions and auditor.
Accounts and Audit
3.15      Understandings were reached with BCH that separate accounts would
be kept by BCM for all transactions under the Bank Loan and that these
accounts would also be audited yearly along with BOM's accounts.
Similarly, the PFIs would be required to keep separate accounts of
borrowings out of the Bank's loan, which would be available to Bank
missions for review. BOM would annually submit to the Bank its own audited
accounts with respect to the project, and the PFIs' financial statements
and audit reports within six months of the close of each fiscal year. DBM
already maintains adequate records of borrowings from the Bank. The
accounts of BOM and the PFIs are audited by firms of qualified and
experienced auditors, and the latest audits have been unqualified.
D. Benefits and Risks
3.16      [he proposed project would improve the functioning of the
financial sector by: (i) increasing the competition in the supply of
medium and long-term credit by providing access to long-term foreign
currency resources for the first time to a commercial bank, SCB in addition
to DBM, through a mechanism that can be later expanded to include other
financial institutions; (ii) strengthening DBM, which is the major
institutional source of long-term finance, and thereby enabling it to



- 24 -
better eeArve the needs of the economy; and (iii) help develop SCB's project
appraisal capability. By providing financing for investments in the
manufacturing, transport, tourism and industrial estate construction
sectors, the proposed project would contribute towards generation of
foreign exchange, job creation and the increase of production and income.
3.17      The level of risk associated with this project is low because of
Mauritius' good economic performance and policies, the flexibility under
the line of credit in terms of the broad range of subprojects to be
financed, the number of financial intermediaries involved and the
responsiveness of lending terms to market conditions. However, the project
is a new approach to lending in Mauritius and as such the main risk could
result from initial procedural delays due to the unfamiliarity of SCB with
Bank requirements for subproject appraisal and processing,  In addition,
the project may be delayed if DBM's management is unable to improve its
debt recovery and loan processing capabilities as envisaged in the
project.  These risks have been minimized by the provision of appropriate
material to SCB to acquaint its professional staff with Bank requirements
prior to Loan effectiveness, Also, DBM has taken initial steps to
strengthen its middle management and organization, and would continue to
set targets for debt recovery in agreement with the Bank, until debt and
rental arrears have been reduced to a level satisfactory to the Bank.
Furthermore, Government's commitment to consult with the Bank regarding the
appointment of DBE's Managing Director, and the expected incorporation of
DBM under the Companies Act, would facilitate further strengthening of
DBM's management and staff.



- 25 -
IV.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AT NEGOTIATIONS
4.01      This report recommends a Bank loan of US$10.0 million equivalent
to the Bank of Mauritius for a line of credit to be on-lent to
participating financial institutions. During negotiations, the following
agreements have been reached:
(a) With Government that it would:
(i) consult with the Bank regarding the appointment of the
Maneging Director of DBM (para. 2.05);
(iI) cause DBM to furnish to the Bank its debt recovery
action program for each financial year for its review
and comments, until debt and rental arrears have been
reduced to a level satisfactory to the Bank, and
following adoption of a satisfactory program, cause DIM
to implement it (para. 2.11);
(ill) provide DBM with the needed equity in order to maintain
its debt to equity ratio below 4:1 (para. 2.12);
(b) With BOX that it would:
(i) confirm appointment of the PCC staff and their terms of
reference as a condition of loan effectiveness (para.
3.07);
(ii) as a condition of loan effectiveness to enter into
Subsidiary Financing Agreements wilh PFIs (para.  3.07);
(iii) supervise the carrying out by PFIs of their respective
Subsidiary Financing Agreements.
(iv) permit tourism and manufacturing enterprises earning
foreign exchange to maintain foreign currency
denominated accounts which would include the amount of
one installment of the next principal and interest
falling due within the following six months (para.
3.10); and
(v) submit progress reports and annual audited financial
statements related to the project as discussed in para.
3.15.



_ 26 -
ANNMX1
Page I of 5
Table 1
MAURITIUS - INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
KEY INDICATORS OF MANUFACTURING SECTOR
(M Rs Million Current Prices)
1982     1983    1984    1985       1986
Value Added
EPZ                               449       54"     865    1,300 a/  1,800 b/
DC and Other                      798      865      992    1,040      1,105
Total                         1,247    1,413   1,851    2,340      2,905
Investment in Machinery
and Equipment
EfZ                                35       62      160      260       n.a.
DC and Other                      207       181     221      235       n.a.
Total                           242      243      381      495       n.a.
Number of Employees
EPZ                            23,016   23,592  33,873   48,085    68,715
DC and Other                   13,868   14,718  14,645   14,864    15,655
Total                        36,884   38,310  48,518   62,949    84,370
Exports
EPZ                             1,235    1,307   2,151    3,272      4,985
Number of Firms
EPZ                               124       146     197      290        377
DC                                135      148      156      169        169
Other                             201      204      191      165        165
Total                           460      d98      544      624        711
a/ Provisional estimates
b/ Revised forecast
Source: Central Statistical Office



_27 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 5
Table 2
MAURITIUS - INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
MANUFACTURING VALUE ADDED
( Res Million at Constant 1982 Prices and Percentages)
Growth       DC         Growth               Growth
Year       EPZ     Rate      and Other     Rate       Total      Rate
1982        449     -2.9         798         3.4       1,247       1.2
1983        489      8.9         837         4.9       1,326       6.3
1984        650     32.9         874         44        1,524      14.9
1985        845     30.0         888         1,6       1,733      13.7
1986      1,056     25.0         916         3.1       1,972      13.9
Source:  Central Statistical Office



-28-
ANNU I
Page 3 of 5
Table 3
MUURITIUS - INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
SNARE OF MANUFACTURING IN THE ECONOMY
(percentages)
1982     1983    1984      1985     1986
Total manufscturn g
Share of GDP             *         12.4      13.2    14.5     15.4       16.7
Share of Euploaymt                 18.9     19.8    24.2      29.2       35.5
Share of Exports                   31.0     31.0    42.5      50.1       54.2
Share of Investmat In
Nacdinery Nad squipjent          46.5     39.5    47.1      47.2       a.a.
Source: Central Statistical Office.



- 29 -
ANNEXl
Page 4 of S
Table 4
MAURITIUS - INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
STRUCTURE OF MANUFACTURING
(percentages)
1982     1983    1984     1985       1986
MPZ
Share of Mf  Value Added           36.0     36.9    42.6      48.8      53.5
Share of Mf  Employment           62.4      61.6    69.8     76.3       81.4
Sabre of Mf Investment
in Machinery and Equipment       14.5     25.5    42.0     52.8       n.a.
DC and Other
Share of Mf  Value Added           64.0     63.1    57.4     51.2       46.5
Share of Mf Employment            37.6      38.4    30.2     23.7       16.6
Share of Mf Investment.
In Machinery and Equipment      85.5      74.5    58.0     47.2       n.a.
Source: Central Statistical Office.



_ 30 _
Pag 5 of 5
N,qUmS -  CdE    FnNE PRW
T1wlst    Toarist        Tourit                  Pi  OuCaimb
Arias    -NW                dni         BOOM          Rawe
Yew                (N1111)  (Mfliwin)  (M as MUI1U )  (*Aber)   (P itPea)
1962               118,360      1.39           450           ne.a         n.oe
1983               123,8w       1.41           503           n.e.         62.3
1984               139,670      1.54           630          1,180         70.7
1985               14,860       1.74           845          1,344         680
m   I6  /          165,000      1.88          1,175         1.530         71.1
1,/  fO



- 31 -
ANNEX 2
Page I of 5
Table 1
MAURITIUS - INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
STRUCTURE OF FINANCIAL SECTOR
(M Rs Millions)
Loans
(Private
Assets      X       Sector)     X
*.  Comercial Banks (June 1986)             9,622.9   68.0      5,161.0   74.7
MCB                                  3,995.1             1,805.8
SCM                                 2,995.2              1,298.4
MCBFC                                1,315.9               884.0
Other banks                          1,316.7             1,173.3
2.  DIM                                      852.0    6.0        612.0    8.9
3.. Pension Funds (11)                     1,738.9   12.3        215.0    3.1
- NPF (June 1985)                    1,158.9
- SIPF (December 1985)                 340.0               215.0
Parastatal PF (June 1985)              240.0
(June 1985)
4.  Insurance Companies (June 1984)        1,323.1    9.3        600.0    8.7
5.  State Investment Corp. (June 1985)        63.0    0.4
6.  Mauritius Rousing Corp. (June 1985)    352.0    2.5          317.0    4.6
7.  Post Office Savings Bank (March 1986)  207.0    1.5          --
TOTAL                              14,158.9  100.0      6,905.0  100.0



_ 32 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 5
Table 2
MAURITIUS - INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
BANKING SYSTEM
(Rs Million, June each year)
Books                      1982        1983       1984        1985        1986
ASSETS
NMC                      2,032.2    2,278.0    2,642.4    3,067.6    3,995.1
MCBEPC                     509.0       671.0      843.8       983.3    1,315.9
SCB  i/                  1,361.3    1,464.0    2,051.2    2,485.1    2,995.2
Other 10 Banks           1,125.7    1,706.7    1,489.2    1,491.0    1,316.7
All Commercial Banks    5,028.2    6,119.7    7,026.6    8,027.0    9.622.9
Rate of Growth (X)                   15.0        7.3         6.7       16.6
DnB                                   528.1       602.6       656.2      852.2
Rate of Growth (2)                               6.6         1.7       26.4
All Banks                           6,647.8    7,629.2    8,683.2   10,475.1
LOANS
?CB                      1,037.2    1,147.2    1,275.4    1,397.4    1,805.8
KCBFC                      339.7       385.2      563.7       609.1      884.0
SCB                        713.0      643.4       953.2    1,226.0    1,298.4
Other 10 Banks             704.2       933.6      965.1    1,088.5    1,173.3
All Commercial Banks    2,794.1    3,109.4    3,757.4    4,321.0    5,161.5
Rate of Growth (X)                   5.2        12.9         7.4       16.2
DSI                        343.0      346.0       392.0       461.0      612.0
Rate of Growth (2)                  -4.7         5.9         9.8       29.1
All Banks                3,137.1    3,455.4    4,149.4    4,782'0    5,773.5
I/ Includes the SCBFC.



- 33 -
AMlI 2
Qeg 3 of 5
TM" 3
SMiI -          . IW1  now
SECTORAL DISTRIBUTION Of COMUMCLAL MAK'S CREDIT TO PRIVATE SWVXUK
1986/JaMY 1987
Total
NM        =C 2/   sC1g2/   Boa           &do 11
Aplaultital Interests  322.1    244.7    22L5    319.3  1,114.6       2n0
G  Sniv Total;         776.1    431.2    517.0    901.5        2,615.8       47.0
-  ,Z    -                          c7;m     '; M.     ' T        i tr  l
Dc 3/                      32.S     31.3      48.8      81.9        194.5
Ocher ItuSctures             301.7    222.3    159.9    42D.9        1,104.8
alw SCall IrcL                 4.7      0.4       2.0      17.2        24.6
Note"s                        31.0     94.3      24.0      23.4        172.7
Tansport                      16.6     26.7      37.1      14.6        95.0
Tsa  nd Hbmiz                149.8     - -       85.1    257.2        492.1
Pata-Statal  Bodies            1.9      -        97.3      31.3       130.1
F1inno                        14.9     12.6    -            3.5        31.0
Pezuai.l and Pfofusslaas.    237.1    251.1    135.6    114.3.        738.1
Otbr Ostotrs               _ 40.4       7.0       5.6      36.7        89.7
irm 1,601.9  1,057.8  1,141.1  1.701.8                         5,502.6      100.0
1/ Ieceuer 31st. 1986.
I  Jamoury 31st. 1987.
3/  htPrdesp    with Valid DCB.



-34 -
ANE 2
Page 4 of 5
Table 4
MARIU - Wnv Fwa1  PR3E
PRIJPL R1~    AT
(Pehmit per amnu)
Dec.      Dec.      Dec.       Feb.
1984      1985      1986       1987
1. lark Of Matlues
() Balk Ra                                   11         11       11         10
() PadlcxilFties                            *11*        11        11         1*
2. Cmarclal blks
(i) P    Rate                                12         12       12         11
(Si) Eport Firac1/                        11-12     11412        111-12     10*
(ia) cmrci   a
(applibe  to cadms and Ma11
nrcla. busies)                       16tl8      161-17       16117      16-16t
(iv) Parastatal and Statutory Bodies       13-17      13-17       13-17     121-164
(v) Peisamr  arA profmiml aid all
other accounts                           17    151-17        15117    15-16*
Ix. DEOSr
1. S                                             )8-       81-9       81-        8
2. 11usd Deposis
(i)Upto3mos.                             p9*        91-*        91-9      8-*
(ii) ExceIz  3 nso and up to 6 mos.    "9*9*         9t-10       91-10      8-9
1iii) Exsediv 6   . and up to 12 mos,    W-1o         lo-1o        1-10
(iv) Ixeedlvs 12 mo. and up to 18 mos.       10i    101-10*      101-10*    91-*
(v)  1xceedSrW 18 mos. and up to 24 mos.    11*   10111*         101-11t   9f-10*
(vi)  xceeding 24 mos. and up to 36 mo.       12      11-12       11-12     10-11
(vii) Exceedrg 36mos. ad up to48ms.            12    111-12        111-12    101-11
(viii) Over 48 moits                            12        12       12         11
Inflation Rate                                 7.3      6.7          1.8       1.92
1/plicable to  lei. elidble for NWIscount at the lak of nbitius.
2/ First six months of 1987.
rce:  Badc of Muritius.



- 35 -
ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 5
Table 5
MAURITIUS - INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PRWOECT
INFLATION RATE
(Percentages)
Calendar         Inflation           Financial           Inflation
Year              Rate                Year               Rate
1975              14.7              1974-75              20.6
1976             13.4               1975-76              14.7
1977              9.2               1976-77               9.6
197C              8.5               1977-78              10.1
1979             14.5               1978-79               8.0
1980             42.0               1979-80              33.0
1981              14.5              1980-81              26.5
1982             11.4               1981-82              13.4
1983              5.6               1982-83               7.5
1984              7.3               1983-84               5.6
1985              6.7               1984-85               8.3
1986              1.8               1985-86               4.3
Source: Central Statistic Office.



- 36 -                           ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 19
MAURITIUS
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF MAURITIUS
Background and Role
1.        DBM was established in 1964 as a Government-owned statutory
corporation to finance development projects in Mauritius. Over the years,
DBM has developed into a major term-lending institution, providing finance
for projects in industry, tourism, small-scale enterprises, and, to some
extent, agriculture. DBM has also constructed and operated two industrial
estates. In fact, since 1984, DBM has made 13 loans aaounting to about $2
million to private sector developers for construction of a total of 260,000
sq ft of factory space.
2.        The Bank's relationship with DBN dates back to 1969 when the Bank
assisted DBM in reorganizing itself into a more dynamic institution. The
Bank Group first provided financial assistance to DBM in 1972 through an
IDA credit of US$3.5 million, which was followed by a second credit for
development of an industrial estate (Coromandel), and five Bank loans for
providing assistance to enterprises in manufacturing, tourism and SSE
sectors. The total Bank Group's financial assistance to DBM amounts to
US$39.5 million. The last two loans are fully committed and all previous
credits and loans have been fully disbursed.  The Bank's experience with
all these operations has been generally satisfactory. Table 1 contains
DBM's basic data and includes, inter alia, DBM's resource position as at
June 30, 1986, DBM's interest rate structure, and summary features of IDA
credits and Bank loans to DBM.
Institutional Aspects
3.        Share Capital and Ownership.  As of June 30, 1986, DBM,s
authorized share capital, all of which was paid in, was Rs 50 million. It
was held as follows: Government (75%); Bank of Mauritius (20%); and State
Insurance Corporation of Mauritius (5%).
4.        Management, Organization and Staffing.  DBM's Board of thirteen
Directors includes representatives of Government (5), Government-owned
financial institutions (3), the Bank of Mauritius (1), the private sector
(2), the Mauritius Export Processing Zone Association (1) and the Managing
Director. The Financial Secretary of the Ministry of Finance is currently
chairman. DBM has had an expatriate Managing Director since its creation.
The Managing Director is assisted by an Assistant Managing Director.
Together, they oversee DBM's eight divisions: five operating, one
accounting, one legal and one administrative. The operating divisions



- 37 -                           ANNEX 3
Page  of 19
include three lending divisions (one each for medium/large-scale industry,
small-scale industry, and agriculture), the industrial estates division,
and the industrial finance and guarantee division, which is responsible for
operating the Export Credit Guarantee scheme. DBM's total staff is 163:
47 professionals, 78 sub-professional and clerical staff, and 38 others.
5.        At present DBM is facing organization, management and staffing
problems stemming from DBM's parastatal status and the resulting lack of
flexibility in matters relating to recruitment, promotions and salary
levels, particularly as they relate to management positions. DBM has
relied on an expatriate to run the institution since its inception. The
Bank has over the years pressed the Government to appoint a competent
Mauritian to this position, but due to low salary levels DBM has been
unable to attract a qualified and capable candidate.  At present, due to
the lack of competent managers, all decision making rests largely with the
Managing Director. More responsibility needs to be delegated to middle
management and, in order to do that, new competent senior managers need to
be recruited as the existing middle management is unable to cope with the
responsibilities and challenges, particularly in light of DBM's expanding
operations.
6.        The appraisal mission discussed at length these institutional
issues and made specific proposals for a new organization structure,
recruitment of additional staff, and delegation of responsibility. In line
with these recommendations, DBM has appointed a senior Mauritian to the
position of Chief Accountant, is actively recruiting two accountants (one
to be an internal auditor), and has created a new division to monitor
clients in arrears. Moreover, following the Bank's advice, the Government
is in the process of incorporating DBM under the private Companies Act,
which would enable DBM to exercise more flexibility in matters concerning
recruitment, promotions and salaries.  Ihis would facilitate recruitment of
qualified staff to strengthen DBM's management.
Policy Statement
7.        DBM's operating and financial policies are set by the Board and
documented in a formal policy statement.  This statement sets, inter alia,
the financing of economically and financiaUy viable projects as DBM's main
objective, establishes a maximum eKposure limit per client (normally up to
15% of DBM's equity plus subordinated loans or M Rs 25 million to a single
enterprise, whichever is lower), and guidelines for equity investments in
viable enterprises (generally up to 25% of the issued capital of the



- 38 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 19
enterprise or 10% of DBM's equity, with the aggregate of equity investments
not to exceed DBM's equity). The policy statement also stipulates that DBM
would not undertake any new construction of industrial estates since MEDIA
has been established with such a mandate, and that whenever possible it
would sell its existing industrial estates. The appraisal mission reviewed
DBM's policy statement and suggested several modifications and additions,
including, inter alia: (i) adoption of uniform interest rates in a given
sector to the same category of borrowers; (ii) inclusion of a rental policy
which would be based on market determined rents; and (iii) adoption of an
accounting policy that would more iccurately reflect interest income. The
revised policy statement was approved by DBM's board in November, 1987.
Terms and Conditions of Lendlig
8.        DBHs medium and long-term loans have maturities typically
ranging from 5 to 10 years, depending on the type of project financed. ITe
average loan maturity is about 8 years.  In accordance with DBM's policy
statement loan maturities are normally not to exceed 15 years. DBM takes
adequate security and requires that clients satisfactorily insure equipment
financed under DBM loans over the life of the loan.
9.        Foreign Exchange Risk Coverage.  In 1984, in consultation with
the Government, DBM established an Exchange Fluctuation Fund (EFF) to
provide relief to DBM subborrowers from the exchange fluctuation risk which
had become a serious problem in Mauritius and which was affecting
investments in the manufacturing sector. Subborrowers are now given the
option of borrowing foreign currency denominated loans in which case they
bear the exchange risk, or local currency loans in which case they pay a 3%
premium for foreign exchange risk coverage. This 3% premium is paid into
the EFF and is expected to cover foreign exchange fluctuations, Any
shortfall in the EFF is covered by the Government. As the Mauritian rupee
has remained steady vis-a-vis the basket of currencies of its European
trading partners and revalued against the dollar in the rearzt past, due to
the country's good export performance, there has been no need for the
Government to make an contributions to the EFF.
10.       Interest Rates,  DBM's interest rates are positive in real terms,
are in line with the rates of other financing institutions in Mauritius,
and provide DBM with an adequate spread to cover its administrative costs,
provisions for doubtful loans, and still leave a reasonable profit. The
interest rates that DBM charges its clients depend upon the sector and the
size of the loan. At present the rates for medium and large industrial and
tourism projects range from 10% to 11% on foreign currency loans and 13% to
14% on local currency loans, Rates for agricultural borrowers range from
10% to 14%. Depending on the loan amount and type of loan scheme, the
rates for SSEs range from 8% to 12%. Clients also pay commitment fees



- 39 -                          ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 19
ranging from .5 to 12. Inflation in MLaritius was 1.8% p.a. in 1986.
DBM's interest rates are expected to be positive over the project period.
Operations
11.       DBM's operations, which include loan approvals, equity
investments and industrial estate construction, have increased
significantly over the last few years in line with the expansion in
industrial activity in the country. DBM's total approvals increased about
eight-fold from M Rs 31 million in 1982 to M Rs 240 million in 1986. The
activities of the Bank have also become more diversified with the
introduction of schemes for small entrepreneurs and agricultural
diversification. Almost all the approvals in 1986 were loans, with medium
and large scale industrial loans (including agro-industry and tourism)
accounting for 55%. Commitments and disbursements also followed a somewhat
similar path to approvals. In 1986, commitments were M Rs 147 million and
disbursements M Rs 160 million. A major portion of DBM's equity
investments was transferred to the State Investment Corporation when it was
created in 1984.  Cbnsequently, as of June 30, 1986, DBM's equ'ty portfolio
amounted to only M Rs 7.8 million, or 1.3% of its total portfolio. Since
the role of industrial estate construction has been assigned to MEDIA, DBM
plans to phase out its building program.  The gradual disposal of all DBM's
industrial estates to the private sector is viewed by DBM as not only
enabling it to concentrate on improving its role as a development bank, but
also to provide it with capital gains and an improved cash flow. Table 2
shows DBM's operations from 1982 to 1991.
12.       Loans to median and large-scale industrial/tourism/agro-
industrial enterprises. In FY86 loan approvals in this category totalled
Rs. 131 million and Ithe loan portfolio amounted to Rs. 470 million. During
the last 2 years, the loan size has ranged from Rs. 75,000 to Rs. 25
million, with an average loan size of Rs. 2.2 million. About 402 of the
number of loans approved in FY86 was for existing enterprises that borrowed
for either expansion or modernization. The average cost per new job for
all loan approvals was about Rs. 135,000.
13.       Loans for agriculture,  Loan approvals in FY86 for agriculture
totalled 1s. 27 million.  Agricultural loans were for rehabilitation and
new planting of sugarcane, tea, tobacco and other crops by individual
farmers.
14.       Loans for small-scale development.  DBM provides three types of
loans to finance small-scale development: (a) small-scale industrial
loans, which finance only equipment; (b) small business loans, which
finance equipment and working capital; and (c) loans for its small
entrepreneur financing scheme, which provide seed capital for unemployed
people. Tbtal loan approvals for small-scale development totalled Rs. 78
million in FY86.



- 40 -                           ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 19
15.       Small-scale industrial loans:  These loans are from 5 to 10 years
with an interest rate of 11X p.a., and are guaranteed by the Government.
The average size of the loan is about Rs. 11,000. The types of enterprises
financed include garment making, furniture, nixed farming and fishing.
16.       Snall business loans:  These loans, for a maximum amount of Rs.
50,000, are extended to businessmen, traders, and other service-oriented
enterprises for setting up retail shops, hotels, restaurants, etc. The
loans are for a 4-year period with interest rates at 11-12% p.a.
17.       Snall entrepreneur financing scheme:  Thia scheme was introduced
in 1984 and is aimed at encouraging unemployed and low income people
(annual income below Rs. 25,000) to set up productive enterprises. The
scheme is also intended to assist self-employed electricians, mechanics,
etc. The Government has made available to DBM a special grant of Rs. 30
million for this purpose. The maximum loan amount per borrower is Rs.
509000: 20% is grant and the remaining 80% carries an interest rate of 82
p.a. At present, the entire grant money is fully committed.
18.       Export Credit Guarantee and Insurance Schemes (ECGS and ECIS).
Following the wishes expressea by many exporters and banks, DBM started the
ECGS in 1981 and the ECIS in 1982. Under the ECGS, banks can obtain
individual guarantees to cover pre-shipment and post-shipment advances made
to each exporter against a specific export order or sale contract for a
stipulated period of time. Under the ECGS, the outstanding guarantees
amounted to about Rs. 4.0 million as of January 31, 1987. The ECIS covers
the risk of non-payment by foreign buyers to exporters. As of January 31,
1987 the total maximum liability was Rs. 9 million.
19.       Equity investments.  A major portion of DBM's equity investments
ws transferred to the State Investment Corporation when it was created in
1984.  Consequently, as of June 30, 1987, DBK's equity portfolio amounted
to only Rs. 7.8 million in the following companies and institutions: State
Commercial Bank (Rs. 5 million), a salt refining enterprise (Rs. 1
million), and a knitting company (Rs. 1.8 million). All these concerns are
operating profitably.
20.       Industrial estates.  DBM was initially entrusted with the task of
developing and operating industrial estates in Mauritius.  The program of
industrial estate development started with the construction of the Plaine
Lausun Industrial Estate (425,000 sq ft) in 1968 and the Coromandel
Industrial Estate (625,000 sq ft) in 1973, both constructed and operated by
DBM (the latter was financed under an IDA credit of $4 million approved in
June 1973). Due to a sharp drop in demand for industrial space, reflecting
the slowuown in economic activity and investment in MIauritius, development
of new areas was curtailed during the early 1980s. The recovery of the
export manufacturing subsector since 1983 has once again increased the
demand for factory space. In 1984 DBN started construction of the Vacoas



- 41-                               ANNEX 3
Page 6 of 19
Phoenix Industrial Estate, and the first phase Involving 160,000 sq ft has
already been completed. Since the role of industrial estate construction
has been designated to MEDIA, DBM plans to phase out its building program.
Phase II of Vacoas Phoenix will most likely be financed by USAID, but for
the other two Phases, DBM plans to advertise for sale or lease to the
private sector. The gradual disposal of all DBM's industrial estates to
the private sector is viewed by DBM as not only enabling it to concentrate
on improving its role as a development bank, but also to provide it with
capital gains and an improved cash flow.
Portfolio Performance
21.       DBM's total outstanding loan portfolio amounted to H Rs 603
million at the end of June 1987 with medium- and large-scale
industrial/tourism loans accounting for M Rs 453 million (75%), SSE loans
M Rs 64 million, (11%), and agricultural loans M Rs 86 million, (14%).
Although the quality of DBM's loan portfolio has improved in the last year
due to intensified efforts at loan collection, loan arrears continue to be
a problem. As of June 30, 1987 about 37% of DBM's total loan portfolio was
affected by arrears of over three months, down from 43% as of June 30,
1985. Actual arrears over three months amounted to about 14% of the total
outstanding portfolio.  In terms of sectoral breakdown, as of June 30,
1987, 40% of the medium and large scale industrial loan portfolio was
affected by arrears, 39% of the small scale enterprise loan portfolio, and
24% of the agricultural loans. Ihe bulk of the small scale enterprise
loans, i.e. loans not exceeding M Rs 50,000, are fully guaranteed by the
Government. For medium and large scale industrial loans, 80% of the total
arrears, amounting to about M Rs 51 million, were over one year. At least
402 of the arrears cases are considered to be wilful default, in many
instances resulting from DBM's own laxity in debt collection. Annex 3,
Table 4 gives an analysis of arrears over three months as of June 30, 1987.
22.       DBM's level of provisions increased from 4% of the loan portfolio
in FY85 to 5% in FY86 and remained at 5% in FY87. As of June 30, 1986
provisions amounted to MRs 32 million. The auditors are of the opinion
that given the security on the loans and the fact that most of the
defaulting enterprises are profitable and could repay if pressed, the
provisions are adequate.
2!.       As of December 31, 1986, DBM's accumulated rent in arrears
amounted to about M Rs 9.0 million fUS$ 690,000). A large portion of the
arrears is attributable to a few clients who have been in arrears for
several years. Six companies account for abort 30% of the total arrears,
and the arrears of these companies are over 3 years. In FY86, the annual
rent billing was about M Rs 15.5 million (US$ 1.2 million) and DBM
collected M Rs 12 million (77%).



- 42 -                        ANNEX 3
Page 7 of 19
Debt Recovery Action Plan
24.       DBM has begun to mount a debt recovery action program to Improve
its portfolio performance. (DBM's portfolio problems are discussed in the
main text and an analysis of arrears over 3 months as of June 30, 1987 is
shown in Table 3.) The action plan is expected to deter wilful defaulters
and create the necessary consciousness among clients that DBM means
business in its recovery efforts. DBM's approach to the portfolio problem
has been to deal with its clients on a case-by-case basis. lhe various
measures to be taken would be tailored to the needs of each case and would
reflect DBM's own judgement regarding the borrower's repayment capacity.
The program includes the following:
- scheduling follow-up visits twice every six months for clients
in loan arrears over six months;
- supervising clients with rent arrears twice a month;
- sending updated accounting information to all clients showing
their current indebtedness, loan arrears and principal and
interest falling due;
- suspending the disbursement of new loan funds until an
agreement to clear arrears has been finalized and is being
Implemented.
- developing with clients an agreed program of action for
reducing and/or clearing arrears including: loan and rent
reschedulings, interest reschedulings and legal proceedings.
25.       DBM would submit to the Bank its debt recovery action program for
each financial year for its review and comments by no later than August 31
of each year,until debt and rental arrears have been reduced to a level
satisfactory to the Bank. Also, as part of its reporting requirmeents, DBM
will submit every six months a report showing: (i) the results obtained
for both loan and rent arrears; (ii) the measures taken to reduce loan and
rent arrears; (iii) an arrears analysis for all loans by sector and age of
arrears; (iv) an arrears analysis for rent by age of arrears for each
industrial building; and (v) measures proposed for achieving the targ2ts
for loan and rent arrears reduction for the next six months.
Financial Performance
26.       DBM's past income statements and balance sheets and relevant
financial ratios are summarized in Annex 3, Tables 4-6. In FY87 DBM's net
i-orth was about M Rs 138 million (paid-in capital of M Rs 50 million and
reserves of M Rs 65 million), portfolio (less provisions) was X Rs 604
million, and total assets were M Rs 1,129 million. DBN's financial
position Improved in the last year due to increases in rental income from
industrial estates, decreases in financial charges from savings revulcing



- 43-                            ANNEX 3
Page 8 of 19
from cancellation of high cost funds and issuing bonds which are a cheaper
source of funds, and management fees for administering the Socota Project.
Its net profit as a percentage of net worth Improved significantly Zrom
lo.w of 4% in 1985 and 2% in 1986 to 9.9% in 1987. Tbtal income as a
percentage of average total assets was 8.7% in 1987 and administrative
expenses were 1.4% of average total assets. The ratio of term debt to
equity increased from 2.8 in 1983 to 4.0 in 1987. In order to maintain a
debt to equity ratio of 4:1 as agreed with the World Bank under previous
loans, DBM would need an injection of M Rs 15 million in FY88.
27.       Resources.  At June 30, 1986, DBM had uncommitted foreign
currency resources of N Rs 129 million and local currency resources of M Rs
114 million. DBM's projections for PY88 and PY89 indicate that DBM would
require new foreign currency resources amounting to M Rs 137 million (US$
10 million) to finance its medium and large scale industrial lending
program.
28.       DBM's financial performance is expected to be satisfactory during
the projection period of 1987-1991 (Tables 7-9). With Intensified efforts
at loan recovery and reduction in arrears, DBM's net profit is expected to
improve. DBM has obtained a loan from RIB for about Rs 140 million for the
Socota Textile Mill Project,  DBM's exposure to the project is limited to
Rs 30 million; for the remaining amount, DBM would be fully guaranteed by
the commercial banks through which the funds would be channelled. DBM
receives a management fee of 1% from the commercial banks.  DBM's total
assets are projected to increase to Rs 1494 million by 1991. Total income
as a percentage of average total assets Is expected to be between 8.9 and
9.7 during the projection period, and administrative expenses are expected
to be about 1.4. With Rs 15 million injection of equity in 1988, the debt
to equity ratio is expected to remain below 4:1.



- 44-
ANX 3
Page 9 of 19
Table 1
HAI  TIUS
INDSTIAL FI CsE PROJCT
DJil: BASIC DATA
Exchange Rate: US$1.0 - NU. 12.S
A. Date on whib ogerations started:  Mlarch 1, 1964
B. Onership a  of Je     30, 1987                  Share Capital:  (Rs. million)
Authorised and Paid-In
Gover_mnt of  auritl                              52 S2.
Sank of l uritius                                 1090
State Insurance Corporation of Mauritius           2.5
TOTAL                  65.0
C. Resource Position - of June 30. 1986 (Rs. sillton)
in Local       In Foreign
Currency        Currncy          Total
Resources
Capital and Reservwes                117.7                           117.7
Government Loan                      136.0                           136.0
Term Deposits                         40.1                            40.1
Bonds                                 33.1                            33.1
Special Government Credit              0*6                             0.6
Loans from Foreisn Sources 1/                         580.3          580.3
327             5803T 907.8
Uses
Net Fixed Assets                       3.1                             3.1
Industrial Zstates                    98.7                            98.7
Investments and Securities             9.9                             9.9
Portfolio (less provisions)           93.0            403.8           93.0
TOTAL                        204.7            403.8           608.5
Resource  available for disbursement:  122.8            176.5           299.3
Undls,bursed comINtents:               8.6             47.3            55.9
Resources for new commitments:       114.2            129.2           243.4
1/ Includes IDRD, ADS, ZIn, IDBI and CCCI.



- 45 -
ANNEX 3
Page 10 of Is
C. Year-End Financial Position
Actual
Year Endlg June 30                   1984      1985      1986       1987
Total Assets (Rs. million)               602.6     656.3     848.7   1,129.1
Net Worth (Is. million)                  170.6     116.4     117.7      137.7
Net Income/Average Net Worth               8.6       4.0       2.0        9.9
Long Term Debt/Year-End Equity             2.1       3.3       4.0        4.4
Prvisions as 2 of Loan Portfolio           3.6       4.0       3.0        5.0
g.  Interest Rates and Commitment Fees                  December 31, 1986
(a)  Medium/Large Industrial/Tourism Loans:
- World Bank/ADB Loans - Local Currency denominated               141
- Other Loans from Foreign Sources-Local currency denomlnated    13-142
-Foreign currency denominated  10-11%
Commitment Fees                                                   .5-11
(b)  Agriculture Loans (local currency)                                10-141
(e) Small Industry Loans (local currency)
- Small scale industrial loans                                    11X
- Small business loans                                            11-122
- Small entrepreneur loans                                        8X
F. Basic Data an IDA Credits and Bank Loans
Status as of June 30, 1987
in $1000
Date of                     Amount of
Credit/Loan       Effectiveness                  Credit/Loan        Disbursed
313-MAS         August 17, 1972                   3,500             3,500
979-MAS         July 18, 1974                     5,000             5,000
411-MAS 1/      October 1, 1973                   4,000             4,000
1168-MAS        December 19, 1975                 7,500             7,060
1481-MAS        October.6, 1977                   7,500             5,670
1789-MAS        April 30, 1980                    6,000             5,526
2164-MAS        September 22, 1982                6,000             2,585 2/
39,500
S"umary Features of Loans: 116R, 1481, 1789 and 2164
1168-MAS       1481-MAS         1789-MAS         2164-MAS
1.  Foreign ex-      Subborrower    Subborrover/      Subhorrower/   Subborrower/
change risk                        Govt.             Govt.          Govt.
bore by:                        (split risk)      (split risk)   (split risk)
1/  For Coromandel Industrial Estates.
2/ Cancelled and prepaid In June 12, 1987.



Table 2
Dat:  Qaeaiveiertcs 19821991.
_(R, M _IAM)
Actual                                           f~ti
1982      1983      1984      1985      1986      1987      1988      1989      1990      1991
W-dimumaroe lndustry 1/               23.9      58.6      75.6    171.2      131.2     100.8     146.4    155.9    130.2    142.7
Others                                 6.8      23.1      21.1      99.1     107.2     117.5     122.S    129.5    137.1       145.0
Equ1ty Investm*nts                        -         6.4       5.0       2.0       0.5       2.0       2.0       2.0       2.0       2.0
Industrial Estates                        -         -         2.4      38.8       0.9      18.7      25.8      2D.5       -         -
lUTAL                   -W.7        88.1     104.1        311.1    'iM.   523 97               VU        M5        27 
*          sdi/Law Indsty             38.2      15.8      41.2      77.1      75.6    107.2    113.0    139.7    130.5    122.9
tkhers                                 5.0      16.7      18.7      52.5      70.5    106.2    110.8    117.0    123.4    129.6
Equlty Inestments                         -         4.0       -         1.8       -         2.0       2.0       2.0       2.0       2.0
Industrial Estates                        -         -         2.4      47.1       0.9      18.7      25.8      2DL5       -         -
lUlrL                     43.2    79.35      ig1    1i7935   l14E25         3.l 1-     1 1.6   276.2    255. 94.5
Diairens
Las
NedtiuA/Large Induistry               33.6      17.1      34.6      59.4      53.5      77.3      93.3     109.8     125.5      115.8
Others                                 6.3      11.5      14.0      45.2      90.6      94.5     100.2    106.0    111.6       117.2
Enuity Imnestuents                        -         4.0       1.0       1.1       0.7       1.0       2.0       2.0       2.0       2.0
Indtrial Estates                          -         -         -         6.4      15.2       9.8      22.2      23.1        .3       -
IUIAL                     39.3      32.6      49.6    1I1.   16D.0                   217.7    -2a0.9   -249.4    -m-35w
-~~~ -                                                                                                                         
1/ Local Qbrrncy Loans projected at Rs. 10 dUtlion each year frot  1987-1991.  Ineudes Agro-Ibistry and Tourlan loums. lrdalebs
borrsv tby btDTA.



Tbe 3
h)    of A   ver S   ee bxit
As of June 30, 1987
lbt*l11o Affcted           T 1xI~U  In         lbrwmt~e                                           k
by Ares                 Arreas as X        of m. of              TalkrM= 1I/                  as   of
Tpe of           lb. of         A=Mt          of lbtat           Rl!ets             3          6-12      (er 1       Ztd
om              IOWA          (lb. '000)   R axtiollo            I A kreas   1     mths  yadu                       ibRtf
(f. lOOD)
aze  &ale 
rluuty 2/         154          178,659           40                  46           8,1O      4,563      51,030          14             4
Skde~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Iustry 3/       1,598           29,958          -39                  37            1,005      2,115      9.622          16
Xr1cutte          92B           23,195           24                  37             842       1826      7,212           10
13tA            2,680          231,812           37                  38           10,037      8,504    67,864           14
mm_                                                              _ _-                __--._ 
If    a  of ju1zac   ard iterest.
2 ERIdpal aamD   outstanflg and arrears an loans  imfututei in lvrdcLn cartLouy ha  bL*mm cu,we   at pwemig acduhwe rate.
/ o.rattel by Qwt. for laom  beow fb. 50,000.
ibta: bveral fDre4n cwreny lam n.e D twhe se copajy hbwe bhws grmW ugetbar ad heatd as a  loan.



-48 -                       AN=  3
PapT1 of 19
Table 4
NAURITIUS
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
DIN: Act% l Balance Sheet 1982-1986
(R96 t_llion)
Actual
1983      1984       1985       1986      1987
ASSETS
Current
- Cshin hand and at Banks                  49.3       70.4       15.4      30.0       23.3
- Bonds & Govt. Securlties                  9.8        9.9        9.9       9.9        8.9
- Other current assets                     92*5      109.9      131*7     162.6      262.5
Subtotal                        151.6     190.1      15-7.0    202.S      294.7
Portfolio
- Loans                                   346*6      392.7     466*6      553.8      628.5
- Equity                                   18.1       19.1        7.3       8.0        7.8
Total Portfolio (Gross)                 47       364.7     411.8      7r.         i
- Less Loan deposit, current
maturities, exchange
revaluations &dj.                   (51.3)    (69.1)    (68.6)    (62.2)    (30.7)
- Less Provlalons           -(19s0)    (15.0)    (19.0)    (28.0)    (32.0)
Total Portfollo (Net)                 294.4      327.7     3KT.3T    471.6      735.0
Industrial Estates (Net)               72.7      71.4       75.7       98.7      102.7
Other Fixed Assets (Net)                2.2        2.4       2.8        3.1        4.5
Other Assets 1/                         7.2       11.0      34*5       72.8       92.1
Total Assets                   528.1      602.6      656.3     848.7   1,129.0
m_                                  m
LIABILITIES & NET WORTH
Liabilities
- Current Liabilities                      40.7       62.6     111.0      135.0       91.0
- Long Term Debt 2/                       335.8      353.2     378.2      472.3      617.0
- Bonds                                                 *.         ..        ..      134.0
- Funds 3/                                 31.7       75.5      44.7       79.1      128.4
- Ehange Fluctuation Fund                   4*2     _3*2         8.        14.0       20.9
Sub-total             H432.4     494.5      542.4      733.5      991.3
Net Worth
- Paid-in Capital                          500       50.0      50.0       50.0       65.0
- Reserves and Retained Earnings           45.7       58.1      63.9       65.2       72.7
Sub-total               95T7      108.1     113.9      115.2     137.7
Total Liabilities & Net Worth         528.1     602.6      656.3      848.7   1,129.0
I/  Includes staff pension fund, sinking fund, underwriting and other investments.
From 1985 includes loans to small entrepreneurs.
2/  Less Current maturities.
3/  Includes staff pension fund, exchange fluctuation fund, caisse centrale fundj
equity finance fund, etc.  From 1985 Includes grant for small entrepreneurs.,
Note: 1987 Balance Sheet (Unauditied): (i) Current Liabilities for 1987 excludes current
maturities and long-term debt includes current maturities.



-49-
ANNEX 3
Page 14 of 19
Table 5
NAUtITIUJS
DMID TRW. FINANCk PROJECT
Du$: Actual Income Stateomnts 1982-1986
--   w    (Re. iiiiL4Wl)
Actual
1983      1984      Ms8       19086     19817
iiteret & Commisslons an Loans           32.5      34.6       40.9      49.4      59.7
Dividends                                 4.1       4.0       0.2        1.2-
Short-term Investment Interet             3.6       3.9       3.6        1.7       3.6
Rental income                             9.8       9.7       14.0      15.8      21.5
otheor income                             0.6       0.6       0.8        1.5       1.0
TOTAL INCOME                        50.6      52.8      59.5      69.6       85.8
Financial Charges                        28.8      29.4      32.3       40.9      52.1
Administrative Expenses                   5.9       6.5       8.4       11.0      13.4
Depreclation                              2.5       2.5        2.5       2.5       3.8
Write-Offs on Portfolio                   2.7       8.4        6.5       4.2 
TOTAL EXPENSES                      39.9      46.       49.7       58.6      69.3
Op!nila Pofit                            10.7       6.0        9.8      11.0      16.5
Prfton Sale of Assets                  0.7       -         -         - 
Gai/Losis on Foreign Sebange             -2.4                           --
Net Earnings                             11.4       8.4       9.8       11.0      16.*5
provisions                               (1.1)      4.0      (4.0)      (9.0)     (4.0)
Net Profit                               10.3      12.4       5.8       2.0       12.5
FT-.
Allocated to:
Dividends                               2.5       4         0         1         --
Retained ternings                       7.8      129.4       .        2.0       71.5
land Redemption Fund                              25         -         -         5.0



- 50 -
AMNE 3
Page 15 of 19
Table 6
NADP.THUS
INMWSTIM-MMriiER PRW ECT
DBiN Actual Financial Ratios (1982-1986)
Actual
1983   1984    1985    1986    1987
Income Statement Elements as X of
Average Total Assets
1.  Total Income                                9.8     9.4      9.5     9.2      8.7
2.  Finance Charges                             5.6     5.2      5.1     5.4      5.3
3.  Administrative Expenses                     1.2     1.2      1.3     1.4      1.4
4.  Provisions                                  0.7     0.8      1.7     0.8      0.4
5.  Depreciation                                0.5     0.5      0.4     0.3      0.1
6.  Total Expenses                              7.2     6.8      6.9     7.2      7.0
7.  Net Profit before provislons                2.7     3.0      2.6     2.0      1.7
8.  Net Profit after provisions 11              2.0     2.2      0.9     0.2      1.3
Profitability Indicators
9. Net Profit (after provisions) as X of
Average Net Worth                           9.9     8.6      4.0     2.0     9.9
10.  Income from loans as I of Average Loan
Portfolio                                   9.4     9.4      9.5     9.7    10.1
11.  Cost of debt as X of Average Debt           7.7     7.7      7.8     8.5      9.6
Financial Structure Indicators
12.  Current Assets/Current Liabilities          2.5     3.0      1.4     1.5       -
13.  Term Debt/Yesr-End Equity 2/                3.5     3.3      3.3     4.4     4.4
14. ProvwiLsid as I of. Loan & Equlty
Portfollo                                   5.2     3.6     4.0      5.0     5.0
1/ DBM is not subject to tax.
2/ Excludes subordinated loans. In FY86 and FY87, If subordinated loans are included as
agreed In Bank loan agreements, the debt-equity ratio would be within the 4:1
ratio agreed with the Bank.



- 51 -
.Q%NEX 3
Page 16 of 19
Table 7
MAURITIUS
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
DMB:  Projected Balance Sbeet 1987- 1991
(Re. Million)
Projected
1988    1989    1990    1991
ASSETS
Current
- Cash in hand and at Banks                    30.0    30.0    30.0    30.0
3 Bonds & Govt. Securities                      9.9      9.9      9.9     9.9
O- ther current assets                        196.1   202.9   207.9   226.4
Subtotal                           236.0   242.8   247-.8   266.3
Portfolio
- Loans                                       962.0  1046.5  l 63.0  1258.8
- Equity                                       17.5    19.5    21.5    23.5
Total Portfolio (Gross)                  979.5  1066.0  1184.5  1282.3
- Less Provisions                        (42.0)  (47.5)  (57.5)  (67.5)
- Less Current Maturities               (105.8) (115.1) (127.9) (138.5)
Total Portfolio (Net)                    831.7   903.4   999.1  1076.3
- Industrial Estates (Net)                    124.5   144.0   150.6   146.9
- Other Fixed Assets (Net)                      3.6      3.8      4.0     4.2
Total Assets                      1195.8  1294.0  1400.6  1493.7
LIA3ILITIE & NET WORTH
Liabilitles
- Current Liabilitles                         149.4   145.3   133.5   150.5
- Long Term Debt 1/                           646.8   696.3   756.5   791.2
- Bonds                                       100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
- Funds                                       115.2   140.4   165.5   189.6
Subtotal                          1011.4  1082.0  1155.5  1231.3
Net Worth
- Paid-in Capital                              80.0    80.0    80.0    80.0
- Reserves and Retained Earnings              104.4   132.0   155.1   182.4
Subtotal                           184.4   212.0   245.1   _u2.4
Total Libilities & Net Worth            1l9S.8  1294.0  1400.6 - 1493.7
1/ Less current maturities.



- 52 -
AMNEX 3
Page 17 of 19
Table 8
M ^AURITIUS
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
DIM: Projected Income Statements 1987 - 1991
(Rs. Million)
Projected
1988    1939    1990    1991
INCOME
interest & Commissions on Loans              67.1    80.8    89.3    97.2
Dividends                                     1.1      1.1     1.1     1.1
short-term Investment Interest                6.0      6.5     6.5     6.5
Rental Income                                22.9    26.2    30.1    32.8
* Other Income                                   0.5     0.5     0.5     0.5
TOTAL INCOME                            97.6   115.4   128.0   139.4
EXPENSES
Financial Charges                            52.8    64.9    73.9    80.2
AdAministrative Expenses                     15.0    16.0    17.)    18.0
Depreciation                                  3.6      3.9     4.0     3.9
TOTAL EXPENSES                          71.4    84.-8   94.9   102.1
Net Earnings                                 25.2    30.6    33.1    37.3
Provisions                                    6.0     5.5    10.0    10.0
Net Profit                                   19.2    25.1    23.1    27.3
inmi   .ini    in.n    mi.n mi



- 53 -
ANNEX 3
Page 18 of 19
Table 9
MAURITIUS
INOUSTR!XAL 7fRECJ PROJECT
DIM: Pro1ected Sources and Uses, 1987-1991
(Re. ?tillion)
Pro-jected
1988      1989       1990      1991
Sources
Wet Profit & non-cash charges                        28.8      34.5       37.1      41.2
Draw-down an loans                                  220.4     147.1      151.5     130.1
Loan collections                                     79.1      120.9     139.2     140.3
Other sources                                        23.0      25.2       5.1       24.1
hncrease In share capital                            15.0       -          -         -
Total                            366.3     327.7      352.9     335.7
Uses
Debt repayment                                       71.4      75.7       M6.5       9.0
Disbursement of loans                               311.7     240.9      249.4     235.0
Fixed Assets                                          0.2       0.2        0.2       0.2
Change in Working Capital                           (17.0)     10.9       16.8       1.5
Total                             366.3     327.7      352.9     335.7
Notes to ProJected Financial Statements
Approvals of foreign currency loans are expected to increase by 10% p.a.  Disbursements
of loans for medium and large scale industry are based on 20X in the year of commitment,
60X the year after, 10S ln the second Fear and 102 cancellations. (See Annex 3, Table
3 for nrojections on approvals, commi:tents and disbursements of loans). B'19's
Industrial estate Investment activities are expected to phase out completely by FY90.
Loan collections (principal repayment' are based on a 651 collection rate for the first
two years, and 75% thereafter. The existing interest rates are assumed to Prevail over
the projection period. Administration expenses lncrease by about 16X p.a. in the first
two years as a result of the new organizational changes and increase in staff, and
thereafter increase at 62 p.a. Excha-ze Fluctuation Ftind Reserves are expected to remain
the same as in FY86.  The bond issue i- FY87 is at 9X p.a. (tax-free).  Government is
expected to inject Rs 15 million 1n e:uity in 1987 and 1988.



- 54 -
ANNEX 3
Page 19 of 19
Table 10
MAURITIUS
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
DBm: Projected Financial Ratios 1987 - 1991
Projected
1988    1989    1990    1991
Income Statement Elements as X of
Average Total Assets
1.  Total Income                             8.9     9.3      9.5     9.6
2. Finance Charges                           4.8      5.2     5.5     5.5
3. Administrative Expenses                   1.4      1.3     1.3     1.3
4. Provision                                 0.5     0.4      0.7     0.7
S.  Depreciation                             0.3     0.3      0.3     0.3
6.  Total Expenses                           6.5     6.8      7.0     7.0
7.  Net trofit before provisions             2.3     2.5      2.5     2.6
8.  Net Profit after provisionsl/.           1.8      2.0     1.7     1.9
Profitability Indicators
9.  Net Profit (after provisions)           11.4    12.7    10.1    10.8
as z of Average Net Worth
10.  Income from loans as X of                7.8     7.9      7.9     7.9
Average Loan Portfolio
11. Cost of debt as 2 of Average              8.0     8.5      9.1     9.3
Debt
Financial Structure Indicators
12. Current Assets/Current Liab.              1.6     1.7      1.9     1.8
13.  Term Debt/Year-End Equity                4.0     3.8      3.5     3.4
14.  Provisions as 2 of Loan &                4.3     4.5     4.9      5.3
Equity Portfolio 2/
1/ DBM is not subject to tax
2/' Provisions have not been applied to the Socota Textile Mill Loan. A
major portion of which is counterguaranteed.



-55s -
Page 1 of 4
Table 1
MAURITIUS
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
SCB: BASIC DATA
A. Date on which operations started: September 3, 1973.
B. Performance Indicators.
Actual
Year lading June 30:                     1984      1985     1986     1987
1, Fioancial Position
Total Assets (Rso Million)          1,815    2,211    2,840    4,038
Paid-Up capital (Rs. Million)          35       35        72       72
Net Worth (Rs. Million)                44       57        96      113
Net Income/Yr. End Net Worth           17       23        22       14
2. Business Levels
Branches (No.)                         34       36        38       40
Staff (No.)                           423      473       523      600
Deposits (Average)(Rs. Million)       917    1,175    1,512    2,090
Borrowings (Re. Million)              217      193
Credit (Average)(Rs. Million)         473      746       930    1,122
c.  Interest Rates (minimum)1/                    February 1, 19R7
overdrafts                  Loans
- Category I (Sugar Industry,          111                       142
Enterprises with Valid
Certificates DC, LPZ, hotels-
small scale Industries)
- Category II (Other Industries    15.5-16.5%                  16-16.52
Transport hotels, Part-
Statal Bodies)
- Category III (Trade, Housing.,    15.5-16.5                 15.5-16.52
Personal and Professional)
_/ LInked to Bank rate and quoted as 2 over Bank rate.



- 56 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 4
Table 2
MADRITIUS
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
STATE COMMERCIAL BANK
Actual Balance Sheets 1983 - 1987
(Amounts in Rs. Million)
1983      1984      1985       1986      1987
ASSETS
Cash in hand and at BOM                95.9      119.1      74.1      181.3     325.0
Balance with local banks                5.0        5.0       2.5       --         5.0
Balances with overseas banks           12.9       21.4      18.8       45.5      33.4
Foreign notes and coins                 1.7        2.4       3.7        5.9       7.1
Government securities                 329.2      402.3     305.2      550.1   1,218.7
Other investments                      27.5       22.5      22.5       22.5      49.6
Advances and other accounts _/        602.4      912.4   1,191.1   1,217.9   1,475.3
Fixed assets                           26.0       25.7      29.8       39.2      49.2
Customers' liabilities for
acceptances, guarantees etc.        265.2      304.1     562.9     778.0      874.2
Total Assets               1,365.8   1.814.9   2.210.6   2.840.4   4,037.5
LIABILITIES & NET VORT$
Deposits and Contingency Reserves    904.3   1,222.7   1,361.7   1,915.9   2,960.4
Other Current liabilities              17.6       27.7      36.3       50.5      52.3
Borrowings from BOM & Banks           137.6      216.8     193.2      --         --
Acceptances, Guarantees etc.          265.2      304.1     562.9      778.0     874.2
Subtotal Liabilities       1.324.2   1,771.3   2.154.1   2,744.4   3.925.0
Loan Capital Xi                        --         --        --         --        38.1
Share capital                          35.0       35.0      35.0       72.0      72.0
Reserves.                               6.1        8.1      19.0       17.0      40.5
Blance of PIL account                   0.5        0.5       2.5        7.0      --
Subtotal Net Worth 3/         41.6  _  43.6   - 56.5         96.0        112.5
Total*Liabilities and Net Worth    1,365.8   1.814.9   2.210.6   2.840.4   4.037.5
}/ Includes overdrafts, loans and bills.
21 Bonds assumed by SCB following the merger with the State Finance Corporation Ltd.
The bonds are guaranteed by the Government.
31 Excluding loan capital.



-57 -
ARMM 4
Page 3 of 4
Table 3
MARITIT
INDUSTRAL FIhMIC PROJECT
STATE CO) RIAL BANK
Actual Profit and Loss Account
(Amounts in Rs. Million)
1983     1984      1985      19M6      1987
Profit After Tax                                         19.3      22.9      16.5
(before FManco Charges)
Flance charges                                            6.2       1.6       0.2
AuditOrs' Fees                                            0.3       0.3       0.4
MET gROnT                             7         7.3       2.       21.0       5
Dllauce Brought Forard               --         0.5       0.5       2.4       7.1
7.6       7.8     13.3       34       23.0
Alocated to:
Dividends                           5.3       5.3      --        11.3      --
Statutory Reserves                    1.8       2.0       3.9       5.0       5.0
Geeral Reserves                      --                   7.0      --        18.0
TOTAL                            7.1       7.3      10.9      16.3      23.0
oalae Carried Forward                 0.5       0.5       2.4       7.1      --



ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 4
Table 4
NAUtITIUS
NDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
STATE COMMERCIAL BANK
Financial Ratios (1983-1987)
(Is. Milllon)
1983   1984   1985   1986   1987
Profitability
Net Profit/Yr. End Net Worth (X)           18.0   17.0   23.0   22.0   14.0
Gross Income/Av. Total Assets (X)           -      10.8   11.4   12.4    9.3
Financial Expenses/Av. Total Assets (2)    -        7*1    7.5    8.1    -
Av. Cost of Deposits (Z)                            9.9    8.8    9.1
Financial Structure
Deposits/Equity Ratio                      22:1   28:1   24:1   20:1   20:1
Credit/Deposit Ratlo                     0.67:1  0.52:1 0.64:1 0.62:1 0.54:1



- 59 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 5
MAURITIUS
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
ELIGIBILITY AND ACCREDITATION OF PFIs
1. General Objectives and Criteria
1*1       The financial resources of BOM's PCC are channelled through
participating financial institutions (PFIs) which, as financial interme-
diaries, make project financing available to eligible enterprises in the
form of medium- and long-term loans. These PFIs are accredited under the
Industrial Finance Project after an evaluation by the BOM and the World
Bank (WE) with a view to assessing their present and prospective
capabilities to act as efficient intermediaries for long-term,
project-based industrial financing. The evaluation takes into account the
following major criteria:
(a) sound financial position and performance and a healthy portfolio;
(b) sound operating policies and procedures and a development
strategy for future operations;
(c) an organization, management and staff with the requisite
expertise to undertake term lending operations including the
technical, economic and financial appraisal of projects and their
supervision; and
(d) compliance with all relevant laws, decrees and regulations to the
satisfaction of all regulatory authorities.
1.2       For the time being, accreditation as a PFI will be offered only
to two Government owned financial institutions. At a later time,
broadening the participation to include other intermediaries will be
considered.
2. General Scope of Evaluatio'
2.1       The appraisal of an applicant Institution covers the following
main areas:
(a) institutional capabilities;
(b) operations;
(c) financial condition and performance and portfolio quality; and
(d) business plans and forecasts.



- 60 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 5
3. The Accreditation Process
3.1       Evaluation.  The following information is required from
Interested financial institutions:
(a) a copy of the latest annual report;
(b) audited financial statements, including detailed income state-
ments, covering the immediately preceding three years of opera-
tions;
(c) a profile of the institution's loan portfolio incliding an
anlysis of past due obligations;
(d) a list of major stockholders, the number of subscribed shares and.
the amount paid;
(e) a summary profile of the institution's management and staff;
(f) a note describing the institution's procedures for the evaluation
and granting of investment loans; and
(g) such other information as may be deemed necessary.
The evaluation Is geared towards the attainment of the following
objectives:
1.   to ascertain that the entity has a sound organizational
structure, a good quality of management and an adequate and
oempetent operating staff; and
2.   to evaluate the effectiveness and soundness of the institution's
operating principles and procedures with emphasis on loan
processing, supervision and loan recovery.
Operations
The appraisal of the institution's operations includes a review
of major treas of operations such as loans, guarantees, underwriting etc.
to ascertain whether actual operations in fact indicate that the
institution is a suitable candidate for a PFI.
Financial Conditlon and Performance
The financial appraisal of the Institution is geared towards
determining the soundness of its financial condition, performance and
portfolio. This should ideally include the following aspects, suitably
adapted to each applicant case:



- 61 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 5
1    a review of accounting policies and procedures as these relate to
generally accepted accounting principles;
2.   an analysis of the institution's profitability, such as, growth
of earnings and adequacy to provide a cushion against probable
losses;
3.   an evaluation of asset quality which covers:
(a)  changes in asset structu-e;
(b) concentration of risk exposure;
(c)  trend and level of arrears;
(d) collection performance; and
(e) policies for establishing provisions for possible losses.
4.   an evaluation of liquidity management capability and capital
adequacy; and
5.   a review of the institution's compliance with agreed financial
limits.
Business Prospects
The appraisal of the institution's business forecast and prospects aims to
ascertain that the entity has a suitable strategy for future operations and
continued viability and financial strength. This includes the evaluation
of:
1.   the adequacy of organization, management and staffing plans in
relation to the institution's projected operational level;
2.   the reasonableness of projected growth in approvals, commitments
and disbursements in relation to resource availability and
projects lined up for financing; and
3.   the reasonableness and tealisability of assumptions underlying
the institution's projected financial condition and performance.
Loan Documentation
A Subsidiary Financing Agreement (SFA) covering the detailed terms and
conditions of the Loan is signed by the authorized representatives of the
BOM and the accredited PFI. In addition, a special debt instrument for
each commitment made under the SFA may be required.



- 62 -
ANNEX5
PageT4of 5
Documentation
The following documents, inter alla, are normally submitted by the PFI to
to the BON and the World Bank on or before loan signing:
(a) Board resolutions:
1. approving the Statement of Corporate Strategy; and
2. authorizing the PFI's designated representative to sign the
SPA;
(b) the legal opinion of the institution's legal counsel on the FLA
stating among others that:
1. the SFA has been duly executed;
2. the SFA is a legal, valid and binding obligation of the PFI;
3. the PFI is not in default in the performance of any
obligation or agreement to which it is a party; and
4. there is no legal action or proceeding which will affect the
ability of the PFI to perform ita obligations under the FLA.
(c) the disclosure of any transaction to be exempted from the
negative clause provision of the SFA, if applicable; and
(d)  the initial amortization schedule for the Bank line of credit, if
applicable.
The following documents are normally submitted by the PFI after SPA signing
but before any disbursements:
(a) a Board resolution appointing the authorized signatories for
withdrawal applications and their specimen signatures;
(b) a Board resolution confirming the executed SFA and all attendant
documents and ratifying the authority of the PFI's representative
to sign the SFA; and
(c)  any other document peXtaining to the fulfillment of the agreed
conditions of disbursement.
February 11, 1987



- 63 -
ANNEX 5
Page 5 of 5
ATTACHMENT 1
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT:
CHECKLIST OF INFORMATION REQUESTED FROM APPLICANT
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS
A. Institutional Aspects
1. Articles of Incorporation and By-Laws
2. List of Shareholders
3. Board of Directors
4. Organisationel Chart
S. Management and Staff Profile
6.  TrallLng Programs
7. Lending and Loan Administration Polictes and
Procedures
B. Financial Condition, Operational Performance and portfolio Quality
1. Financial Statements (Balance Sheet, Income Statement and Sources
and Uses of Funds)
2. Profile of Loan Portfolio
3. Financial Profitablllty Indicators
4. Analysls of Past Due Obligations
5. Aging of Past Due Obligations
6.  List of Equity Investments
C. Prospects
1. Projected Financial Statements
2. Projects in the Pipeline
3. Projected PFiancial Ratios
4. Manpower Projections



- 64 -
ANNEX 6
MAURITIUS
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
SCREDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
(U-$ o000)
Qiaarter Endtags       Quarterly Disbursements    Cumulative Disburseecuts
March 31, 1988                   100                           100
June 30, 1988                    200                           300
ry 1989
September 30, 1988               200                          SOO
December 31, 1988                100                          600
March 31, 1989                   200                          800
June 30, 1989                    100                           900
FY S  b99
Dptember 30, 1989                400                        1,300
December 31, 1989                400                        11,700
May 30, 1990                     so0                        2,200
June 30, 1990                    500                        2,700
FT 1991
September 30, 1990               500                        3,200
December 31, 1990                500                        3,700
March 31, 1991                   500                        4,200
June 30, 1991                    500                        4,700
FY 1992
September 30, 1991               500                        5,200
December 31, 1991                500                        5,700
March 31, 1992                   400                        6,100
June 30, 1992                    400                        6,500
FY 1993
September 30, 1992               400                        6,900
December 31, 1992                400                        7,300
March 31, 1993                   300                        7,600
June 30, 1993                    300                        7,900
FT 1994
September 30, 1993               200                        8,100
December 31, 1993                500                        8,600
March 31, 1994                   200                        8,8no
June 30, 1994                    300                        9,100
FT 1995
September 30, 1994               200                        9,300
December 31, 1994                t00                        9,400
March 31, 1995                   1o0                        9,500
June 30, 1995                    200                        9,700
FY 1996
September 30, 1995              i1n                         9,no0
December 31, 1995                20n                        10,000



LMAP SECTION



I B R D 3209R(PPA
MAUR IT I U8B
MTUNK ROADS
OhHR MAIN ROADS
BUILT UP ARKA\
SUGAR CASKE 
LANDS UNDR TEA, POSITION JANUARY t4\
;FCRCT A SCaUSLANO                                    J                                         du
ISNETS />
ALTITUWES OVCR OS FEET
O B,SE...RX R.,                                                                                    e
tv t&'''~~~Adu-ah X
Tomart=,,, ~    *,,      Sr
0~~~~~~~~~~
n"~~~~~ s~~~S~-R
SO4ALLAC                                   hv ""<As,.,,0 IO -a
_In                             =
lz ~ ~ ~       ~      ~       ~       ~      ~       RS R        KW
z                     Fdvel                                                                                  J=,~~~~~~~~~~~~~A*4SSRbI~
AfW                                                                         :7~~~~~~~SO4RSIRSSO



