Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                              LOAN NUMBER 2927 MAS
                   (Industrial Finance Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
                         BANK OF MAURITIUS
                        Dated May 18, 1988
                                              LOAN NUMBER 2927 MAS
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated May 18,  1988 between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT  (the  Bank)  and BANK OF MAURITIUS
(the Borrower).
     WHEREAS  (A)  Mauritius  (the  Guarantor)  and  the Borrower,
having been satisfied as  to  the  feasibility and priority of the
Project described in Schedule 2  to this Agreement, have requested
the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
     (B)  by an agreement (the  Guarantee  Agreement) of even date
herewith between the  Guarantor  and  the  Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to guarantee the obligations  of the Borrower in respect of
the Loan and to undertake  such  other obligations as set forth in
the Guarantee Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan  to  the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set  forth  in  Schedule  5  to  this Agreement (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Project  Coordinating  Committee"  means  the Committee
established within the Borrower's  organization, consisting of the
Managing Director, the Chief Manager, the Director of Research and
the Assistant Chief Manager,  with terms of reference satisfactory
to the Bank to assist  in  the  monitoring of the execution of the
Project;
     (b)  "DBM" means the Development  Bank of Mauritius, a finan-
cial institution established pursuant  to  the Development Bank of
Mauritius Act of 1972 of the  Guarantor, as amended to the date of
this Agreement;
     (c)  "SCB" means The State Commercial Bank, a commercial bank
established and operating under the laws of the Guarantor;
     (d)  "Subsidiary  Financing  Agreement"  means  any agreement
entered into between  the  Borrower  and a Participating Financial
Institution (as  such  term  is  hereinafter  defined) pursuant to
Section 3.02 (a) of  the  Loan  Agreement,  as may be amended from
time to time and such term  includes all schedules to such Subsid-
iary Financing Agreement;
     (e)  "Participating Financial Institution"  means DBM and SCB
and such other banking institution  which shall be designated as a
Participating Financial Institution by  agreement between the Gua-
rantor, the Bank and  the  Borrower,  and  with which the Borrower
shall have entered into a Subsidiary Financing Agreement;
     (f)  "PFI Subsidiary Loan" means  a  loan made or proposed to
be made by the  Borrower  to a Participating Financial Institution
under a Subsidiary Financing Agreement;
     (g)  "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by a
Participating Financial Institution  out  of  the  proceeds of the
Loan made available to it by the Borrower, to a Beneficiary for an
Investment Project;
     (h)  "Beneficiary" means an enterprise to which a Participat-
ing Financial Institution proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan;
and
     (i)  "Investment Project" means  a  specific development pro-
ject to be carried out by  a Beneficiary utilizing the proceeds of
a Sub-loan.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth  or  referred to in the Loan Agree-
ment, an amount in  various  currencies  equivalent to ten million
dollars ($10,000,000).
     Section 2.02. The amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn from
Page  3
the Loan Account in accordance  with  the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement  for  amounts  paid  (or,  if  the Bank shall so
agree, to be paid) by the  Borrower on account of withdrawals made
by a Beneficiary under a  Sub-loan  to meet the reasonable cost of
goods, works and services  required  for the Investment Project in
respect  of  which  the  withdrawal   from  the  Loan  Account  is
requested.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date  shall be December 31, 1995 or
such later  date  as  the  Bank  shall  establish.  The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of  the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one-
half of one percent per annum  above the Cost of Qualified Borrow-
ings for the last  Semester  ending  prior  to the commencement of
such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the  Guarantor  and the Borrower of the Cost
of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest Period" means  the  six-month period com-
               mencing on each date  specified  in Section 2.06 of
               this Agreement,  including  the  Interest Period in
               which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings  of  the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982,  expressed as a percentage per
               annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this  Agreement,  as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by the Bank to the extent required to:
     (a)  conform in relevant part  substantially to the aggregate
of the amortization schedules applicable to PFI Subsidiary Loans;
     (b)  take  into   account   any   cancellation   pursuant  to
Article VI of the  General  Conditions  and any repayments made by
the Borrower under Section 2.08  of this Agreement; provided, that
any such amendments to  the  amortization schedule permitted here-
under shall not authorize  repayments  of  the principal amount of
the Loan  beyond  the  latest  repayment  date  set  forth in such
Schedule 3.  Such  amendments  of  said  Schedule  3 shall include
amendments to the table of premiums on prepayments, if necessary.
     Section 2.08. Unless the  Bank  and the Borrower shall other-
wise agree:
     (a)  if a PFI Subsidiary  Loan  or  any part thereof shall be
repaid to the Borrower in advance  of maturity or if a PFI Subsid-
iary Loan or any part thereof shall be sold, transferred, assigned
or otherwise disposed of for  value  by the Borrower, the Borrower
shall promptly notify the Bank and  shall repay to the Bank on the
next following interest payment  date,  together with the premiums
Page  4
specified in Schedule 3  to  this  Agreement,  or in any agreement
thereof under  Section  2.07  (a)  of  this  Agreement, the amount
withdrawn from the Loan Account  in respect of such PFI Subsidiary
Loan or part thereof and not theretofore repaid to the Bank.
     (b)  any amount so repaid by the Borrower shall be applied by
the Bank to the  maturity  or  maturities  of  the Loan in amounts
corresponding to the outstanding amounts  of the maturity or matu-
rities of the PFI Subsidiary Loan so repaid or disposed of.
     (c)  paragraph (b) of Section  3.04 of the General Conditions
shall not apply to any repayment  made under paragraph (a) of this
Section.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end,  shall  carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate admin-
istrative,  financial,   management   and   development  financing
practices.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain  the  Project  Coordinating  Committee  at
               least until  the  completion  of disbursements from
               the Loan Account; and
         (ii)  coordinate and monitor the overall execution of the
               Project and supervise the  carrying out by Partici-
               pating Financial Institutions  of the provisions of
               their respective Subsidiary Financing Agreements.
     Section 3.02. For the purpose of carrying out of the Project,
the Borrower shall:
     (a)  relend to the  Participating  Financial Institutions the
equivalent of the proceeds of  the Loan under subsidiary financing
agreements to be entered into between the Borrower and each of the
Participating Financial Institutions,  under  terms and conditions
which shall  have  been  approved  by  the  Bank  and  which shall
include, without limitation, those set forth in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement;
     (b)  exercise its rights  in  relation  to each Participating
Financial Institution under its  Subsidiary Financing Agreement in
such manner as to protect  the  interests  of the Borrower and the
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan and, except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, the  Borrower shall not assign, amend,
abrogate or waive any such Agreement or any provision thereof; and
     (c)  take all  such  action  and  exercise  all such recourse
available to it under the  Subsidiary Financing Agreement with the
Participating Financial Institutions  as  the  Bank may reasonably
request in order to ensure the prompt and full performance of each
Participating Financial Institution  of  its obligations under its
respective Subsidiary Financing Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The Borrower  shall  take  or cause to be taken
all necessary measures to  permit tourism and manufacturing enter-
prises which earn foreign exchange in connection with their opera-
tions  to  continue  to   maintain  foreign  currency  denominated
accounts in Mauritius  with  permissible  ceilings  which would at
least cover, inter alia, one installment of principal and interest
and other charges falling due under  a Sub-loan made by a Partici-
pating Financial Institution out of  the  proceeds of the Loan on-
lent to it by the Borrower.
                            ARTICLE IV
Page  5
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The  Borrower shall maintain procedures and
records adequate to monitor  and  record  in accordance with sound
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in
respect of each Investment Project  pursuant to which the proceeds
of the PFI Subsidiary Loan shall have been withdrawn.
     (b)  The Borrower shall: (i)  have its accounts and financial
statements relating to the Project for each fiscal year audited in
accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent  auditors;  (ii)  furnish  to  the  Bank,  as  soon as
available, but in any case not later than six months after the end
of each such year (A) certified copies of the financial statements
for such year so audited and (B)  the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in  such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested; and  (iii)  furnish  to  the Bank such other
information concerning such  accounts  and  records related to the
Project and the audit thereof as  the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.
     Section 4.02. The Bank  and  the  Borrower shall from time to
time, at the request of either party, exchange views through their
representatives with regard to  the administration, operations and
resources relating to the Project  and of the Project Coordinating
Committee and  the  Participating  Financing  Institutions and the
Borrower shall furnish to  the  Bank  all  such information as the
Bank shall reasonably  request  concerning  the administration and
operations and resources referred to in this Section.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section 5.01. The following  events  are  specified as  addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement with-
in the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  the Subsidiary  Financing  Agreements  with  DBM and SCB
have been executed on  behalf  of  the  Borrower  and each of such
Participating Financial Institutions; and
     (b)  the Project Coordinating  Committee has been established
by the Borrower.
     Section 5.02. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01. The Governor  of  the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower  for  the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
Page  6
               INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT),
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     For the Borrower:
          Bank of Mauritius
          Sir William Newton Street
          Port Louis
          Mauritius
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               MAUBNK IW                         4253B
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                    BANK OF MAURITIUS
                    By /s/ Ranapratap Tacouri
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of  the  Loan  to  each  Category  and  the  percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
1.   Sub-loans                  10,000,000
     for Invest-
     ment Projects
     (a)  Directly                              100% of foreign
          imported                              expenditures
          goods
     (b)  Locally                               70% of local
          procured                              expenditures
          goods
     (c)  Works                                 65% of local
                                                expenditures
                                __________
Page  7
          TOTAL                 10,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made:
     (a)  in respect  of  a  Sub-loan  for  an  Investment Project
unless the Sub-loan has  been  made  in accordance with the proce-
dures and terms and  conditions  set  forth  or referred to in the
Annex to Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement; and
     (b)  in respect of  payments  made  for expenditures prior to
the date of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project  are  to assist in, inter alia:
(i) the creation of employment  and increasing of foreign exchange
earnings in the  industrial,  tourism,  transport and construction
sectors; (ii) improving competition in  the supply of term finance
in  Mauritius;  and  (iii)  giving  access  to  long-term  foreign
currency resources to banking institutions.
     The Project, subject  to  such  modifications  thereof as the
Borrower and the Bank may agree  upon from time to time to achieve
such objectives, consists of  the  financing, through the Borrower
and Participating Financial Institutions,  of specific medium- and
large-scale  Investment  Projects   in  the  industrial,  tourism,
transport and construction sectors.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                            Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each June 1 and December 1
     beginning December 1, 1992
     through   December 1, 2004                         385,000
On June 1, 2005                                         375,000
Page  8
*    The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar equivalents
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
     The following  premiums  are  specified  for  the purposes of
Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions:
    Time of Prepayment                            Premium
                                           The interest  rate (ex-
                                           pressed as a percentage
                                           per  annum)  applicable
                                           to  the   balance  out-
                                           standing on the Loan on
                                           the  day  of prepayment
                                           multiplied by:
Not more than three years                            0.18
     before maturity
More than three years but                            0.35
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                              0.65
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than 11 years but not                           0.88
     more than 15 years
     before maturity
More than 15 years before                            1.00
     maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
               Principal Terms and Conditions of the
                  Subsidiary Financing Agreements
     Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the principal terms
and conditions set  forth  in  this  Schedule  shall apply for the
purposes of Section 3.02 (a) of the Loan Agreement with respect to
Subsidiary Financing Agreements.
A.   Terms:
1.   The aggregate amount to be  made available by the Borrower to
a Participating Financial Institution under its respective Subsid-
iary Financing Agreement (the  PFI  Subsidiary  Loan) shall be the
equivalent in the currency of  the Guarantor (determined as of the
respective date or dates of  withdrawal  from the Loan Account) of
the value of the currency  or  currencies so withdrawn or paid out
on account of the costs  of  the  goods,  works and services to be
incurred with respect to the carrying out of an Investment Project
and to be financed  under  a  Sub-loan  made by such Participating
Financial Institution.
2.   Interest on the PFI Subsidiary  Loan  shall be charged on the
principal amount thereof outstanding from  time  to time at a rate
equal to the rate of interest  applicable from time to time to the
Loan pursuant to Section 2.05  of the Loan Agreement. Interest and
other charges  shall  be  payable  by  the Participating Financial
Institutions two business days before each of the semiannual dates
set forth in Section 2.06 of  the Loan Agreement. In addition, the
Borrower shall  charge  the  Participating  Financial Institutions
collectively, an administration fee  in Mauritian Rupee equivalent
to $14,000 to be paid on  the  Effective Date, such fee to be non-
refundable.
Page  9
3.   Each Participating Financial  Institution  shall be allocated
part of the proceeds of the  Loan  and  shall be required to pay a
commitment charge  at  a  rate  of  three-fourths  of  one percent
(0.75%) per annum on  the  principal  amount of the PFI Subsidiary
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. Such commitment charge shall
accrue from a date 60  days  from  the  date of the signing of the
Loan Agreement to the respective  dates on which withdrawals shall
be made by the Borrower  of  the  portion of the Loan allocated to
each  such  Participating  Financial  Institution.  The  principal
amount of the Loan so  pre-allocated  may be adjusted from time to
time by agreement among the  Borrower and the Participating Finan-
cial Institution.
4.   The aggregate amount of the  PFI Subsidiary Loan to be repaid
by a  Participating  Financial  Institution  under  its respective
Subsidiary Financing  Agreement  shall  be  the  equivalent in the
currency of the Guarantor (determined as of the respective date of
payment) of the value of  the  currency or currencies to be repaid
to the Bank on the basis  of  withdrawals  made or paid out of the
Loan Account in respect of  such PFI Subsidiary Loan. Each Subsid-
iary Financing Agreement  shall  include  an amortization schedule
which: (i) conforms in relevant  part substantially to the amorti-
zation schedules applicable to Sub-loans made by the Participating
Financial Institution which have  been  approved or authorized for
withdrawal from the PFI  Subsidiary  Financing Agreement; and (ii)
takes into account any cancellation and any prepayment made by the
Participating Financial Institution pursuant  to the provisions in
the Subsidiary Financing  Agreement  relating thereto. Such amend-
ments to the amortization schedule shall include amendments to the
table  of  premiums  of  prepayment  if  necessary  and  shall not
authorize repayments of the principal amount of the PFI Subsidiary
Loan beyond the latest repayment  date  set forth in Schedule 3 to
the Loan Agreement.
5.   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, provisions shall be
included in each Subsidiary Financing  Agreement that the right of
a Participating Financial Institution  to  use the proceeds of its
respective  PFI  Subsidiary  Loan  shall  be:  (a)  suspended upon
failure by such Participating Financial Institution to perform any
of  its  obligations  under  its  respective  Subsidiary Financing
Agreement; and (b) terminated if  such  right shall have been sus-
pended for a continuous period of thirty (30) days.
6.   Provisions shall also be  included  to the effect that unless
the Borrower  and  the  Participating  Financial Institution shall
otherwise agree:
     (a)  If a Sub-loan or any part thereof shall be repaid to the
Participating Financial Institution in advance of maturity or if a
Sub-loan or any part thereof  shall be sold, transferred, assigned
or otherwise disposed of for  value by the Participating Financial
Institution,  the   Participating   Financial   Institution  shall
promptly notify the Borrower  and  shall  repay to the Borrower on
the next following interest  payment  date, together with the pre-
miums specified in the  Subsidiary Financing Agreement, the amount
withdrawn in respect  of  such  Sub-loan  or  part thereof and not
theretofore repaid  to  the  Participating  Financial Institution.
Premiums on prepayments shall  be  waived by the Borrower whenever
the Bank waives premiums on  amounts  relating to such PFI Subsid-
iary Loan and prepaid by the Borrower.
     (b)  Any amount  so  repaid  by  the  Participating Financial
Institution shall be applied  by  the  Borrower to the maturity or
maturities of the PFI Subsidiary  Loan in amounts corresponding to
the outstanding amounts of the  maturity or maturities of the Sub-
loan so repaid  or  disposed  of.  Amounts  so  repaid  may not be
reborrowed.
7.   Provisions shall also be  included in each Subsidiary Financ-
ing Agreement relating to  the  utilization  of the PFI Subsidiary
Loan in accordance with the  provisions  of Schedule 1 to the Loan
Page  10
Agreement and for the cancellation  of  part of the Loan allocated
to each Participating Financial Institution.
B.   Conditions:
1.   Each Subsidiary Financing  Agreement shall contain provisions
pursuant to which  each  Participating Financial Institution shall
continue to:
     (a)  be duly established and operating  under the laws of the
Guarantor;
     (b)  carry out its operations in accordance with the relevant
provisions of the Bank of Mauritius  Act and the Banking Act. This
provision shall not apply to DBM;
     (c)  conduct its operations  and  affairs  in accordance with
sound financial principles  and  practices  and in accordance with
its  constitutional  instruments  and   statement  of  policy,  if
applicable;
     (d)  maintain a lending  and  investment policy acceptable to
the Bank, suitable procedures  and  an adequate number of suitably
qualified staff to enable it effectively to:
          (i)  appraise  the  financial,  technical  and  economic
               feasibility of Investment Projects and to make Sub-
               loans  to  Beneficiaries  in  accordance  with said
               lending and investment policy  and  on the basis of
               the criteria,  procedures  and  principal terms and
               conditions set forth in the Annex to this Schedule;
               and
         (ii)  supervise, monitor and  report  on the execution by
               Beneficiaries of Investment Projects, including the
               procurement of goods, works and services therefor.
     (e)  Disbursement with  respect  to  the  PFI Subsidiary Loan
shall be made  only  when  applications  and requests submitted in
accordance with the procedures  referred  to  in paragraph (d) (i)
above have been  approved  or  authorized  by  the Bank and notice
thereof has been given  to the Participating Financial Institution
with a copy to  the  Borrower.  Upon receipt of such notification,
the  Participating  Financial  Institution  shall  submit  to  the
Borrower, prior to disbursements by  the Borrower, a document with
respect  to  such  Investment  Project  containing  the  following
information:
          (i)  the number assigned  by  the  Bank  to the approved
               project;
         (ii)  the  identification  of  the  sector  in  which the
               Investment Project is to be carried out; and
        (iii)  the amount, terms  and  conditions of the Sub-loan,
               including the schedule of amortization therefor.
2.   Each Subsidiary Financing Agreement shall also contain provi-
sions requiring each Participating Financial Institution to:
     (a)  exercise its rights  under  its agreements providing for
Sub-loans, in such a manner as to protect the interest of the Bank
and the Borrower  and  to  comply  with  its obligations under its
Subsidiary Financing Agreement in order to achieve the purposes of
the Project;
     (b)  undertake not to assign, amend, abrogate or waive any of
its agreements providing  for  Sub-loans  or any provision thereof
without the prior approval of the Borrower;
     (c)  (i)  maintain records and  accounts  adequate to reflect
               in accordance  with  consistently  maintained sound
Page  11
               accounting practices  its  operations and financial
               conditions;
         (ii)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements  of income and expenses
               and  related  statements)   for  each  fiscal  year
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Borrower;
        (iii)  furnish the Bank as  soon  as  possible, but in any
               case not later  than  six  months  after the end of
               each such year: (A)  certified copies of its finan-
               cial statements for  such  year  as so audited, and
               (B) the report of  such  audit  by said auditors of
               such scope and  in  such  detail  as the Bank shall
               have reasonably requested; and
         (iv)  furnish to the Bank such other information concern-
               ing said financial statements and balance sheets as
               well as the audit  thereof,  as the Bank shall from
               time to time reasonably request.
                        ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 4
                 Investment Projects and Subloans;
                Criteria, Procedures and Principal
                       Terms and Conditions
     Except as the Bank shall  otherwise agree, the criteria, pro-
cedures and principal terms and conditions set forth in this Annex
shall apply for the purposes of  Part  B  (d) (i) of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
A.   Terms and Conditions
1.   The principal amount of each Sub-loan shall be the equivalent
in the currency of  the  Guarantor  (determined  as of the date or
respective dates of withdrawal from the Loan Account) of the value
of the currency or currencies so  withdrawn or paid out on account
of the costs of goods and  works  required for the carrying out of
the Investment Project.
2.   Each Sub-loan shall be  made  on  the basis of the applicable
terms and conditions  under  each Participating Financial Institu-
tions official lending  and  investment  policy provided, however,
that the interest rate shall: (i)  be positive in real terms; (ii)
provide each Participating Financial  Institution with an adequate
spread; and (iii) be competitive with market rates.
B.   Criteria
1.   Sub-loans shall  be  for  medium-  and large-scale Investment
Projects  in   the   tourism,   industrial  (manufacturing,  agro-
industry), transport  and  construction  (industrial estates) sub-
sectors in Mauritius and in  conformity with the official develop-
ment plans of the Guarantor.
2.   Each such Sub-loan shall not  exceed two million five hundred
thousand dollars ($2,500,000) equivalent  or 20% of the unimpaired
capital, free reserves and  retained earnings of the Participating
Financial Institution, whichever is lower.
3.   Sub-loans shall be made  for  Investment Projects relating to
the acquisition or repair  of  fixed assets and/or initial working
capital but shall not be made for the purposes of refinancing debt
of a Beneficiary.
4.   Each Investment  Project  shall  be  financially, technically
and economically sound and  shall,  on  the basis of a methodology
acceptable to the Bank, have a financial rate of return acceptable
to  the  Bank.  Each  Investment  Project  in  excess  of $600,000
Page  12
equivalent shall have an economic rate of return acceptable to the
Bank, such rate to  be  calculated  in  accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines for Calculation of Economic Rates of Return on DFC Sub-
Projects dated June 7, 1974 as such guidelines may be amended from
time  to  time  and   notified   to  the  Participating  Financial
Institutions.
C.   Procedures
1.   For all Participating Financial Institutions other than DBM:
     (a)  except as the  Bank  shall  otherwise agree, no expendi-
tures for goods,  works  and  services  required for an Investment
Project shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the
Loan unless: (A) the  Sub-loan  for  such Investment Project shall
have been approved by the  Bank;  or  (B)  the Sub-loan shall be a
free-limit Sub-loan for which the Bank shall have authorized with-
drawals from the  Loan  Account  and  such expenditures shall have
been made not earlier than ninety  days prior to the date on which
the Bank  shall  have  received  the  application  and information
required under paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Part C in respect of such
Sub-loan.
     (b)  except as the Bank  shall  otherwise agree, a free-limit
Sub-loan shall be  a  Sub-loan  for  an  Investment  Project in an
amount to be financed out of  the proceeds of the Loan which shall
not exceed: (i) the sum of  $600,000 equivalent, when added to any
other outstanding amount  or  amounts  financed  or proposed to be
financed for the same Investment Project under a Sub-loan financed
out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan; or (ii) $3,000,000 equivalent,
when added to all other  free-limit Sub-loans financed or proposed
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, provided, however,
that said free-limit shall be  applicable only when the Bank shall
have approved at least  two  Investment Projects submitted by such
Participating Financial Institution which would otherwise meet the
requirements of a  free-limit  Sub-loan  and the foregoing amounts
being subject to change  from  time  to  time as determined by the
Bank.
2.   With respect to DBM,  no  expenditures for goods, services or
works required for  an  Investment  Project  shall be eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of  the Loan unless the Sub-loan for
such Investment Project shall have been: (A) approved by the Bank;
or (B) shall  be  a  free-limit  Sub-loan  for  which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account and such expenditures
shall have been made  not  earlier  than  ninety days prior to the
date on which the  Bank  shall  have  received the request and in-
formation required  under  paragraph  3  (b)  of  this Schedule in
respect of such  free-limit  Sub-loan.  For  the  purposes of this
Schedule, a free-limit Sub-loan shall be a Sub-loan for an Invest-
ment Project in an amount  to  be  financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan which shall not  exceed  the  sum of (i) $600,000 equiva-
lent, when added  to  any  other  outstanding  amounts financed or
proposed to be financed out of the  proceeds of the Loan or of any
other loan, provided for in any outstanding loan agreement between
the Bank and DBM entered  into  before the date of this Agreement,
the proceeds of which have  been  or  are being used for financing
goods and works directly and materially related to such Investment
Project, or (ii) $3,000,000  equivalent,  when  added to all other
free-limit Sub-loans financed or  proposed  to  be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan,  the  foregoing amounts being subject to
change from time to time as determined by the Bank.
3.   (a)  When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit Sub-
loan) to the Bank for approval, the Participating Financial Insti-
tution shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form satisfac-
tory to the Bank, together with:  (i) a description of the Benefi-
ciary and an appraisal of the Investment Project, including a com-
plete list and  description  of  the  expenditures  proposed to be
financed out of the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  with data on prices,
countries of  origin,  if  available,  and  a  description  of the
methods and procedures to  be  used  for the procurement of goods,
Page  13
works or services for  the  Investment  Project; (ii) the proposed
terms and conditions  of  the  Sub-loan  including the schedule of
amortization of the Sub-loan; and  (iii) such other information as
the Bank shall reasonably request.
     (b)  Each request  by  a  Participating Financial Institution
for authorization  for  BOM  to  make  withdrawals  from  the Loan
Account in respect of a free-limit  Sub-loan made or to be made by
a Participating Financial Institution shall contain: (i) a summary
description  of  the  Beneficiary   and  the  Investment  Project,
including  a  description  of  the  expenditures  proposed  to  be
financed out of the proceeds of  the  Loan; and (ii) the terms and
conditions of the Sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization
therefor.
     (c)  Applications and requests  made  pursuant  to the provi-
sions of sub-paragraphs (a)  and  (b)  of  this paragraph shall be
presented to the Bank on or before June 30, 1991.
4.   Sub-loans shall be  made  on  terms whereby the Participating
Financial Institution shall obtain,  by  written contract with the
Beneficiary or by other  appropriate  legal means, rights adequate
to protect the interests of the  Borrower, the Bank and the Parti-
cipating Financial Institution including, in  the case of any Sub-
loan, the right to:
     (a)  require the Beneficiary  to  carry  out  and operate the
Investment  Project  with  due  diligence  and  efficiency  and in
accordance  with  sound   technical,   financial,  managerial  and
environmental standards and to maintain adequate records;
     (b)  require that: (i) the  goods  to  be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan  shall  be  purchased  at a reasonable price,
account being taken also of other relevant factors such as time of
delivery and efficiency and  reliability  of  the goods and avail-
ability of maintenance facilities  and  spare parts therefor, and,
in the case of services,  of  their  quality and the competence of
the parties rendering  them;  and  (ii)  such  goods shall be used
exclusively in the carrying out of the Investment Project;
     (c)  inspect, by itself  or  jointly  with representatives of
the Bank if the Bank shall  so  request, such goods and the sites,
works, plants and construction included in the Investment Project,
the operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents;
     (d)  require that: (i)  the  Beneficiary  shall  take out and
maintain with responsible  insurers  such  insurance, against such
risks and in  such  amounts,  as  shall  be  consistent with sound
business practice; and (ii) without  any limitation upon the fore-
going, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the acquisi-
tion, transportation and  delivery  of  goods  financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan  to  the  place  of  use or installation, any
indemnity thereunder  to  be  made  payable  in  a currency freely
usable by the Beneficiary to replace or repair such goods;
     (e)  obtain all such information  as the Participating Finan-
cial Institution  at  the  request  of  the  Bank shall reasonably
request relating  to  the  foregoing  and  to  the administration,
operations and financial condition  of  the Beneficiary and to the
benefits to be derived from the Investment Project; and
     (f)  suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to the
use  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Sub-Loan  upon  failure  by  such
Beneficiary to perform its obligations under its contract with the
DFI.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                Modifications of General Conditions
     For the purposes  of  this  Agreement,  the provisions of the
General Conditions are modified as follows:
Page  14
1.   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
2.   The words "the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, terminate
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such
amount. Upon the giving of  such  notice,  such amount of the Loan
shall be cancelled"  set  forth  at  the  end  of Section 6.03 are
deleted and the following is substituted therefor:
                "or (f) by the  date  specified in sub-paragraph 3
          (c) of Part C of  the  Annex  to  Schedule 4 to the Loan
          Agreement, the Bank shall, in  respect of any portion of
          the Loan: (i) have  received no applications or requests
          permitted  under  sub-paragraphs  (a)  or  (b)  of  said
          paragraph; or (ii) have  denied any such applications or
          requests. The Bank may,  by  notice  to the Borrower and
          the Guarantor terminate  the  right  of  the Borrower to
          submit  such  applications   or   requests  or  to  make
          withdrawals from the Loan  Account,  as the case may be,
          with respect to such amount or portion of the Loan. Upon
          the giving of such notice, such amount or portion of the
          Loan shall be cancelled."
                            SCHEDULE 6
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Category means Category (1) set forth
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect  of  the  reasonable  cost  of  goods,  works  or services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan allocated from time  to  time to the eligible Category in
accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to ___________________ to be  withdrawn from the Loan Account
and deposited in the Special  Account  pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments out of the
Special Account shall  be  made  exclusively for eligible expendi-
tures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received  evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized  Allocation,  the  Bank  shall,  on  behalf  of the
Borrower, withdraw  from  the  Loan  Account  and  deposit  in the
Special Account such amount or  amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
     (b)  The Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Bank requests for
replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank
shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the Bank shall with-
draw from the Loan  Account  and  deposit into the Special Account
such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special Account
with amounts not exceeding the amount  of payments made out of theSpecial Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall
be withdrawn by the Bank  from  the Loan Account under the respec-
tive eligible Category, and  in the respective equivalent amounts,
as shall  have  been  justified  by  the  evidence  supporting the
request for such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this
Schedule.
Page  15
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, prior to or at  the time of such request, such documents
and other evidence as  the  Bank shall reasonably request, showing
that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Bank  when  either  of  the following situations first
arises:
          (i)  the Bank  shall  have  determined  that all further
               withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
               from the Loan Account in accordance with the provi-
               sions of Article  V  of  the General Conditions and
               paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
         (ii)  the total unwithdrawn amount  of the Loan allocated
               to the eligible Category,  minus  the amount of any
               outstanding special commitment  entered into by the
               Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Condi-
               tions with respect to  the  Project, shall be equal
               to  the  equivalent  of  twice  the  amount  of the
               Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from the  Loan Account of the re-
maining unwithdrawn amount of  the  Loan allocated to the eligible
Category shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by
notice to the  Borrower.  Such  further  withdrawals shall be made
only after and to the extent  that the Bank shall have been satis-
fied that all such  amounts  remaining  on  deposit in the Special
Account as of the date of  such  notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
payment out of the Special  Account  (i) was made for any expendi-
ture or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule, or (ii)  was  not  justified  by  the evidence furnished
pursuant to paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall,
promptly upon  notice  from  the  Bank,  deposit  into the Special
Account (or, if the Bank shall  so request, refund to the Bank) an
amount equal to the amount of  such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. No  further deposit by the Bank into
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has made such
deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special  Account will not be required to
cover further  payments  for  eligible  expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount for crediting to the Loan Account.
