Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19190
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
VANUATU
PRIMARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT NO. 1964-VAN)
May 28, 1999
Human Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be use by recipients
only in performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Vatu (VT)
September 1988 (at negotiations)
US$1.00 = VT 103
US$0.0097 = VT 1.00
15 October 1998
US$1.00 =VT 129
US$0.0077= VT 1.00
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB       -    Asian Development Bank
AIDAB      -    Australian International Development
Assistance Bureau (now AusAID)
CDC       -    Curriculum Development Center
CRP       -    Comprehensive Reform Program
CT        -    Certificate of Teaching
GDP       -    Gross Domestic Product
ICB       -    International Competitive Bidding
IDA       -    International Development Association
INTV      -    Institut National de Technologie de Vanuatu
(Vanuatu National Technical Institute)
MEYS           Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports
NPSO           National Planning and Statistics Office
PASEP          Primary and Secondary Education Project
PEO       -    Principal Education Officer
PIU       -    Project Implementation Unit
PWD       -    Public Works Department
REO       -    Regional Education Officer
SAR       -    Staff Appraisal Report
SEO       -    Senior Education Officer
TEC       -    Teacher Education Center
USP       -    University of the South Pacific
VIOE      -    Vanuatu Institute of Education
Vice President:   Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director:    Klaus Rohland
Sector Manager:    Alan Ruby
Task Team Leader:    Rozany R. Deen



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE.                                                                                                                     i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ....................................................                                                      i
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ..............................................1
A.   Statement/Evaluation of Objectives ..................................................1
B.   Achievement of Project Objectives ..................................................3
C.   Major Factors Affecting the Project ..................................................7
D.   Project Sustainability ..................................................9
E.   Bank Performance ................................................. 11
F.   Borrower Performance ................................................. 11
G. Assessment of Outcome .................................................                                             12
H.  Future Operation .................................................                                                  12
l.  Key Lessons Learned .................................................                                              13
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES ...................................................                                            14
Table 1: Summary of Assessments ................................................. 14
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits .................................................                                  15
Table 3: Project Timetable .................................................                                           15
Table 4: Credit Disbursement: Cumulative Estimate and Actual ............................... 16
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation .................................................  17
Table 6: Studies Included in Project .................................................                                 18
Table 7A: Project Costs .................................................                                               19
Table 7B: Project Financing ................................................. 20
Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants ................................................. 21
Table 9: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ........................................ 22
Table 10: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs                        .....................      ............................ 22
Table 11: Bank Resources: Missions ................................................. 23
ANNEXES
Annex A .................................................                                                              25
Annex B .................................................                                                               45
MAP IBRD 30094
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
VANUATU
PRIMARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Primary and Secondary
Education Project (PASEP), for which Credit 1964-VAN in the amount of SDR 6.3
million (US$8.0 million equivalent) was approved on 15 November 1988 and made
effective on 16 January 1990.
The ICR was prepared by Ms. Luisa Masutti (Consultant), Human Development
Sector Unit' of the East Asia and Pacific Region (EASHD) and Mr. Peter Morrison,
Educator, (Consultant). It was reviewed by Mr. Alan Ruby, Sector Manager (EASHD);
Mr. David Klaus, Principal Human Resources Specialist (EASHD); Mr. Alfonso de
Guzman, Sr. Education Specialist (EASHD); and Mr. Laurie Dunn, Country Officer,
Papua New Guinea/Pacific Islands Country Unit (EACNI).
The Credit was closed on 31 December 1998, following a third extension which was
granted solely for the Goods and Distribution category. A total of SDR 6,205,554.46
million (US$8,574,111.65 equivalent)2 was disbursed and the last disbursement took
place on 20 May 1999. An undisbursed balance of SDR 94,445.54 (US$126,755.36)
will be canceled.
Preparation of the ICR began during the Bank's final supervision mission in
September 1998 and Government clearance of the draft ICR was obtained in May 1999.
Preparation was based on material in the project files, field visits and reports received
from the Project Implementation Unit. The Borrower's evaluation of the project is
attached as Appendix A. The Borrower had no comments on the Bank's draft ICR.
Formerly called Education Sector Unit (EASED).
2  Actual cumulative disbursements exceeds the appraisal estimate due to fluctuations in the SDR and US$
txchange rates.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
VANUATU
PRIMARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT NO. 1964-VAN)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
A.     Project Objectives and Description
(i)    The Primary and Secondary Education Project (PASEP) supported the
Government's policy objectives for the development of the education sector, as outlined
in the Government's Five-Year Development Plan (1987-9 1), and was the principal
investment in primary and secondary education during that period. Specifically, the
project objectives were to: (a) expand access to education at the secondary level;
(b) improve the quality of primary and secondary education; and (c) increase efficiency
in education management.
(ii)    To meet these objectives, the project was designed to provide additional upper
and lower secondary facilities in regions not yet served. The project also aimed to assist
with the design of a unified primary curriculum3, the implementation of both the
common primary and secondary curricula, and the provision of supporting textbooks
and other learning materials. It was to expand and improve training of primary and
secondary teachers and increase field support and training for inservice primary
teachers. Further, the project was designed to strengthen the educational planning and
investment capacity of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports (MEYS) and carry
out studies to improve the cost-effectiveness of education. These objectives were
relevant for the country's development strategy and consistent with the human
resources development strategy articulated in the Bank's Country Strategy Notes and
Regional Economic Reports throughout the years.
B.     Implementation Experience and Results
(iii)    Overall, the project was successful in achieving its output targets.
Implementation was rapid during the first years of the project. By 1994, about three
years ahead of the original closing date, an external evaluation of PASEP found that the
project was mostly complete and that 88 percent of IDA funds had been disbursed. By
that time, the output targets of the first component (expanding access to secondary
education) had essentially been reached. The project had also carried out most of the
planned activities to strengthen the management capacity of MEYS, which were
partially successful, and had supported the process of decentralization in education
3  A curriculum delivered in two language media (French and English) but with common learning objectives,
teaching methods and student assessment mechanisms which are adapted to Vanuatu.



ii
management by increasing field support for teachers in remote areas. Finally, project
activities to improve the quality of primary and secondary education were partially
complete. Junior secondary teacher training and about half of the primary teacher
training were complete. The comamon primary curriculum was written but most of the
books had not been completed. o3o by 1994, the main unfinished activities were those
related to curriculum development and the provision of textbooks. Inadequate AIDAB-
funded technical assistance and an unforeseen reduction in the contract size caused by a
change in Government were the reasons the pedagogical component was not finished by
this point.
(iv)    After this substantial early progress in meeting its objectives, the project came
to a halt in mid-1 994 because of a national civil service strike, and the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) was dismantled. This led to a breakdown in
communications between the Government and the International Development
Association (IDA) that lasted for about two years. Implementation resumed in May
1996, and the project then concentrated on final activities to address the pedagogical
deficiencies. The pedagogical sub-component was changed to focus on revising,
updating and reprinting existing textbooks that conformed with the unified curricula,
rather than producing new materials as originally envisaged. As a result of this renewed
effort, the project funded the nation's largest infusion of textbooks and learning
materials into primary and secondary schools since Independence. PASEP was also
expanded to include, for example, support for a crash teacher training program to help
primary teachers who were assigned to junior secondary classes established in primary
schools in 1995 and 1996.
(v)    Overall, Bank and Borrower performance during preparation and
implementation was satisfactory in terms of achieving the stated project outcomes.
However, the process leading to such outcomes was not always smooth, and the project
was disrupted by problems arising from deficient donor and client relations. At the
project design and preparation stage, the Bank had not foreseen the impact that frequent
changes between Francophone and Anglophone Governments would have on the speed
of project implementation. The Borrower should have been more prompt in appointing
staff to the PIU and counterparts to expatriate consultants. A greater involvement by
IDA in client relations would have contributed to smoother and faster implementation.
IDA also should have taken a more active role in donor coordination, both at the
planning stage and during project implementation. This would have facilitated more
timely implementation of the pedagogical sub-component.
(vi)   Three key factors mitigated the effects of these disruptions and contributed to
satisfactory project results. The first was the Government's efforts to fulfill educational
objectives despite the disruption caused by frequent changes in political leadership.
The implementation of the Government's Second Five-Year Development Plan (1987-
91) gave high priority to increasing access to lower secondary education and
emphasized quality improvements at the primary and secondary levels. The second
factor was a change in the focus of the pedagogical component. Recognizing
weaknesses in the component's design, the Government and IDA were willing to



iii
redirect the pedagogical component to make implementation more manageable.
Finally, IDA's willingness to broaden the scope of the project after May 1996 to
accommodate Government's emerging priorities further contributed to the attainment of
the project objective of quality improvement.
C.     Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
(vii)   The project was designed in 1986. The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) did not
define performance indicators to measure project impact, nor did most of the projects
developed during the same period. In addition, the SAR did not define benchmarks
against which to measure the project's contribution to its long-term goals. The SAR
did, however, include a list of monitoring indicators, which provided an overview of the
status of the main physical targets at project start, mid-term and completion.
(viii)  The project achieved its objective of expanding access to education at the
secondary level by: (a) increasing enrollment in junior secondary education through the
construction of two new schools in areas previously not served, enrolling about 570
students in 1998, and (b) providing additional facilities at an existing senior secondary
school, thereby increasing upper secondary enrollments by 142 students in 1994. The
project also achieved its objective of improving the quality of primary and secondary
education through: (a) the training of 54 junior secondary teachers; (b) the introduction
of common curricula for primary and secondary education; and (c) the provision of a
large number of textbooks and teachers guides to support the revised curricula-on the
order of about 290,000 copies and 180 titles. The project was partially successful in
achieving its objective of increasing efficiency in management capacity. While
MEYS's capacity was strengthened overall during the project period, more could have
been achieved with a more careful choice of technical assistance and less turnover in
PIU staff and counterparts. The project had limited success in translating the
recommendations of policy studies into policy actions, although some of the studies
were of good quality and their recommendations were subsequently endorsed by other
reports, including the Education Master Plan.
(ix)    Following the successful implementation of PASEP, the Government has
requested IDA's assistance in developing a second education project. The main factor
which will influence the scope, content and timing of the new project is the
recommendations of the Education Master Plan, which is currently being finalized with
IDA's assistance and which outlines a strategy for the development of the education
sector up to the year 2010. Although still under discussion, the upcoming project is
expected to support successful PASEP activities including continued assistance for the
provision of textbooks and teacher training, aimed at increasing educational quality.
(x)There are six major lessons learned from the Primary and Secondary Education
Project. First, capacity building within Government at both the central and provincial
levels increases the efficiency of resource use and improves project outcomes.
Although experience with technical assistance was mixed, the project has built expertise
which has improved the performance of the PIU in project management and has also



iv
provided field support for teachers. Second, measuring the outcome of quality
objectives requires the development of baseline, benchmark and impact indicators,
which allow for better monitoring of outcomes. These indicators were not included in
project design, as was the case with all other projects developed during the same time.
Third, better coordination of activities among project components and institutions helps
ensure greater expediency and efficiency, particularly in matters such as materials;
selection, development and distribution. Fourth, unification of the curriculum in a
country with a dual-language system of instruction should be a long-term goal and
based on realistic expectations of what is achievable. Fifth, stronger partnerships with
other donors, as well as increased coordination and communication with both
Government and donors, are needed for a full and timely achievement of project
objectives. Sixth, the design of projects with multiple donors should be kept
manageably simple. Complex components and implementation arrangements malke it
harder for the Borrower and donors to coordinate and monitor activities.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
VANUATU
PRIMARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
CREDIT NO. 1964-VAN
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.     Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
1.     Background. The Primary and Secondary Education Project (PASEP) was
designed to increase the output of secondary school graduates and to improve the
quality of basic education in order to provide Vanuatu with a critical minimum number
of people with basic and secondary education. It was the first project funded by the
International Development Association (IDA) in education in Vanuatu and supported
the Government policy objectives for development of the sector, as outlined in the
Government's Second Five Year Development Plan (1987-91). It was the principal
investment in primary and secondary education for the plan period.
2.     The Project Objectives and Components. The objectives as stated in the Staff
Appraisal Report (SAR), Report No. 6606-VAN, were to expand access to secondary
education, improve the quality of basic education and increase efficiency in education
management.
3.     To achieve these objectives, the project provided inputs to three components.
The expansion in access component included: (a) the construction, furnishing and
equipping of two lower secondary schools in regions not yet served, with two four-year
streams each to accommodate a total of 560 students; and (b) the provision of facilities
for two three-year upper secondary streams at an existing secondary school (Matevulu
College) to accommodate an additional 200 students. The quality improvement
component included: (a) completing the development and implementation of a common
primary curriculum for the Francophone and Anglophone systems;4 (b) completing the
implementation of the agreed lower secondary common curriculum; (c) the
replenishment of textbooks for English-medium primary schools to enable the teaching
of current curricula while the new curriculum was under preparation; (d) the acquisition
of supplementary readers at the primary level and of readers and textbooks for the
implementation of the new lower secondary curriculum; (e) the production of learning
materials in both language media adapted to the local context; (f) the construction and
equipping of the Curriculum Development Center (CDC), provision of field support
through the construction and equipment of office space for the Regional Education
4  Jointly administered by France and Britain until Independence in 1980, Vanuatu inherited dual sets of
institutions from the former colonial powers, including parallel education systems in the French and English
languages.



2
Officers (REOs) in three regions and the provision of inservice workshops for the
primary teaching force; (g) the development of a preservice primary teacher training
course; and (h) the training of lower secondary teachers. The increase in management
efficiency component included: (a) renovation and equipping of facilities at the Ministry
of Education, Youth and Sports (MEYS) to host the Project Implementation Unit (PIU);
(b) provision of technical assistance in project implementation and procurement; and (c)
execution of studies on education financing and teacher incentives and deployment.
4.     The project was designed as a single entity. However, project activities came
to a halt in mid-1994 due to a civil service strike which led to the reorganization of
MEYS and to the dismantling of the PIU. Implementation resumed in May 1996. The
bulk of the project's activities, which took place up to mid-1994, were subsequently
referred to as Phase I of the project. The final activities, taking place from May 1996
onward, were referred to as Phase II.
5.     The total project cost was US$17.79 million, of which US$8.0 million
equivalent (SDR 6.3 million) was financed by an IDA credit, US$7.74 million
equivalent through an AIDAB (currently AusAID) grant, and US$2.05 million
equivalent by the Government. The IDA credit covered about 45% of total project
costs. The AIDAB grant financed 43% of total project costs, including 100% of the
upper secondary expansion at Matevulu College, 53% of the curriculum development
activities and 80% of the teacher training activities.
6.     Evaluation of Objectives. The project objectives were in line with the findings
and recommendations of the Vanuatu Education and Training Sector Report of 1985
(Report No. 5217-VAN) and of other preparatory studies conducted with the assistance
of UNESCO and bilateral donors in 1984 and 1985.
7.     The project objectives vvere consistent with the Borrower's Second Five-Year
Development Plan (1987-91) and remain relevant for the country's future development.
Within the education sector, the issues of quality improvements in education at aLll
levels and of strengthening the capacity to plan, implement, monitor and evaluate
education investments and improve the internal efficiency of the system, identified as
key project objectives, continue to be key areas of concern. The Borrower's objectives
with regard to secondary education specifically have been to expand access to junior
secondary in order to raise transition rates from Year 6 to Year 7 and distribute
education opportunities more equitably within the country.
8.     Change in Focus of the Quality Improvement Component. The pedagogical
part of the quality improvement component, including implementation of the primary
and secondary curriculum and the provision of supporting learning materials, was
complex, as it entailed the provision of a large number of inputs in a limited time frame.
By mid-1994, when the project came to a halt, the pedagogical sub-component was only
partially accomplished (about 15% of target). The primary curriculum and a fevv books
(mostly teachers' guides) were written; other books were being prepared by national
writers. No junior secondary material had been produced under the project. A Final



3
Evaluation Report5 on project implementation was prepared in October 1994 to assess
performance of project activities under Phase I. The Report attributed the delay in
implementation of the pedagogical sub-component both to its ambitious design and to
the inadequacy of the technical assistance provided by the AIDAB-funded contractor to
carry out the variety of tasks required. In June 1996, an agreement was reached between
the Government and IDA on the modalities for reactivating the project and for utilizing
the undisbursed balance of US$1.3 million left in the Credit Account at the end of Phase
I. The main actions agreed upon to bring the project back into active status included:
the reconstitution of the PIU, printing and in some cases purchase of textbooks, training
for teachers on the effective use of textbooks, and upgrading of computers for desktop
publishing at the CDC. In addition, the design was expanded to include support for a
crash teacher training program to help primary teachers assigned to junior secondary
classes established in primary schools in 1995 and 1996, and for urgent repairs at a
national secondary school in Port Vila (Malapoa College). The main feature brought
about in Phase II was a change in the focus of the pedagogical sub-component. It
funded the revision, updating and reprint of existing textbooks which conformed with
the unified curriculum, rather than on the production of new materials as originally
envisaged. It was also based on a new policy definition of a unified curriculum which
maintained a common syllabus but allowed for variations in pedagogic design and
content of texts in the two languages. A prioritized list of textbooks to be revised and
reprinted was developed by MEYS and approved by IDA in 1997.
B.     Achievement of Project Objectives
9.     The objectives of the project as defined in the SAR were broadly stated as
long-term goals which the Government wished to achieve. However, because of the
small size of the education system in Vanuatu, the objective of increasing access to
secondary education was easily measurable at the end of the project. The attainment of
quality improvement objectives is more difficult to assess. The SAR defines project
inputs that were expected to contribute to improvement of basic education quality.
Targets were given for the number of primary and junior secondary teachers to be
trained, and for the number of textbooks, educational materials and teachers guides to
be printed or purchased. Similarly, attainment of the increase in efficiency of education
management objective is difficult to measure. Targets were provided for the kind and
duration of technical assistance. Further, studies to be executed were clearly identified
in the SAR.
10.    The SAR did not define performance indicators to measure project impact, nor
did most of the projects developed during the same period. In addition, the SAR did not
define benchmarks against which to measure the project's contribution to its long term-
goals. The SAR did, however, include a list of monitoring indicators, which provided
an overview of the status of the main physical targets at project start, mid-term and
completion.
"The Primary and Secondary Education Project, Final Evaluation Report," October 1994. Ministry of
Education, Port Vila, Vanuatu.



4
11.    Overall, the project has been successful in achieving its objectives, and most of
the monitoring indicators outlined in the SAR have been met (see Table 5). The project
has made a substantial contribution to increasing access to secondary education, with an
overall increase in enrollments of about 15% at the end of Phase I in 1994. The project
has also made a contribution towards improving the quality of basic education, thanks
to the successful completion of the junior secondary teacher training and the massive
infusion of primary and junior secondary textbooks which took place during Phase II.
The project has contributed to strengthening management capacity within MEYS. It
has also supported the decentralization process through the provision of office space for
the Regional Education Offices in three regions (Efate, Ambae and Santo), and by
providing field support for teachers in the provincial areas through both in-service
workshops for primary teachers and national and regional workshops for primary and
junior secondary teachers on the use of textbooks supporting the revised curricula.
Achievement of Physical Targets and Outputs as Set Out in the SAR
12.    Implementation moved rapidly during the first years of the project. By 1994,
about three years ahead of the original closing date, an external evaluation of PASEP
found that the project was mostly complete and that 88 percent of IDA funds had been
disbursed.6 By that time, the targets of the component to increase access to secondary
education were substantially met, and the targets for the other two components were
partially met. After the substantial early progress, the project came to a halt from mid-
1994 until May 1996. After implementation resumed, the project concentrated on
redressing the pedagogical deficiencies of the early years, resulting in the nation's
largest infusion of textbooks and learning materials into primary and secondary schools
since Independence.
13.    Increasing Access to Secondary Education. Physical targets and outputs have
been substantially achieved. The two lower secondary dual-lingual schools constructed
under the project at Tanna (Tanna/Lounikariang Junior Secondary School) and
Malekula (Rensarie Junior Secondary School) enrolled about 584 students in 1994
(about 570 in 1998) in total, against an SAR estimate of 560 places. The expansion of
facilities at Matevulu College (part of the AIDAB-funded contract) and the introduction
of two streams of upper secondary education increased upper secondary enrollments by
142 students in 1994, bringing the school's total enrollment of junior and senior
secondary students to 422 students in 1994 (about 417 in 1998), all Anglophones. This
increase in enrollments is below the SAR target of an additional 200 new senior
secondary enrollments. Nonetheless, the project has contributed to a major expansion
in access to secondary education. This is particularly evident when the overall increase
of 726 junior and senior secondary enrollments is compared to the size of the overall
system in 1994, comprising a total of 4,844 students. Since the system has expanded
6 "The Primary and Secondary Education Project, Final Evaluation," October 1994. Ministry of Education, Port
Vila, Vanuatu.



5
considerably since 1994, the impact of the project in expanding access to secondary
education is less significant when compared to 1998 enrollment data (see Table 5).
14.    Civil works for the construction of the two junior secondary schools at Tanna
and Malekula were completed on schedule and within budget estimates. Overall, with
their simple design and low maintenance requirements, the two schools were a success
in terms of both cost and adequacy. However, some problems arose in choosing a
location for the schools, mainly due to difficulties in finding a plot of customary land
large enough to accommodate the schools. In Tanna, the volcanic nature of the soil
made it necessary to make alternative drainage arrangements. At both Tanna and
Rensarie, accommodations for single teaching staff (4 places), which were envisaged in
the original architectural designs, were not constructed. This poses difficulties for the
schools in accommodating all of its teaching staff, as sharing arrangements have to be
made.
15.    Improving Quality of Primary and Secondary Education. Overall, the project
has made a contribution towards improving the quality of primary and secondary
education. The design of the quality improvement component of the project was
complex (see para. 8). The AIDAB contribution to PASEP project financed a number
of activities under the component. These included assistance for the following: i) the
development of a primary preservice teacher training curriculum; ii) preservice training
of lower secondary teachers; iii) primary curriculum development; iv) translation of the
new unified curriculum materials; and v) provision of fellowships for ni-Vanuatu
teacher trainers to gain relevant experience at Australian institutions. The IDA
contribution financed the construction and equipping of the CDC and of office space for
the REOs in three provinces and the provision of in-service workshops for the primary
teaching force. In addition, IDA financed the costs of imported textbooks and materials
to support the new curricula and the cost of imported books and materials for teacher
training.
16.    At the end of Phase I, the IDA-funded activities of the quality improvement
component were successfully completed. The training of Anglophone junior secondary
teachers, funded by the AIDAB grant, was very successful. A total of 54 teachers were
trained against an SAR target of 50 teachers. The primary preservice Teacher Training
Curriculum was never developed, and this was one of the main failures of the AIDAB
contract. Four out of six fellowships for ni-Vanuatu teacher trainers to gain relevant
experience in Australian institutions were awarded, bringing the completion rate for this
component to about 70%. The two additional fellowships, which were supposed to be
awarded in 1992/93 were lost when the Australian team left in February 1994.
17.    The inadequacy of the Australian technical assistance to perform the tasks
required was one of the reasons for the only partial completion of the pedagogical
aspects of the project by the end of Phase I. The technical assistance was supposed to
assist in the following pedagogical aspects: (a) to advise ni-Vanuatu curriculum writers
in the preparation of the unified curriculum materials for each primary subject in years 1
to 6; and (b) to translate from English into French all the new unified curriculum



6
materials for years 1 to 6, with the exception of the English and French language
subjects. The entire package of AIDAB-funded activities was managed by an
Australian contractor. The technical assistance fielded by the contractor comprised
primarily staff with expertise in secondary teachers training, who had inappropriate
qualifications as primary curriculum writers. As a result, only the primary curriculum
materials for years 1 and 2 were actually written, reviewed and translated. Detailed
course contents statements for years 1-6 were also prepared and the year 3 curriculum
was completed in draft form. The inability of the AIDAB-funded technical assistance
to perform was compounded by an unforeseen reduction in the size of the AIDAB
contract caused by a change in Government. In addition, implementation was
particularly difficult because of the political dynamics underlying the dual-language
system of instruction.
18.    The pedagogical agenda, which was largely unfinished at the end of Phase I,
was however successfully completed during Phase II. It consisted predominantly of the
production and distribution of vitally needed educational materials for the primary and
secondary levels. The materials comprised textbooks and teachers guides both in
English and French and many adapted to the local context. Phase II of PASEP has
produced the single largest infusion of textbooks and other educational material into the
Vanuatu education system since independence in 1980. A total of 180 titles, about
290,000 copies, in both French and English and for primary and junior secondary levels
have been printed and distributed. This output of about 290,000 copies by far exceeds
the target of 5,200 copies of textbooks and teachers guides for primary and 46,000
copies for secondary, which was agreed with the IDA Supervision Mission of JLune
1996. This output was due to the establishment of a desk-top publishing center as part
of the CDC and to the provision of computers and other equipment.
19.    IncreasingManagement Efficiency. Overall, the project has made positive
contributions towards increasing efficiency in education management and has
contributed to strengthening the investment implementation capacity of MEYS.
However, targets were only partially met and some of the major project inputs for this
component failed to achieve the desired impact. The renovation and equipment of
facilities at MEYS to host the PIU were carried out without delays at the beginning of
Phase I. The PIU was however dismantled in July 1994, which resulted in a breakdown
of communications between IDA and the Government on project matters. The PIU was
reestablished in May 1996 as one of the conditions for resuming implementation of the
project under Phase II. The reinstatement of the PIU was instrumental in providing
management direction of project activities. However, because the trained and
experienced staff of the disbanded PIU had since been assigned other responsibilities,
MEYS was urged to secure technical assistance in matters of project implementation
and procurement.
20.    Experience with technical assistance throughout the project was mixed. The
targets set at appraisal in terms of number and duration of TA have only partially been
met. Technical assistance to the PIU during Phase I failed to produce the expected
results. The SAR provided for the services of two expatriate advisers to the PIU during



7
Phase I: an Implementation Adviser funded by IDA, and an Education Planning Adviser
funded by UNDP/UJNESCO. An accountant was also provided through AIDAB
bilateral aid. Experience with the Implementation Adviser, albeit initially satisfactory
in terms of training of project counterparts, failed to achieve the expected results as the
duration of the technical assistance was too long (72 staff-months, from October 1991
to October 1994) and resulted in substituting for local officials. On the other hand, the
duration of technical assistance provided by the Education Planning Adviser (in place
for 6 staff-months against an initial duration of the assignment of 3 years), whose
expertise was required especially as the PIU was supposed to provide an overall
direction to sector planning, was too short to have a real impact. Technical assistance in
accountancy provided by AIDAB was adequate.
21.    The project supported the preparation of studies to be carried out by the PIU
with short-term technical assistance support. These included two main studies: one on
the financing of education and one on teachers' incentives, deployment and career
development. Both studies were completed during Phase I. However, the
recommendations of the studies did not translate into actual policies. The study on
education financing7 underscored the financial inefficiencies and costs associated with
the dual language system of instruction, and was not approved by the Ministry. The
study was, however, of very high quality and some of its findings were endorsed by
subsequent studies and are being embodied in the Education Master Plan currently
being finalized. The study on rationalization and deployment of teachers8 was approved
by MEYS. Although some of its recommendations have been implemented, overall the
study failed to be translated into policy formulation.
C.     Major Factors Affecting the Project
22.    Project Design. Although the project was technically well prepared, the
selection of inputs, particularly to the quality improvement component, was too wide.
Further, the original project design underestimated the difficulties of implementing a
unified primary and secondary curriculum, as it overlooked the different educational
philosophy underlying the French and British systems inherited at Independence from
the formal joint colonial powers. The failure of technical assistance to provide the
needed guidance in project implementation could not have been anticipated at project
design.
23.    Political Change and Government Commitment. The project was carried out
at a time of considerable political change in Vanuatu. This aspect might have been
anticipated at the design stage and was the main reason for the delays which occurred at
project start-up. Further, a change from an Anglophone to a Francophone Government
during Phase I and its effects on MEYS policies influenced progress of the curriculum
development component. Throughout periods of change, however, the Government
tried to fulfill its objective of implementing policies aimed at improving the quality of
7  "Financing of Education in Vanuatu", July 1993 (Draft).
8  "Rationalization and Deployment of Teachers", August 1992. Ministry of Education, Port Vila, Vanuatu.



8
basic education and at expanding educational access at the secondary level..
Implementation of the project would have also benefited from the existence of a
comprehensive Master Plan such as the one being finalized with IDA's assistance.
24.    Implementation Capacity. The pace of implementation was slower than
anticipated due to frequent changes in Government throughout implementation. A
number of changes in Project Directors and frequent turnover of PIU staff, as well as
the reassignment of PIU staff to other Ministries following the dismantling of the PIU in
1994, did not allow for the building of the necessary body of expertise in managing
procurement and accounting procedures or in monitoring a large number of activities.
In certain instances, the Government was slow in nominating counterparts to work
alongside the expatriate technical assistants, and sometimes counterparts were not
appointed. These factors limited the technical assistants' ability to impart the needed
skills to local staff. Greater consultation among stakeholders and clarification of project
design and implementation procedures, as well as improved communication channels
between project stakeholders, would have further contributed to making technical
assistance more effective.
25.    Unharmonized Procedures. During project implementation, IDA and AIDAB
applied different procedures for the disbursement of funds. The Government had to
follow IDA procedures for the IDA-funded activities, and AIDAB procedures for
activities fumded by the Australian grant. This made implementation more cumbersome
for the Borrower.
26.    SpecialAccount. A Special Account was opened in US dollars on 20 June
1990 at the Central Bank of Vanuatu. At the request of the Ministry of Finance, the
Special Account was closed on 1 1 June 1993, as the Government decided that it was
inconsistent with its financing and budgetary control procedures, and all IDA project
funds were deposited in a common account in Vatu at the Treasury. The Special
Account was reconstituted in 1996 when project implementation was resumed under
Phase II. Throughout the project, there have been instances where the withdrawal
applications submitted to IDA were not accompanied by all required documentation to
justify expenditures, which caused delays in the disbursement of funds from the Credit
Account. This indicates a lack of knowledge on the part of the PIU as to the exact
procedures required by IDA for reimbursement of expenditures. A further complication
in the use of the Special Account arose from the fact that about $0.3 million was
transferred out of the Special Account to a Government account without proper
authorization during Phase I. These funds were eventually recovered by withholding
proceeds for withdrawal applications submitted to IDA. The Special Account was
closed again in September 1997, when it was agreed that reimbursement procedures
would be used by the Government and that IDA would make disbursements directly to
the Government's Development Fund Account. This was deemed to be simpler than
using the Special Account, which remained inactive for long spells of time in between
withdrawals. IDA should have been more sensitive to the Borrower's financial
management needs and procedures, as clearly in the case of Vanuatu direct
reimbursement was more effective than the establishment of a Special Account.



9
27.    Procurement. The project was the first of its type in Vanuatu, and the first
project being implemented by MEYS. The Government's lack of familiarity with IDA
procurement procedures was identified early on in the project and the appointment of an
Implementation Adviser to the PIU, funded by IDA, was partly to address the need for
additional expertise in procurement. When the project became inactive and was
eventually rated unsatisfactory in June 1996, one of the main reasons cited for
unsatisfactory performance was the lack of MEYS or consultant expertise in key areas,
including procurement. When implementation was resumed under Phase II, a
procurement consultant on a part-time basis was appointed to undertake the
procurement of items required to meet the needs of the project. The Governmnent,
however, lamented difficulties in using ICB procedures for procurement, especially
towards the end of Phase I and during Phase II of the project. It was felt that ICB
procedures were too lengthy and that frequent changes in task management of the
project on the Bank side made the process even more difficult. Cumbersome
Government procedures for approval of large contracts contributed to procurement
delays.
28.    Government Budget, Accounting and ReportingProcedures. Since their
inception in 1990, PASEP accounts were audited by the National Audit Office.
Accounts presented up to 31 December 1990 were certified by the Controller General.
However, at the end of Phase I in 1994, accounts for 1991, 1992 and 1993 were
certified with qualifications due to errors in the allocation of expenditures, a lack of
consistency between the withdrawal applications sent by the PIU and disbursements by
IDA, and the absence of various supporting documentation for expenditures incurred.
Audits for 1994 and 1995 were submitted with delays after the project was reactivated
in 1996. During the implementation of Phase II, there were delays in submission of
Audit Reports, although they were often caused by policy issues which were outside the
control of the PIU. The PIU has generally been effective in complying with new audit
requirements introduced by IDA, such as the requirement of preparing an asset register
for the project.
D.     Project Sustainability
29.    Overall, project sustainability is likely, although the Government will continue
to face challenges in certain areas (see paras. 33-35).
30.    Government Commitment. The Government's conmmitment to basic education
remains high, as indicated in the recent Comprehensive Reformn Program (CRP)
document mandating the formulation of the Education Master Plan for the development
of Vanuatu's education system from now to the year 2010. The basic parameters for the
development of the education system included in the CRP document include, inter alia,
the Government's desire to provide basic education for all children by 2010 and a
conunitment to increase educational access at all levels. The Education Master Plan
will translate Government's commitment towards these goals into a workable
framework of action for both Government and donors.



10
31.    Financial Sustainability. Although GDP was forecast to have risen by only
1% in real terms in 1998, the background economic and financial situation in Vanuatu
is rather encouraging, especially in view of the endorsement and progressive
implementation of the CRP. The Government's budget for 1998 forecasts higher
economic growth on the order of 3% in 1999 and 2000. Within this budget, expenditure
on education has been increased by 10% in nominal terms, and the Government intends
to continue this trend in 1999 and 2000, reflecting the Government's increased
commitment to education.
32.    Institutional Sustainability. The project has assisted in strengthening the
institutional capacity of MEYS in the areas of project management and education
planning. Although the experience with technical assistance was mixed (see para. 20),
overall it produced positive results. The PIU is now staffed with experienced officers
who are familiar with IDA's procedures. Former PIU staff and other officers previously
associated with the project are now in key positions within MEYS, indicating that
expertise has been built under the project and is now being retained and utilized
effectively by Government. The -project has built capacity at the CDC, which will
maintain a sustainable but modified role. The project has also increased the number of
qualified and well-trained junior secondary teachers, and has increased the knowledge
of primary and secondary teachers in the use of materials supporting the new curricula
through inservice workshops. It is likely that the institutional capacity built under the
project will be maintained and further developed during future education projects.
Sustainability of Speciflc Investments.
33.    Curriculum Development Center (CDC). A major investment in Phase II has
been the establishment of the desk-top publishing center at CDC. Although often
criticized as ineffective, the CDC has overall been instrumental in the successful
completion of Phase II. The CDC is likely to remain operational in the Government's
new structure, but its role will be modified to make it more flexible and sustainable in
the long run. Rather than trying to accomplish all its work in-house, CDC will
outsource some of its functions and coordinate the work of others. Its staff will
consequently be reduced.
34.    Teacher Training. The AIDAB contribution to the training of junior
secondary teachers, albeit extremely successful in terms of the achieving the immediate
project targets, was not sufficient to address the country's shortage of trained secondary
teachers. At the end of Phase I, efforts to train secondary teachers came to a halt mainly
due to a lack of support from donors. In view of the need to sustain efforts in this
direction, a possible future IDA-assisted project may provide funding for teacher
training. Other donors, including AusAID, have agreed to continue support for
secondary teachers training and training of teacher trainers in the context of future
interventions. The gains achieved through PASEP are, thus, likely to be sustained, but
with the help of continued donor support for teacher training.



I1
35.    Unfinished Books from Phase II. By the end of Phase 1, a unified primary
curriculum overview in both languages of instruction was completed, along with a few
textbooks supporting the primary curriculum. Textbooks that were left in draft at the
end of Phase I, including the social science and science materials for the lower classes
of primary schools, were completed under Phase II. In addition, during Phase II, the
decision was taken to develop a prioritized list of books to be revised and reprinted or
acquired through commercial purchases (i.e., supplementary reading material and
science equipment). At the end of Phase II, some items on the prioritized list remain to
be completed. The Government, however, has approved a budget from its own funds to
reprint social studies and mathematics texts which were not completed under the
project. Any follow-up IDA project is likely to support textbook funding as well. A
total of 14 titles and 28,400 textbooks will be reprinted using PASEP organization,
which provides a strong indication that project investments in this area will be
sustainable.
E.     Bank Performance
36.    Bank performance in project preparation and supervision was satisfactory. The
Bank's knowledge of the Vanuatu education system, technical expertise and experience
in developing education systems throughout the world and in the Pacific were
appreciated and well respected by the Borrower. Constructive working relationships
were maintained with the Borrower throughout project implementation and throughout
changes in Government, except for the period between July 1994 and May 1996, when
the dismantling of the PIU led to a breakdown of communications between IDA and the
Government on project matters. IDA could have been more actively engaged in
consultations with other donors, especially AIDAB, both at the planning stage and
during implementation, to discuss progress in achieving overall project objectives. A
more active role on the part of IDA in project supervision and in coordinating activities
with AIDAB would have contributed to a more timely implementation of the
pedagogical sub-component.
F.     Borrower Performance
37.    Borrower performance overall during preparation and implementation was
satisfactory. However, project effectiveness was delayed by the Government's
slowness in appointing staff to the PIU and in nominating counterparts for the expatriate
technical assistance. A mixed experience with technical assistance, especially during
Phase I, changes in Government and the lack of a clear framework for assistance to the
sector slowed down the pace of implementation. The Government's lack of experience
in IDA business procedures gave rise to several procurement and accounting problems
during implementation. Such problems were eventually addressed by the Borrower in
consultation with IDA, and implementation up to 1994 generally proceeded rapidly.
The dismantling of the PIU in 1994 and the reassignment of experienced PIU staff to
other functions or other ministries was disruptive to capacity building and failed to
create the body of project management and education planning expertise that was
originally envisaged. Staff rotations in the PIU during Phase I compounded this



12
problem. Institution-building issues were largely addressed during Phase II, when the
PIU was reconstituted and staffed with officers with suitable expertise. Staff rotation
was substantially reduced during Phase II and technical assistance in project
management on a part-time basis facilitated the devolution of key responsibilities to
counterparts.
G.    Assessment of Outcome
38.    The project's overall outcome was satisfactory. The project achieved iits
objective of expanding access to education at the secondary level, and project physical
targets and outputs for this component were fully met. Although the project had failed
to achieve the pedagogical aspects of the project at the end of Phase I, this shortcoming
was largely corrected during Phase II, which has been instrumental in achieving the
project's educational quality improvement objectives. Although it is not possible to
measure quantitatively the extent to which educational quality objectives were attained,
field visits to primary and secondary schools during the last project supervision, and
interviews with teachers and Regional Education Officers in the provinces of Santo and
Malampa indicated a high degree of satisfaction with the new textbooks. Improvements
in educational quality were also attained through the successful training of junior
secondary teachers, while primary and secondary teachers' pedagogical skills have been
improved through the provision of inservice training workshops on the use of the new
textbooks. The project also supported Government's efforts to decentralize education
management through the construction of accommodation for Regional Education
Offices in three provinces and provision of field support for teachers in remote areas.
The project has been overall successful in strengthening the institutional capacity of
MEYS in project management and education planning, and PIU staff have now gained
experience in planning and monitoring implementation of education programs and in
meeting IDA's standards for procurement and accounting.
H.    Future Operation
39.    The Government has requested IDA's assistance in developing a second
education project in order to increase the skill level of the population and to build on the
achievements of PASEP. The comparative advantages that IDA has in assisting the
Government to carry out the needed educational reforms are its recent experience in the
sector with PASEP; its assistance to the Government in the development of the
Education Master Plan, which can serve as a vehicle to coordinate donors' assistance;
and its international experience in educational development. IDA has consistently
engaged in sector dialogue since 1986, when the preparation of PASEP began. Now
that PASEP has been completed, the lessons of the project should be exploited so as to
build on the successes and not to lose momentum.
40.    The main factor which will influence the scope, content and timing of the new
project will be the recommendations of the Education Master Plan, which will identify
investment needs and hence will serve as a useful document for both the Government
and donors. Whatever the focus of the upcoming operation, it is essential that the key



13
institutional gains of PASEP be sustained. To this end, a future project should continue
to strengthen the capacity of MEYS and of the PIU in particular, so that MEYS is able
to cope successfully with the large volume of financing likely to be made available,
both by IDA and bilateral donors, for implementation of the Education Master Plan.
Although still under discussion, the upcoming project is expected to support successful
PASEP activities such as continued assistance for the provision of textbooks and
teacher training, aimed at increasing educational quality. Finally, the Government's
ability to support project investments as determined by the likely size of the recurrent
budget for education will be a key determinant of the future project's scope and size.
1.     Key Lessons Learned
41.    There are six major lessons learned from the Primary and Secondary Education
Project. First, capacity building within Government at both the central and provincial
levels increases the efficiency of resource use and improves project outcomes.
Although experience with technical assistance was mixed, the project developed
expertise within MEYS and increased the operation and performance of the PIU in
project management. Such improvement in management capacity was essential to the
achievement of project objectives. At the provincial level, the project provided field
support for teachers, leading to improved teachers' performance. Second, measuring
the outcome of quality objectives requires the development of baseline, benchmark and
impact indicators, which allow for better monitoring of outcomes. These indicators
were not included in project design, as was the case with all other projects developed
during the same time. Third, there was a need for improved coordination of activities
among project components and institutions. Under the project, stronger linkages
between the CDC, the Vanuatu Teachers Training College, and the primary and
secondary education offices in the provinces would have ensured greater expediency
and efficiency in matters such as the selection, development, and distribution of
materials. Fourth, the unification of the curriculum in a country with a dual-language
system of instruction should be a long-term goal and should be based on realistic
expectations of what is achievable. The project was successful in implementing
primary and secondary curricula with a common set of objectives and a common
examination system. The different educational philosophies underlying the French and
British systems, as well as the political dynamics of the dual-language system of
instruction, will take much longer to homogenize. Fifth, stronger partnerships with
other donors, as well as increased coordination and communication with both
Government and donors, are needed for a full and timely achievement of project
objectives. The project, although successful in terms of achieving concrete outputs,
suffered from weak client and donor relations. Sixth, the design of projects with
multiple donors should be kept manageably simple. Complex components and
implementation arrangements make it harder for the Borrower and donors to coordinate
and monitor activities.



14
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives       Substantial      Partial    Negligible   Not Applicable
Macroeconomic policies                                                              x
Sector policies                                       x
Financial objectives                                  x
Institutional development                             x
Physical objectives                      x
Poverty reduction                                                                   x
Gender issues                                                                       x
Other social objectives                                                             x
Environmental objectives                                                            x
Public sector management                 x
Private sector development                                                          x
B. Project Sustainability                Likely             Unlikely            Uncertain
x
C. Bank Performance                   Highly Satisfactory      Satisfactory       Deficient
Identification                                                     x
Preparation assistance                                             x
Appraisal                                                          x
Supervision                                                        x
D. Borrower Performance               Highly Satisfactory      Satisfactory       Deficient
Preparation                                                         x
Implementation                                                     x
Covenant compliance                                                x
Operation (if applicable)                                           x
E. Assessment of Outcome        Highly         Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory      Highly
Satisfactory                                     Unsatisfactory
x



15
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Year of
Loan/Credit Title                   Purpose                         Approval    Status
Not aplicable (first IDA project in
education)
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle                               Date planned             Date actual
Identification                                        03/18/86 9               03/18/86
Preappraisal                                          06/15/86 10              06/13/86
Appraisal                                            October 86 11             10/31/86
Negotiations                                       April/May 1987 12           09/26/88
Board presentation                                   09/15/1987 13             11/15/88
Signing                                             January 1989'4             01/27/89
Effectiveness                                        March 198915              01/16/90
Project completion                                    12/31/9616               09/30/98
Credit closing                                        06/30/9717               12/31/98
9   Project Identification Mission Back-to-Office Report, April 9, 1986
10  Same as above
I   Same as above
12  Executive Project Summary - Appraisal Stage, 15 September, 1986
13  Same as above
14  Authorizaton to sign the DCA, Memorandum dated 29 December, 1988
5  Summary of Negotiation, September 30, 1988, and President's Memorandum and Recommendation, Schedule
C, 27 October, 1988
16 Staff Appraisal Report, 14 October, 1988
17  Same as above.



16
Table 4: Credit Disbursement: Cumulative Estimate and Actual
(US$ million)
FY89   FY90   FY91    FY92   FY93  FY94   FY95    FY96    FY97                 FY98      FY99
Appraisal Estimate      0.25     1.15    3.40     6.60    7.62    7.85    7.95     8.00     N.A.      N.A.       N.A.
Actual                   0       0.90    6.71     7.25    7.52    7.52    7.52     7.52      7.87      8.14      8.57
Actual as a % of         0      78.26   197.35   109.84   98.68   95.79   94.59    94.00    N.A.      N.A.       N.A.
Estimate
Date of Final Disbursement: 20 May 1999
Undisbursed Balance of US$126,755.36 on 30 April 1999.
Note:
*Project Closing extended to 30 September 1998 for all categories, except for Category 2 "Goods and Distribution," which closed on 31
December 1998.
** Actual Cumulative Disbursements exceeds Appraisal estimate due to fluctuations in the SDRs and US$ exchange rates. At appraisal, the
prevailing exchange rate was SDR I = US$1.26988, while the exchange rate on 9 October 1998 was SDR I = US$1.41520. FY99
cumulative total is as of 27 May 1999.



17
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation18
Complete
Key implementation indicators              Start    Estimated    Actual
General
Primary
No. enrolled                              24000       30000       37000
No. of teachers                            980         1000        1125
Teacher/student ratios                     1:25        1:29        1:33
Student/class ratios                        20          25         NA
% age 6 enrolled Year 1                     80          95          97
Junior Secondary
No. enrolled                               3115        3220        6070
No. of teachers                             170        156         290
Teacher/student ratios                     1:18        1:22        1:21
Student/class ratios                        30          32         NA
% Year 6 enrolled Year 7                    17          20          32
No. students Year 7                        934         800         1175
Senior Secondary
No. enrolled                               275         425         749
No. of teachers                             20          29          95
Teacher/student ratios                     1:14        1:15         1:8
Student/class ratios                        20          28         NA
Staff Development                                                     19
No. qualified Ni-Vanuatu secondary teachers  52         120       275
No. expatriate teachers                     108         65          50
As % total no. of teachers                  57          35         NA
No. ni-Vanuatu teachers/degrees             23          40         100
No. ni-Vanuatu teachers/certificates/diplomas  29       80         1125
No. unqualified primary teachers           212          0          NA
No. primary teachers/inserviced/workshops  NA          1000        1125
Curriculum Implementation
Primary (grade reached annually)             -        Grade 6     NA20
Lower secondary                           Grade 9    Grade 10      NA
18  This table is intended to update the Staff Appraisal Report of October 1988. Data were collected by the
t3overnment from a variety of sources. NA means not available. Some figures are estimates.
19  Estimated. This designates former primary teachers teaching at secondary level without formal extensive
retraining.
20  Curriculum information for primary and lower secondary is not usefully presented in table format. See ICR
text.



18
Table 6: Studies Included in Project
Study               Purpose as defined at          Status           Impact of Study
Appraisal/Redefined
Rationalization and     Analyze teacher incentives,  Completed August 1992 Some
Deployment of Teachers   including qualifications, salary   and accepted by  recommendations
levels, conditions of service,  Ministry         implemented, but
criteria and procedures for                       overall not adopted as
recruitnent, deployment and                       policy.
career development, with a view
to preparing the elements of a
teaching service statute.
Financing of Education in   Examine financing of education, Completed in April 1993 Findings incorporated
Vanuatu                including budgeting criteria,  but rejected by Ministry into later studies and
especially for grants-in-aid to                  sector master plan,
secondary schools, financial                      despite disagreement of
monitoring systems, and ways to                   Govermment with some
mobilize nonbudgetary sources of                  of its
finance for education.                           recommendations.



19
Table 7A: Project Costs
(US$ million)
Appraisal estimate           ActuaVlatest estinate
Item                                Local  Foreign    Total         Local Foreign      Total
Expanding access
Lowersecondaryeducation               1.80     2.71      4.51        2.44     3.68      6.12
Site supervision                      0.03     0.24      0.27            -       -         -
Upper secondary education             2.15     1.99      4.14         NA       NA        NA
Subtotal                              3.98     4.94      8.92        2.44     3.68      6.12
Improving quality
Curriculum development
and leaming materials               1.00      1.63      2.63        0.47     0.62      1.09
Teacher training                      0.17     1.29      1.46         0.04    0.32      0.36
Fieldsupport                          0.11     0.29      0.40         0.14    0.38      0.52
Subtotal                              1.28     3.21      4.49        0.65     1.32      1.97
Increasing efficiency                 0.44     0.66      1.10         0.46    0.69      1.15
Totalbasecosts                        5.70     8.81     14.51         3.55    5.69      9.24
AIDAB Contribution22                                                                    7.74
Contingencies
Price                                 0.45     0.71      1.16
Physical                              1.60     0.52      2.12
TotalProjectCosts                     7.75    10.04     17.79            -       -     16.98
21  Actuallatest figures are best estimates as of May 1999 and are based primarily on: (a) actual expenditure
figures through 1997 from the project audit report; and (b) the projected budget (2/98) and final disbursements
for the project activities. This has been confirmed by the Government. The actual foreign/local distribution is
also an estimate and is based on the distribution projected in the SAR. Figures are based on an estimated
average exchange rate of VT I 10=US$1.
22  Actual/latest figures and subtotals do not include figures for AIDAB assistance. The latter was unavailable for
the final evaluation of PASEP in 1994 as well. In order to complete the project cost table the full AIDAB
contribution is reflected as a different line item.



20
Table 7B: Project Financing
(US$ million)
Appraisal estimate               Actual/latest estimate23
Source              Local     Foreign     Total         Local    Foreign    Total
Government                       1.70        0.35       2.05          0.55       0.12      0.67
AIDAB                            2.33        5.41       7.74          2.33       5.41      7. 74
IDA                              3.72        4.28       8.00          3.51       5.06      8.57
Total                            7.75        10.04     17.79          6.39      10.59     16.98
23   See footnote 1 at Table 7A. IDA estimates as of 27 May 1999.



21
Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants
Credit       Section       Coven-   Present   Original    Revised     Description of covenant    Comments
Agreement                     ant      Status   fulfillment  fulfillment
type                date        date
VU-PE-      Sch. I para.3(b)   13        C      04/05/89    08/25/93   No disbursements against   In Compliance
4814                                                                   lower secondary school
facilities until agreed lower
secondary consolidation
plan implemented
Sec. 3.01 (b)      10       C       04/05/89    11/25/94    Project to be implemented   In Compliance
in accordance with
program agreed by
October 31 each year
Sec. 3.02 (b)      13       C       04/05/89    12/14/90   Contractors permitted to    In Compliance
import building materials
directly and bring in
necessary skilled labor
Sec. 303           13       C       04/05/89    12/14/90   Staffing plans for project-   In Compliance
financed schools to be
provided one year prior to
school opening
Sec. 304 (a)      13        C       04/05/89    08/25/93   By December31, 1989,      In Compliance
provide draft primary
teacher rationalization
program
Sec. 304 (b)       13       C       04/05/89    08/25193   By December 31, 1990,     "The Development of
provide study on financing   the Education and
of education.            Training System: An
Analysis of Cost and
Financing". Final
Report, May 20, 1995.
Ministry of Education,
Port Vila
Sec. 304 (c)      13        C       04/05/89    08/19/91   By December31, 1991,      In Compliance
provide study on teachers
incentives
Sec. 305          05        C       04/05/89    06/23/92   By June 30, 1990, recruit   In Compliance
SEO for planning, EO for
operations, and
implementation adviser for
PIU
Sec. 601 (a)      05        C       04/05/89    12/14/90   Establish PIU and appoint   PIU reconstituted as
PEO for planning and     the Planning, Statistics
1 1W/98  implementation, SEO for    and Project
implementation, and EO   Management Division
for statistics.          reporting to the DG
Education. The Unit
became fully
operational with
provision of budget in
1997.
Sec. 601 (b)      04        C       04/05/89    06/23/92   AIDAB (AusAID) grant    In Compliance
effective
Covenant Class:                                                                 Status:
I = Accounts/audits                8 = Indigenous people                      C   = covenant complied with
2 = Financial performance/revenue    9 = Monitoring, review, and reporting    CD  = complied with after delay
generation from beneficiaries    10 = Project implementation not         CP  = complied with partially
3 = Flow and utilization of project     covered by categories 1-9
funds                         11 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral
4 = Counterpart funding                 budgetary or other resources
5 = Management aspects of the           allocation
project or executing agency   12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy!
6 = Environmental covenants             regulatory/institutional action
7 = Involuntary resettlement      13 = Other
The PIU was disbanded in 1994 following a civil service strike and reorganization of MEYS. It was reestablished in 1996, as one of the
conditions for resuming project implementation under Phase 11.



22
Table 9: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
There was no significant lack of compliance with an applicable Bank Operational Manual Statement
(OD or OP/BP)
Table 10: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs 25
Stage of                Planned                    Revised                      Actual
Process Cycle
Weeks       US$ ('000)     Weeks       US$ ('000)      Weeks       US$ ('000)
Through Appraisal                                                               92.6         135.3
Appraisal-Board                                                                 39.1          93.4
Board-Effectiveness                                                             15.5          32.0
Supervision                                                                     76.4         259.3
Completion               8.0          32.4    l                                 11.0          30.3
TOTAL                     -      |                                             234.6         550.3
25   Data on "planned' and "revised" except for completion are not provided by the MIS



23
Table 11: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance rating
Stage of Project Cycle                                     Specialized staff    Imple-       Devel-
Month/   Number of   Days   skills represented   mentation      opment             Type of
year     persons    in field                     status       objectives         problems
Through Appraisal            03/86        2          16      Economist,          -              -                 -
Educator
06/86        2         15      Economist, Sr.       -             -                  -
General Educator
10/86       3          14      Economist, Sr.       -             -                  -
General Educator,
Loan Officer
Appraisal through Board      10/87        1          7        Economist          -             -                  -
Approval
2/88        1          2        Div. Chief          -             -
07/88        1          2        Economist          -             -                  -
Board Approval through       03/89        1          5        Economist          2             2         Effectiveness delayed
Effectiveness
08/89        1          3      Sr. Economist        2             2        Delay in fulfilling credit
effectiveness condition.
Failure to appoint PIU
staff and general
institutional capacity of
the MOE
11/89       2          6      Sr. Economist,Sr.     2             1        Gov't advised that credit
Education Planner                            effectiveness will lapse by
01/26/1990



24
Performance rating
Specialized staff    Imple-      Devel-
Stage of Project Cycle      Month/  Number of   Days   skills represented   mentation        opment            Type of
year     persons    in field                     status       objectives         problems
Supervision                  03/90        1          6       Sr. Education       -             -         Tripartite Meeting WB,
Planner                                      GOV, AIDAB.
Management problems at
MOE
06/90        1         5       Sr. Education        2             1          Weak management
Planner                                     capacity of MOE
11/90       2          2       Div. Chief, Sr.      -             -        Tripartite Meeting WB,
Education Planner                            GOV, AIDAB. No major
issues
04/91        1         14        Architect          -             -           No majoT issues
08/91        1         5       Sr. Education        I             I           No major issues
Planner
05/92        1         9       Sr. Education        I             I       Delay in submitting Audit
Planner                                         Reports
10/92       1          5       Sr. Education        1             I           No Major Issues
Planner
03/93        1         7       Sr. Education        1             1           Water and Sewer
Planner                                   Problems at Tafea and
IRensarie
07/93       3          10      Sr. Education        1             2        Slow Implementation of
Planner,                                 the CDC component due
Economist                                    to reduced TA and
unrealistic implementation
schedule
02/94       2          7        Economist,          2             2           Slow progress in
Education                                 curriculum development
Specialist
12/94       2          21        Education         S              S       Procurement of textbooks
Specialist,                               and curriculum materials
Economist                                    to be completed.
Curriculum development
and materials distribution
not as successful as
anticipated
5/95        1         10        Education          U             S         Disbanding of the PIU.
Specialist                               Pedagogical objectives not
met.
6/96        1          10      Sr. Education       U             S         Project implementation
Specialist                                 interrupted since mid-
1994
11/96       2          7       Sr. Education       S              S        Institutional memory lost
Specialist and Sr.                                due to project
Project Economist                           implementation stoppages.
Need for implementation
and procurement
consultants
07/97        1         5         Sr. Project        S             S             Delay in the
Economist                                 implementation schedule
agreed with the Nov. 96
mission. Change in Gov't
in May 1997.
02/98       2          7        Prin. HRD           S             S        Main issue is to make a
Specialist, Sr.                            realistic assessment of the
Project Economist                             volume of educational
materials that can be made
available for printing.
09/98        1          5        Sr. Project        S             S       Sustainability issues
Economist
Completion
09198        1         10     Educ. Specialist



25
Annex A
GOVERNMENT OF VANUATU'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PRIMARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
CREDIT NO. 1964-VAN
EVALUATION SUMMARY
This report on the Primary and Secondary Education Project (PASEP) (Credit: 1964-Van) is
submitted by the Government of Vanuatu (VanGov) to the International Development Association
(IDA) in fulfillment of its obligation to report upon the implementation of PASEP upon project
completion.
Project History
Legally and financially, for the administrative purposes of IDA, the Project is an organic whole.
Credit availability began on July 1 1989, and will end on December 31, 1998. In reality, when
considering development in Vanuatu, the Project is best considered divided in two. The first phase
of the Project began in 1989 and ended in early 1994. The second phase began in June 1996, and
will end in December of this year. The project had two primary goals: (1) to Increase Access to and
(2) Improve the Quality of primary and secondary education in Vanuatu. A third was to (3) Improve
the Efficiency of the Ministry of Education through assistance to the Planning and Implementation
Unit created for the Project. Phase One dealt with the three elements. Phase Two only with the
second and third. In Phase One the Project was co-financed by the Australian Government, through
their development armn, AIDAB, (now AusAID) and VanGov. In Phase Two only funds from the
IDA Credit were used. In Phase One, the Government of the United Kingdom provided limited
assistance. This assistance was curtailed at the request of VanGov. Assistance expected from France
in Phase One was not, ultimately, offered.
Phase One
Evaluation Methodology
The goals set for the project are described in the Staff Appraisal Report, Republic of Vanuatu,
Primary and Secondary Education Project, October 1988, The World Bank (SAR). This report has
been used to provide baseline data for this evaluation.
Phase One of the Project was evaluated by consultants acting for VanGov and IDA and by AIDAB.
The AIDAB evaluation of the Improving Quality component of the Project is contained in, Primary
and Secondary Education Project, Project Completion Report, September 1994. This report is a self-
evaluation prepared by the Project Team. (SAGRIC). It was accepted by AIDAB. The report of the
consultants commissioned by IDA and VanGov is, Primary and Secondary Education Project, Final
Evaluation, October 1994. The authors are Pierre M. Runner and Magaye Gaye. In the foreword
they state that the report must not be considered as engaging the responsibility of those who
commissioned it.



26
In this report the judgements made in the SAGRIC and Runner/Gaye reports have been accepted and
provide the basis of the commentary upon Phase One. They have been confirmed, and where judged
necessary elaborated, by the VanGov officials who were responsible for Phase One of the Project.
These officials were George Andrews, now Director General, Antoine Thyna, now Acting Director,
Vocational and Continuing Education, and Jesse Dick, now Acting Director, Policy and Planning
Services. George Andrews and Jesse Dick have, on behalf of VanGov, exercised line authority
during the second phase of the project.
Improvements in Quality
The Project elements designed to improve quality were principally the responsibility of AIDAB
through their designated Contractor, SAGRIC.
The most important was to advise and assist in the development of a new primary Unified
Curriculum in each subject. Year I and 2 teacher and student texts were to be prepared in 1991, Year
3 and 4 texts in 1992 and Year 5 and 6 texts in 1993. These materials were to be translated from
their language of composition to the other teaching language.
A Unified Primary Curriculum Overview with goals, and objectives, and a scope and sequence
statement for language, mathematics, social studies, the arts and physical education was developed,
agreed and published. Texts for Years 1 and 2 were prepared for the major subjects but were neither
published nor translated. Nothing was done for Years 3 through 6.
This substantial failure had several causes. Among them were:
X  The dual role of the advisors was a significant handicap. They were asked both to write
Primary Curriculum, and, in development of another most important objective of the Project,
to train junior secondary teachers Years 7 through 10. As they were all primarily secondary
teacher trainers the quality of what they were able to do for the Primary Curriculum was,
understandably, less than it might have been.
*  The lack, until mid 1992, of a technical infrastructure at the Curriculum Development Centre
(CDC) for the production of texts also contributed. This slowed the production of such texts
as were prepared. Then after staff had been trained, the momentum achieved was lost when
the British funded Publications Adviser, by VanGov decision, did not have his contract
renewed.
*  The dual role of the Ni-Vanuatu counterparts was also significant. They were expected to
develop and give workshops and courses in their area of expertise, and to set and mark the
Year 6 examination. Consequently, the quality and quantity of what they were able to do for
the development of the Unified Primary Curriculum was adversely affected.
*  The perception of Francophone staiEf at the CDC was that the Curriculum being developed
was Anglophone in its orientation, and denigrated and minimized the Francophone
contribution to the Vanuatu education system. This resulted in a general unwillingness on
their part to co-operate, which slowed and hampered progress in several areas. Then in
December 1991 there was a change of Government. The new Governent explicitly
promoted Francophone aims, and it endorsed and encouraged the perception of the CDC
Francophone staff. The climax was reached in December 1992 with a request from VanGov



27
to the SAGRIC Advisers that they should no longer participate in the development of the
Primary Curriculum.
The second quality component, for which SAGRIC was responsible, was to train 54 Junior
Secondary Teachers, Years 7 through 10, in the major subjects of the junior secondary curriculum.
This objective was successfully achieved.
Teachers were trained in a combination of two subjects, either mathematics and science, English and
social science, or French and social science. The course was for two years. There was one intake in
1991, and a second in 1992. The Program finished in 1993. Of the 54 teachers trained, 49 are still
teaching in Govermnent schools. Among the 49, 3 are in French medium schools, and 5 are
principals of Junior Secondary Schools. Of the remaining 5, 1 has died, 2 are teaching in a private
secondary school in Port Vila, and 2 are on Government approved scholarships overseas.
Two civil works components were designed to improve quality. They were the construction of a new
building for the CDC and of Education Offices for three of the country's major regions. These
construction projects were complemented by the provision of trucks, office equipment, increased
numbers of supervisory staff, and funding for in-service training. Funding for these components was
shared between IDA and AIDAB. All of these project elements were satisfactorily implemented, and
have benefited the development of the country's education system
Improvements in Access
The Project had two components designed to improve access. These comprised the construction of
two junior secondary schools, and the creation of a two-stream, three year, senior secondary
component, as an extension of an existing school, Matevulu College. IDA provided the funds for the
junior secondary schools and AIDAB for Matevulu.
Each of the two junior secondary schools, TAFEA and Rensarie, was designed to have 280 students.
The schools were to be dual lingual with 140 students learning in English and 140 in French. The
two new schools provided for an increase of 560 students. The net increase planned, was, however,
420. By agreement between VanGov and IDA, in order to improve the ability of VanGov to sustain
the new schools, and, particularly, to reduce the immediate increase in the recurrent budget, 140
places were eliminated in other schools at the moment the new schools opened. This agreement is
recorded in para 2.19 of the SAR. The increase of 420 was achieved as planned.
The two schools were built on schedule and at the price foreseen. Since their opening they have
contributed successfully to the development of junior secondary education in Vanuatu. The Assets
Register developed in October 1998 has demonstrated that the physical fabric created and equipment
supplied remain in place.
The expansion of Matevulu College by the creation of a two-stream three-year, 200 student, senior
secondary division was carried through on time and under budget. This was the other element of the
increase in access component of the Project. No formal AIDAB evaluation is available. Since this.
work was done the College has confirmed its position as a significant Anglophone school. When
New Zealand Bursary was introduced in 1995 to provide direct entry to university from Vanuatu,
Matevulu as one of the country's two English language senior secondary schools undertook the
program, and has continued to offer it successfully.



28
Generally, the improvements in access and quality promoted by the project design have, in their turn,
fostered, at least partially, other developments in the education system. These are recorded in Table
One of Appendix Two. This Table is intended to update Annex 6 of the IDA Staff Appraisal Report
of October 1998.
The Table provides important evidence of the dynamism of the Vanuatu education system, the
importance that Government and people place upon it and, how they in combination with IDA and
other donors have driven its growth so that the targets set in 1998 have been substantially exceeded.
Primary school enrolment is 37,000 rather than the 30,000 expected, junior high school enrolment is
6,070 rather than 3220, and senior secondary enrolment is 749 rather than 425. 32% of all Year 6
students pass on to Year 7 rather than the 17% then foreseen. There are 275 qualified Ni-Vanuatu
secondary teachers rather than 110, 100 teachers with degrees rather than 40, and 1125 with
Certificates or Diplomas rather than 80.
Improvements in Efficiency
As a condition for the activation of the Project, a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) was established
with the objectives of implementing the Project and, thereby, developing capacity to implement other
projects, and to gather and interpret data relating to the education system. During the First Phase of
the Project, the PIU operated successfully. It was disbanded in 1994, as part of a re-organization of
the Ministry structure, but re-activated in 1996 as a condition for the re-activation of the Credit for
Phase Two. It has been confirmed as a unit of the Ministry, in a further re-organization currently
under way, as part of Vanuatu's Comprehensive Reform Programme (CRP).
PASEP Phase Two
Phase One of PASEP ended in early 1994. The planned contributions of both AIDAB and IDA were
complete. There remained, however, the sum of circa $US 1,500,000 available from the IDA Credit.
During 1994 and 1995 IDA and VanGov endeavored to reach agreement on the disposition of these
funds, but were unable to do so. In May 1996, consequent upon the formation of a new Government,
agreement was reached.
Improvements in Quality
The agreement focussed upon improvements in quality. Two parts of the new agreement were
peripheral and affected particular aspects of the system. These were elements designed to train
untrained Year 7-8 teachers newly assigned to those years, and the renovation of the Malapoa
College kitchen. The major project element was, however, system wide and designed to remedy, to
the extent possible, the failure to produce, for the reasons already discussed, the text books originally
planned.
A close approximation of expenditure actually incurred is set out in Table One. In essence it follows
the agreement made by VanGov and IDA in the Aide Memoire of May 1996. All expenditure has
been at or very close to budget, and the project objectives have been achieved, or, as for book
production and purchase, substantially exceeded.



29
Table One: Indicative Project Expenditure for Phase Two by Millions of
Vatu (Changed at average rate of $US1: Vatu 115) and Percentage,
October, 1998
Component                                             Vatu in     % of Total
millions
Short Term Training Year 7-8 Teachers                   11            6
Renovation Malapoa College Kitchen                       11           6
Revision of Vanuatu Originated Texts
Equipping Desk Top Publishing Centre               1 1           6
Preparation                                         5            3
Printing                                           65           38
Distribution                                        2            1
Training in Use of Texts                           12            7
Commercial Texts and Equipment
Purchase of Texts                                  26           1 5
Purchase of Equipment                               6            4
Distribution                                        1            1
Improving Efficiency PIU                                 2            1
Technical Assistance          _                         20            12
Total     171          100
Malapoa College Kitchen Renovation
The kitchen at Malapoa College was successfully renovated in 1997. A local contractor undertook
the civil work. The equipment installed was imported from New Zealand. The use of a local
contractor permitted low cost, good quality construction. The only difficulty experienced was to
persuade the Procurement Division of IDA that such a seeming contradiction was possible.
Training of Year 7-8 Teachers
This project component was carried through in January of 1997. The objective was to provide short-
term training for a group of 45 primary teachers transferred to teach in newly established Junior
Secondary Schools. The Institute of Education of the University of the South Pacific was contracted
to design and supply this Programme. Participants and observers evaluated the Programme as having
been very successful.
Revision Preparation and Publication of Vanuatu originated Textbooks for Years 1-10
The major component of the project was the revision of and reprinting of textbooks used in Vanuatu
schools Years 1-10. VanGov and the IDA agreed that the books to be reprinted would:
d Meet the requirements of the Unified Curriculum as established during PASEP Phase One
and since.
Be revised so as to remove anachronistic references to events and individuals and to correct
misstatements of fact,
* Aim to remove any discrimination in the depictions of male and female roles.
* Revise all graphics and illustrations to the same standards and in the same way as the texts.



30
* Use fonts and styles of pagination and formatting in conformity with world best practice.
Most importantly, the Minister of Education approved a new interpretation of the Unified Curriculum
with respect to the Anglophone and Francophone elements of the education system. This provided
that while curriculum content for the two Programs is required to be the same and the Year 6 and
Year 10 examinations to have the same questions and format, that the content and presentation of
texts for each subject could be different. IThe adoption of this policy resulted in the removal of the
difficulty which had done the most to cause ill-feeling and dispute during PASEP Phase one and had
contributed significantly to the minimal curricular progress of that phase of the project. The
Memorandum of the Minister is attached as Appendix Three
The achievement of these objectives required the re-establishment and re-equipping of a desktop
publishing centre at the CDC. The centre established under Phase One having fallen into desuetude.
The technical advances in computer hardware and software since 1993 made this inevitable, as there
had not been a continuing effort to maintain and update the facility. Technical Assistance was
contracted for this purpose. To operate the centre additional Ni-Vanuatu staff were also employed to
work alongside the regularly employed staff of the CDC.
Revision of existing texts and the writing of new texts were contracted to Ni-Vanuatu and expatriate
members of the teaching services. Editing of the revised texts when received and final approval for
the press was provided by contracted Technical Assistance.
Management of the process was through the officer in charge of the PIU. Operational
implementation was substantially delegatecl to a consultant.
The objectives were met extremely successfully. This is demonstrated in Tables Two and Three.
Table Two summarizes Tables 1-7 of Appendix One, and it, and the Tables in Appendix One, are
intended to update Annex 4 of the SAR of the IDA of October 1988. In all 290,677 books were
supplied. 110,427 books, 38% of the total, were supplied to Francophone students and teachers, and
180,250 books, 62%, were supplied to Anglophone students and teachers. These percentages are
virtually identical to those for the students learning in each language. Books for both students and
teachers were supplied in the ratio 1:1.



31
Table Two: Summary of Books supplied by Language, User, and Origination, Years 1-
inclusive
Origination       French              English                Total     Total
Titles    Copies
Titles    Copies    Titles    Copies       .
Vanuatu Student             56     89480         54    104075        110    193555
Commercial Student          11      9000         59     60750         70     69750
Total                       67     98480        113    164825        180    263305
Vanuatu Teacher             39     11447         33     15425         72     26872
Commercial Teacher           4       500          0         0          4       500
Total                       43     11947         33     15425         76     27872
Grand Total                110    110427        146    180250        256   290,677
Table Three demonstrates that during Phase Two the targets set for the production of revised texts
were very considerably exceeded. The planned targets are those set in the May 1996 Aide Memoire
of the IDA. The actual figures are those that will be attained at project conclusion in December
1998. The plan foresaw the supply of 111,818 books. Actually supplied, as previously noted, will be
290,677. The target set has been exceeded overall by 159%
Table Three: Comparison of Planned Textbook Production against Actual in Phase Two
Planned     Actual   % Increase   Planned    Actual   % Increase
(Decrease)                         (Decrease)
French                             English
Vanuatu Student         24300      89480          268       59940     104075           73
Commercial Student       3540       9000          154        8650      60750          602
Total                   27840      98480          253       68590     164825          139
Vanuatu Teacher          4280      11447          167       11106      15425          -38
Commercial Teacher          0        500          NA            0          0          NA
Total                    4280       11947         179       11106      15425           38
Grand Total             32120     110427          243       79696     180250       - 126
This very considerable achievement was due to the skills and commitment of many people. In all 63
individuals have been identified as making a substantial contribution. They comprised members of
the Vanuatu Public and Teaching Services, contracted Ni-Vanuatu and locally based expatriates,



32
volunteers and Technical Assistance. Their teamwork produced what has been described as the
greatest intellectual injection into Vanuatu schools since Independence.
Table Four assigns project staff by role, categorizes their contractual status or institutional affiliation,
and distinguishes between Ni-Vanuatu and expatriates. Some staff who filled more than one role are
listed under their primary function.
Table Four: Project Staff by Role and Status
Ni        Ni-    Expatriate  Expatriate  Expatriate   IDA
Vanuatu  Vanuatu   Volunteer    Local        Technical   Staff
Govt.     Short                 Contract   Assistance            Total
Service    Term
Contract
Authors             5          1                      2                              8
Revisers            4                     2           1                              7
Editors             3          1          1           2           1                  8
Graphic Artists               2                                                      2
Text Entry and      5         2           1           1           1                  10
Formatting
Translators                    1                      2                              3
Distribution        3         12                                                     15
Agents                              _
Financial           4                                                                4
Management
General             2                                             1          3       6
Management
Total    26         19          4           8           3          3       63
Among the important educational achievements of the Project were:
*  The adoption and adaptation of a primary mathematics programme developed in French West
Africa for the Francophone Programme, Years 1-6 and its subsequent translation into English
and adoption for the Anglophone Programme for the same years.
*  The revision of several important Teacher Handbooks for the Primary years covering all
aspects of the Vanuatu physical environment.
*  The creation of the first literary anthology for Francophone secondary schools with Vanuatu
themes and content.
  The printing of social science and science texts for Years I and 2 left in draft at the
completion of PASEP Phase One.
*  The complete revision and reprinting of the Junior Science secondary programme, Years 7-
10.
* The authorship of substantially new social studies texts for Years 4,5,6.
* The authorship of new mathematics texts for Years 7-9 in English and translation into French
with additional adaptation for Francophone pedagogic norms.



33
Sustainability of Book Production capacity subsequent to Project closure
It appears probable that the capacities developed through the project will be maintained. Two
separate projects following on directly from the project are already under way with direct VanGov
funding. One is scheduled to produce by March 31, 1999 14 new titles in a total of 28,400 copies.
This project will complete the upper primary social studies series and junior secondary mathematics
series begun under PASEP. A second project will focus on other areas of the curriculum where texts
require revision or are under development.
Contractual Arrangements for Printing
Contracts for the printing of the books were awarded using the International Competitive Bidding
Procedures of the IDA, and the Standard Bidding Documents for the Procurement of Textbooks
(SBD) furnished by IDA. These procedures and the contract required an enormous amount of work,
and are in the judgement of VanGov overly formal and unnecessarily complex. They were a
significant impediment to the efficient progression of the project.
VanGov recommends that the present SBD's be revised. Specifically:
* The procurement process in itself was difficult. This was increased by the structure of the
documents themselves and by the language used. VanGov appreciates the necessity for
formal and tight construction in legal documents, but believes at the same time that it should
be possible to put the documents in plain English, and to arrange them so that the sequence of
steps to be followed is plain. A Legal Note outlining the process and the considerations to be
borne in mind, similar to the Technical Note would have been of great help.
* The issuing of Corrigenda in January 1995 and Corrigendum No 2 in November 1996 for a
trial edition published in January 1994 is something that should have been avoided. It would
have been helpful if IDA had itself inserted the changes into the draft and provided VanGov
with one text on disk. The changes were not simple, and increased the risk of error in what
was not easy work. IDA has the resources and experience for this. They are easily available
to VanGov.
* The Schedule of Requirements form as supplied was of little assistance. It is was necessary
(1) to ascertain the commercial norms of the printing industry in the region and (2) to draft a
form, which met both IDA requirement and those of the industry. The scope of what had to
be done is clear if the relevant pages of the document received from IDA: Price Schedule for
Domestic Goods or Goods of Foreign Origin located within the Purchasers Country and Price
Schedule for Goods to be imported (TXTBKevl DOC received by email from dklaus on 6
May 1997) is compared with the text of the approved Bidding Documents pages 60-74. It is
the view of VanGov that a great deal more practical and realistic assistance should have been
afforded for what is a sensitive, complicated commercial negotiation.
* The requirement that clauses could not be deleted and marked as such, but that deleted
clauses had to be separately noted elsewhere in the relevant section, meant that back and
forward references had constantly to be made. This was time consuming and again increased
the risk of error.
*  The SBD's appeared to be conceived for a process that did not apply to the project. PASEP
was concerned to revise existing texts. The SBD's provided for a process of commissioning
texts from conception to production. A simpler, less complex form of contract would have



34
reduced the workload significantly. IDA required that VanGov use a publishing contract. As
VanGov was purchasing printed goods could not a Goods contract format have been used?
The Technical Note No. 4.4.1 was extremely helpful for the topics with which it dealt.
Contracts Awarded
The contracts for printing were awarded to companies in Melbourne, Australia and in Port Vila.
Both companies executed their contracts in exemplary fashion.
Distribution
Distribution of books was centralised in Port Vila. It was tightly organised and strictly controlled
using a database in Access developed for this purpose. With a necessity to distribute books iLo about
400 schools on about 80 islands in an archipelago stretching 800 kilometres from North West to
South East, with a variegated, and often insufficient, transport infrastructure, no other process was
possible if effective results were to be achieved. In essence, a temporary courier system was
established with the books being sent out from Vila, and delivered directly to the receiving school. A
receipt was obtained.
All books were delivered as planned. No other system ever tried in education in Vanuatu since
Independence has had a comparable success.
Technical Assistance
Technical Assistance, approved by IDA, was employed in both phases of the Project. All
Consultants employed performed to the satisfaction of VanGov, as represented by the Ministry of
Education, the requirements of their assignments.
The difficulties that arose related to the different perceptions of the requirement for Technical
Assistance that developed within the Ministry of Finance. The latter Ministry concluded during the
last stages of Phase One that the need for such assistance no longer existed and declined to meet the
contractual obligations legally incurred. As the contractual obligation was clear this refusal was
eventually withdrawn.
At the beginning of Phase Two, the same Ministry took the view that Government procedures had
not been properly followed in the appointnents made, and declined to recognise the contracts
concluded. This refusal, again having no basis in law, was eventually withdrawn.
In both instances, the difficult situations that developed could have been avoided, if a clear
understanding as to the need for assistance, its scope and terrns had been developed between the two
Ministries before the decision to award contracts was made. If this had been done these difficulties
which diverted energy from project to personal concerns, with a consequent negative impact upon the
immediate work of the project, would not have occurred.



35
VanGov perception of IDA Performance
The difficulties that arose as seen by VanGov had varying causes. They are listed below. They
occurred in both phases of the project. They are seen as generic difficulties and do not relate to any
particular incident. On many occasions, of course, difficulties of the kind described did not occur,
and fruitful relationships developed between VanGov and IDA to the Project's benefit.
* The quantity, scope, and especially the timetable for implementation of the demands made of
VanGov in the Aide Memoires of various Supervision Missions were viewed as unrealistic.
 It appeared difficult for IDA to understand the commercial reality of Vanuatu and South
Pacific circumstances. The subsequent effort required to elucidate this was perceived as
something which ought not to have been necessary. Generally it would have been helpful if
the procedures required had been more easily adaptable to Vanuatu circumstances.
* The frequent changes of responsible officer for the Project as the VanGov first point of
contact were also found to be unhelpful. If the officer did not know the project he could
hardly be expected to prescribe the most effective solutions for PASEP difficulties.
Conclusions
The view of VanGov is that the project has been very successful. It has made and is making a
significant contribution to the development of education in Vanuatu. In summary:
a Two secondary schools each for 280 students have been constructed which may be expected
for many years to hold a significant place in the Vanuatu system of secondary education.
* A senior secondary school for 200 students has been added to existing resources.
o 54 junior secondary teachers have been trained and may be expected to develop their
influence within the system for the next quarter century.
* Provincial education offices have been constructed and furnished helping forward the
devolution of educational responsibility to the Provinces.
*  Textbooks for Years 1-10 have been revised and reprinted. A greater number and better
books covering all subjects in a ratio of 1: 1 have been supplied to all students. In total
290,677 books have been supplied.
Afterword
VanGov looks forward to developing with IDA a second Education Project.
PASEP Implementation Completion Report, November, 1998



Govenmet of Vanuatu                                                                           Ministiry of Education
Appendix One
The Pnmary and Secondary Education Project Phase Two
Book Supply Tables
Table One: English Language Student Vanuatu Onginatlon
e. Number of tides
SuLed          Vi       2       3       4               _       '       .               U is    ToW
Uemn!                         _    _          - i.-_
Mwn                      1         1-_s 1                               3        1       1                 | 
___         __               __  _ _                  ,_  ,_  s _                _        3 !         __
Sdoae                    I        I               Ia _                                            3 
so " __ ____  ____  ___  I  __   _    _ _     _ _     _  _    _  _                21      1       II        51
ToW                     12       3       1       2        t       2      1        a _              
BE Number of copies
Smabled        v I      2       3       4       1       I                               It      ToWd
. _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IIFI  4 ,O   3,                            4        ,-4S 
Sdiel              ___                -             i00  __  _                 2.1 Z-  2,  A
Sochd a u1cI          5000M   5.000 ____      3.&)                     160      300    100     10
- i                    AO              _                                        *



T*l. Two: Frnch Language Student Vanualu Origination
IL Number of itles
s!Lbkq         VI      2       3       4      5       6       7      8       9      10     Tru
Languae                1 1 1(410) _____       2       .              1    (.)    (1)   (+t          1I
Second Lanuage ___
M_thematdcs                    1       1                      I      2       1
Science                 I      1                                     a 8     5      a       3        24
Socl SalSience          I  1   I               1 - -                  1      2       1      1         8
,   ~ ~~AnuftUrs#               __ __ _____
General                  _      _      __          _     _       __..
Total                  14      4       1      4 I         1         12       8      7       4        nS
B. Number of copies
Subieet        Yi       2      3       4      6       6       7      a       9      10     Tod
Languag            11.750  11.750          4,800                  1,25-    900    700700 70.D,
Second Language
Mibatnalks          3,500   3.500   3,000   2,900   3,300   3,000   3,000   1,500   -             23,703
3,500   3,S00   _            ..            33,455   1,800   2,199   1,575    16,93
Social Science      3,500  04,00           3,000                  1500   3,000   1,500   1,500 
Agdiclture                 ___ _,__   -             - 
Gesl                 __ _
To1ta              2L2250  22,750   3,000  10,7W    3,300   3,0    ,205   7,200   4.300   3,176



Tabb Thme: Englsh Language Teacher Vanuabi Origination
BI Number of tides
Subjec          Yi       2       3       4       5       6       7       8   _           10      Totm
Languge                        (*)     __         1__                          __ __ e___ 
Se o dL a uage       1_  _   __  _  _ _   _      1     _ _   ____            __  _   _____1
Mathmatcs                2   11(+I) j1)   1t                         ___  _      _ __           _           7
Sc___   (_) ico _        2   1(4     _       22(1) ;          2(.3)      4   13)   1 +31    1 (+3)         14
Social Scienc            2   1 (+1)            (+1)  4ft!      (+l)                                         3
Agcultu             ____                                      ___    6               .+6 
G__n____2    (+2) ~ )                          (+2)  (__+2)    +t2)__
T_t_ a_ __               7                       3 10                             1       1 _              33
S. Number of copiez
250     20___           10      50       1
Mathematics            575     8                                                                         3 U   _
Scinc_                 675    675              470    47    1__ __ _ ____
Social Scieice         675     675    225      170  170         170         ____1
G     _eneral    425           42       425     30    7320                                               21_..  _____
TONI               E 2 T00 2,65    1550   1,64   1,150   2,220    i20    620            620    655      16,461



Tk Four Fnenchb Lanr p Tra   r Vanl u dgzzgen
_      _     _                                      _ _                          _ _                    8
Pl  ue_e,               4                                             4  _-          _ _____
Ma bm  itc                    (1      ( )    (. )   1 4 ) J  t    _ _ __         _ ____        _ _ Y_._ _ _ ___
_S cgien e(                     1)    (     2 ( )     g )  _      _ _  _    (+ )  _     __ __
Soi:l Science 211Sial      _        2 _   (+1)                                           8
____ _ _  _ _ _ _          ___   _         ___ _          ___  _    __    __   ___ _   + ) (  )8
Geral                   2i    __ ____ ___ ___2
To_a                   12       4  l3                         3       2 _1 ___
EL Number of copies
Subject                 2       3      4       5                                            T
Language             1,100    500                _______         __ ___
Second Lanuage             _       _     
Mathem_acs            450    450    450    300    300    300 _2250
Science               450    300      150    350    350    900    255    2280 35-2
Social Science        375    375    150    100    100    100 |                          _____       12i0
AgICnciluue        __________________                               343    343    343    343        1372
General               300    300    300              200 20O1500
Toal                21675   1_      1,0501500    So   -8    598    6031 



Table Fiv: English Language Student Commerial Purcbase ExFra-Territoral Origination
B. N?nber of itles
S              Y I      2       3      4       5       6      7       a      9       lo     Tol
9    (+9)     20    +         21   (+21)      1       2      2       2        5I
Second Lang "e                     __                                    1  (+1f    + 1)   J1
Mat aics    .                             __                     ___             ___         1         1
Socist Scien ce         _ .     .
Agriculture         _ _ _  _ _ _    _  _   _  _ _ _ _ _    _ _            _  _    _  _           _  _ _
-t          .e           ral               _   _ _  _   ._  _    -_G-         _ _ra
_oW1 _     X             20              2i    _         a     _ x1 a                    5.
Number of copies
u              Y I      2       3      4       5       8      7       1      9      10      Tota
g                  _6,750   6,750  12,500  12,500   8,500   B,500    750   1.2S    1,250  1,250    6020@
Second Laqnuage                     ._7504_       _
S>sl| ssj_CB   _   ^   -   = -   _    .       -    - ~__ __              75     _5
hiaanc       _...._
Social Science     _____   _       _              _____ 2,0 0 0  
Agricultur                                          _       _                      _
Genera               _ _    _  ___                                   _
Total  6,75    6.7501,0   125900  8,500   8,600    750- 1,250   1,2502,00 



Table Six: French Language Student Commercial Purchase Extra-Territorll Ongination
IL Number ofl tes
Std t    1             2       31      4      5      6       I      8       9      Io     Totl
Langu_ge                               1      1 _            1       2  1 (+I) Il(+)   2(4tJ        10
Second La"nguae                          __ 
Madiematics                                      I__
Science  ___
Social Science                                    _On_               1    ('1)    (1)  1!            i
Agnculb                              __
General           _
_         .        Total                                               _            _            _     _                I1
S. Number of copies
Subled         Y 1     2       3      4       5      6       7      a       9      10     Tobl
LangIYe                   _        1,500   1.500   1,500   1,000    600    550    550   1.000     I'm
Second Luage                                                    -              _              .
Mathematics 
Science                            .. ._                                                        _
Social Scince                          . _    _                    200    200    200    200 _       00
Agncultum      .      .                                                  _
Tobl                       _       1,600 1,500    1,-00   1,000    S00    750 7I    0   1,200     9.0:0



Tale Seven: French Language Teacher Commercial Purchase Extam-Teritonail Ongination
K  Numberof tis
Subject        Yi       2      3       4       6      6       7     .               10    T1o
L"_gag                                 1       1       1       1 ___                      __           4
Mteai_s                                           __-_.
Scen                                __  __ _
Socil science      _       __ .
t             ~~~General                  __..___, 
Total        .                                 1       1      1                                        4
IL Number of copies
Subjct         Y1       2      3       4       5      a       7       a      9       IS
Langug_                              150    150    100    100                                        SW
Se.aLanng   ._ .__   -    -.    ___  -                                            -           ___
Matlemlcs                 __  ._. 
Scialcince                                                                         -.
Gened                                                                                              _
ITOWa                      ___        11 -10         1       lS     -             ___ -O



43
Appendix Two
Government of Vanuatu
Ministry of Education
Memorandum
Policy and Procedures for the Development of Curriculum in PASEP Project Phase 2, and the
Approval of Texts in relationship to that Curriculum
1.0 The following statement is intended to give policy guidance for dealing with the complex
curricular related issues which have emerged in the course of text book choice and revision in the
process of printing and reprinting new and existing textbooks as part of Phase 2 of the Primary and
Secondary Education Project (PASEP).
2.0 The agreement between the World Bank and the Government provides for the revision and
reprinting of existing texts and the printing of new texts. There is a requirement for a great deal of
work to be done quickly, as the availability of funds under the project will end at the latest in
December 1997. At the same time there is a requirement that books produced under the project
follow official policy with respect to curriculum.
The Creation of a Vanuatu Unified Curriculum
3.0 It has been the policy of successive Governments of Vanuatu since Independence to create a
common curriculum for Years 1-10 in both teaching languages English and French. This common
curriculum is intended to result in a distinctively Ni-Vanuatu education system which derives from
Ni-Vanuatu culture, and reflects Vanuatu's history, and Pacific location.
3.1 In the following paragraphs the concept of a common curriculum is defined and interpreted in
relationship to syllabi, texts and examinations.
The Primary Curriculum
4.0 The syllabus statements for the year 1-6 programme for the two languages shall be identical in
mathematics, social studies and science and other curriculum elements with the exception of French
and English. For French and English they shall target common skills and shall aim at a comparable
level of achievement.
4.1 The texts and other teaching materials used to prepare students for the programme shall be based
directly upon the syllabus statements, but shall not necessarily be identical in pedagogic design and
content, in each Year level and subject, in each language. The Minister of Education shall satisfy
himself that the texts in both English and French are based directly upon the syllabus statements.
Supplementary materials which permit a wider variation shall be permitted.
4.2 The examinations in general knowledge and mathematics in each language stream at Year 6 shall
have the same format and content. In English and French they shall test comparable skills of an
equivalent standard. The content will be different and the format may be different. The content of



44
all examinations shall be based directly upon the syllabus statements, and not upon the textbooks of
either teaching language. The Minister of Education shall satisfy himself with respect to the
examinations in each year that this instruction is adhered to.
The Curriculum for the First Cycle of Secondary Education
5.0 The syllabus statements for the Year 7-10 programme shall be identical for the two languages
with the exception of French and English. For these subjects they shall target common skills and
shall aim at a comparable level of achievement.
5.1 The texts and other teaching materials used to prepare students for the Year 7-10 programme
shall be based directly upon the syllabus statements, but shall not necessarily be identical in
pedagogic design and content in each year level and subject in each language stream. The Minister
of Education shall satisfy himself that the texts in both English and French are based directly upon
the syllabus statements. Supplementary materials which permit a wider variation shall be permitted.
5.2 The Year 10 examinations shall be identical in format and content for all subjects in each
language stream with the exception of English and French. In these subjects they shall test
comparable skills of an equivalent standard. The content will be different and the format may be
different. The content of the examinations shall be based directly upon the syllabus statements, and
not upon the textbooks of either teaching language. The Minister of Education shall satisfy himself
with respect to the examinations in each year that this instruction is adhered to.
Approved as stated
Honourable Donald Kalpokas
Deputy Prime Minister and
Minister of Education Youth and Sport



45
Annex B
VANUATU
Primary and Secondary Education Project (Credit 1964-VAN)
AIDE-MEMOIRE
IDA Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Preparation Mission
August 31-September 1 1,1998
Introduction
1.    An IDA mission comprsing Ms. Luisa Masutti (Consultant, Education Specialist)
visited Port Vila from 31 August to 11 September 1998 to undertake an evaluation of the
Primary and Secondary Education Project (PASEP) Phases I and II and to initiate the
preparation of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the PASEP project. The
mission was joined by Ms. Rozany Deen (Sr. Project Economist, Mission Leader), who
reviewed progress in the implementation of Phase II of the project from 31 August to 5
September. The mission met with key Government officials as described in para. 1 of the Aide-
Memoire for the PASEP Supervision Mission, with the exception of Hon. Donald Kalpokas,
Prime Minister and Hon. Jo. Naturnan, Minister of Education, Youth and Sports (MEYS), and
with other officials and staff of the Ministry who had been involved in the implementation of
the PASEP, as well as consultants to the project. The mission also met with representatives of
AusAID, which cofinanced activities under Phase I of the PASEP, and with Mr. J. Fist of
James Ferre and Partners, the architectural firm who designed the project schools at Malekula
and Tanna.
2     The mission reviewed implementation of the project components, discussed project
achievements, issues and problems encountered during implementation of both Phase I and II
of the PASEP, and collected data to determine whether the project had achieved its objectives.
The mission also discussed with P1U staff the data to be collected as Annexes to the ICR and
the preparation of the Government's contribution to the ICR The rmission further visited
primary and junior secondary schools supported by PASEP in Santo province and visited
Rensarie Junior Secondary School in Malampa province (Malekula). The mission would like
to thank the MEYS and all other officials and project staff met for their cooperation and
assistance. In particular, the rmission would like to thank Messrs. Joel Path and Daniel Tamath,
the PEOs for Santo and Malampa regions, who accompanied the mission during the site visits.
Project Implementation Assessment
3.    The project supported the construction of two lower secondary schools in regions not
previously served (Tafea Jr. Secondary School in Tanna and Rensarie Jr. Secondary School in
Malekula), the provision of additional facilities at Matevulu College (Santo province) funded
by AusAID to accommodate additional cycles of secondary education, the construction of
accommodations for the Provincial Education Officers (PEOs) in three regions, the



46
construction and equipment of the Curriculum Development Center (CDC), and the renovation
of the kitchen at Malapoa College. In addition, the project supported the development and
implementation of a new curriculum for primary and junior secondary education, the expansion
and training of primary and secondary teachers and the upgrading of field support for inservice
pnmary teachers. The project fwuther supported the strengthening of educational planning
within the MEYS and financed studies to improve the cost effectiveness of education.
4     Overall, implementation of the project, both Phase I and II, was successful. The project
implementation penrod was however longer than the eight,years originally envisaged in the
Staff Appraisal Report (SAR). This delay was due to a suspension in project implementation
from 1994 to 1996, due to a restructuring of the NM1EYS and subsequent dismantling of the PIU
in July 1994, which coincided with the end of Phase I. Implementation of Phase I1 is now
comning to an end, with all loan categories closing on 30 September 1998 with the exception of
the Goods and Distribution category, which will close on 31 December 1998.
Achievement of Project Objectives
5.    The project had three main objectives: (a) expanding access to education at the
secondarv level; (b) improving quality of primary and secondary education; and (c) increasing
management efficiency by strengthening the Ministry of Education
6.    Overall, the project has been successful in achieving its objectives, and most of the
project monitoring indicators outlined in the SAR have been met (Annex. 1). The two lower
secondary dual-lingual schools constructed under the project at Tanna and Malekula enrolled
about 584 students (1994 data) in total, against an SAR estimate of 560 places. The expansion
of facilities at Matevulu College and the introduction of one stream of upper secondary
education increased upper secondary enrollments by 142 students (1994 data), bringing total
enrollment (junior and senior secondary) to 422 students, all anglophones. This is below the
SAR target of an additional 200 new senior secondary enrollments. Nonetheless, the project
has contnrbuted to a major expansion in access to secondary education. This is particularly
evdent when the overall increase of 726 junior and senior secondary enrollments is compared
to the size of the overall secondary system in 1994, (when Phase II of the project was
completed) which comprised a total of 4,844 students . As the system has expanded
considerably from 1994 to date, the impact of the project in expanding access to secondary
education is less significant when compared to 1998 enrollment data. (See Annex 2).
7.    The project has undoubtedly made a large contribution towards improving quality of
primary and secondary education, thanks to the successful completion of the junior secondary
teachers training and the massive infusion of primary and junior secondary textbooks which
was mainly accomplished during Phase I1. During the field visit to Matevulu, the mission was
however sensitized on the need to continue efforts in training of teachers, particularly at the
senior secondary level. As most of the prmary and secondary textbooks have not yet been
utilized in the classrooms, it is too early to assess their adequacy and their impact on the
teaching-learning process.
8.    The project has also contributed to strengthening management capacity within the
MEYS and has supported the decentralization process through the provision of



47
accommodations for the PEOs, thereby increasing field support for teachers in the remote
areas, and by organizing national and regional workshops for teachers in the use of the new
textbooks to support the revised primary and junior secondary curriculum.
Achievement of Outputs and Physical Targets
9.    Almost all physical targets of the projects were generally achieved by the end of Phase
1, with the exception of the pedagogical component. Implementation of civil works did not
encounter major problems, except for some delays which occurred in the construction of the
three provincial offices at Efate, Santo and Ambae regions. The mission visited the provincial
office in Luganville (Santo) and found the premises in good physical condition and well
maintained. The Provincial Education Officer (PEO), who accompanied the mission during the
visit to Santo region, explained that there may be a need for new and larger premises once
decentralization of secondary education will be implemented. Civil works for the construction
of the two junior secondary facilities at Tanna and Malekula were completed on schedule.
However, during the visit to Rensarie Junior Secondary School, the mission was informed that
the accommodation for single teaching staff (4 places), envisaged in the original design, was
not constructed. This poses some difficulties for the school in accommodating all of its of
teaching staff (a total of 13 staff including the headmaster), although so far the school was able
to arrange for sharing of the sane house by single staff. Procurement of equipment and
fumiture for the project schools, provincial offices and CDC did not encounter difficulties.
However, an asset register was not kept at the time the procurement took place, and the
Ministry is now faced with the task of preparing an asset register required by the auditors on
the basis of available records.
10.   The teacher training component was generally successful. The training of anglophone
junior secondary teachers (funded by AusAID) reached beyond the initial target set (54
teachers instead of 50). During the site visits to Matevulu, the mission was pleased to note that
5 junior secondary teachers out of a total of 29 teachers (both junior and senior secondary) had
been trained under PASEP. Similarly, at Rensanre, 3 out of 6 anglophone staff were trained
under PASEP. On the contrary, teacher training in pnrmary education has been only partially
carried out (50% of original target).
11.   The two main studies supported under the project, one of education financing and
another on rationalization and deployment of teachers, were completed, but the
recommendations of the studies did not find their way into policy formulation. The expenrence
with technical assistance was mixed, and suffered from lack of continuity.
12.   At the start of Phase II in 1996, only the pedagogical component of the original project
lagged behind, with the textbooks and teachers guides to support the common curriculum in
primary education, launched in 1991, only partially implemented. The implementation of the
revised curriculum for lower secondary education was launched in 1986 when the system was
upgraded to 4 years and is now progressing satisfactorily. The CDC has been instrumental in
the reprint and distribution of books and teaching guides to support both the revised primary
and junior secondary curriculum. Phase II of the PASEP has produced the largest infision of
textbooks and teaching guides in Vanuatu to date, with 161 titles, 200,000 books provided in



48
batch I and 19 titles, about 25, 000 books in batch 2. These are in line with the standards set in
the May 1996 Supervision Mission's Aide-Memoire.
13.   During the site visits to Santo region, the mission was pleased to note that the books
and teaching guides had reached even the most remote primary schools. Teachers and
headmasters interviewed were pleased with the content of the books, although they generally
agreed that the content of the math books for pnrmary may be too difficult for the students.
Some of the teachers remarked that the new math textbooks included topics normally covered
at the junior secondary level, and they suggested that an additional workshop for teachers to
review selected topics-may be beneficial. The CDC staff in charge of developing the math
textbooks later on explained to the mission that the added difficulty was due to the fact that the
new math textbooks support the unified curriculum, which is of a higher standard than the
previous curriculum. The issue of lack of suitable premnises to store the books was repeatedly
brought to the attention of the ,nission. Dunrng the site visit to Rensarie, the headmaster
indicated that junior secondary textbooks in basic sciences, math and reading material in
French and English was received and that it was being utilized fully by the teachers, who were
generally pleased with the textbooks.
Main Issues and Problems
14.   The main issues during project implementation related to the following:
AusAID co-financing of Phase 1
15.   The estimated total cost of the project was US$17.8 rmillion, of which the IDA credit
financed US$8.0 million and an AusAlD grant financed US$7.7 million. The AusAID
contribution was intended to finance the expansion of facilities at Matevulu College, the junior
secondary teacher training, the provision of fellowships to upgrade primary teachers and the
establishment of a unified primary curriculum, including production of supporting teaching
materials. The expansion at Matevulu College and the junior secondary teacher training were
successfully completed. However, the common primary curriculum was completed with
substantial delays and the textbooks and teaching guides to support the curriculum were only
partially implemented at the end of Phase I (15% of target). These shortcomings were mainly
due to deficient technical assistance in the AusAID contract (experts were junior secondary
teacher trainers and had inappropnate qualifications for revising the primary curriculum). The
upgrading of primary teachers was also partially completed, as additional fellowships which
were part of the AusAID contract were lost once the AusAID funded team relinquished the
assignment. It should also be noted that the original design of the pedagogical component of the
project was highly ambitious, which accounts for at least some of the difficulties encountered
by SAGRIC Intemational (the managing agent for the AusAID funded contribution to PASEP)
in meeting fully its objectives. Finally, a lack of clear delineation of responsibilities between
SAGRIC and the CDC in carrying out the component led to misunderstandings which
contnbuted to delays in implementation.



49
Studies
16.   The education financing study prepared in October 1992 was controversial as it
recommended abolishment of the French media of instruction. It should however be mentioned
that the study was of very good quality and that some of its findings are being endorsed in the
Education Masterplan. The study was not approved by the Ministry. The study on
rationalization and deployment of teachers was approved by the Ministry, but most of its
recommendations were not implemented and did not translate into policy. Other studies carried
out with the assistance of extemal consultants are still in draft and did not have the desired
impact on policy formulation.
Technical Assistance
17.   The experience with technical assistance has been rmixed. In some cases the duration of
technical assistance was too long and resulted in substituting local officials, as was the case
with the IDA funded implementation adviser. In other cases, such as with the education
planning adviser financed by UNDP/UNESCO, the duration of technical assistance has been
too short to have a real impact. In other instances, such as with the technical assistance funded
under the AusAID contract, the experts had inappropriate qualifications for the task. Although
they performed an excellent job in training junior secondary teachers, they did not have the
appropriate qualifications to write the pnrmary curriculum.
Agreements and Key Actions to be Taken
18.   The mission bnrefed the PIU on the timetable for completion of the ICR for the PASEP.
It was agreed that:
*  the Govemment's contribution to the ICR will be provided to the Bank by October 30,
1998;
*  an update of Tables 4, 6 and 11 of the SAR, and additional tables on status of studies
included in the project, key indicators for project implementation, project costs and project
financing will also be provided to the Bank by October 30, 1998.
* the Bank will provide to the Government a draft of the ICR for review and comments on or
before January 31, 1999.
Attachments
IDA ICR Preparation Mission
Draft September 10, 1998



MAP SECTION



IBRD 30094
167                        168'                        169'
i,SLES
T7ORRfES               T"ORBA
VANUATU
EDUCATION PROJECT
VANUIA LAVA'S          Sol
@'SoIc
14c
1 4                                                                       PROJECT-FINANCED OFFICE BUILDINGS
SANTA  MARA "A                                       PROJECT-FINANCED SECONDARY SCHOOL FACIUTIES
A      SECONDARY SCHOOLS IN OPERATION IN 1985
r     REGION CAPITALS
SANAMA(J) NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                        |                                               -      REGION BOUNDARIES           15'
MAEWO
Longja
SANTO EAAAkAL                              A
Luganville 3      |     OBA           0Loitong
P~N~ECT (P TECOS TI
16'                                                                                                                         6Lakatoro16
L r A                   AMBRYM
MALAK'ULA                        Eas ,0
MAIAM,PA                                lroG)
/EPI
/             ~~Moruae
17'                                                                                                                         17'
SHEPHE;D  SISANDS                Th lmanp  prdouced by
W(h, MpDSZirs Unit of The
/  SHEFA                         colorr denominations and
A   A                                        ot pISan of io ortionty oh-
Group, any judgment on tha
)eo  sau   of any territory,
EFATE,   isV;I                                         or any 6tAtAmbffs)i'   81
o     25    50    75 Kilometers                                                                  occeptanua of such
I                                                            bcu,tdon~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~es.
18'                  I                                                                                                      18'
0         25        50         75 Miles
172'
22'                     22'
166'                        1690                        16
Nordhern Molu lno
MARSHALL                                  ERROMA NGO
PALAU      FEDERATED STATES OF          ISLANDS                   PaIyr, Atoll fUS)
MIRQNNIA
H-owbd 152)                                         rnoescal Os cmi, rap.  tr
NAURU                  asks, susj   J-rus (US)      19_ _.                                     19
INDONESIA  PAPUA NEW                                       KIRIBATI                   TAFE,,,4
ISLANDS   TUIVALU        Zok.eto IN7)
SAMOA
WcvIIs and-   A                         rf't
VANUATU',       tot,n F)        Aserico   ok               AN
TONGA S        NoosUSt tInds            A
FIJI      fNice          PcrgnNa     isangel
Nan ~ ~~~FII           (NZ)
Crledom_
AUSTRALIA                  (FrI
Krrcodeo
Lord    Norfolk   Ielccds INZI
How;    IAWsI                                         20'                                       20'
NEW
ZEALAND                                                             ANA TOM
169'
JUNE 1998



