Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repout No. 6606-VAN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF VANUATU
PRIMARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
October 14, 1988
Population and Human Resources Division
Country Department V
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted dist on and may be used by redplnts only in the perforance of
their offical dutles. Its contents may not otherwins be disclosed without World Ban authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Vatu (VT)
Average 1987                September 1988
US$1.00     VT 110          US$1.00   = VT 103
US$0.0091 = VT 1.00         US$0.0097 = VT 1.00
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ACADEMIC YEAR
February to January
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB    -  Asian Development Bank
AIDAB - Australian International Development Assistance
Bureau
CDC    -  Curriculum Development Center
CT     -  Certificate of Teaching
INTV   -  Institut National de Technologie de Vanuatu (Vanuatu
National Technical Institute)
MOE    -  Ministry of Education
NPSO   -  National Planning and Statistics Office
PEO    -  Principal Education Officer
PIU    -  Planning and Implemention Unit
PWD    -  Public Works Department
REO    -  Regional Education Officer
SEO    -  Senior Education Officer
TEC    -  Teacher Education Center
USP    -  University of the South Pacific
VIOE   -  Vanuatu Institute of Education



FOR OMCLFCL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF VANUATU
PRIMARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
DArIC DATA,    .....*..........* ... a..... *............. B  a.. ..a ..* .  . *     iii
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMRARY ...................................................... iv
I.* INTRODUCTION.........................   1
II.  THE EDUCATION SECTORE...................                                2
Sector Organizationo...o.e.............o...... o.............         2
Sector Issues2....    ...............,..,                             2
Dual Language    8       y       s       t       em............     2
Access........... .................. 00000.000 ******.*.* 0000      3
Quality of Le             a     r     n      i     ng......         5
Finance, Planning and Administration......................          7
Government Strategyr             a      t     e      gye.......... ........o.. @00000000o   9
External Assistance to Educationou c a tio...eo...o n........        10
Rationale for the Project and Role of IDA...................         11
III.  THE PROJECT R. .....OJ.e..............o.ECeT.......o.........          12
Objectives and Scope....... 00.0.000..000.00000.00*.....*o00         12
Expanding Access to Education................o..............         13
Improving Qua                       l      iy..................      14
Increasing Management Efficiencyf i c i e n cy..........o.........   17
IV.  IMPLEMENTATION, COSTS AND FINANCINGI........NG...                      18
Project Implementation Arrangements......................            18
Costs ........... a ^ ....... 0000000 .000000000.............        19
Financing Plan. ................................                     22
Recurrent Costs.... **oo***o... o....e... o*...* o**.o.oo.           23
Procurementooo,,*oo,,,,**,,,,,****,oooo*ooooooooo**soo******         24
Disbursements..o.....e...o..........  o.0e.... 00 00 0**0000   25
Accounts and Ad.its                                                  26
R e p o r t ingoe*oo,ooooo,ooooooooooose*ooeo*eoooooooe**ooooooooo   26
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Vanuatu in
October 1986, comprising:   Roslyn Hees (Economist and Mission Leader), Andre
Salmon (Senior General Educator), James Johnstone (Manpower Development and
Training Specialist, AIDAB), and -Jacques Waechter (Architect, Consultant), and
of a post-appraisal mission in July 1988, comprising Ms. Hees.
This document has a restrkced distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwinse be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Page No.
V.  IENIFITS AND RISKS ..........................0*........                27
Benefits.... ............................................... ,      27
1.8......... .......... . ... ............... ...................   28
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .....,..oeee.....o......         29
TABLES IN TEXT
4.1  Summary of Project Costs by Project Component..................         20
4.2  Project Financing P... ........................... .                    23
4.3  Procurement Arrangements.... ........................... ..o...         24
ANEES
1. Primary Education: Basic Data by Region
2. Secondary Education: Pupils, Classes and Pupil:Class Ratios
3. Comparative Education Finance
4. Learning Materials
5. Critical Implementation Dates
6. Project Monitoring Indicators
7. Project Costs by Category of Expenditure
8.  Project Costs by Category of Expenditure and by Component
9. Project Costs by Implementation Year
10. Unit Areas and Construction Costs
11. Technical Assistance
12. Detailed Financing Plan
13. Education Recurrent Budget Projections
14. Schedule of Disbursements
15. Selected Documents and Data available in the Project File
CHARTS
1. The Vanuatu Education System
2. The Ministry of Education
3. The Vanuatu Institute of Education
4. Education Pyramid
5. Project Implementation Arrangements
NAP No. IBRD 20211



- iii -
REPUBLIC OF VANUATU
PRIMARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
BASIC DATA, 1986
General
Population                                                     135,000
Population growth rate                                             3.2 X
Adult literacy rate (1979)                                          13 Z
GDP (US$) (1984)                                              93 million
CGP per capita (US$)                                              n.a.
Economically active population (1984)                           59,200
Education Data
Gross enroll-       X              X
Imuolluents /a                Pupils     ment ratio (X)   Females       Francophone
Primary (grades 1-6)       26,422            115            46            37
Secondary:
Lower {grades 7-10)       2,666             20            42            38
Upper (grades 11-13)         214             2            40            36
Post-secondary (local)/b       500           N/A           N/A            70
No. of               X          X        Pupilsteacher
Teaching Staff               teachers           Females  Expatriates       ratio
Primary (grades 1-6)         1,035/c            34          0            24sl
Secondary (grades 7-13) /d    180               27          68           16:1
Public Expenditure on Education
Total public expenditure (US$ equivalent)      32.8 million
xpenditure on education (US$ equivalent)        7.7 million
as 2 of total public expenditure             23.5 X
as X of GDP                                   8.3X
Share of Recurrent Expenditure by Level            X
Primary                                         61
Secondary                                       27
Tertiary                                         4
Administration                                   8
Tot.l                                        100
Recurrent Cost per Student                  US$ equivalent
Primary                                         232
Secondary                                       950
/a Includes private schools.
7& Includes technical training (400) and primary teacher training (100).
7; Teachers in government-supported schools only.
7T Teachers in schools where upper secondary education is offered may teach
both cycles.



- iv -
REPUBLIC OF VANUATU
PRIMARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrowert          Republic of Vanuatu
Amountt            SDR 6.3 million (US$8.0 million equivalent)
Terms:             Standard IDA, with 40 years maturity
Project
Description:     The project would support expanded access to secondary
education through the provision of facilities for 560
additional lower secondary students and 200 additional
upper secondary students, in regions not now served. To
improve the uality of education, the project would assist
in: (a) developing and implementing common curricula and
providing learning materials to all students and teachers
at the primary and lower secondary levels; (b) expanding
and improving the training of primary and secondary
teachers; and (c) increasing field support and training for
inservice primary teachers.  The efficiency of the educa-
tion system would be increased by reinforcing the educa-
tional planning and investment implementation capacity of
the Ministry of Education (MOE) and by carrying out studies
to improve the cost-effectiveness of education. The
project would be cofinanced on a grant basis with the
Australian International Development Assistance Bureau
(AIDAB).
Benefits and
Risks:           The project would help integrate the French and English
media education systems and promote increased student
achievement. Teacher training would be streamlined,
unqualified primary teachers would be upgraded, about 50
secondary teachers would be trained and all primary
teachers would be reached by supervisory visits and in-
service workshops. The lower secondary enrollment ratio
would be raised to 20% and the output of secondary
graduates would be increased by 201 and 100% at the lower
and upper secondary levels, respectively. The edtt ation
system would be more effectively managed and the growth of
the education budget would be restrained. Possible risks
include budgetary constraints and limited MOE experience in
project implementation. To minimize these risks, project-
related incremental recurrent costs have been included in
the project, technical assistance for helping identify and
implement cost-containment measures would be provided under
the project, and the MOE's implementation capacity would be
strengthened through the project.



Estimated Costat /a                               Local      Foreign      Total
---  -   (US$ 'million)
Expanding Access
Lower secondary education    1.80        2.71        4.51
Site supervision              0.03       0.24        0.27
Upper secondary education    2.15        1.99        4.14
Subtotal                    3.98       4.94        8.92
Improving Quality
Curriculum devt. and
learning materials          1.00       1.63        2.63
Teacher training              0.17       1.29        1.46
Field support                 0.11       0.29        0.40
Subtotal                    1.28       3.21       4.49
Increasing Efficiency           0.44       0.66        1.10
Base Costs                5.70       8.81      14.51
(September 1988 prices)
Contingencies
Physical                      0.45       0.71        1.16
Price                         1.60       0.52        2.12
Subtotal                    2.05       1.23        3.28
Total Project Costs         7.75      10.04       17.79
Financing Plan:
Fi cip   P   Government                    1.70      0.35        2.05
AIDAB                            2.33      5.41        7.74
IDA                             3.72       4.28        8.00
Total                       7.75      10.04       17.79
Estimated
Disbursements:       IDA FY   1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996
(US$ million )--- -
Annual       0.25  0.90  2.25  3.20  1.02  0.23  0.10  0.05
Cumulative   0.25  1.15  3.40  6.60  7.62  7.85  7.95  8.00
Rate of Return:    Not applicable.
Mp No.:             IBRD 20211
/a Identifiable taxes and duties are negligible.



REPUBLIC OF VANUATU
PRIMARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.1       The Republic of Vanuatu consists of about 80 small islands in the
South Pacific, with a population of about 135,000 primarily of Melanesian
stock, known as the ni-Vanuatu. The country became independent in 1980,
following a colonial "condominium" or joint administration by Ftance and
Britain. The new republic inherited dual sets of institutions from the former
colonial powers, including parallel education systems in the French and
English languages, and unification of the government administration was the
first priority in the early years of the young nation. Because of the popula-
tion dispersion, there are over 100 different vernacular languages, although
much of the population also speaks Bislama, which is a version of Pidgin, a
Melanesian lingua franca. Official languages are English, French and
Bislama. Few ni-Vanuatu speak both French and English; Anglophones and
Francophones communicate in Bislama. Literacy was estimated in 1979 (year of
the last census) at 132 for the over-15 population.
1.2       The economy of Vanuatu is highly dualistic.  Agriculture, which
employs about 801 of the economically active population, contributes only
about 201 of GDP. Only about 4% of agricultural employment is in the modern
plantation sector; the vast majority of the rural population is engaged in
subsistence or mixed subsistence agriculture. In contrast, government
services account for close to 50% of GDP, and other modern sector services
(mainly offshore financial services and tourism) represent about 25%. Mining
and manufacturing (mostly agroprocessing) contribute the remaining 52.
Exported commodities include copra, cocoa, beef, fish and timber, but receipts
are dominated by ccpra, which accounts for about one-half of total exports.
The significant proportion of expatriates in both the public and modern
private sectors, as well as relatively high public sector wagme, distort
average per capita income figures, estimated at about US$850;_' annual per
capita income in the subsistence sector is estimated to be about one-third of
this amount. Although the economy performed reasonably well during the first
half of the decade, it remains extremely vulnerable to external events such as
world commodity prices, climatic factors (e.g., cyclones), and the inter-
national tourist market. Nonetheless, in view of the limited domestic market,
the Government's development strategy rightly focuses on the expansion of
modern, export-oriented agriculture, and on the continuing development of
tourism and offshore financial services. This strategy, however, is seriously
constrained by shortages of skilled workers and technical and managerial
staff, as documented by an ILO manpower planning study in 1985. This phenome-
non has resulted in a heavy reliance on expatriates for senior level posts,
who represented about 18% of the public service in 1985, 13% of the total
1/   Unofficial estimate.



- 2 -
modern private sector workforce, and over 75X of professional, administrative
and clerical private sector pcsts. Localization of expatriate-held positions
is a major objective of the Government, but is hampered by the lack of trained
ni-Vanuatu candidates.
II. THE EDUCATION SECTOR 2/
Sector Organization
2.1       The Vanuatu education system provides six years of primary education
(Grades 1-6), four years of lower secondary education (Grades 7-10), and three
years of upper secondary education (Grades 11-13) (Chart 1). Post-secondary
education is provided principally through overseas institutions or, to a
limited extent, through the University of the South Pacific (USP) Extension
Center in Vanuatu. In addition, in-country technical education and teacher
training are provided, following lower secondary education, at the Vanuatu
National Technical Institute (INTV) and at the Vanuatu Institute of Education
(VIOE), respectively. The Ministry of Education (MOE) is responsible for all
education and training with the exception of non-formal education, which is
under the Ministry for Home Affairs. The Director General of MOE reports to
the Minister's Cabinet, and is assisted by four Principal Education Officers
(PEO) responsible for: (a) Primary, Preschool and Special Education; (b)
Secondary and Further Education; (c) Administration, Finance and Personnel;
and (d) the VIOE (Chart 2). The VIOE covers: primary teacher training;
curriculum development and provision of learning materials; educational broad-
casting; and examinations (Chart 3). Regional Education Officers (REO), who
report to the PEO (Primary), are responsible for administrative and pedagogi-
cal support to primary schools in each of the 11 local government regions
(para. 2.13).
Sector Issues
2.2       The principal issues confronting the education sector are:  (a) the
continuing existence of parallel education systems in the French and English
media with differing learning objectives, curricula and examinations:
(b) excess capacity at the primary level but relatively limited access to
secondary education; (c) low quality of learning; and (d) a high-cost system
with a weak capacity for educational planning and management.
Dual Language System
2.3       At the time of independence, enrollments were almost equally divided
between French and English-media schools, although this proportion had dropped
to about 38X by 1986. The two systems, which coexist throughout the country,
2/   The education system is described in greater detail in the Vanuatu
Education and Training Sector Report (Report No. 5217-VAN, February
1985).



- 3 -
differed significantly as regards years at each level, curricula objectives
and content, examinations, teacher training, teacher qualifications and
salaries, financing systems and use of boarding facilities at the primary
level. Since 1980, the Government has made significant progress in integrat-
ing the two systems: teacher salary scales, school fee levels and the struc-
ture of educaticn have been unified. Primary teacher training programs are
now jointly offered, and a common lower secondary curriculum was introduced in
1986. Much work remains to be done, however, on curricula at the primary and
upper secondary levels, which are still dominated by differing foreign
models. The creation of a fully integrated education system, delivered in two
language media but with common learning objectives, teaching methods and
student assessment mechanisms which are adapted to Vanuatu, remains a priority
government objective, and is endorsed by all aid donors. The continuing
existence of parallel education systems hinders rationalization of the sector
and prevents economies of scale that might otherwise be possible. Placing
francophone and anglophone classes in a single school has been tried success-
fully in a few primary schools. This approach should be encouraged, both as a
means of increasing the utilization of school facilities and as a way of
promoting greater national unity among the language groups.
Access
2.4       Primary.  Due to competition among the former colonial administra-
tions to expand primary education services in their respective languages prior
to independence, gross enrollment rates at the primary level are high (115% of
the primary age group in 1986). However, 3his figure includes a large number
of underage children in the early grades,t as well as some overage children,
reflecting high repetition rates (para. 2.8). It was estimated that in 1986
about 782 of 6-year-olds were enrolled ia primary schools (both government
supported - 70%, and priyqte - 8X), although there is considerable variation
among regions (Annex 1).-' A UNESCO school-mapping study in 1985 indicated
that little or no net increase of school facilities would be necessary at the
primary level to accommodate .ncreased intakes resulting from both population
growth (over 3X p.a.) and the government objective of enrolling 95Z of 6-year-
olds by 1994, as there is substantial excess capacity in existing schools.
The average number of pupils per school is bout 90, the pupil:class ratio is
20:1, and the pupil:teacher ratio is 24:1.5  The small school and class sizes
reflect the small catchment areas, due to a highly dispersed populatior..
further complicated by the dual language system. There have been three
responses to this phenomenon: the use of irregular intakes, combining very
3/ For example, a sample survey in one region indicated that 462 of grade 1
pupils were below the 6-year old minimum age required for enrollment.
4/ Most of the private schools are operated and financed by the Seventh-Day-
Adventists. In addition, there are two private primary schools for
French expatriate children.
5/ The pupil:teacher ratio is low, compared to Papua New Guinea: 31:1;
Fiji: 28:1; Indonesia: 37:1; and Philippines: 31:1.



- 4 -
small classes into multiple-grade classes, and the establishment of primary
boarding schools. Only about one-third of all primary schools in 1985 offered
the full 6 grades; about 15% had 5 grades and half had 4 grades. Moreover,
60% of all schools had at least one multigrade class and 221 of all teachers
taught more than one grade. About 12X of primary pupils were boarders in
1986, (152 of francophone pupils and 8X of anglophone pupils).
2.5       Secondary.  Access to postprimary education is considerably more
limiteds only 171 of the 12-15 age group was enrolled in lower secondary
education in 1985 and less than 2Z of 16-18 year olds was enrolled at the
upper secondary level, which is the basis for further professional and aca-
demic training. An additional 2X received in-country certificate and diploma-
level training following lower secondary school. In 1985, there were 10
secondary schools in Vanuatu, of which the two largest (one in each language
medium), offered upper secondary education in addition to lower secondary
(Annex 2). The remaining schools offered lower secondary education only. In
1986, the Government opened 11 new single-stream lower secondary schools in
temporary facilities (large primary boarding schools), raising grade 61 intakes
in publicly funded schools from 615 in 1985 to 1000, a 601 increase.-
2.6       Secondary facilities are heavily concentrated in two of the 11 local
government regions (Efate, where the capital, Port Vila, is located, and
Santo, site of the second largest city, Luganville). Several of the regions
do not have any secondary schocl facilities, including Malakula and Tafea,
with 16X snd 17% of primary enrollments, respectively. While selection for
lower secondary is made on a national basis, the Government would prefer that
secondary students were able to enroll closer to their homes, in view of the
high cost of internal travel for students. Output at the secondary level,
particularly upper secondary (27 Grade 13 students in both language media in
1985), is insufficient to upgrade the ni-Vanuatu labor force and increase the
pace of localization of managerial and technical posts. As the average class
size is relatively low (29 for lower secondary and 19 for upper secondary),
some additional access is possible through more efficient use of existing
secondary facilities. However, new facilities would have to be created in
order to achieve the Government's objectives of raising transition rates from
primary to lower secondary, increasing the number of upper secondary school
leavers and improving the regional distribution of secondary school facili-
ties, (para. 2.18).
2.7       Education of Women.  Enrollment rates of females at all levels of
education are relatively satisfactory. Finales account for 46%, 42X and 401
of total enrollments at primary, lower secondary and upper secondary educa-
tion, respectively (Chart 4). In addition, 34X of primary teachers and 27Z of
secondary teachers are women.
6/   These figures do not include Seventh Day Adventist schools, which do not
receive any budgetary support.



-5-
Quality of Learnins
2.8       In view of the lack of criterion-referenced 71 examinations in
Vanuatu, it is difficult to evaluate student achievement levels. Moreover,
examinations differ between the French medium and English medium systems as
regards the content covered and the approach to student assessment. At the
primary level, nonetheless, a common scale for marking has been adopted while
waiting for the development of common curricula and examinations. Grade 6
end-of-cycle exams do indicate that student performance is below expecta-
tions: an average of 431 of anglophone students and 391 of francophone
students were below the 50% pass score for language and mathematics in 1985.
Cumulative dropout rates are estimated at between 20X-251 for the primary
cycle and repetition rates are high, averaging about 15% in the early grades
and rising to about 351 in grade 6 (reflecting the pressure to obtain a place
in lower secondary education). At the secondary level, repetition is lower
(possibly due to the private cost of school fees), but dropout rates increase
sharply, particularly in the French medium system. While these efficiency
indicators may be a symptom of inappropriate curricula and examinations rather
than low student achievement, direct observation tends to confirm the low
quality of learning throughout the education system. This can be traced to
the difficulties of learning in a medium which is at best a second (and often
third) language, to the continuing use of curricula, textbooks and examina-
tions that are modeled on the education systems of the former colonial powers,
and to poorly prepared and supervised teachers. Urgent attention to improving
the quality of learning, especially at the primary level, is essential for the
acquisition of basic skills by ni-Vanuatu as well as for laying the foundation
for the further education and training necessary to reduce skill shortages and
increase absorptive capacity.
2.9       Curricula and Learning Materials.  Because of Vanuatu's particular
colonial heritage (para. 2.3), the parallel French and English medium systems
have been using the curricula of France and the UK, with little modifica-
tion. These curricula reflected differing learning objectives, and both
systems were ill-adapted to the learning needs of ni-Vanuatu. The Curriculum
Development Center (CDC) within the VIOE (Chart 3) is responsible for inte-
grating and adapting curricula and learning materials for both the primary and
secondary levels. However, the CDC lacks the staff, facilities and operating
budget necessary to provide leadership and support for this important task.
Since 1983, the development of a common lower secondary curriculum has been
undertaken by secondary teacher panels, with support from New Zealand.
Progressive implementation of this agreed curriculum began in 1986 for grade 7
stutentse and is expected to be completed with the introduction of a common
grade 10 examination in 1989. Primary curriculum development is guided by a
National Primary Curriculum Committee, but this committee has been less
effective than the secondary teacher panels, mainly due to insufficient
technical expertise and difficulties in4 coordination between anglophone and
L/   Criterion-referenced examinations assess student performance against
defined learning objectives, so that achievement can be compared over
time.



- 6 -
francophone staff. A good beginning has been made on the development of
curriculum guidelines for primary subjects and on the adaptation of some
textbooks, but an intensified effort is needed to formulate and implement a
common primary syllabus. At the upper secondary level, the curriculum would
need to build on that of lower secondary but also provide the academic accre-
ditation for further education overseas. Several approaches, including the
introduction of the International Baccalaureat, are under discuzsion, but the
approach selected would not be implemented until the mid- 1990t. following the
full implementation of the new lower secondary curriculum and the development
of a common primary curriculum.
2.10      Learning materials are generally in short supply, inappropriate and
poorly presented, and storage facilities in schools are inadequate or nonexis-
tent. Primary schools are generally worse off than secondary schools, and
among primary schools, English-medium schools are less well supplied than
French-medium schools, due to French Government budgetary support for this
purpose. Some regional textbooks exist in the English language that could be
used with minor adaptations. However, very few appropriate learning materials
exist in the French language, particularly for primary education. Therefore,
in-country adaptation or, at least, translation of primary learning materials
would be required to implement a new common curriculum. At the secondary
level, a large number of materials for such subjects as English, French,
mathematics, and basic science could be imported. However, for social science
and practical subjects, essentially focusing on country-specific issues,
materials would need to be adapted locally. Unfortunately, there is no
coherent plan for assessing school needs, purchasing or producing materials,
onsuring their timely distribution to schools, or monitoring replacement
requirements. The Publications Unit of the CDC, which is in charge of the
provision of learning materials, suffers from the same problems that have
plagued primary curriculum development, namely insufficient trained staff,
facilities, equipment, and operating budget.
2.11      Teacher Effectiveness.  The primary teaching force, totaling about
1,000 in 1986, is entirely ni-Vanuatu. Because of the rapid expansion of
primary education during the 1970s, about one-quarter of primary teachers have
received no pedagogical training. Primary teacher training is provided by the
Teacher Education Center (TEC) of the VIOE, which offers a two-year certifi-
cate program in the two language media (annual intake: 50), followed by one
year's probation in schools. The TEC is staffed by 10 teacher trainers, of
whom half are ni-Vanuatu and half expatriates. About 150 of the untrained
teachers have sufficient secondary education to qualify for entry to the
TEC. In view of the low pupil:teacher ratio (24:1), no net increase in the
number of teaching posts would be necessary for the next few years. In fact,
some net reduction may be necessary to achieve the government target of
increasing the yupil:teacher ratio to 30:1 by 1999 (para. 2.18).  This
proposed reduction in the primary teaching force would allow greater priority
to be given to upgrading the untrained teachers at the TEC, who would account
for about half of TEC intakes. However, as concluded by an Australian
International Development Assistance Bureau (AIDAB) study on teacher educa-
tion, the teacher training program needs restructuring to give greater flexi-
bility for the upgrading of in-service teachers and to allow greater attention
to pedagogical skills and practice teaching.



- 7 -
2.12      The secondary teaching force totalled 160 teachers in 1986, of whom
two-thirds were expatriates. Only half of the 52 ni-Vanuatu teachers have
secondary teaching qualifications, generally obtained at diploma or degree
programs in overseas institutions in the region. In view of prospective
limits to external technical assistance, the expansion of the teaching force
required by the proposed increase in secondary enrollments would require an
acceleration in the training of secondary teachers. However, the localization
of the secondary teaching force, particularly at the upper secon;ary level, is
constrained by the limited supply if upper secondary stladents who could
qualify for overseas training.
2.13      Preservice teacher training must be reinforced and complemented by
active teacher supervision and in-service workshops. Field support and super-
vision of primary teachers has oeen provided by the 20 Regional Education
Officers (REO) located in the 11 local government regions, with the guidance
of French expatriate pedagogical advisers and backstopping from TEC teacher
trainers. This gives a ratio of about 50 teachers per REO, which would in
principle be sufficient. However, the actual support provided to teachers has
benen inadequate, for several reasons. First, the dispersion of the REOs
combined with the dual-lingual character of the system meant that REOs could
not concentrate their supervision on teachers in their own language group.
Second, REOs have had to perform both administrative and pedagogical duties
and the former often crowd out the latter. Third, lack of means of transport
has reduced the frequency with which REOs can visit each school, from the
target of three annual visits to one per year. Finally, the opportunities for
teacher in-service training have been limited in terms of numbers of teachers
reached and topics covered, both as regards field workshops provided by the
RE0s and courses offered through the USP Extension Center. A more systematic
program for addressing teaching difficulties and introducing new concepts and
policies to teachers in the field, is needed. Secondary teacher supervision
has been provided by expatriate principals and senior teachers; however, a
more systematic approach to this issue is also needed at the secondary level.
Finance, Planning and Administration
2.14      Education Finance.   Unit costs for education are relatively high at
all levels, estimated at about US$230 for primary education and about US$950
at the secondary level in 1985.  These represent about 31% and 127% of per
capita GDP, respectively, which are higher than similar calculations for other
countries in the region (Annex 3).  At the primgy level, this reflects the
low pupil:teacher ratio, high teacher salaries,t and, in some cases, the use
of boarding facilities, resulting from the very small school catchment areas
(para. 2.     At the secondary level, the high costs also reflect high teacher
salaries -  and the fact that about 90% of secondary students are full
8/   Ranging from about US$3,000 to US$6,000.  Public service salaries are
similarly high.
9/   Ranging from about US$5,000 to US$8,500 for ni-Vanuatu teachers.  Base
salaries for expatriate teachers are in the US$8,000-US$l0,000 range.



- 8 -
boarders. Unit costs vary considerably among secondary schools, and these
variations are in some cases quite arbitrary. However, government grants-in-
aid to secondary schools are based on past trends, rather than per capita
norms or other objective criteria.
2.15      Education in Vanuatu is financed through a combination of budget
support, school fees, church agency contributions and external aid. Education
absorbs about 24% of the government budget, a very high proportion in view of
low post-primary enrollments and considerable extrabudgetary financing from
external donors. Sixty-one percent of the education budget is spent on
primary education; 31% on secondary and tertiary education; and 8% on teacher
training, curriculum and materials, and administration. The Government
abolished primary school fees, which formerly represented about 5% of budget
outlays for primary education, effective in 1986. Secondary school fees
(US$300 p.a. for boarders and US$200 p.a. for day pupils) are retained
directly by the schools, and add the equivalent of about 30% to budget outlays
for secondary education. Church agencies contribute the equivalent of less
than 1% of the Government education budget, principally to the recurrent costs
of secondary schools that they operate. About one-third of secondary teachers
(primarily French expatriates and Seventh-Day Adventist tef80ers) are entirely
extrabudgetary, i.e. financed directly by external donors.-   The French
Government has also financed a portion of education recurrent expenditures,
earmarked for French-medium schools. External donors have funded over 90% of
capital expenditures for education (para. t.20).
2.16      The government budget has expanded relatively rapidly since indepen-
dence (average annual growth of about 10% p.a. in current terms), and educa-
tion expenditures have grown at about the same pace. However, a change in the
external economic environment in late 1985 and 1986 has adversely affected
Vanuatu's budget prospects. World prices for copra, Vanuatu's principal
export, have dropped sharply and tourism suffered a considerable slump due to
a number of external factors. British budgetary support was phased out at the
end of 1985 and French budgetary support may progressively decline over the
next few years. The recurrent budget declined in nominal terms in 1987 and is
not expected to grow by more than 1-2% p.a. in real terms in the short-to-
medium-term, and this is likely to be the principal constraint to the
expansion and improvement of the education system. The Government proposes to
contain the growth of education expenditures by increasing the pupil:teacher
ratio at the primary level, by rationalizing budget support for secondary
education and by seeking ways to increase private contributions to education
(para. 2.18). However, its ability to tormulate and implement cost
containment measures is constrained by a limited capacity for education
planning and management.
10/ For expatriate teachers provided by the UK and Australia, the salary
corresponding to that for a local teacher with equivalent qualifications
is paid out of the national budget, and "topped up" by the external
donor. Expenditures financed by external donors do not appear in the
government budget, with the exception of French budgetary support.



- 9 -
2.17      Planning and Administration.  Education investments in Vanuatu have
largely been supply-driven and piecemeal.  The MOE has not had the data, the
analytical tools or the administrative capacity for planning, managing and
maintaining the growth of the system as a whole, nor for preparing, implement-
ing and evaluating a sector investment program. The UNESCO school location
planning study carried out in 1985 created for the first time a data base for
the entire sector, but the collection and analysis of the information needed
for planning, implementation and policy-making must be continued and
refined. Education statistics have been the responsibility of the
Examinations Officer, who is unable to devote adequate time to this task, much
less carry out educational planning. Education investments have largely been
selected and implemented by donors, and thus the MOE lacks experience in
project preparation and implementation. In addition, the MOE's overall
administrative capacity is weak. Tne MOE does not have agreed criteria and
procedures for budget planning, monitoring and financial control, or for
procurement. There is no clear career structure for education civil servants,
and the teaching force does not have codified criteria and procedures for
recruitment, deployment, conditions of service, promotion and termination.
This affects teacher motivation and effectiveness, and is particularly
critical for the stability of the secondary teaching force, whose level of
academic training makes them attractive to other sectors of the public service
and to the private sector.
Government Strategy
2.18      In view of the low educational base, skill shortages and reliance on
expatriates for technical and managerial posts, human resource development is
a top national priority. The First National Development Plan of Vanuatu
(1982-86) strongly emphasized the urgency of unifying the parallel education
systems inherited at independence. This continues to be a key concern, but
issues related to the quality of learning and expanded post-primary education
are receiving greater prominence in the current government strategy. The
Government's objectives for the education sector as reflected in the draft
Second Five-Year Plan (1987-91) are as follows:
(a) continue progress towards the unification of the French and English
media education systems;
(b)  improve the quality of education at all levels;
(c)  enroll 952 of six-year-olds in primary education;
(d)  expand access to lower secondary education, in order to raise
transition rates from Grade 6 to Grade 7 and distribute education
opportunities more equitably within the country;
(e)  increase the output of upper secondary education in order to accele-
rate the localization of managerial and technical posts, including
secondary teachers;
(f)  expand and restructure vocational and technical training; and



- 10 -
(g) strengthen the capacity to plan, implement, monitor and evaluate
education investments and improve the internal efficiency of the
system, in order to increase cost-effecti,eness.
The Government has already adopted a number of policy measures to facilitate
the implementation of these objectives. For examJple, to ensure that primary
enrollment targets can be met without having to expand school facilities, the
MOE has begun to enforce the official 6-year old minimum Grade 1 enrollment
age. Internal efficiency would be improved by introducing automatic promotion
in primary and lower secondary education, thus reducing the high repetition
rates which have characterized the system, especially in French-medium
schools. In order to achieve its target of raising the pupil:teacher ratio
from 24:i to 30:1 by 1999 and contain education costs, the MOE has begun to
increase alternate year grade 1 intakes or multiple-grade classes in very
small schools, in order to reduce the number of primary teaching posts. The
Government also plans to review its grants-in-aid to schools as well as the
level and sources of private participation in the financing of education.
2.19      The Bank Group endorses the Government's objectives and strategy for
the sector. Following the October 1986 appraisal mission, the Bank Group
urged the Government to scale back the lower secondary school expansion
program launched in 1986 (para. 2.5), in view of the difficulties encountered
in financing and implementing such an accelerated increase in student
places. In July, 1988, the Council of Ministers approved a plan prepared by
the MOE to consolidate the 11 new streams, by absorbing students from 5 of
these streams in existing secondary schools. Four of the remaining streams
would be accommodated in the new facilities to be built under the proposed
project (para. 3.2), and the Government would provide facilities for two
streams from its own resources. This plan is technically and financially
feasible and would not unduly strain the government recurrent budget nor the
supply of qualified secondary teachers. The plan would take effect in January
1989, when grade 7 intpP,s would be reduced to about 800.  Limitation of grade
7 intakes to this level, the initial measure to implement the consolidation
plan, would be a condition of Credit disbursement for the project component
relating to the construction and equipping of lower secondary school
facilities (para. 6.3).
External Assistance to Education
2.20      A varieiv of external donors have provided considerable support to
the education sector since independence, but there had been no overall
strategy or framework for their assistance. France has provided annual budget
subsidies for education in French-medium schools which, although progressively
decreasing, represented about US$1.7 million (F.F. 12 million) or 16% of the
education budget in 1986. Both France and the United Kingdom (UK) provide a
substantial number of secondary teachers and technical advisors to the MOE,
and France has recently initiated an in-country program to train lower secon-
dary teachers for French medium schools. France also provides support to the
INTM. The UK has financed the reconstruction and expansion of an existing
lower secondary school and the building or reconstruction of several primary
schools. AIDAB has financed the construction of a new lower secondary school
(Matevulu College) and, more recently, the reconstruction of cyclone-damaged



- 11 -
primary schools. New Zealand is providing a modest amount of short-term
technical assistance, principally for curriculum development and provision of
learning materials. The Asian Development Bank (ADB) has financed the
reconstruction of cyclone-damaged primary schools under a multi-sector loan,
cofinanced with IDA, which was approved during 1986 (Cr. 1666-VAN). UNDP is'
funding technical assistance in education planning (para. 3.13). All
bilateral donors offer substantial funds for overseas fellowships both in
regional institutions and in their home countries; the utilization of such
fellowships has been constrained by the shortage of qualified upper secondary
graduates.
2.21      During project preparation, Bank Group staff held discussions with a
large number of external agencies on funding prospects for the education
sector development plan. Due to budgetary constraints among donor govern-
ments, it appears unlikely that substantial additional external resources will
be available for education in Vanuatu in the short-to-medium term, beyond
those proposed under this project and support for the cyclone reconstruction
program. Other donors have indicated they would maintain their current levels
of support and perhaps redirect their funds to priority investments. For
example, the French and UK governments have offered technical assistance
support for the proposed project component for curriculum development and
learning materials (para. 3.7).
Rationale for the Project and Role of IDA
2.22      As in other Pacific islands, agric'Jlture, infrastructure and educa-
tion are the main axes of Bank Group lending and sector work in Vanuatu. The
ADB takes the lead in most sectors in the Pacific with IDA cofinancing, with
the exception of the education sector, where free-standing direct operations
are financed by IDA, although bilateral or multilateral cofinancing is encou-
raged. IDA has cofinanced two ADB-led projects in Vanuatu (Agriculture
Extension and Training, Cr. 1407-VAN, and Multiproject, Cr. 1666-VAN), but has
not had a previous direct operation there. Implementation of these two
projects has been hampered by shortages of local staff. Experience with these
projects has underlined the importance of including the necessary incremental
staff and other recurrent costs in the proposed project. In view of limited
information on the sector, an Education and Training Sector Survey was
carried out in 1984 (Report No. 5217-VAN). As a result of this sector study
and subsequent Bank Group  4ssions, a number of further studies were carried
out by external agencies.L1 These laid the basis for a medium-term education
investment plan, which the Bank Group helped the Government formulate and
12/ These included (a) a school location planning study (UNESCO); (b) an
indicative manpower development plan (MO); (c) a review of education
administration an-d anagement (Australia); (d) an analysis of primary and
secondary curriculum development (Australia, France, New Zealand); (e) an
evaluation of the costs of primary education (World Bank); (f) a report
on teacher education (Australia); and (g) a study on provision of
teaching/learning materials (New Zealand).



- 12 -
which serves as the core of the education chapter of the next Five-Year
Development Plan (1987-91).
2.23      The Bank Group's strategy has been to assist the Government in
gathering the data and carrying out the policy analysis that would allow the
planning and implementation of a balanced sector development program, which
would meet government objectives at least cost and would be within the
Government's absorptive capacity. This medium-term framework facilitates the
coordination of external assistance and donor proposals. Bank Group missions
have worked with the Government and other donors to focus external financing
on priority areas, and this coordinating role has been appreciated both by the
Government and other donors. Bank Group missions have been able to engage
government staff in a dialogue on sector policies, which has led to a greater
awareness of the financial and implementation issues in the sector and of the
importance of increased attention to sector planning and management.
III. THE PROJECT
Objectives and Scope
3.1       The proposed project would assist in implementing the education
sector objectives of the Government's Five-Year Development Plan (1987-91) and
would comprise the principal investments in primary and secondary education
during that period. It would address the Government's top priorities for
formal education, namely: greater and more equitable access to secondary
education in order to expand the output of trained manpower; quality improve-
ment at all levels; and increased efficiency in educational management. To
expand access to secondary education, the project would provide additional
upper and lower secondary facilities in regions not now served. To improve
the quality of education, the project would assist in: (a) developing and
implementing common curricula and examinations and providing related learning
materials; (b) expanding and improving the training of primary and secondary
teachers; and (c) increasing and upgrading field support and training for
inservice primary teachers (Chart 5). To increase management efficiency, the
project would reinforce educational planning and investment implementation
capacity within the MOE and would carry out studies to improve the cost-
effectiveness of education. Project funds, including contingencies, would be
allocated as follows: (a) expanding access: 62% (US$11.0 million);
(b) improving quality: 30% (US$5.4 million); and (c) increasing efficiency:
8% (US$1.4 million).
Expanding Access to Education
3.2       The project would construct, furnish and   uip:  (a) two lower
secondary schcols with two four-year streams each 1  to accommodate a total
13/ One stream includes one class for each grade or year of an education
level. All streams referred to in this report provide the same general
education programs.



- 13 -
of 560 students, and (b) facilities for two three-year upper secondary
streams with a total of 200 student places. This would raise the lower
secondary enrollment ratio to over 20% of the 12-15 age group and expand upper
secondar 14nrollments by 501.  The two lower secondary schools would be dual-
lingual - and would be located in the regions of Malakula and Tafea, where
no secondary school facilities exist despite high primary enrollments
(para. 2.6). This would be consistent with the Government's policy to distri-
bute educational opportunities more equitably within the country. The lower
secondary schools would include academic facilities (including laboratories,
workshops and agriculturaj lemonstration fields), administrative facilities,
full boarding facilities -   for students, and accommodation for teachers.
The senior secondary facilities, which would be attached to the existing
English-medium lower secondary school at Matevulu (Santo region), would
include additional classrooms, laboratories, administrative facilities, and
accommodation for students, teachers and ancillary staff. Secondary classes
would be designed for 35 students. The site supervision capacity of the PWD
would be strengthened (28 staff-months) to monitor construction of these
facilities and the REO offices (para. 3.12).
3.3       The above expansion of secondary education would require 34 addi-
tional teachers (24 for the lower secondary schools and 10 for the new upper
secondary streams, on the basis of teacheiplass ratios of 1.5:1 for lower
secondary and 1.75:1 for upper secondary.    ) The number of new teachers
required can be supplied from: graduates of overseas degree and diploma
programs, a special in-country training program for anglophone lower secondary
teachers provided under the project, and a similar training program for
francophone teachers being implemented by French technical assistance (para.
3.9). As lower secondary teaching posts are localized, bilaterally funded
expatriate teachers would be shifted to upper secondary education. In addi-
tion, while waiting for graduate teachers to return from overseas training,
the project would finance three expatriate teachers to staff the upper secon-
dary facilities, for 36 staff-months each. During negotiations, agreement was
obtained from the Government that it would submit to the Association, for
review and comment, a staffing plan for each of the project-financed secondary
school facilities one year prior to opening such facilities, and would imple-
ment such plan according to a time schedule acceptable to the Association
(para. 6.1 (a)).
14/ Each school would comprise one anglophone and one francophone stream and,
among the users of one medium of instruction, the knowledge of the other
language medium would be reinforced.
15/ Because of the dispersed population and limited enrollments, boarding is
indispensable.
16/ The new upper secondary streams would use the Cambridge GCE curriculum as
taught in the existing English-medium upper secondary school, until a
decision on a new upper secondary curriculum is made (para. 2.9).



- 14 -
Improving Quality
3.4       Curriculum Development and Learning Materials.  The project would
assist in: (a) completing the development and implementation of a common
primary curriculum; and (b) completing the implementation of the agreed lower
secondary curriculum. The CDC's staff would be reinforced so that it can
accelerate the preparation of curriculum guidelines and syllabi for primary
education in the two language media, and continue the preparation of detailed
syllabi for the common lower secondary curriculum which was introduced into
grade 7 in 1986. The curriculum development staff would be strengthened by
the appointment of a primary coordinator and 5 primary curriculum officers.
The curriculum officers would work with primary teacher subject panels to
develop the guidelines and syllabi, determine the necessary teaching and
learning materials, identify the source of such materials (imported or adapted
locally), and field test locally adapted materials. At the lower secondary
level, the existing system of secondary teacher subject panels would be
continued and reinforced by the appointment of a secondary curriculum coordi-
nator. The Publications Unit of the CDC would be rationalized and equipped in
order to purchase or adapt and produce, distribute and replace as necessary,
the teaching and learning materials required to implement both the primary and
lower secondary curricula. The curricula would be developed and implemented
according to a two-year rolling plan, which would be reviewed and updated
annually (para. 4.1).
3.5       The project would also finance:  (a) the replenishment of textbooks
for English-medium primary schools to enable the teaching of current curricula
while the new curriculum is under preparation; (b) the acquisition of supple-
mentary readers at the primary level and of readers and textbooks in English,
French, mathematics, religion and basic science for the implementation of the
new lower secondary curriculum; and (c) the production of learning materials
in both language media adapted to the local context and printed either commer-
cially, as regards textbooks, or through the CDC for low print-run jobs, such
as examination papers, teachers' guides, and student supplements for adapting
the contents of imported books to the local environment. For primary educa-
tionp curriculum guidelines, teachers' guides and textbooks would be produced
relating to the five basic subjects: French, English, mathematics, environmen-
tal studies and practical arts, for the six primary grades. For lower secon-
dary education, syllabus statements, teachers' guides, textbooks, workcards
and supplementary readers would be produced to cover six core subjects:
English, French, agriculture, mathematics, basic science and social science,
and two complementary subjects: home economics and practical arts. Materials
provision would be based on ratios of one textbook for two students at the
primary level, one textbook per student at the secondary level, and one guide
per teacher, and would constitute a five-year start-up stock (Annex 4). The
project would also support the cost of distributing the primary education



- 15 -
materials from the MOE to 1} REO officeb, and provide storage facilities to
schools for the materials.'"
3.6       To carry out the above tasks, the project would provide for the
construction, equipping and furnishing of facilities for the CDC (para. 2.9).
The new CDC, to be located on an existing site near the VIOE campus, would
comprise working, meeting and storage space and a small production unit to
print learning materials which could not be economically produced otherwise.
The current CDC facilities would be remodelled to accommodate the Examinations
Unit. Educational radio programs would continue to be produced and trans-
mitted in the facilities of Radio Vanuatu.
3.7       The technical assistance provided under the project would include:
(a) specialist services to advise on curriculm development activities (36
staff-months), assist national staff in formulating the common primary curri-
culum and developing the necessary learning matl0als (30 staff-months), and
provide translation services (36 staff-months).'  In order to ensure the
adequate operation of the CDC, the project would finance the internal travel
costs of primary teacher subject panels and the salaries of the additional
national officers and supporting staff necessary for curriculum development
and materials purchase, production, and distribution. The appraisal mission
reviewed the proposed reinforcement of the CDC and found it satisfactory.
3.8       Teacher Training.  The preservice primary teacher training course
would be restructured and improved, in order (a) to increase the acquisition
of pedagogical skills by teachers and reinforce their ability to handle multi-
grade teaching and remedial instruction when required, and (b) to increase the
flexibility of training delivery by developing modules for full- or part-time
training. The restructured course would lead to the award of the Certificate
of Teaching (CT), which would constitute preservice primary teacher training
for lower secondary school graduates and inservice upgrading for unqualified
primary teachers (para. 2.11). In view of the reduced demand for primary
teachers over the next five years (para. 2.18), the CT program would be able
to reserve about half of its trainee places (annual intakes: 50) for unquali-
fied teachers during the project implementation period, in order to reduce
substantially the number of unqualified teachers. The CT would be awarded
upon completion of a two-year course, to be followed, for preservice trainees,
by one year's probation in schools.
3.9       With regard to lower secondary teachers, about 50 ni-Vanuatu would
be trained to staff the project-financed lower secondary schools and acceler-
ate the replacement of expatriate secondary teachers (para. 2.12). In view of
the immediate shortage of upper secondary school leavers for overseas teacher
17/ Distribution and storage systems at the secondary level are functioning
adequately.
18/ In addition, an expatriate production coordinator is expected to be
provided by British bilateral assistance, and France is expected to
finance the services of a translator for the French language.



- 16 -
training, on an emergency and temporary basis about 50 anglophone lower
secondary teachers would be trained through a special diploma-level course.
This course would include modules focusing on junior secondary curriculum and
syllabi, particularly for subject-matter reinforcement. The course would be
delivered by the TEC with the assistance of selected upper secondary
teachers. The two-year course would be followed by a year's probation period
in schools under the day-to-day supervision of an experienced teacher who
would serve as pedagogical advisor, and completed by a final 6-weeks of
training. Some of the trainees who complete the in-country course could be
sent overseas for further degree training. No difficulty is anticipated in
recruiting the relatively small number of secondary teacher trainees, who
would be selected through an entry examination. Francophone lower secondary
teachers are being trained inder a similar program financed and implemented by
the French government. The above teacher training programs would be carried
out in the existing TEC facilities. One ot the TEC classrooms would be
remodelled and equipped to serve as a teaching resource center, with facili-
ties for microteaching.
3.10      The project would provide:  (a) specialist services to develop,
monitor and assist in teaching the new CT program (21 staff-months) and the
secondary teacher training program (84 staff-months); (b) preparation and
printing of training modules; (c) equipment and teaching aids to improve TEC
educational and logistic operations; (d) overseas fellowships for TEC teacher
trainers and (e) financing of salaries for the additional local staff needed
for the TEC.
3.11      Field Support.  The MOE has restructured the functions and adminis-
trative organization of the REOs (para 2.13) in order to provide more effec-
tive field support and supervision for lyimary teachers.  This involves
consolidating the REOs in 5 locations -   serving the 11 regions, to give
greater flexibility in coverage, and separating their administrative and
pedagogical functions. Five of the REOs are handling administrative field
support and the remaining 15, called Pedagogical Advisers, are concentrating
on pedagogical supervision, under the guidance of a Senior Pedagogical Adviser
in the MOE. The project would support this initiative by: (a) equipping the
REOs and Pedagogical Advisers with the means to supervise schools adequately
and ensure the timely distribution of educational materials to schools; and
(b) estabji7hing an intensified inservice training program for primary
teachers.-
19/ Efate, Santo, Ambae, Malakula and Tafea.
20/ The major objectives of the teacher inservice program would be:
(i) induction courses to familiarize the staff with the new curricula,
examinations, textbooks and other educational materials and teaching
techniques, (ii) field adjustment programs for newly qualified teachers,
and (iii) permanent state-of-the-art upgrading workshops for all
teachers.



- 17 -
3.12      The project would include: (a) construction of office space for the
REO andlis staff in three of the locations where adequate facilities do not
exijst; A (b) provision of office, telecommunication and educational. equipment
for all five REO offices; (c) purchase of vehicles, boats and motorcycles, and
financing of travel costs for two annual visits per teacher by the Pedagogical
Advisers or the REOs; and (d) financing of short incervice w,rkshops  or the
entire2 yimary teaching force %about 1,000 teachers) over a period of six
years*._
Increasing Management Efficiency
3.13      The project would assist in strengthening the MOE's capacity for
education planning, policy analysis, budgetting and financial control, costing
and procurement, and project implementation, monitoring and evaluation
(para. 2.17). The MOE has decided to create a new Planning and Implementation
Unit (PIU), reporting directly to the Director General, which would undertake
or provide guidance for these tasks, The PIU would initially be staffed with
five ni-Vanuatu officers: a Principal Education Officer (PEO), Implementation
and Planning, two Senior Education Officers (SEOs) for Planning and for
Implementation, a Statistician and an Operations Officer, plus support staff
(Chart 5). Two expatriate advisers would guide the PIU's work during its
first five years: an Implementation Adviser, to be funded under the project,
and a Planning Adviser, funded by UNDP. The SEO Planning, the Statistician
and the Planning Adviser would assist in updating the data base prepared in
1985 by the UNESCO school location planning survey, in developing a permanent
system for collecting and analyzing the education planning information neces-
sary for policy decisions, and in training of MOE staff and REOs in these
tasks. A priority task will be to assist the HOE in preparing a program for
the rationalization and reduction of primary teaching posts. The SEO
Implementation, the Operations Offi'-er and the Implementation Adviser would
oversee and coordinate the implementation of all project components
(para. 4.2). In addition, the Impl%mentation Adviser would help improve
procedures for procurement, maintenance and implementation monitoring for the
MOE, and would contribute to the preparation of manuals and to the training of
MOE staff.
3.14      The work of the PIU would be complemented by the reinforcement of
the Public Works Department (PWD) to assist in carrying out the project, in
particular the procurement of project-financed goods and services and the
maintaining of project accounts (para. 4.17). The PIU would also carry out,
with short-term specialist support, studies on: (a) the financing of educa-
tion, including budgeting criteria, especially for grants-in-aid to secondary
schools, financial monitoring systems and ways to mobilize non-budgetary
sources of finance for education services (para. 2.16); (b) teacher incen-
tives, including qualifications, salary levels, conditions of service,
21/ Efate, Santo and Ambae.
22/ On the basis of three workshops per teacher (one during each of the three
annual vacations).



- 18 -
criteria and procedures for recruitment, deployment and career development,
with a view to preparing the elements of a teaching service statute
(para. 2.17); and (c) preparatory work for future investments.
3.15      The project would provide:  (a) renovation and equipping of facili-
tius at the MOE for the PIU; (b) the specialist services of an implementation
advisor (60 staff-months) for the PIU; (c) procurement specialist services for
the PWD (4 staff-months); (d) short-term specialist services (12 staff-months)
for studies; and (e) financing of the salaries of the national officers and
support staff and other operating costs for the PIU, to ensure adequate opera-
tion of this essential unit within the Ministry, as well as for the site
supervisors. The accounting capability of the PWD is being strengthened under
a separate program financed by AIDAB. In view of the key role of the PIU in
project implementation, establishment of the PIU with functions and responsi-
bilities satisfactory to the Association and appointment of essential staff
(PEO Implementation and Planning, SEO Implementation and Statistician) would
be a condition of Credit effectiveness (para. 6.2(a)). During negotiations,
the Government agreed to recruit the remaining PIU staff (Implementation
Adviser, SEO Planning and Operations Officer), by June 30, 1990 (para.
6.1(b)). Agreement was also obtained from the Government that it would submit
to the Association for review and comment: (i) a draft program for the
reduction, rationalization and redeployment of primary teaching posts over the
period 1987-1991, by December 31, 1989; (ii) a study on the financing of
education, by December 31, 1990; and (ii) a study on teacher incentives, by
December 31, 1991; and implement the program and the agreed recommendations of
the studies according to a time schedule acceptable to the Association (para.
6.1(c)).
IV. IMPLEMENTATION, COSTS AND FINANCING
Project Implementation Arrangements
4.1       The project would be implemented over eight years, beginning in
September 1988. Construction and equipment of project-financed facilities are
expected to be completed by mid-1991 (Chart 7). The new primary curriculum
would be introduced in schools beginning in 1991 and completed in 1996,
according to a rolling plan. The CT would be restructured by 1992 and the
secondary teacher training program delivered during 1990-1992. The intensi-
fied program for inservice workshops to be delivered by REO staff wculd be
launched in 1990, in order to complete full coverage of the primary teaching
force by the end of 1995. During negotiations, agreement was obtained from
the Government that it would implement the project in accordance with agreed
critical implementation dates (Annex 5), that would be reviewed and revised as
necessary by October 31 of each year (para. 6.1(d)), and that would form the
basis for annual tripartite monitoring discussions (paras. 4.9, 4.18).
4.2       The PIU (para. 3.13) would be responsible for overall monitoring and
coordination of project implementation, under the guidance of an Interminis-
terial Coordinating Committee. This committee would meet at least semi-
annually under the chairmanship of the Minister of Education or his represen-



- 19 -
tative, and would include representatives of the National Planning and
Statistics Office (NPSO), the Ministry of Finance, and the PWD (Chart 5). The
educatioral aspects of the project would be implemented by line units within
the MOE. Procurement of equipment, materials and furniture, and contracting
and supervision of the construction of project facilities financed by IDA
would be handled by the PWD, which is normally responsible for construction of
facilities and major procurement for staff at all government agencies. Staff
at the PWD would be reinforced for this purpose (para. 3.14). Procurement of
civil works, goods and services financed by AIDAB would be handled directly by
AIDAB. The PIU would maintain accounts for the project-related incremental
recurrent costs. The PWD would maintain accounts for all other IDA-financed
project items and would consolidate accounts for the project. The division of
project implementation and accounting responsibilities between MOE and PWD
conforms to exist:ng practice in the Government, which works satisfactorily.
Liaison between PWD and MOE would be carried out by the PIU. Project monitor-
ing indicators (Annex 6) have been agreed with the Government.
4.3       Status of Project Preparation.  Sites for the two new lower secon-
dary schools have already been made available through long-term leases, in
accordance with local practice and site survey documents have been prepared.
The sites for the addition of senior secondary facilities to the existing
lower secondary school at Matevulu, for the construction of the CDC and for
the REO facilities were previously leased by the Government. The architect's
briefs, preliminary designs, and furniture and equipment lists, are expected
to be prepared by December, 1988. The preparation of detailed implementation
plans for curriculum development, provision of education materials, teacher
training, and field inservice workshops, as well as the job descriptions for
incremental national staff are underway and would be finalized by the first
annual project review (para 4.1). The national PIU posts (para 3.13 and Chart
5) have already been created, budget allocations made in the 1989 budget, and
recruitment has been initiated for essential staff.  The terms of reference
for the project-financed studies are under preparation.
Costs
4.4       Total Project Cost.  The project is estimated to cost US$17.89 mil-
lion equivalent, including US$14.51 million base costs and US$3.28 million
contingencies, over an eight-year implementation period (January 1989 -
December 1996) (Table 4.1). The funds would be distributed by category of
expenditure as follows: 54% of base costs for civil works and related
professional services; 12Z for equipment, vehicles, furniture and learning
materials; 23% for technical assistance and studies; and 11 for incremental
recurrent costs (Annex 7). Base costs have been adjusted to prices in
September 1988, the date of negotiations. Detailed costs by project component
are given in Annex 8, and project expenditure by objective and implementation
year in Annex 9.
4.5       Bases of Cost Estimates.  Construction costs, based on contract
awards for similar facilities in Vanuatu, have been estimated at about US$490
base cost per square meter for academic, communal and boarding facilities, and
US$550 for staff housing, for the lower secondary schools. For the upper
secondary facilities, the costs are US$650, and US$725, respectively, due to



- 20 -
Table 4.1: SUMMARY PROJECT COSTS BY PROJECT COMPONENT
(September 1988 prices)
VT million                US$ million        Foreign as
Project component             Local    Foreign    Total   Local  Foreign  Total  X of total
Expanding Access
Lover secondary education  184.91    278.74    463.65  1.80        2.71    4.51       60
Site supervision              2.90      24.83     27.73  0.03      0.24    0.27       90
Upper secondary education  221.71    205.00    426.71  2,15        1.99    4.14       48
Subtotal                 409.52    508.57    918.09  3.98       4.94    8.92       55
Improving Quality
Curriculum development
and learning materials   102.97    168.04    271.02  1.00        1.63    2.63       62
Teacher training             17.48    132.77    150.25  0.17       1.29    1.46       88
Field support                11.90      29.55     41.44  0.11      0.29    0.40       71
Subtotal                 132.35    330.36    462.71  1.28       3.21    4.49       71
Increasing Efficiency          45.39      68.39    113.78  0.44      0.66    1.10       60
Total Base Costs         587.26    907.32  1,494.58  5.70       8.81   14.51       61
Contlngencies
Physical                     46.39      73.37    119.76  0.45      0.71    1.16       61
Price                       164.65      53.21    217.86  1.60      0.52    2.12       24
Total Project Costs      798.30  1,033.89  1X832.19  7.75    10.04   17.79         56
Notes:  (1)  Since externally financed projects are normally exempt from customs duties,
identifiable taxes on project components are negligible.
(2) Totals may not add due to rounding.



- 21 -
higher norms and standards consistent with those of the existing school to
which those facilities would be added. Site works have been estimated at 2u2
to 30X of building costs for the new sites and 52 for the extension of the
existing upper secondary school. Fees, excluding site supervision, represent
3X-8% of total construction costs including site development. Furniture costs
are estimated at 10 of construction costs for academic, communal and boarding
facilities and 122 for staff housing. The cost of equipment has been esti-
mated on the basis of standard MOE master lists and the experience of recent
tenders, including internal transportation and installation costs. The costs
of imported textbooks are based on retail prices for materials currently
used. The costs for producing locally developed learning materials have been
estimated on the basis of ah3/verage between costs in New Zealand and costs
quoted by Vanuatu printers.-
4.6       Unit areas per student place and per housing unit are low compared
with Bankwide and regional averages (Annex 10) for the lower secondary
schools, and comparable for the upper secondary schools. Utilization rates
for classrooms and laboratories (over 802) and workshops (about 702) would be
cost-efficient. Unit construction costs, which are based on recent contract
awards in Vanuatu, adjusted to more cost-effective designs and standards and
to reflect internal transportation costs, are generally between recent Bank
median and high values for comparable facilities worldwide (Annex 10). Con-
struction costs in Vanuatu have generally been high, due to lack of locally
produced building materials, an import monopoly on cement, high customs
duties, shortage of skilled local labor, limited competition and, above all,
costly transportation to and within the country; recent heavy demand for civil
works due to cyclone damage has further increased construction costs. In
order to reduce project construction costs, during negotiations agreement was
obtained from the Government that:  (a) contractors would be allowed to import
building materials directly for project-financed facilities; and (b) contrac-
tors would be given the necessary work permits for skilled labor unavailable
in Vanuatu and that they may need to bring in for the construction of project-
financed facilities (para. 6.1(e)). Externally financed projects in Vanuatu
are not normally subject to customs duties. Unit costs for specialist ser-
vices include salaries, accommodation, subsistence and external and internal
travel. Unit costs for short-term overseas fellowships are estimated at about
US$5,000 per staff-month, including travel. Local training costs are esti-
mated at US$160 per inservice workshop, Incremental recurrent costs are based
on salary levels and transportation costs prevailing in Vanuatu. The foreign
exchange component of US$10.04 million, representing about 562 of the total
project cost, has been computed on the basis of 602 for civil works; 552 for
furniture, 100l for equipment, imported textbooks, specialist services, fel-
lowships and studies; 802 for local printing; 202 for professional services,
23/ Unit costs for locally produced primary materials are: teachers' guides:
US$3.25; textbooks: US$1.50-US$2.30; readers: US$0.65. Unit costs for
locally produced secondary materials are: teachers' guides: US$4.00-
US$14.00; textbooks: US$1.75-US$3.00; student worksheets: US$0.85-
US$8.50; readers: US$1.60. (Annex 2).



- 22 -
local training, and incremental recurrent costs excluding salaries; and 0% for
salaries.
4.7       Contingency Allowances.  The contingency allowance of US$3.28
million (about 23% of base costs) includes: (a) physical contingencies
(US$1.16 million) estimated at 8% of the base cost, which were computed on the
basis of 5% for specialist services, fellowships, printing costs, and
incremental recurrent costs and 10% for all other categories; and (b) price
contingencies (US$2.12 million) which are equivalent to about 13.52 of base
costs plus physical contingencies. The latter have been calculated in
accordance with the implementation schedule and the following expected average
annual price increasix; for local construction and furniture costs, 24% for
1989, 1990 and 1991; _   for other local costs, 10% for 1989, 8% for 1980 and
6% thereafter; for foreign costs., 3% for 1989 and 4% thereafter.
4.8       Maintenance.  Schools are generally adequately maintained due to the
provision of maintenance funds under school grants-in-aid. However, this
would be reviewed under the study on financing of education (para. 3.15).
Financing Plan
4.9       The proposed IDA credit of US$8.0 million equivalent and parallel
grant financing from AIDAB amounting to US$7.74 million equivalent, would
together finance 88.5% of the total estimated project cost. The Government
would be responsible for the remaining project costs amounting to about
US$2.05 million equivalent (Table 4.2 and Annex 13). The IDA c:edit would
cover about 45% of total project costs. It would finance about 94% of the
total costs relating to the lower secondary schools and the field support
component, 17% of the curriculum develop'ent component, 10% of the teacher
training component and 65% of the planning and implementation component.
Local cost financing is justified in view of low per capita income levels.
AIDAB financing is concentrated on the upper secondary school (10OZ), the
curriculum development component (53%), and the teacher training component
(80%). A commitment in principle has been received from AIDAB for its share of
the funding, which is expected to be formally approved by January, 1989. A
cross-effectiveness condition between the IDA Credit and the AIDAB grant was
included in the Credit Agreement (para. 6.2(b)). An understanding was reached
during negotiations that all information provided to either IDA or AIDAB under
their respective agreements with the Government would be shared with the other
cofinancing partner as part of arrangements for joint project monitoring
(paras. 4.1, 4.12 and 4.18).
24/ These high price escalation rates reflect the expected continuation of
heavy demand for construction services due to periodic cyclone
reconstruction programs.



- 23 -
Table 4.2: PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
(us$ '000)
Project Objective                 Govt.          AIDAB           IDA
Amount   X    Amount    X   Amount    Z    Total
Expanding Access:           *
Lower secondary education       383   6          -    -    5,929   94    6,312
Upper secondary education          -   -     4,656  100         -    -    7,656
Subtotal                     383   3      4,656   43    5,929   54   10,968
Improving Quality:
Curriculum devt. and
learning materials            955  30      1,725   53       560   17    3,240
Teacher training                 174  10     1,359   80       177   10    1,710
Field support                    53  11          -    -       420   89       473
Subtotal                   1,182  22      3,084   57    1,157   21    5,423
Increasing Efficiency             483  35          -    -       914   65    1,397
Total Financing
Required                 2,048  12      7,740   43    8,000   45   17,788
* Includes site supervision.
Recurrent Costs
4.10      The estimated annual recurrent costs associated with the proposed
project, when all project schools and institutions are operating at full
capacity (1994), would be about VT 95 million or about US$920,000 equivalent,
at 1987 prices. This would represent about 92 of the MOE budget and about 2Z
of the total government budget, in 1994 (Annex 13). However, the policy
dialogue that led to a consolidation of the Government's accelerated lower
secondary education expansion program (para. 2.19) will result in a net reduc-
tion in secondary recurrent costs during the period of project implementa-
tion. This reduction would offset the increased recurrent costs generated by
the quality improvement components of the project. Consequently, it is
estimated that the MOE budget would only increase by an average of about 1X
p.a. in real terms during the period of project implementation, provided the
Government carries out the proposed cost containment policies including the
reduction and redeployment of teaching posts, limitation of the expansion of
lower secondary education, and increased participation of parents and
communities in the financing of education (para. 2.16). The 1X annual
increase reflects primarily increased personnel costs due to seniority salary
increments rather than system expansion, and is expected to be within the
absorptive capacity of the economy.



- 24 -
Procurement
4.11      Civil works contracts for the two lower secondary schools under IDA
financing, estimated at US$5.4 million equivalent, including contingencies,
would be tendered as one package with an option to bid on one or both schools,
on the basis of ICB procedures in accordance with IDA guidelines. In view of
the lack of local construction firms capable of undertaking such contracts, it
is expected that the contract would be awarded to a prequalified foreign
firm. Ihe preliminary designs, bidding documents, and contract awards for
those schools would be subject to prior review by the Association. The civil
works contracts relating to the REO offices and the PIU, amounting to
US$240,000 equivalent including contingencies, would be awarded on the basis
of local competitive bidding in which foreign firms would be allowed to par-
ticipate, in accordance with government procedures which are acceptable to the
Association. The civil works contracts for the upper secondary education
facilities and the CDC would be awarded by AIDAB under its own procedures.
Table 4.3: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS /a
(us$ '000)
Total cost
Procurement procedure                 including
Category of expenditure         ICB      LCB   Other lb    N.A.    contingencies
Civil works                 5,389.5    253.3   3,552.7                  9,195.5
(5,120.0)  (240.6)      (-)                (5,360.6)
Professional services                             524.3                   524.3
(80.8)                 (80.8)
Furniture                               511.0     327.4                   838.4
(332.6)     (-)                   (332.6)
Equipment and vehicles        204.3    224.3      113.1                   541.7
(204.3)  (224.3)      (-)                  (428.6)
Textbooks and materials                 296.2     207.6                   503.8
(296.2)    (99.0)                 (395.2)
Specialist services                             4,069.0                4,069.0
(956.4)                (956.4)
Fellowships                                        86.8                    86.8
()                    (-)
Incremental recurrent costs                               2,028.8      2,028.8
(445.8)      (445.8)
Total                    5,593.8  1,284.8   8,880.9  2,028.8       17 788.3
(5,324.3 (1,093.7) (1,136.2)   445.8)            .0)
/a   Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the IDA
credit.
/b Including contracts financed by AIDAB under its own procedures.



- 25 -
4.12      Equipment, furniture, and textbooks and learning materials to be
financed under the IDA credit are estimated to amount to an US$333,000,
US$224,000 and US$395,000 equivalent, respectively, including contingencies.
Although the aggregate cost of these items is substantial, their diversified
nature would reduce packages to a size which is not expected to interest
international suppliers. Therefore, contracts for equipment, furniture, and
paper and printing would be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding
advertised locally, in which foreign firms would be allowed to participate, in
accordance with government procurement practices which are acceptable to the
Association. Imported textbooks (estimated to total US$99,000) would be pro-
cured directly from publishers. Project-financed vehicles, amounting to about
US$205,000 including contingencies, would be procured on the basis of ICB in
accordance with IDA guidelines. Contracts awarded according to ICB, amounting
to 821 of IDA-financed contracts for works and goods, would be subject to
prior review by the Association. Miscellaneous items in packages not exceed-
ing US$25,000 and aggregating US$100,000 i.e., about 101 of IDA-financed
equipment and furniture costs (excluding vehicles), would be purchased locally
on the basis of at least three price quotations. The specialist services that
would be financed under the IDA Credit would be selected in accordance with
IDA guidelines for the use of consultants. Although the other equipment,
specialist services and fellowships included in the project would be procured
by AIDAB according to its own regulations, the Association would receive the
corresponding timetables, terms of reference, training programs and reports
for comment, in view of the importance of these components in the overall
project (para. 4.9).
Disbursements
4.13      The proposed IDA Credit of US$8.0 million equivalent would be dis-
bursed over a period of eight and a half years (January 1989-June 1997). Dis-
bursements would be made on the basis of: (a) 95X of the total cost of civil
works and professional services; (b) 1001 of the c.i.f. cost of *irectly
imported equipment, vehicles and leasing materials; (c) 1001 of the ex-factory
cost of locally manufactured furniture; (d) 701 of the cost of equipment and
leasing materials procured locally; (e) 1002 of the total cost of specialist
services; and (f) incremental recurrent costs, based on the following computa-
tion: 501 in 1988, 1989 and 1990; 401 in 1991, 301 in 1992, 201 in 1993, 101
in 1994, 51 in 1995 and 01 in 1996. Implementation of the agreed lower secon-
dary consolidation plan (para, 2.19) would be a condition of disbursement for
the construction and equipping of the two lower secondary schools (para. 6.3).
For disbursements relating to incremental recurrent costs and small contracts
for items such as furniture and equipment, each costing below US$100,000,
statements of expenditure (SOEs) would be used. In this case, supporting
documents and contracts would be retained by the PIU for review by visiting
IDA missions. All other disbursements would be made against full documenta-
tion.
4.14      The disbursement forecast (Annex 14) indicates that the proposed
Credit would be disbursed at a pace faster than regional averages. This esti-
mate stems from the small size of the project, the lumpiness of the lower
secondary civil works expenditures that account for 701 of IDA financing, the
use of existing standard designs and equipment lists, the routine character of



- 26 -
construction and equipment procurement under a relatively efficient PWD, and
the assistance expected from the project-financed Implementation Advisor. To
allow sufficient time for submission of final withdrawal applications to IDA
following the physical completion date of December 31, 1996, the Closing Date
of the Credit would be June 30, 1997.
4.15      Fpecial Account.  Under the proposed IDA Credit, a Special Account
of US$400,000 equivalent, operated by the PWD, would be established and main-
tained in US dollars at the Central Bank of Vanuatu to ensure that funds for
she IDA-financed project component would be made available when needed. This
amount is approximately equivalent to the IDA share of four months of average
expenditure during the first three years of project implementation. Applica-
tions for replenishment would be submitted monthly or when the balance of the
Special Account reaches about 50% of the initial deposit. These applications
would be supported by documentary evidence or SOEs, whichever is applicable,
of payments made from the account for goods and services eligible for IDA
financing.
4.16      Retroactive Financin.  To ensure prompt start-up of project opera-
tions, eligible expenditures incurred from September 1, 1988, would be
financed retroactively, up to a total of US$250,000 equivalent, i.e., about 3%
of the proposed IDA Credit.
Accounts and Audits
4.17      Separate accounts for all expenditures relating to civil works,
equipment and furniture would be maintained by the PWD in accordance with
sound accounting practices satisfactory to the Association. The PIU would
maintain accounts for expenditures on specialist services and incremental
recurrent costs, and aggregate all project accounts. The PIU would submit to
the Association within nine months of the end of the Government's fiscal year,
ie. by September 30 of each year, starting in 1990, statements reflecting the
financial performance and position of the project, together with independent
auditors' reports, including separate audits relating to disbursements against
SOEs. It is expected that the Auditor-General, who already audits accounts
for projects financed by British bilateral assistance and the ADB, would audit
project accounts. During negotiations, agreement was obtained from the
Government on the above requirements for annual expenditure, SOE and financial
performance audit reports.
Reporting
4.18      The PIU would prepare semi-annual reports assessing quantitative
physical progress as well as quality and cost efficiency improvement, as com-
pared with target implementation dates and agreed monitoring indicators
(Annexes 5 and 6). These reports would be sent to the Association and AIDAB
for coment by February and August of each year, starting in August 1989, and
would form the basis of tripartite project implementation review meetings to
be held annually between the Government, the Association and AIDAB (paras. 4.1
and 4.9). In addition, six months after the Closing Date, the Government
would send to the Association for comment, a project completion report assess-
ing attainment of project objectives, project implementation and initial



- 27 -
operation, costs and benefits derived, the performance of the Government, the
Association and AIDAB, and the significant lessons learned. During negotia-
tions, agreement was obtained from the Government that these reports would be
submitted in accordance with the above schedules.
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
5.1       The project would come at a critical juncture for Vanuatu's educa-
tion system. Having addressed the most obvious dysfunctions inherited from
the colonial period, the Government needs now to make key policy decisions
concerning the objectives, content and efficiency parameters of education and
training that will set the course for the long-range development of the
sector. The project would continue and reinforce the contribution of educa-
tion to greater national unity, through the harmonization of curricula,
examinations and educational materials for the English and French-medium
systems, by promoting the integration of francophone and anglophone students
in dual-lingual schools and by improving the regional distribution of second-
ary school facilities.
5.2       The project would also promote student achievement at all levels, by
ensuring the provision of educational materials, relevant to the national
context, to all pupils and teachers at the primary and lower secondary
levels. The availability of instructional materials has been demonstrated in
other countries to be the most consistent and significant factor in improving
student performance.27   The policy measures to rationalize and reduce the
primary teaching force would allow a progressive reduction of unqualified
teachers, and the lower demand for additional teachr s would permit a concen-
trated effort in upgrading the remaining untrained sachers so that virtually
the entire primary teaching force would be fully qi ified by the end of the
project period. The content, format and delivery of primary teacher training
would be improved, and the entire primary teaching force would have benefitted
from inservice workshops. Each teacher would be supervised at least twice a
year by regional education staff. About 50 lower secondary teachers would
have been trained, through the special in-country course.
5.3       The project would increase the output of trained manpower necessary
for upgrading the skills of the ni-Vanuatu labor force and for localizing
technical and managerial posts. The economy of Vanuatu is likely to remain
dominated by agriculture for the foreseeable future, with increasing emphais
on export-oriented commercial commodities. Research has shown that basic
education can have a significant effect on farmer productivity, particularly
27/ Fuller, Bruce, Raising School Quality in Developing Countries: What
Investments Boost Learning, World Bank Discussion Paper 2, 1986.



- 28 -
in a setting of agricultural modernization.31 Improvements in the quality of
primary education would thus contribute to agricultural development. In addi-
tion to a continuing reliance on agriculture, the Government proposes to
develop the service sectors, particularly tourism and off-shore financial
services. In order to expand these sectors as well as to improve general
economic management, increasing numbers of ni-Vanuatu trained in technical and
professional skills would be required. As a result of the project, the number
of grad. id leavers would increase by about 20X and the number of grade 12 and
13 leavers would increase by 100%. This increased number of secondary school
leavers would provide a greater number of candidates for further technical,
academic or professional training, which has been constrained in the past by
insufficient qualified candidates.
5.4       The project would also improve the cost-effectiveness of the educa-
tion system, by the creation of a permanent unit for education planning and
implementation and by supporting policy measures which would reduce the burden
of education services on the government budget. Education policy decisions
could be made on the basis of detailed planning information and analysis, and
the criteria and procedures for resource allocation would be more rational and
systematic. The implementation of the agreed lower secondary school consoli-
dation plan would release budget funds to support quality improvement at both
the primary and secondary levels. The dual-lingual secondary schools
supported under the project could serve as models which, if replicated, at the
primary and secondary levels, would permit a more efficient use of school
facilities. The introduction of a modular approach to teacher training would
minimize the need for investments in new facilities. Improved planning would
also facilitate more effective use of external resources by the Government.
The MOE would gain experience in the preparation, implementation, coordi-
nationt monitoring and evaluation of education investments. Although the
quality of education would improve, unit costs for primary education would be
reduced, and the growth of the education budget would be restrained
(Annex 14).
Risks
5.5       Poor overall budgetary prospects in the short-to-medium term pose
the greatest risk for project implementation. This risk would be compounded
if the measures required to reduce unit costs were not implemented of if the
lower secondary consolidation plan were abandoned. In addition, the limited
trained national staff in the MOE will require reinforcement, both through
recruitment of new staff and redeployment of existing staff, and new budget
posts would have to be created. If sufficient national staff are not assigned
to proect activities, there is a risk that the project would be largely imple-
mented by expatriates funded bilaterally or under the project, and the trans-
fer of knowledge and skills to national staff, which is one of the purposes of
technical assistance, would be hampered. These risks have been reduced by
including in project costs the principal incremental recurrent expenditures
28/ Jamison, Dean and Lau, Lawrence, Farmer Education and Farm Efficiency,
The Johns Hopkins University Press, 1982.



- 29 -
required for successful project implementation, including the salaries of key
national staff, and financing them on a declining basis. Moreover, adequate
budgetary allocations to project activities and recruitment of national staff
would be given particular attention during project supervision. The studies
and technical assistance required to identify and help implement measures for
cost containment have been included in the project. Project monitoring
indicators which would be reviewed during supervision, would allow a contin-
uing policy dialogue on enrollment and efficiency targets.
5.6       The Government has only limited experience in i                IDA-
financed projects and this will be the first direct operation with the Bank.
The MOS has not previously worked with the Bank and has not implemented a
project of this scope before. The Ministry's limited project management
experience in general, and the relative unfamiliarity with IDA procedures in
particular, could delay project implementation. This risk has been reduced by
the inclusion of technical assistance for project, implementation in the
project to assist and train national staff in carrying out these tasks.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1       During negotiations, agreement has been obtained from the Government
that it would:
(a) submit to the Association for review and comment a staffing plan for
the project-financed secondary school facilities one year prior to
opening such facilities and implement such plan according to a time
schedule acceptable to the Association (para. 3.3);
(b) appoint the remaining staff for the PIU by June 30, 1990
(para. 3.15'J ;
(c) submit to the Association for review and comment: (i) a draft
program for the reduction, rationalization and redeployment of
primary teaching posts over the period 1990-95, by December 31,
1989; (ii) a study on procedures and criteria for the budgeting,
financing and procurement of goods and services for education, by
December 31, 1990; and (iii) a study on teacher incentives, by
December 31, 1991; and implement the program and the agreed recom-
mendations of the studies according to a time schedule acceptable to
the Association (para. 3.15);
(d) implement the project in accordance with agreed critical implementa-
tion dates, that would be reviewed and revised as necessary by
October 31 of each year (para. 4.1);
(e) (i) contractors would be allowed to import building materials
directly for project-financed facilities; and (ii) contractors would
be given the necessary work permits for skilled labor unavailable in
Vanuatu and that they may need to bring in for the construction of
project-financed facilities (para. 4.6).



- 30 -
6.2       As conditions of Credit effectiveness:
(a)  the Government would establish the PIU with functions and responsi-
bilities satisfactory to the Association and appoint essential staff
(para. 3.15); and
(b) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the AIDAB cofinanc-
ing grant would have been fulfilled (para. 4.9).
6.3       As a condition of Credit disbursement for the construction and
equipment of the two lower secondary schools:
the Government would have implemented the initial measures in a
satisfactory plan for consolidating the lower secondary school.
expansion program (para. 2.19).
6.4            Subject to the above cvnditions, the proposed project would
constitute a suitable basis for a Credit of SDR 6.3 million (US$8.0 million
equivalent) on standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity to the Republic of
Vanuatu.



ANNEX 1
- 31 -
VANUATU
PRIMARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Primary Education: Basic Data by Region, 1986
(Publicly funded schools only)
Enrollment                                Pupil/
% of /a   ratio: X of                          /b  teacher
Region             Population  6-year olds  Schools  Pupils  Teachers   ratio
01  Banks/Torres       4.5         54.9         12      1,052       44    23.9
02  Santo/Malo        17.5         56.8         37      3,534      151    23.4
03 Ambae/Maewo         8.6         76.7         23      2,038       88    23.2
04  Pentecost          8.4         79.7         21      2,260       93    24.3
05  Malakula          13.6         86.0         39      3,957      180    22.0
06 Ambrym              5.6         57.7         16      1,404       60    23.4
07  Paama              2.0         74.3          5        476       22    21.6
08 Epi                 2.3         60.6          7        706       30    23.5
09  Shepherds          4.0         75.2         15      1,068       47    22.7
10 Efate              17.8         76.0         35     4,258       156    27.3
11  Tafea             15.7         67.8         51     4,236       164    25.8
Total           100.0         69.6        261    24,989    1,035    24.1
/a Source: 1979 Census.
/b Classroom teachers only. Does not include teachers on overseas fellow-
ships or administrative duties.
Source: School Location Planning for Primary and Secondary Education, UNESCO,
1986.



REPUBLIC OF VANiUATU
PRIFIARY ANO SECONDARY EDtTCATION PRoJECT
Pupils, Classes and Puipil/Class Ratios, 1985
Grade 7                     Grade R                    Grade 9                   Grade 10            Total Lower Secondarv
PupI/                     Pupil/ PupiI/                                         Pupli                     Puipl/
Class  Punils  class    Class  Pupils  class    Class  Punils  clasc    Class  Pupils  class    Class  Pupils  class
7 Anglophone schools          11     357    32.5        11      356    32.4        12       35#   29.8        9      267    29.7        43    1,318   31.1
3 Francophone schools         10     296    29.6        11      276    25.1         7       ISR   22.6         i     107    21.4        33       837   25.4
Total                  21      653    3n.2        22     632    28.7        19       516   27.3        14      374    26.7        76    2,175   28.6
Grade 1I                          Grade 12                          Grade 13                   Total t!pper Secondarv
Pupil/                            Pupil1                             Pupil/                            Pupil/
Class    Pupils    class          Class    Pupils    class          Class    Pupils    class           Class    Pupil-    class
I Anglophone school /a           2        58      29.0            2         57       28.5           2          23       11.5           6        13t4      23.0
I Francophone school 7a          2        51      25.5            2         21       10.5            1          4       4.0            S         76       15.2
Total                     4       109       27.3           4          78       19.5           3         27         .n           it       214        19.4
/a  Upper secondary education (grades 11-13) is deliverod at two of the lower secondarv schools.
Source:  School Location Planning for Primary and Secondary Education, UNESCO, 1986.



- 33 _                               ANNEX 3
VANUATU
PRIMARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Comarative Education Finance, 1985
Education                  Primary education    Secondary education
speenditures                          Unit cost              Unit cost
X of            GDP per   Unit        X of per    Unit       X of per
national  X of    capita    cost        capita      cost       capita
budget    GDP    (US$)      (US$)        GDP       (US$)        GDP
Vanuatu                  24      8.5      75O0a     232        30.9        950       126.7
Papua New Guinea         16      6.3      760       223        29.3        612        80.5
Solomon Islands /b       17      5.1      680        67         9.9        361        52.9
Philippines /c           16      2.8      660        50         7.6        280        42.4
Indonesia /b /c         9.3      2.1      560        40         7.1         90        16.1
/a Unofficial estimate.
/b 1984 estimates.
/c Public expenditures only.



- 34 -                             ANNEX 4
VANUATU
PRIMARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Learning Materials
No. of       No. of          Total
Grades      subjects       titles         quantity
Primary: Printing
Syllabus statements         1-6           4/a
English medium                                         3             4,500
French medium                                           3             3,300
Teachers' guides            1-6           4
English medium                                        18             9,000
French medium                                         18             7,200
Pupil textbooks             1-6          4
English medium                                        36            77,400
French medium                                         36            52,200
Supplementary readers       3-6          2
English medium                                        24           103,200
French medium                                         24            69,600
Subtotal                                            162/b         326,400
P-rimary: Replenish-
ment        - -1-6                          3             25            40,000
Primary:  Acquisition         4-6           2             /e              n.a.
Subtotal Primary                                                  366,400
Secondary: Printing
Syllabus statements        7-10          8/d
English medium                                         1               300
French medium                                          1               200
Teachers' guides           7-10
Englis)h medium                        6              32             2,880
French medium                          5              30             1,970
Student textbooks          7-10          4
English medium                                        57            29,400
French medium                                         57            19,800
Student workbooks          7-10
English medium                         2              48             7,300
French medium                          1              28             2,100
Supplementary readers
English medium           7-10           1              8             3,600
French medium
Subtotal                                            262/b          67,550
Secondary:  Acquisition      7-10          6              /e              n.a.
/a English language, French language, mathematics and environmental sciences.
7T Total titles for both language media.
77 English-medium schools only.
73 English, French science, mathematics, social studies, agriculture, home
economics, Industrial arts, religion.
/e Choice to be determined.



- 35 -
'AINE 5
VANUAST
PaNuaY u   SECONDAR 0DUCATION PM0JECT
Critical Implementation Dates
A. Qualitv Inputs
Currculum Devslon
Gatrtaulum adotarecruited                                                                       Jul 1989
Primary specialists recruited                                                        Jan 1990 - War 1992
Local staff appointed                                                        Jan 1989 (2) - Jul 1989 (5)
Co plete primary currieulum                                                                     Jul 1990
Field testing Grade I started                                                                   Jun 1990
ield testing Grade 6 completed                                                                  Aug 1995
New curriculum introduced In schools                                                            Jan 1991
Coverage primary curriculum completed                                                           Dec 1995
Coverage lower aecondary curriculum completed                                                   Dec 1990
aaringNsAteria als
1flim t  ione avvisor recruited                                                                 Jul 1989
Prench ranslator recruited                                                                      Jul 1989
Englitsh translatot recruited                                                                   Jul 1990
Local staff appointed                                                        Jan s989 (1) - Jul 1989 (3)
2-year rolling plan prepared                                                                    Sep 1989
School storage (primary) installed                                                              Dec 1990
ReDeishLeentt Primary Books
Crer placed                                                                                     Sep 1969
Distribution                                                                                    Dec 1989
Production New looks so
Adaptation complete                                                                             Apr 1990
field testing completed                                                                         Aug 1990
Distrtbution                                                                                    Dec 1990
uIsitiio Now Books /a
at co  *lee                                                                                   Jan 1990
Orders placed                                                                                   Aug 1990
Distribution                                                                                    Dec 1990
Teacher TratninR
-iIrk. I specialists recrutted                                                      Jul 1990 - Jul 1991
local st.ff appointed                                                      Jan 1989 (1) - Jul 1989 (1)
Support staff appointed                                                    Jan 1989 (1) - Jul 1989 (1)
Training module development completed                                                         Jun 1991
Tratinig module production                                                                    Dec 1991
New program introduced                                                                        Feb 1992
Fellowships completed                                                                         Dec 1992
Secondary
Loineirm specialists recruited                                                                Jan 1990
Short-term specialists recruited                                                   Jul 1990 - Jul 1991
Tratinig module development completed                                                         Jul 1990
Tr*ani  module production                                                                     Dec 1990
Trining begun                                                                                 Jan 1991
Trataing program completed                                                                    Dec 1993
nocaI4tralntng started/completed                                                     Jan 1990 - Dec 1995
hneet Effictec
MiRNienovttoWFIu   eted                                                                         mar 1989
Equipping PIU coupleted                                                                         Jul 1989
Specialists recruited                                                                           Jul 1989
Local etaff appointed                                                        Jan 1989 (3) - Jan 1990 (2)
Support staff appointed                                                      Jan 1989 (2) - Jan 1990 (1)
Studies commissioned                                                                 Jul 1989 - Jul 1990
S. Physical Faclities
Loer sec. schools        USS
raisulwa    Tanna     hatewulu       CDC          REOs
Civil Works
nite acqusition                                  done      done        done         done         done
Architect recruited                            11/30/88   11/30/88     done         done      dons (PID)
Working drawiag and tender docs. completed     04/30/89   04/30/89     done         done        03/89
Prequalification contractors                   04/30/89   04/30/89     done         n.S.         n.a.
Bid submission                                 07/15/89   07/15/89     done         done        05/89
Contract awarded                               10/15/89   10/15/89   1I101/88       done        07/89
Construction starced                           12/01/89   05/01/90   03/01/89       done        09/89
Ctstruction completed                          11/30/90   04/30/91    12/31/89      12/88       12/89
Furnture and Bquipment
Lists prepar;d                                  10/89      10/89       05/89        done        03/89
Orders placed                                   06/90      09/90       09/89       01/89        07/89
DeUvery or installatton completed               11/90      04/91       12/89       03/89        11/89
Staffing plan submttted                         12/89      05/90       01/89        n.a.         n.a.
Site Superviston
Xeres or i eI nce agreed                       06/01/89   06/01/89
Short list agreed                              07/01/89   07/01/89
Specialist recruited                           11/01/89  04/01/90
End of contract                                12/31/89   05/30J90
/  This table Indicates the production and acquisition schedule telating to the first grades of each cycle
(Grade, 1-7) to be followed by the production or acquisition of books for following grades on the basis
of one new grade per year.



-36 -                                 ANNEX 6
VANUATU
PRIMARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Project Monitoring Indicators /a
Start of               End of
project    Mid-term   project
(1988)     (1992)    (1996)
General
1-E1roMments
PrlEEfEimy-                                     24,000      26,000/b   30,000
Lower secondary                                  3,115       3,220r-    3,220
Upper secondary                                     275        425         425
Teachers
rimary                                              980        950       1,000
Lower secondary                                     170        156         156
Upper secondary                                      20         29          29
Student:Teacher Ratios
Primary                                           25:1        27:1        29:1
Lower secondary                                    18:1       22:1        22:1
Upper secondary                                    14:1       15:1        15:1
Pupil  per Class
PIIiia                                               20         23          25
Lower secondary                                      30         32          32
Upper secundary                                      22         28          28
Intakes
Urade 1 (Z of 6-year olds)                           80         90          95
Grade 7 (Z of Grade 6) /c                            17         19          20
Grade 7 (absolute numbers)                          934        800         800
Staff Developmnt
Quail ted local secondary teachers                     52        110         120
Number of expatriate teachers                         108         75          65
As % of total number of teachers                       57         41          35
Local teachers with:  Degrees                          23         35          40
Diplomas/Certificates          29          75          80
Number of unqualified primary teachers                212         60           0
Number of primary teachers reached by
inservice workshops                               n.a.         500       1,000
Curriculum Implementation
(Grade reacnea annually)
Primary                                                 -    Grade 2    Grade 6
Lower secondary                                  Grade 9   Grade 10   Grade 10
/a Publicly funded schools only.
___ New automatic promotion policy will initially slow growth of total enroll-
muets although Grade 1 intakes increase,
Le 1985 taken as base year.



- 37 -
ANNEX 7
VANUATU
PRIMARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Project Costs by Category of Expenditure
VT OOO                            US$'O0O              X Foreign   S Total
Local      Foreign        Total       Local    Foreign    Total   exchange   base costs
INVESTMENT COSTS
Civil Works
Construction                   274,310.0    411,465.0    685,775.0  2,663.2   3,994.8   6,658.0          60          46
Site development                33,084.5      49,626.7      82,711.2    321.2      481.8      803.0      60           6
Subtotal                  307,394.5    461,091.7    768,486.2  2,984.4   4,476.6   7,461.0          60          51
Furniture                           30,733.7     37,563.4      68,297.0    298.4      364.7      663.1       55          5
Equipment. Books and Bduca-
tional Materials
Scholastic equipment                  -      40,845.0      40,845.0        -      396.6      396.6     100           3
Vehicles                             -        8,635.0       8,635.0        -       83.8       83.8     100           1
Imported books and edu-
cational materials                  -      11,330.0      11,330.0        -      110.0      110.0     100           1
Paper and printing              6,386.0      25,544.0      31,930.0     62.0      248.0      310.0      80           2
Subtotal                    6,386.0      86,354.0     92,740.0      62.0      838.4     900.4       93           2
Professional Services              40,800.0      10,200.0      51,000.0    396.1       99.0      495.1      20           3
Technical Assistance
Secialist services
Lons tern                             -     300,790.0    300,790.0         -    2,350.3   2,350.0      100          16
Short term                           -       44,788.0      44,788.0      --       434.8     434.8      100           3
Subtotal                         -      345,578.0    345,578.0              2,785.1   2,785.1      100          19
Fellowships and training
Overseas short term                  -       7,725.0       7,725.0        -       75.0       75.0     100           1
Subtotal                         -        7,725.0      7,725.0                 75.0      75.0      100           1
Studies                                 -      12,360.0      12,360.0        -      120.0      120.0     100           1
Subtotal                         -      306,953.0    306,953.0              2,980.1   2,980.1      100          21
Total Investment Costs   385,314.1    960,872.1  1,346,186.2  3,740.9   8,758.9  12,499.8           70          86
RECURRENT COSTS
Salaries                           122,625.0           -      122,625.0  1,760.5         -    1,760.5        -          12
Local training                       2,472.0        618.0       3,090.0      24.0       6.0       30.0      20           0
Travel                               9,442.4      2,360.6      11,803.0      91.7      22.9      114.6      20           1
Distrilbution                        8,503.7      2,125.9      10,629.6      82.6      20.6      103.2      20           1
maintenance                            192.0         48.0         240.0       1.9       0.5        2.3       20          0
Total Recurrent Costs    143,235.1        5,152.5    148,387.6  1,960.6        50.0   2,010.7        2          14
Total Baseline Costs      587,259.2    907,314.6  1,494,573.8  5,701.5   8,808.9  14,510.4          61         100
Pbysical contingencies                46,393.0     73,369.9    119,762.9    450.4       712.3   1,162.7       61           8
Price contingencles                  164,650.7     53,206.3    217,857.0  1,598.6       516.6   2,115.1       24          1S
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS       798,302.9  1,033,890.8  1,832,193.7  7,750.5  10,037.8  17,788.3          56         123



- 38 -
ANNEX 8
VAIIJTII
PUtREY AND SECONDAY A!DUCATION PROJECT
Prolect Costa by Cat go    K o0 enditure and by Component
Improving quality         Increasina
Expandins aess           Curriculum                       efficinc
Loser      Sit"      upper    dest. and                            niiiniig                  Physical
setondary   super-    ecandary   learning    Teacher      Field   and i1ple-                tont cies
education   vision   education  mterials    training   support  imntation        Total       Xt
Conntructiote                 330,845.0       -   294,000.0    38,662.0          -   20,723.0      1,545.0    685,775.0  10.0   68,577.5
Site development              82,711.2        -          -            -          -         -           -       82,711.2  10.0    8,271.1
Subtotal                413,556.2       _    294000.0    38.662.0          _    20723.0      I S S D    768.486.2  10,0   76.848.6
Furniture                       25 092.0     400.0   28,000.0      8,680.0         -    2,125.0          -       68,297.0  10.0    6,829.7
uni  at  doos and Educa-
tional Hater a a
Scholatic equipment           9,000.0      400.0    5,000.0     5,500.0              15,280.0     5,665.0     40,845.0  10.0    4,084.5
Vehicles                      4,000.0        -          -       2,060.0    2,575.0        -           -        8,635.0  10.0      863.5
bported booaks ad *du-
catoal materials                 -          -          -      8,755.0    2,575.0        -            -      11,330.0  10.0    1,133.0
Papr ad printing                   -         -          -      25,750.0    6,180.0        -           -       31,930.0   5.0    1,596.5
Subtotal                 13.000.0     400.0      030.0    42,065.0   11.330.0         0      5,665.0     92,740.0   8.3    7.677.5
rofossional Service              8.000.0        -    41,000.0      2,000.0         -         -           -       51,000.0   5.0    2,550.0
Technical Assistance
Specialist services
Long term                         -   19,600.0   58,710.0    98,880.0   74,160.0         -      49,440.0     300,790    5.0   15,039.5
Short term                        -    4,000.0         -            -    40,788.0        -           -       44,788.0   5.0    2,239.4
Subtotal                      -   23,600.0   58.710.0    98.880.0  114,948.0                49.440.0    345,578.0   5.0   17.285.0
Felloeshipe ad training
Oversa ashort term                -         -           -           -     7,725.0        -           -        7,725.0   5.0      386.3
Subtotal                      -                                        7725.0                    _        7,725.0   5.0       386.3
Studies                             -         -          -            -          -         -      12,360.0     12,360.0   5.0      618.0
Subtotal                      -   23,600.0          -     98,880.0  122,673.0               61.800.0    306.953.0   5.0   15,347.7
Total Investmeat Costs   463.648.2  24,400.0   426.710    190.287.0  134.003.0  38,128.0    69,010.0  1.346,186.2   8.5  114,425.8
- COSTS
58JAlOS                               -      265.0         -      61,345.0   16,245.0        -      44,770.0    122,625.0   5.0    6,131.3
Local tranntg                         --                               -           -    3,090.0          -        3,090.0  10.0      309.0
Travel                                -    2,824.0         -       8,755.0         -      224.0          -       11,803.0   5.0      590.2
Dstribution                           -         -          -      10,629.6         -         -           -       10,629.6   5.0      531.5
Nalitenane                            -      240.0         -           -           -         -           -         240.0   5.0        12.0
Total Raeurrent Costs         -    3,329.0          -     80,729.6   16,245.0   3,314.0    44,770.0    148,387.6   S.1    7,567.8
Total Baseline Costs    463,648.2  27,729.0  426,710.0   271,016.6  150,248.0  41,442.0   113,780.0  1,494,573.8   8.0  119,762.9
Phytical contingencti             45,964.8   1,426.5   37,685.5    16,733.7    7,*69.9   4,133.0      6,049.5    119,762.9   0.0         0.0
pre contingenctes                109,296.7   1,978.3   15,238.5    45,996.7   18,121.1   3,097.7    24,128.0    217,857.0   7.1   15,40S.4
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS     618 909.7  31 133.8  479 634.0   333 747.0  176 139.0  48 672.7   143 957.5   1 832 193.7   7.4  135 168.3
Of wch foreign        124.7623S  27,632.7  2235,M.0   192,T21.S  151,'556.4  33,140.4    79,586.7  1,033,19D.    7 T



PDIAR * AM S3COUART IUTI10  fROJWECT
Pro ett Coats by Cosonnt    by topwlimentotion Ysar
199                                                     1995     1996      Total      1989    1990    0               tin e    e dt4 1996   Tot l
zomdtna Ace..
Lower sscooda?y
education         34.074.7 411,851.7  172.983.4      -        -        -        -        -    618,909.7   330.8  3.998.6 1.679.5     -     -     -      -     -   6.000.8
SMte uprviloo       3.130.0  19,578.3   8,425.5       -        -                          -      31,J33.8    30.4   190.1    83.8      -     -     -            -     302.3
Upper scondary
aducatito        319.920.0  98.914.1  24,482.3  26.652.6  9.665.1      -        -        -    479,634.0 3,106.0   960.3   237.7   258.8  93.8    -      -     -   4.656.6
Subtotal        357.124.6 530,344.0 205,891.2  26,652.6  9.665.1                           1.129.677.S  3.467.2  5.149.0  1.998_9   25S.8  93.8             9- l.f67.7
lnvro,iqg Quality
Curtticulum lat.
ad learning
materials         71.225.1  57.719.5  70.974.8  57,792.1  A4.425.0 21.614.7 16,154.6 13,841.0   333.747.0   691.5   560.4   689.1   561.1 237.1 209.9 156.8 134.4  3,240.3       L
Teachet training    5,307.7  56,877.5  61,632.7  39,185.3  3.002.7  3,182.9  3,373.9  3,576.3   176.139.0    51.5   552.2   S98.4   380.4  29.2  30.9  32.8  34.7  1,710.1
11.14 support      41,259.9   3.373.8     713.6    753.8    796.3    841.2    888.8    46.3    46.672.7   400.6    32.8       6.9     7.3   7.7   8.2   8.6   0.4    472.6
Subtotal        117.791.8  117.970.8 133.321.0  97,731.2 28.224.1  25.638.9 20.417.3 17.463.7   558.558.7 1,143.6 1.145.3 1.294.4   948.8 274.0 248.9 198.2 169.6  5.422.9
tIcresng EffUilemyt
Plan4ig and isple-
mantatton         17,427.9  24.764.1  22,418.1  19.778.6 22.646.5  17.341.3  9,505.3 10.075.6   143.9S7.5   369.2   240.4   217.7   192.0 219.9 168.4  92.3  97.8  1.397.6
Subtotal         17,427.9  24.764.1  22.418.1  19.778.6 22.646.5 17.341.3  9.505.3  10,075.6   143.957.5   169.2   240.4   217.7   192.0 219.t 168.4  92.3  97.8  I.397.6
i1iin       492,344.3 673.079.0 361.630.4  144.162.4 60.535.7 42.980.2  29.922.6 27.539.2  1.832.193.7 4,780.0 6.534.7 3.511.0  1.399.6 587.7 417.3 290.5 267.4 17.788.)
1I



VANUATU
PRIMARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Unit Areas and Construction Costs for Project Schools
Gross area per student
place or housing unit                   Unit cost per student place or housing unit /a
Median FY81-83                       This project                        Median total cost
This        Project          Buildings                   Equip-                     PY81-83 projects
project     East   Bank-   and site works   Furniture   sent            Total         East       Bank-
Secondary schools      LSS   USS    Asia   wide       LSS      USS    LSS   LSS  LSS  USS    LSS       USS    Asia       wide
(sq a)  ---  (US$)
Academic and
commnal              3.8    6.5    5.8/b  5.9/c   2,290   3,870    180   70  200  620   2,670   4,560    N.A.          3,945
Boarding               5.2    6.5    6.2    8.9/d   3,370   3,570    180   60   30    -   3,580   3,630   2,650          3,590
Staff housing         54.0  102.0  128.0   86.0    37,150  74,090  3,570    -    -    -  40,720  74,090  29,400/e  34,430/e
N.A. - Not applicable.
/a  Excluding contingency allowances and professional fees.
b Asia projects FY78-80.
7R  Including administration and dining.
d Excluding dining.
7i Excluding furniture costs.
I-



- 41 -                      ANNEX Il
VANUATU
PRIMARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Technical Assistance
Staff-months
Specialist Services
Expanding Access
Site supervision                                                     28
Upper secondary teachers                                            108
Subtotal sece. schools                                             136
Curriculum Development and Learning Materials /a
Curriculum advisor                                                   36
Short-term specialists                                               30
English language translator                                          24
Subtotal CDC                                                        90
Teacher Training
Secondary teacher training specialists                               72
Certificate-of-Teaching (CT) short-term specialists                  21
Short-term secondary specialists                                     12
Subtotal TEC                                                       105
Management Efficiency (PIU/(PWD) /b
mpiplementation advisor                                              60
Procurement services                                                  4
Subtotal PIU/PWD                                                    64
Cost (US$) /c
Studies
vTnancing of education            60,000
Teacher incentives                30,000
Preparatory studies               30,000
Subtotal Studies                120,000
Total Specialist Services                                          395
/a  A Publications Advisor and a French language translator would be provided
by UK and French bilateral aid agencies, respectively.
/b An educational planner would be provided by UNDP and an accountant would
be provided by AIDAB bilateral aid.
Ac Lump-sum estimate for each study (excluding contIngencies).



- 42 -
ANNEX 12
Page 1
VANUATU
PRIMARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Detailed Financing Plan
(US$P000)
Government    AIDAB      IDA       Total
EXPANDING ACCESS
LSS (Mhlakuia)
Civil works                          126.0         -      29394.3      2,520.3
Architect                              2.2         -         40.4         42.6
Furniture /a                          37.4         -        149.4        186.8
Equipment                               -          -         50.5         50.5
Vehicle                                 -          -         21.7         21.7
Subtotal                          165.6         -      2,656.3     2,821.9
LSS (Tanna)
Civil works                          143.5         -      2,725.7     2,869.2
Architect                              2.2         -         40.4         42.6
Furniture /a                          40.1         -        160.2       200.3
Equipment                               -          -         52.5         52.5
Vehicle                                 -          -         22.4         22.4
Subtotal                         185.8          -     39001.2      3,187.0
Site Supervision
Furniture                             0.9         -          3.6          4.5
Equipment                              -          -          4.3          4.3
Specialist services                    -          -        255.0       255.0
Travel                               30.0         -          8.5        38.5
Subtotal                          30.9          -        271.4       302.3
USS (Matevulu)
Civil works                             -     3,139.8          -      3,139.8
Architect                               -       418.0          -        418.0
Furniture                               -       299.0          -         299.0
Equipment                               -        53.4          -          53.4
Specialist services                     -       746.4          -         746.4
Subtotal                            -      4,656.6          -      4,656.6



- 43                           ANNEX 12
Page 2
Government    AIDAB      IDA       Total
IMPROVING QUALITY
Curriculum Materials
Civil works                             -       412.9          -         412.9
Architect                               -        21.3          -          21.3
Furniture                             95.2       28.4          -         123.6
Equipment                               -        59.6          -          59,6
Paper and printing                      -       108.6       196.0        304.6
Imported textbooks and materials        -          -         99.0         99.0
Vehicle                                 -          -         22.3         22.3
Specialist services                     -     1,094.3          -       1,094.3
Salaries                             661.3         -        186.5        847.8
Travel                                88.2         -         24.9        113.1
Distribution                         110.6         -         31.2        141.8
Subtotal                         955.3    1,725.1        559.9     3,240.3
Teacher Training
-Imported books and materials           -          -         29.6         29.6
Paper & printing                        -          -         27.9         27.9
Vehicle                                 -          _         70.5         70.5
Specialist services                     -     1,272.0          -       1,272.0
Fellowships                             -        86.8          -          86.8
Salaries                             174.2         -         49.1        223.3
Subtotal                          174.2    1,358.8       177.1     1,710.1
Field Support
Civil sworks                            11.8          -       225.0        236.8
Furniture /a                           4.8         -         19.3         24.1
Equipment                               -          -         50.0         50.0
Vehicles                                -          -        115.6        115.6
Travel and local training             36.0         -         10.1         46.1
Subtotal                          52.6          -        420.0       472.6
INCREASING EFFICIENCY
Civil works                              0.8         -         15.7         16.5
Equipment and vehicle                     -          -         61.4         61.4
Specialist services                       -          -        701.4        701.4
Salaries                               482.7         -        135.6        618.3
Subtotal                         483.5          -        914.5     1,397.6
Grand Total                    2,047.9    7,740.5    8,000.0    17,788.4
/a  Assumes 80% IDA financing on the basis that two-thirds of furniture would
be procured off-the-shelf locally.



VANUATU
PRIMARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Education Recurrent Budget Projections, 1985-94
(VT'000, 1987 prices)
Secondary   Institute  Project      Total      Annual     Total    Annual/e  Education
Central         /b  and ter-     of Edu-  recurrent  education   growth        gov't     growth   share of
admin./a  Primary  tiary /c    cation /a costs /d    budget    rate (X)    budget   rate (X)  total (X)
1985         31,406   509,221   213,446    30,630            -       784,703   13.18    3,316,471   17.38        23.66
1986         34,777   542,480   275,090    35,307            -       887,654   13.12    3,771,045   13.71        23.54
1987         29,727   527,118   243,465    32,621            -       832,931   -6.16    3,642,010   -3.42        22.87
1988         30,024   558,206   377,021    32,947            -       998,198   19.84    3,714,850    2.00        26.87
1989         30,325   557,847   407,147    33,277       13,260    1,041,855    4.37    3,789,147    2.00         27.50
1990         30,628   564,791   395,966    33,609       50,177    1,075,171    3.20    3,864,930    2.00         27.82
1991         30,934   570,285   379,043    33,946       58,715    1,072,923   -0.21    3,942,229    2.00         27.22
1992         31,243   575,977   365,603    34,285       63,917    1,071,025   -0.18    4,021,073    2.00         26.64
1993         31,556   581,697   368,688    34,628       46,349    1,062,918   -0.76    4,101,495    2.00         25.92
1994         31,871   587,176   371,811    34,974       34,606    1,060,438   -0.23    4,183,525    2.00         25.35
Annual growth of education budget 1985-94  -  3.40%
Annual growth of education budget 1988-94  -  1.01%
/a  Central administration and Institute of Education projected to grow by 1X p.a. 1988-94 due to seniority salary
increments.
/b  Primary pupil:teacher ratio increases to 30:1 by 1999.
E  Assumes that 11 new secondary streams initiated in 1986 are consolidated to 6 streams by 1989 and that project-
financed upper secondary facilities accept new students in 1990.
/d  Project recurrent costs taken from project cost tables (incremental recurrent costs and paper/printing costs).
Ze Total government budget assumed to grow by 2% p.a. in real terms 1988-94.
Note:  Budget figures for 1985 are actual; for 1986 and 1987, appropriations.
Source: Appraisal mission estimates.



- 45 -                              ANNEX 14
VANUATU
PRIMARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IDA fiscal                  Disbursements
year and        Amount per            Cumulative              Pacific Islands
semester         semester         Amount          %         disbursement profile
-     (US$ million) -                               ()
1989
2nd           0,25              0.25           3                   0
1990
lot           0.40              0.65           8                   2
2nd           0.50               1.15         14                   9
1991
1st           0.62              1.77          22                  16
2nd           1.63              3.40          43                  26
1992
1st           2.12              5.52          69                  34
2nd           1.08              6.60          83                  42
1993
1st           0.85              7.45          93                  50
2td           0.17              7.62          95                  58
1994
sat          0.17              7.79          97                  66
2nd           0.06              7.85          98                  74
1995
1st           0.05              7.90          98                  84
2nd           0.05              7.95          99                  95
1996
1st           0.03              7.98          99                 100
2nd           0.02              8.00         100                 100



- 46 -                          ANNEX 15
VANUATU
PRIMARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
1. "Vanuatu Education and Training Sector Report" World Bank Report No. 5217-
VAN, February 1985.
2. "A Proposal for Vanuatu/New Zealand Cooperation in Education Development"
Department of Education, New Zealand, November 1984.
3. "An Indicative Manpower Development Plan for Vanuatu," International Labor
Office, September 1985.
4. "Vanuatu: Analysis of the Financial Status of the Primary Education
Sector in Vanuatu," (mimeo) World Bank, October 1985.
5. "Vanuatu: School Location Planning for Primary and Secondary Education,"
UNESCO (Education Financing Division), May 1986.
6.  "Report on Education Administration and Management," ADAB, July 1985.
7. "Vanuatu/World Bank Study of Curriculum Development (Primary-Secondary),"
Joint Report by Australia, France and New Zealand, April/May 1986.
8. "Quality Issues in Primary Education," (mimeo) Nadine Dutcher, consultant,
June 1986.
9. "A Prospect for Quality: A Report on Teacher Education in Vanuatu,"
Pacific Regional Team, ADAB, September 1986.
10. "Provision of Teaching/Learning Materials," Department of Education, New
Zealand, September 1986.
11. "A Project to Help Improve the Quality of Primary Education in Vanuatu,"
Pacific Regional Team, November 1986.
12. "Construction Standards, Project Costs and Disbursements" (mimeo), Jacques
Waechter, UNESCO consultant, November 1986.
13. "Teacher Supply and Demand, 1989-93," mimeo, Ministry of Educations,
September 1988.



- 47 -
CHART 1
I LI
c               I,.? i
tF      ., . o  ~~. .: X0
:30~~~~~~~0
IL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
.*|                        1010 1@3 
Jt%|' [ 



IREPUBUC OF VANUATU
PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Structure of Minisy of Education
Teaching
Servbe            Minisbr
Commnniostn
Cabinet
I W ~~L
PEOPr nrr                                       PEO                          PEO P,EO
ProSchool &                                  Scnay                     Vanuatu InsdffleAmnstn
Special Education                            F     Educlon                 of Edu n                  F a & Personnel
co
Regional                          I Si         1X         c                                  Builn  &         Budget
Pro-School       Education       Pedao              Se|oon   |itnce                                                            & Personne
1 nAdviso                                                                                        Accounting
PEO.- Principal Educailon Offie r



- 49 -
CHART 3
REPUBLIC OF VANUATU
PRIMARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
THE VANUATU INSTITUTE OF EDUCATION
PrWncipal
EducaHlon
Offcer
r      fct            Curiclu         Educaf          Ex wn1- o
Eduwftion           Developrsent    BroodcaHng         office
Center               Cenber          Cenier
Teoec     h      Coordincft o  Coordlr4or      Coordinator
Trohers           Curblnx        Curonculum     Pubilshirto
Wold Bank-31005.3



REPUBLUC Of VANUATU
PUMARY AND SECONDARY EDUCAUON PRJECT
Genercl Educofon PVrmd (496
so"                                                                                                          27~~~~~~~~~~~"I
ill                                                                            S  2                                                                          Ii  
2%  %4~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
7                                                 ~~~      ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~162  ,0                                                 "  A76
262
K                                                                                        24  2               2at                t4CO                            Zl
3                         1 _.M _a  *I



REPUULIC OF VANUATU
PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Project Vmplemrntatlon Arrangmnts
i nltntnisterlaf Coowrcnat Comitee 
NPSO MOF MOE PWD
Director
General
MOE
PEO
|Planning  |ed ve         Pin &          A .vI e
Staftdolan   1t9
S  MIlcr,



IBRD 20241
TORRES                                                                                VANUATU
EDUCATION PROJECT
0   Proje-Flnanced Office Bulidings
A   ProJect-Financed Secondary School FacilitIes
A   Secondary Schools in Operation In 1985
Surtaced Roads                        ''
BANKS            BANKS   TORRES                      ------ Unsurfaced Roads
-.$    Internotionol Airport
0    Natlonal Capital
- -Province Boundaris
SANTO MAIO
I                  AOBA MAEWO
II.rttP  y'                                 I     oone                                                                       150-
MAEWO                                                        0
ESPIRITU                                                                          KILOMETERS.-
SANTO                                        A7LOAOBA  ngO                        MILES  *      20       40       60
WAAKL                                                    --o 
-w     PENTECOTE    PENTECOST                            PACl//C OC'[A
R.'  **d1 Th.0 IV. B..  R.o 4I*FO  Cqoooo w ,Nao-4
MAI.AKULA        La__ _ __ _ __ _ __ _ __ _ __ _ __ _
L. ~ ~    ~    ~    aa w        -- Ii10
-     \~~~AMAo       PAAMAI                                            .       -
/--'-  *  -16-LOPEVI
/sflQdOVS --    - \ERROMANGO
EPI    EPI            ~~~~~~Ungpongkor
-    -    -  -                   ..--...ai~~~~~~~~~pota
MouoTONGOA
w  j  A  j A v v w } A - \,, *r / BR YM F ~~~~~~~~~~ _ ~~ Z h A   
i7                                  EMAE
'APM  ~0SHEPHERD
3QNLA            _ofin od
VANL                    -TANNA
VANUATK,EROMNG 
11 ~~~                   ~         ~> I~                                Isnge ~   IrUot
Area
faEFATE                                             r A .ori
-, Nw Cdedorkt/
AUSTRA                   '                       E        EFA TE
ANATOM  AnelghoWhat
NEW
FEBRUARZY '1987



