The World Bank                                                       New Delhi Office               Telephone : 24617241/24619491
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT                70 Lodi Estate                 Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION                                New Delhi -- 110 003           Mailing Address : P.O Box 416
                                                                    India                           Facsimile ; 24619393


                                                                                      CONFORMED COPY

                                                                                            September 27, 2010

 Dr. Anup K. Pujari
 Joint Secretary (MI)
 Department of Economic Affairs
 Ministry of Finance
 Government of India
 New Delhi 110 001

 Dear Dr. Pujari:

                          Grant No. TF097375 - Enhance Financial Access to the Poor
                                    through Technology in Andhra Pradesh

         In response to the request for financial assistance made on behalf of India ("Recipient") on May
 18, 2009 (D. O. No. 8/11/2000-FB.VII), I am pleased to inform you that the International Bank for
 Reconstruction and Development/International Development Association ("World Bank"), acting as
 administrator of grant funds provided by the Consultative Group to Assist the Poor ("CGAP") in the
 United States, under the TF070636, proposes to extend to the Recipient, a grant in an amount not to
 exceed one million nine hundred thousand United States Dollars (U.S.$1,900,000) ("Grant") on the terms
 and conditions set forth or referred to in this letter agreement ("Agreement"), which includes the attached
 Annex, to assist in the financing of the project described in the Annex ("Project"). We regret the delay in
 setting up this trust fund, due to various processing requirements. This Grant is funded out of the
 abovementioned trust fund for-which the World Bank receives periodic contributions. In accordance with
 Section 3.02 of the Standard Conditions (as defined in the Annex to this Agreement), the Recipient may
 withdraw the Grant proceeds subject to the availability of such funds.

          The Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement below, that it is authorized to enter into
 this Agreement and to carry out the Project in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth or
 referred to in this Agreement.

         Please confirm the Recipient's agreement to the foregoing by having an authorized official of
 the Recipient sign and date the enclosed copy of this Agreement, and returning it to the World Bank.
 Upon receipt by the World Bank of this countersigned copy, this Agreement shall become effective as
 of the date of the countersignature; provided, however, that the offer of this Agreement shall be
 deemed withdrawn if the World Bank has not received the countersigned copy of this Agreement
 within ninety (90) days after the date of signature of this Agreement by the World Bank, unless the
 World Bank shall have established a later date for such purpose.

                                  Very truly yours,
            INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT/
                     INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION



                                         By /s/ Roberto Zagha
                                            Roberto Zagha
                                        Country Director, India

                                        Headquarter Washington DC USA
Dr, Anup K. Pujari                                                        September 27, 2010


AGREED:
INDIA

By:    /s/ Venu Rajamony
       Authorized Representative
Name: Venu Rajamony
Title: Joint Secretary (MI)
Date: 7-10-2010

Enclosures:

      (1)     Standard Conditions for Grants Made by the World Bank Out of Various Funds, dated
              July 1, 2008
      (2)     Disbursement Letter dated September 27, 2010, together with World Bank Disbursement
              Guidelines for Projects, dated May 1, 2006



cc:
Mr. S.V. Prasad, Chief Secretary, GoAP, Hyderabad
Ms. V. Mishra, Secretary, Institutional Finance, GoAP, Hyderabad
Mr. R. Subramanyam, Principal Secretary, Rural Development, GoAP, Hyderabad
Mr. Rajshekhar, Chief Executive Officer, Society for Elimination of Rural Poverty, Hyderabad

Mr. T. Vijay Kumar, Joint Secretary, MoRD, GoI, New Delhi

Ms. Kavita Prasad, Director, DEA, MoF, GoI, New Delhi
Ms. Dakshita Das, Controller of Aid Accounts and Audit, DEA, MoF, GoI, New Delhi
Dr. Anup K. Pujari                             -3-                            September 27, 2010


                                                                                              ANNEX
                                                                                   Grant No. TF097375

                                              Article I
                                   Standard Conditions; Definitions

1.01. Standard Conditions. The Standard Conditions for Grants Made by the World Bank out of
Various Funds dated July 1, 2008 ("Standard Conditions") constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

1.02. Definitions. Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Standard Conditions or in this Agreement.

                                               Article II
                                           Project Execution

2.01. Project Objectives and Description. The objectives of the Project are to improve access to
financial services for Self Help Groups (SHG) members, improve financial transparency of SHGs and
create a MIS system with credit bureau capability in the Recipient's State of Andhra Pradesh ("Andhra
Pradesh"). The Project consists of the following parts:

Part A: Piloting handheld devices for capturing SHG data

Pilot test a limited number of handheld devices of different types in small subset of Community
Organizations (SHGs and Federation of SHGs) for a) performance of the technology and its ability to
support required functionality; and b) user experience and willingness to adopt device. Based on the
pilot exercise propose a technical architecture and hardware configuration of the handheld device which
can be taken to the mass market.

Part B: Enabling Community Organizations as Banking Correspondents and Customer Service
        Providers (CSPs):

The aim is to make banking transactions more convenient for SHG members, beneficiaries of social
payments (including Old Age Pensions and NREGA) and bank clients in rural areas. The program
envisions a state-wide network of Banking Correspondents (BCs) and Customer Service Providers
(CSPs), appointed by BCs that can handle basic banking transactions (deposits, withdrawals, payments,
transfers, etc.) on behalf of banks. Project success will be tracked through metrics such as: a) number of
Zilla Samakhayas (District-level Federation of SHGs) appointed as BCs, b) percent of Village
Organizations (Village-level Federation of SHGs) acting as CSPs, c) the percent of villages in the state
with CSPs present, d) the number of transactions taking place in CSPs, and e) the percent reduction in
transaction costs for SHG members and rural bank clients that use these channels.

Part C: Creation of a SHG member Database as an input to Establishment of Rural Credit
Bureau (incl. CIBIL):
The proposed component will complement the UID activity, as and when UIDs are made available. The
aim is to develop a database which captures the financial profiles for every SHG and SHG member. The
database will be publicly accessible (for a charge) to organizations offering financial services to SHGs
and SHG members. This database will be made accessible to, apart from SERP and Mandal
Samakhyas; external lenders, insurance companies, and others to understand the repayment capability
and repayment history of SHGs and their members. They could also be used for other purposes, such as
Dr. Anup K. Pujari                             -4-                           September 27, 2010


to design more appropriate micro-insurance and commitment savings products on a more tailored basis.
Metrics to track project success that correspond with these broad outcomes will be developed.

2.02. Project Execution Generally. The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the
Project. To this end, the Recipient shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Society for
Elimination of Rural Poverty (SERP) ("Project Implementing Entity") in accordance with the
provisions of: (a) Article II of the Standard Conditions; (b) the "Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants",
dated October 15, 2006 ("Anti-Corruption Guidelines"); and (c) this Article II.

2.03. Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation.

         (a) The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project
Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.06 of the Standard Conditions and on the basis
of the indicators set forth below in paragraph (b) of this Section. Each Project Report shall cover the
period of one (1) calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the World Bank not later than one (1)
month after the end of the period covered by such report.

        (b)    The performance indicators referred to above in paragraph (a) consist of the following:

                 (i)     development of A web-based MIS and decision support system.

                 (ii)    Number of SHG members profile and credit history captured in central
                         database/MIS

                 (iii)   Number of Zilla Samakhayas licensed as BCs and VO's appointed as CSPs

                 (iv)    Percent of SHG members having bank accounts and conducting banking
                         transactions within the villages (i.e., e-banking)


        (c)       The Recipient shall prepare the Completion Report in accordance with the provisions
of Section 2.06 of the Standard Conditions. The Completion Report shall be furnished to the World
Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date.

2.04. Financial Management. (a) The Recipient shall maintain or shall cause SERP to maintain a
financial management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of the Standard
Conditions.

         (b)    The Recipient shall or shall cause SERP to prepare and furnish to the World Bank
Interim Unaudited Financial Reports (IUFR) for the Project not later than forty-five (45) days after the
end of each calendar quarter, covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the World
Bank. The said IUFR shall serve as the basis for disbursement of the Grant for eligible expenditures
incurred during the said calendar quarter.

         (c)     The Recipient shall or shall cause SERP to have the Designated Account and the
Project's Financial Statements audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07(b) of the
Standard Conditions. Each such audit the Designated Account and of the Financial Statements shall
cover the period of one fiscal year of the Recipient. The audited Financial Statements for each such
period shall be furnished to the World Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.
Dr. Anup K. Pujari                             -5-                            September 27, 2010



2.05. Procurement.

         (a)     General. All goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Grant shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred
to in:

                  (i)     Section I of the "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
                          Credits" published by the World Bank in May 2004 and revised in October
                          2006 and May 2010 ("Procurement Guidelines"), in the case of goods and
                          works; and

                  (ii)    Sections I and IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
                          Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the World Bank in May
                          2004 and revised in October 2006 and May 2010 ("Consultant Guidelines") in
                          the case of consultants' services; and

                  (iii)   the provisions of this Section, as the same shall be elaborated in the
                          procurement plan prepared and updated from time to time by the Recipient for
                          the Project in accordance with paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines
                          and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines ("Procurement Plan").

        (b)       Definitions. The capitalized terms used in the following paragraphs of this Section to
describe particular procurement methods or methods of review by the World Bank of particular
contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or the Consultant
Guidelines, as the case may be.

        (c)     Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. Except as otherwise
provided in Sub paragraph (i) below, all goods shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of National competitive Bidding subject to additional procedures agreed to between the World Bank
and the Recipient and referred to in the Procurement Plan.

              (i) The following Methods other than National competitive Bidding maybe used for
              Procurement of Goods for those Contracts:

                 (A)      (Shopping for Goods estimated to cost $30000 equivalent.; and

                (B)     Direct Contracting. for Goods which meet the requirement of paragraph 3.6 of
        the Procurement Guidelines. All Direct Contracting shall be with Bank prior concurrence.

        (d)      Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services

                  (i)     Except as otherwise provided in item (ii) below, consultants' services shall be
                          procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based
                          Selection.
                  (ii)    The following methods may be used for the procurement of consultants'
                          services for those assignments which are agreed with the Bank and meet the
                          requirement set forth in the Consultant's Guidelines for their used and are
                          specified in the Procurement Plan: (A) Fixed Budget Selection (B) Least Cost
  Dr. Anup K. Pujari                               -6-                           September 27, 2010


                          Selection;(C) Quality Based Selection (D) Selection based on Consultants'
                          Qualifications; and (E) Single-source Selection.

         (e)      Review by the World Bank of Procurement Decisions. The Procurement Plan shall set
forth those contracts which shall be subject to the World Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall
be subject to Post Review by the World Bank.

                                            Article III
                                    Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
3.01. Eligible Expenditures. The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in accordance
with the provisions of: (a) the Standard Conditions; (b) this Section; and (c) such additional instructions
as the World Bank may specify by notice to the Recipient (including the "World Bank Disbursement
Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the World Bank and as made
applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth
in the following table. The table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be financed
out of the proceeds of the Grant ("Category"), the allocations of the amounts of the Grant to each
Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category:

                                          Amount of the Grant           Percentage of Expenditures
                                                Allocated                      to be Financed
               Category                    (expressed in USD)               (inclusive of Taxes)

 ( 1 ) Goods                                        125,000                          100%

 ( 2 ) Consultants' services                      1,594,856                          100%

 ( 3 ) Incremental Operating Costs                  179,844                          100%

 TOTAL AMOUNT                                    1,900,000


For the purposes of this section:

(i)      the term "Training" means reasonable and necessary costs incurred by the Recipient for the
         carrying out of training activities related to the Project, including travel and subsistence costs
         for training participants, costs associated with securing the services of trainers, rental of
         training facilities, preparation and reproduction of training materials, and other costs directly
         related to training; and

(ii)     the term "Incremental Operating Costs" means the incremental operating costs incurred by the
         Recipient on account of the implementation, management and monitoring of the Project,
         including salaries of contractual staff; office supplies and consumables, utilities,
         communications, mass media and printing services, and travel, lodging and per diems and other
         reasonable and necessary costs directly associated with the Project, but excluding salaries of
         officials or staff of the Recipient.
3.02. Withdrawal Conditions. Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, no
withdrawal shall be made for payments made prior to the date of countersignature of this Agreement by
the Recipient.
  Dr. Anup K. Pujari                            -7-                          September 27, 2010


3.03. Withdrawal Period. The Closing Date referred to in Section 3.06(c) of the Standard Conditions
is December 31, 2012.

                                           Article IV
                             Recipient's Representative; Addresses

4.01. Recipient's Representative. The Recipient's Representative referred to in Section 7.02 of the
Standard Conditions is Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary or
Under Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the Recipient.

4.02. Recipient's Address. The Recipient's Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the Standard
Conditions is:

       Department of Economic
       Affairs Ministry of Finance
       North Block, New Delhi 110 001
       India

       Facsimile:      91-11-23092039

4.03. World Bank's Address. The World Bank's Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the Standard
Conditions is:

       International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
       and International Development Association
       1818 H Street, N.W.
       Washington, D.C. 20433
       United States of America
       Facsimile:      1-202-477-6391
Dr. Anup K. Pujari                        -8-                        September 27, 2010


Cleared with and bcc: Juan Carlos Alvarez (LEGES); Jill A. Roberts (LOA-TF)

bcc: Messrs./Mmes. Chatterji, Shukla, Nagaraju (ED12); Kodderitzsch, Shah (SASDA); Ricks,
Rannachandran, Sousa (SASDO); Deshpande (SARFM); Jain, Toure (SARPS); Djumena (SACNA);
India Coordinator; SASSD Core Team; TFadmin (TACT); Arikatla, Sairam (CTRDM)

IRIS
Box: 333884B


Drafted by: Parmesh Shah (TTL)/ss
