Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8217-TA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
FEBRUARY 5, 1990
Population and Human Resources Division
Southern Africa Department
This dowment has a resicted dishibution and may be used by recpens only in the perfornance of
their officid duies. Its coens my not oerwise be dbisod wihout Wodd Bank authoization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(January 1990)
Currency Unit - Tanzania Shilling (TSh)
US$ 1   = TSh 193
TSh 100 - US$0.52
Exchange Rates
1960 - 1974      US$ 1- TSh   7
1975 - 1981      US$ 1= TSh   8
December 1983    US$ 1 = TSh  12
December 1985    USS 1 - TSh  17
June 1986        US$ 1- TSh  40
December 1986    USS 1 - TSh  52
December 1987    US$ 1 - TSh  84
December 1988    US$ 1 - TSt 120
December 1989    US$ 1 - TSh 190
FISCAL YEARS
IDA Fiscal Year - Julj 1-June 30
Central Government Fiscal year - July 1-June 30
District Government Fiscal Year = January 1-December 31
MEASURES
1 Meter (m) - 3.28 Feet
1 Square Meter (m sq) - 10.76 Square Feet



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
AIRuVIATXONS AND ACRONIMS
AXO                        Assistant Chief Medical Officer
iDnS                       Acouired Ismunodeficiency Syndrome
CCH                  -    Chama Cha Hapinduzi (the Party)
CEDHA                -    Centre for Educational Development in Health.
Arusha
CHS                  -    Central Medical Stores
CKOH                 -    City Medical Officer of Health
DANIDA               -    Danish lnternational Development Agency
DED                        District Executive Director
DHT                  -    District Health Team
DMDT                       Department of Manpover Development S Training
DMO                  -    District Hedical Officer
DSCC                 -    Dar es Salaam City Council
EDP                  -    Essential Drugs Program
EPI                        Expanded Program of lImunization
DtR                  -    Economic Recovery Program
ESAP                       Economic and Social Action Program
FAO                  -    food and A4riculture Organization
GOT                  -    Government of t'nrania
HIS                  -    Health Information System
IDD                        Iodine Deficiency Disorders
IEC                  -    Information. Education, Communication
IUD                  -    Intrauterine Device
JNSP                 -    Joint (WHO-UNICEF) Nutrition Support Programs
MA                   -    Medical Assistant
MALD                 -    Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock Development
Me                   -    Maternal and Child Health
MLG                  -    Ministry of Local Government, Community
Development. Cooperatives, and Marketing
MOE                  -    Ministry of Education
MOF                       Hinistry of Finance
MOB                  -    Hinistry uf Health
NAPCO                -    National Pharmaceutical Company
NCC CSD              -    National Coordinating Comittee - Child Survival
and Development (programs)
NGO                       Non-governmental Organization
NVACG                -    National Vitamin A Consultative Group
NPIC                 -    National Population Information Centre
ODA                  -    Overseas Development Administration (Ul)
PC                   -    Planning Commission
PD                   -    Planning Department (HOH)
PHC                  -    Primary Health Care
PHN                  -    Population. Health and Nutrition
PMO                  -    Prime Minister's Office
PSAP                 -    Priority Social Action Program
PSN                  -    Program Supp4rt Network (MLG)
PY                        Project Year
RDD                  -    Regional Development Director
RHC                  -    Rural Health Centre
RMA                       Rural Medical Aide
RMO                       Regional Medical Officer
RHC                  -    Rural Health Center
SDC                  -    Swiss Development Cooperation
SIDA                 -    Swedish  laternational Development Authority
TBA                  -    Traditional Birth Attendant
TCPD                 -    Tanzanian Council for Population and Development
TFNC                 -    Tanzania Food and Nutrition Centre
TFR                  -    Total Fertility Rate
UCI                  -    Universal Child Immunization
UMATI                -    Family Planning Association of Tanzania
UNDP                 -    United Nations Development Prbgram
UNFPA                -    United Nations Fund for Population Activities
UNICEF               -    Uz.ited Nations Children's Fund
UNIPAC               -    UNICEF Packaging and Assembling Center
VA                        Voluntary Agency
VUW                       Village Health Worker
WDC                  -    Ward Development Committee
WHO                  -    World Health Organization
2MS                  -    2onal Medical Store
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be diSclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS
Title                                             Pae No.
Basic  Data ....... ,................................................ .  i
Credit and Project Summary ..........     ........................       ii
Estlmated Costs and Financing Plan ................................      iv-v
I*   INTRODUCTION AND ECONQMIC CONTN             S    8    XT. . .e. ........ .*.  1
A.   Introduction....                                               1
B.   The Economic and Policy Environ          ment. ....            2
C.   Government Strategy in the PHN Sectors.............            3
II.  SECTORAL C)NTEXT AND ISSUES ........ ................. .            6
A.   Basic Characteristics......................        ....        6
B.  Health: Policies, Programs and Isssues                          7
C.   Population: Policies, Programs and Issues                      15
D.   Nutrition: Policies, Programs and Issues                       18
E.   Expenditures and Finacing.... . ........   .      ...   .      27
F. Donor Role in the PHN St sectors.                                32
G.   Role of IDA     ...      0* ..                                 33
I1. TEE PROET..............                 EC......T.....              34
A.   Objectives and Summary Description.                            34
B.   Detailed Description. ....               t .......  ......  .  35
C.   Sectoral Policy Reform. .............    ......                49
D.   Relationship of Project to Programs of Special Emphasis        52
IV.  PROJECT COSTS AND F.IANCING   ................. .....**.. *. _.
D.   Cost E     stimates ....... . ...... .*. ........ ... ......   54
B.  Financing .......................                               57
C.   Procurement......*.....  **.........#                          58
D.   Disbursements .....................                            62
E.   Accutc....... o....... n....t                       s .....    62
F.   Accounting and Auditing. .................*.........           65
V.   PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND ...........                                  66
A.   Project Management.................................            66
B.   Project Preparation and Implementation Schedule........        67
C.   Project Reporting. .....................................       69
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission
which visited Tanzania in October-November 1989. The mission was composed
of Mr. J. Innes (Mission Leader), Dr. J. Lamboray (urban and rural PHC),
Ms. J. Murphy (manpower development), Mr. H. Den Besten (consultant on
pharmaceuticals), Mr. T. Greiner (consultant on nutrition), and Dr. M.
Tanner (urban PHC, representing SDC). The report was prepared by Mr. J.
Imes. Ms. M. Swan assisted in the preparation of cost tables and was also
responsible for report processing.



Title                                         Page No.
VI. PROJICT BENEOITS AND RISKS ..................................     70
A.  Benefits and Justification .............................   70
B.   Risks     .     ........................... ............. . .....    71
VII. ASSURANCES AND UECOSMENDATION.. ...          ........ .........   72
ANNES
1.  The Structure of the Ministry of Health .....................    74
1.1  The Ministry of Health ................... . ... ....... .  74
1.2  The Planning Department (HOH) ..........................    75
Priority Social Action Program (PSAP)             .....   79
3. Terms of Reference for the Study on
the Long-term Options for Financing
the Health Sector .........................................     93
4.  Project Implementation Arrangements           .....   96
4.1. Project Coordinating Committee .........................  96
4.2. Component I - Strengthening National PHN Systems .....  97
4.3. Component II - Strengthening Rural PHC .................  98
4.4. Component III - Strengthening Urban PHC.                    99
5.  Pharmaceuticals Procurement Program 1990191    ...100
6.  The Pharmaceuticals Sub-Sector - Background ?ad Issues ...... 102
7. Recommendations of the Working Group on the
National Drug Policy      ....................................... 108
8.  The Case for Reform in the Pharmaceuticals Sub-Sectr .......o 117
9.  Micronutrient Deficiency Control Programs .....      .............  124
10.  Major Themes of the Revised PHC Strategy ............. *...... 132
11.  District Selectton Criteria and Process ........c   .......... 136
12.  Strengthening Urban PHC - Dar es Salaam Health Project ...... 138
13.  Project Costs ................... ........................... 151
14.  Project Financing . ..................... .  159
15.  Project Implementation Schedule ............................. 163
16.  List of Documents on the Project File ....................... 165
LIST OF TABLES
Table 2.1      Nutritional Status of Children Under 5..........    19
Table 2.2      Estimated Prevalence of Malnutrition in
Tanzania 1986187.9.9    .           .22
Table 2.3      Total Health Expenditures (Mainland)
(1986/87-1988I89)          .....                     29
Table 2.4      Central MOH Recurrent Expenditures Budget,
1988189    ...30
Table 4.1      Project Cost Summary by Project Component ..           54
Table 4.2      Cost Summary by Summary Account.                       55
Table 4.3      Financing Plan       .......       ..      .58
Table 4.4  Procurement Arrangements   60
Table 4.5      Allocation and Disbursement of the IDA Credit          63



LIST OF CHARTS
Chart 2.1      Percent Low Birth Weight of Children Under 5....      20
Chart 2.2      Nutritional Status of Children Under 5 ..........     21
Chart 2.3      Estimated Prevalence of Malnutrition in
Tanani......................                        23
Chart 2.4      Estimated Prevalence of Malnutrition in
Tanzania ...............  ..............    24
Chart 4.1      Procurement Arrangements for the IDA Credit.....      61
Chart 4.2      Allocation and Disbursement of the IDA Credit...      64
MAPS
1.   IBRD No. 21769 Tanzania - Strengthening National PHN Systems and
Rural PHC
2.   IBRD No. 21770 Strengthening Urban PHC: Greater Dar es Salaam PHC
Facilities
3.   IBRD No. 21771 Strengthening Urban PHCs Central Dar es Salaam PHC
and Referral Network



HEALTR AND NUTRMOI PROJE
Basic Data
(All figures apply to 1987 unless otherwise indicated)
Area   ......... ..........     ...... ,...    883,749 square km
GNP per capita ......................  US$180
Population (1988) ........................... ...  23.2 million
Rural population as proportion of total
populationp...... a..................   28.6 percent
Crude birth rate. ...............................  49.8 per thousand
Crude death rate .... ...... . ..... .......... .  .  14.2 per thousand
Population growtA rate ..........................  3.0 percent per annum
Infant mortalityrate...........................  106 per thousand
Child mortalityrate............................  153 per thousand
Life expectancy at birth (male).................  51.4 years
Life expectancy at birth (female)...............  55.0 years
Daily Caloric supply per capita................   2,192 calories
D*i1y Protein Supply per Capita ............54 grams
Population per physician........................  24,400 persons
Population per trained nurse .....................  5,365 persons
Public oxPenditure en Health
(All figures apply to 1988189)
Health share of total Government budget ............  6.2 percent
Health share of GDP ..................................... . .  1.8 percent
Health share of Government development budget .......  5.3 percent
Health share of Government recurrent budget .........  6.5 percent



- ii -
TAZNZO
HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
Credit and Project Suumary
Borrower: Government of the United Republic of Tanzania
Beneficiaries: Ministry of Health (MOH); Ministry of Local Government,
Community Development, Cooperative and Marketing
(MLG); Planning Commission (PC);
Tanzania Food and Nutrition Centre (TFNC).
Amount: SDR 36.1 million (US$ 47.6 million equivalent)
Tern: Standard, with 40 years maturity
Pro1ect ObJectives:
The proposed project will reinforce the Government's efforts
(including the Economic and Social Action Program [ESAP] and Priority
Social Action Program [PSAP]) to raise the quality, coverage and
effectiveness of family planning, nutrition and basic health services
in urban and rural areas, through providing support to critical and
strategic elements of the PHN sectors, with particular emphasis on
strengthening; () institutional capacity for planning, policy
formulation and implementation; (ii) manpower development and
training; (iii) sustainable provision and financing of
pharmaceuticals and medical supplies; (iv) micro-nutrient deficiency
programs; v) implementation of the national population policy; vi)
rural PHC, through the implementation of the revised strategy in
selected districts; and vii) urban PHC, through reform and
rehabilitation.
Proiect Description:
In order to meet these objectives, the project will support
improvements in: i) health planning, policy formulation and
information system, through upgrading of staff skills, studies on
health financing and the domest.Lc pharmaceuticals industry, and
strengthening the project coordination capacity of the MOH; (ii)
manpower development and trainina, through support to in-service
training at the district level and the implementation of a realistic
manpower plan; (iii) pharmaceutical and medical supplies, through
reforms to the pricing, financing, management and procurement of
pharmaceutical and medical supplies and the rehabilitation of the
central warehouse facility; (iv) the implementation of national
micro-nutrient deficiency control programs for vitamin A and iron,
including training, stupplies and operations research; (v) the
implementation of the national population policy, through building up
the analytical, monitoring and implementation capacity of the
Population Unit of the Planning Commission and establishing a
National Population Information Centre; (vi) rural PUC, through the



- iii -
implementation of the revised PHC strategy (incorporated in district
health plans (DHP)) in 10 selected districts, including mobilization
of communities, support to village PHC and nutrition initiatives,
district management strengthening, rehabilitation and maintenance of
health facilities; and (vii) urban PHC, through improved management,
maintenance, supply systems and the rehabilitation of health
facilities in Dar es Salaam. Related policy reforms will be
supported in three major areas, namely: (i) the composition of and
incentives for health sector manpower; (ii) the pricing, financing,
budgeting and capacity building for procurement of pharmaceuticals
and medical supplies; and (iii) the development of resource
mobilization measures for the sector.
Prolect Benefits and Risks:
The project's main benefit is to assist the Government in undertaking
much needed reforms in the PHN sectors, such as improving long-term
sustainability and efficiency, and will provide an opportunity to
improve services in neglected areas. It will also assist the
Government in the implementation of the national population policy,
thereby contributing towards reducing the pace of population growth,
and in the implementation of a revised PHC Strategy as embodied in
the new national nutrition and health policies, thereby contributing
towards improved nutritional status for women and children in
particular. The project represents a major response to the ESAP and
will contribute significantly to the development of Tanzania's human
resource base during the process of economic adjustment. The project
has a strong institution-building focus in terms of planning, policy
formulation and implementation in the MOH, the MLG and the Dar es
Salaam City Council.
Project risks are three-fold. Administrative capacity in the
implementing agencies is weal:. In order to minimize this risk, the
implementation capacity of these agencies is being strengthened under
the project. The second risk is that of weak performance by staff
(resulting from poor motivation due to low salaries) undermining
effective implementation of project activities. The Government is
most cocerned about this issue, and with IDA assistance, is already
reviewing the remuneration policy for staff, as one key element of
civil service reform to be supported in a Public Sector Managemsnt
operation. The project will also contribute to reducing this risk
through support to Government efforts to develop an improved
incentives package for health sector staff, and the provision of non-
salary inducements to staff (such as training, recognition, and
improved supervision). The third risk is that the macroeconomic
environment may deteriorate again if the Government fails to proceed
with the reform program. The Bank and the international donor
community are addressJng this risk through country dialogue, policy-
based operations, the Consultative Group and liP procoss.
Fundamentally the Government believes that the reform process, fully
incorporating the social sectors, is its best strategy for economic
advancement.



- iv -
ESTIMATED COSTS AND FnRANcin PLAN at
Prolect Cost Lty hb  Project comment
(US$ illion)
Local        Foreian      Total
sotimted Costs
I. Strengthening Rational
PUN Systems                            4.0           34.5        38.5
a. Health Planning, Policy
Formulation and
Information System                 1.0             1.6         2.6
b. Manpower Development
and Training                       1.2             1.6         2.8
c. Pharmaceutical and
Medical Supplies                    1.2           29.8        31.0
d. Micronutrient Deficiency
Programs                           0.4             1.0         1.4
e. National Population Policy          0.2            0.5         0.7
II. Strengthening Rural Primary
Health Care                           3.8            7.8        11.6
III. Strengthening Urban
Primary Health Care                 4.7             6.8        11.5
IV. Project Preparation Facllity          0.1            0.4         0.5
Total Baseline Costs                     12.6           49.5        62.1
Physical Contingencies                 0.5            1.3         1.8
Price Contingencies                    3.3            2.8         6.1
Total Project Costs                      16.4           53.6        70.0
a/ Excludes taxes and duties of US$2.8 million.



- v -
Financing Plan al
Local           Foreian         Total
------------- (USS million)-------__
IDA                            5.3             42.3           47.6
Co-financings
Government of Belgium        0.1              0.6            0.7
DANIDA                       0.6              0.i            1.3
SDC                         5.0               7.2           12.2
ODA                          0.0              0.1            0.1
UNFPA                        0.1              0.6            0.7
Sub-total                5.8               9.2          15.0
Governments
of which - Central            2.4              0.7            3.1
- District          1.5               1.0           2.5
- Beneficiaries     1.4               0.4           1.8
Sub-total                5.3               2.1            7.4
TOTAL                   16.4              53.6           70.0
Note:
a/  Excludes taxes and duties of USG2.8 million.
IDA Disbursements
(1S1 million)
IDA Fiscal Year
91   92    93    94     95      96
Amount Disbursed                  5.0  6.4   12.6  12.2    9.0    2.4
Cumulative Amount                 5.0  11.4  24.0  36.2   45.2   47.6
Percentage of Total              10.5  24.0  50.5  76.1   94.9  100.0



I.  INTRODUCTION AND ECNOlIIC CONTEXT
A. Introduction
1.01      Since 1986, the Government of Tanzania (GOT) has embarked upon
an Economic Recovery Program (ERP). Increasingly, the GOT and the donor
community have recognized that the issues of social sector development have
not been adequately addressed in the reforms. To redress this imbalance,
and reverse the decline in social sectors, the GOT prepared in 1989 the
successor to the ERP, the Economic and Social Action Program (ESAP), which
fully incorporates the social sectors into the process of structural
reform. In addition, the GOT has prepared a Priority Social Action Program
(PSAP) which highlights the government priorities in the social sectors
under ESAP. The Bank and the donor community have responded favorably to
the process of continued economic reform in Tanzania. In particular, this
project and the Tanzania Education Planning and Rehabilitation Project,
respond to both thes ESAP and PSAP in a fundamental way, in strengthening
the analytical and implementation capacity for the reforms embodied in
these programs, and in meeting key needs in the social sectors.
1.02      Through ext^nsive consultations, and analysis undertaken to
orient its design and preparation, the project is predicated upon:
-    the current Tanzanian macro-economic framework, which seeks
to establish a firm basis for sustainable economic growth
(Chapter I);
-    the Government's sectoral policy, which is basically sound
and is being updated in the light of the revised economic
circumstances; in this regard a number of important policy
documents have been prepared by Government including a new
draft health policy, a revised PHC strategy, the first
national population policy and a national drug policy
(Chapter II);
-    the Government's efforts to strengthen its implementation
capacity at the central and district level (Chapter II);
-    the Government's determination to mobilize additional
resources for what has become a severely under-funded
sector, through enlisting communities in the provision of
their own services, introducing revenue-raising measures
which will not deny access to health services by the poor,
improving the efficiency of resource utilization
(especially manpower and pharmaceuticals) and finally
increased budgetary allocations (Chapter II); and
-    the key gaps in the overall program of investment in the
PHN sectors and the need to provide an integrating
framework for such investment, despite significant and
growing donor support. Each project component is carefully
designed to fill these gaps and provide such a framework,
thereby complementing the efforts of other donors and



- 2 -
reinforcing Government's efforts in the population, health
and nutrition (PHN) sectors (Chapters III to VII).
The remainder of this Introduction, focusing on the economic and policy
environment, and on the Government's policy in the PHN sectors, sets the
context for the detailed analysis and project activities as presented in
subsequent chapters.
B. The Economic and Policy Enviroment
1.03      In June 1986, the Tanzanian government launched the ERP in order
to reverse the decline in the economy and lay the foundation for
sustainable growth. Progress to date has been good, fiscal and external
imbalances have been reduced, the basis for sustainable growth largely
established, and the stage set for an extension of the ERP, through the
ESAP. The directions of Government's policies under the program have been
strongly endorsed by the international community, including the
International Monetary Fund and the World Bank. These policies, together
with increased external assistance, have had a positive effect on the
economy. Gross Domestic Product (GDP), which stagnated and declined during
the middle 1980s, has once more rebounded and is now estimated to be
growing at between four and five percent per annum, thus allowing for
sustained increases in per capita consumption.
1.04      The objectives of the ERP have been to increase the rate of
growth of output (especially in agriculture and industry), to rehabilitate
the physical infrastructure of the country, and to restore external
balance. The main features of the program have been: (i) movement toward
removing the overvaluation of the exchange rate; (ii) a supporting
macroeconomic framework of prudent fiscal and monetary policies; (iii)
measures to reduce price control, move away from administrative allocation
of foreign exchange and reform the trade regime; and (iv) policies to
improve the performance of the main productive sectors, beginning
particularly by improving systems of agricultural marketing.
1.05      While the ERP has far surpassed previous structural adjustment
efforts, much remains to be done in the coming years not only to
consolidate and reinforce the reforms already undertaken, but also to
tackle the next generation of reform issues on both the macro and sectoral
fronts.
1.06      The first robust signs of recovery, after several years of
stagnant output and falling per capita income, came in 1986 when GDP grew
by 3.6 percent. GDP growth in 1987 reached 4.0 percent, rising to 4.8
percent in 1988, and is estimated to have moderated to about 4.4 percent
for as well. Thus, over the last several years output growth has been
sufficient to allow a modest growth in both per capita income and
consumption. The most visible source of growth continues to be the
agricultural sector, where overall production increased between four and
five percent in both 1987 and 1988.  The long contraction of the industrial
sector's contribution to GDP has been reversed over the past two years.
Manufacturing value added is estimated to have grown by 4.6 percent in 1987



and five percent in 1988. Growth has been particularly evident in output
of farm implements and other agriculture-related items, consumer goods,
automotive spares and building materials. Further real GDP growth per
capita is forecast for 1990 and 1991.
1.07      The Government is now increasingly turning its attention to
sectoral reforms, as evidenced by a focus on improving agricultural
incentives and marketing, rehabilitating much deteriorated infrastructure
(particularly the road network) and the social sectors (as a key base to
future economic development and the sustainability of the results of the
ERP). Thus the social sectors are fully integrated into the next phase of
macroeconomic reform as embodied in the ESAP. The PSAP highlights
Government priorities for the social sectors over the period 1990 - 1992,
within the overall context of ESAP. Reform in the social sectors aims tot
(i) contribute towards the alleviation of poverty in the short-term, (ii)
lay the foundation for poverty reduction, through development of the human
resource base over the medium and long-term, and (iii) buttress and sustain
the political will to continue with the process of structural adjustment
and macroeconomic reform. This project would make a major contribution to
the Government's efforts to implement the ESAP and PSAP.
C. Government Strategy in the PHE Sectors
1.08      At the time of independence, the health status of the population
was very poor, reflected in an average life expectancy of only about 40
years. As was true throughout most of Africa at the time, health services
had been largely concentraLed in urban areas, and the bulk of the
population living in rural areas were without access to primary health care
(PHC).
1.09      After independence, the Government committed itself to providing
basic health services to the population, free of charge. While early
development plans stressed the need to extend the health system to rural
areas, the Government was not initially able to translate its stated
intentions into reality, and the bulk of health expenditures continued to
go toward urban, hospital-based curative care, primarily in Dar es Salaam.
Following the Arusha Declaration in 1967, and a critical review of
development expenditures in 1971, a health plan was adopted which set out
explicit targets for reaching the rural population. It called for the
opening of 25 new rural health centers (RHCs) and 100 new dispensaries each
year, to be staffed by a new cadre of auxiliary health workers, with the
intention of reaching population-per-facility ratios of 50,000 for RHCs and
6,500 for dispensaries by 1980. Throughout the 1970's, good progress was
made in achieving these ambitious annual targets, and by the early 1980's
over 200 RHCs and 2,200 dispensaries had been constructed and staffed. It
is currently estimated that over 90 percent of the population lives within
10 km of a health facility. However, given population growth, the targeted
population-per-facility ratios were not met, with urban areas now being
particularly under-served.
1.10      This improved access to health care in rural areas, coupled with
a number of special initiatives supported by the donor community (maternal



- 4 -
and child health, expanaed program of immunization, d.iarrhea control,
tuberculosis (TB)Ileprosy control, essential drugs) hias been translated
into improved health rtatus for the population. Life expectancy has
increased, infant and maternal mortality have declined, and a number of
childhood diseases are claiming fewer lives. However, the gains have not
been as great as one might have expected, given the country's commitment
to, and progress in providing primary health care to the population.
1.11      Two factors are largely responsible for Tanzania't failure to
translate its commitment to PHC into more dramatic improvements in the
health status of its population. If the situation were allowed to
continue, even the gains that have been made to date would be undermined.
The first factor is the rapid rate of population growth since independence
which has made it increasingly difficult for the Government to continue
constructing and staffing new facilities fast enough to keep pace with
increased demand. Despite its ambitious construction program, the
Government is falling further and further behind in neeting its population
per facility targets. Throughout the 1970's, the population grer at over 3
percent per annum, eventually outstripping GDP growth as the economy
stagnated and income per capita declined. While preliminary results of the
1988 census suggest that the population growth rate may have declined to
2.8 percent per annum, it remains higher than what the economy can easily
absorb, and jeopardizes the pace at which gains from the economic recovery
can be translated into improved living standards.
1.12      The second factor is the past economic mismanagement which
gradually squeezed out the recurrent resources (for pharmaceuticals,
medical supplies, salaries) that are required if existing facilities are to
function as designed. Between 1981 and 1986, budget allocations for health
declined precipitously in real terms; a decline which is even more
accentuated on a per capita basis (para 2.53). The lack of drugs and
medical supplies has now reached crisis proportions, particularly in
referral hospitals and urban PHC facilities which are not covered by the
DANIDA-supported essential drugs program (EDP).
1.13      Fortunately, the Government has recognized the importance which
both factors play in impeding attainment of its health and other social
sector goals, and is actively pursuing strategies to address both issues as
part of its reform program. First, after a carefully orchestrated
consensus-building effort, supported by an SPPF, the Government will soon
adopt a national population policy, with the specific objective of slowing
population growth through a lowering of the fertility rate. While the
major vehicle for realizing this objective will be the primary health care
network - through an enhanced effort in family planning and child spacing
activities offered as part of the maternal and child health care program -
the national population policy recognizes the need for a wide range of
other initiatives, including improved population research and policy-making
capabilities, improvement in the status of women, their education and job
opportunities, and encouragement of later marriages. The Government held a
major donor conference in March 1989 to solicit grant support for its
family planning/child spacing activities (primarily training and
contraceptive supplies), and the response was very encouraging. The
project will complement this support by strengthening the PHC delivery



- 5 -
network (paras. 3.09 to 3.26) and the implementat,on of the National
Population Policy itself (para. 3.08).
1.14      As stated in paras. 1.03 to 1.07, the secoud issue is being
actively addressed under the Government's ERP and its successor, the ESAP,
supported by the Bank, Fund and the international donor community as a
whole. The initial years of the ERP had necessarily to give precedence in
the allocation of limited resources to the productive sectors. It is only
in the last two budget years that Government allocations for health have
shown an increase in real terms. Within the context of the ESAP,
Government has given an extremely high priority to the provision of vitally
needed pharmaceutical and medical supplies. The proposed project will make
a major contribution in this regard (para 3.06). Recognizing that even
with many years of sustained reform effort, the Government will not be able
to fund all desired social services from its own resources, it is exploring
various alternatives for augmenting budgetary resources by tapping other
financing mechanisms in the social sectors (education, health, and water
supply).  The project will support the Government's effort in the health
sector to: Mi) mobilize resources through enhanced community participation
(para. 3.14); (ii) review long-term options for financing the sector and
implement appropriate resource mobilization mechanisms (para. 3.04 (b)) and
(iii) introduce a program of reforms in the pharmaceuticals sub-sector
(paras. 3.06 and 3.29). The Government is also revising its PHC strategy
in the light of the economic difficulties confronted by the country.
Implementation of this strategy is being supported under the project
(paras. 3.09 to 3.16).
1.15      Chapter XI provides an in-depth analysis of prevailing sectoral
conditions and issues in the areas of health, population and nutrition as
they relate to the proposed project. The content of the project takes into
account, and is to a large degree based upon, a Bank study of the
population, health and nutrition sectors (Report No.7495-TAN), as well as
on extensive discussions within Government and between Government
officials, Bank staff, and other donors. Given existing and committed
future donor support for population activities at the request of the
Government, the project does not have a substantial explicit population
component, rather as indicated in para. 1.13, it focusses on strengthening
population policy implementation and the provision of services through the
PHC network, with the Bank taking a supportive role. The Government will
continue to utilize donor support, largely for commodity supply and
information, education and communication (IEC) activities, with the
assistance and coordination of the UNFPA.



I1. SECTORAL CONTEXT AND ISSUES
A. Basic Characteristics
2.01      Accurate information on the health and nutritional status of
Tanzania's population is limited. On the basis of trends extrapolated from
the 1967 and 1978 census data, life expectancy at birth is estimated at
about 48 years and the crude death rate at about 18 per thousand
population. As in most developing countries, women and children are those
most at risk. A 1983-84 survey of institutional deaths in rural health
centers and hospitals in four regions (Dar es Salaam, Kilimanjaro, Mbeya
and Mwanza) indicated an alarmingly high maternal mortality rate of 3.7 per
thousand pregnant women admitted. Infant and child mortality rates are
estimated at about 106 and 153 per thousand, respectively.
2.02      The major health problems in Tanzania today, as in many African
countries, are infectious diseases (including most of the common tropical
diseases), pregnancy-related conditions, and malnutrition. In 1984 (the
most recent year for which both mortality and morbidity data are
available), the most important diseases were malaria (responsible for 14
percent of child and 13 percent of adult deaths), acute respiratory and
diarrheal infections, measles, sexually transmitted diseases (STDs), and
tuberculosis; leprosy and schistosomiasis were also significant, and
onchocerciasis was endemic in one relatively small area. According to
morbidity data collected more recently under the Osentinel6 system
established under the EDP, the picture has changed only slightly since
then, except that the incidence of some of the important childhood diseases
(measles, whooping cough, poliomyelitis, tetanus) have diminished
significantly as a result of successful and intensive immunization
campaigns.
2.03      While AIDS has not yet claimed a large number of victims in
Tanzania compared to other diseases, the high positive HIV seroprevalence
among certain population groups and the high rate of STD prevalence in the
country (among the tea commonest causes of outpatient attendance) give
grave cause for concern. STD prevalence is thought to be both an
indication of high-risk behavior and a co-factor in heterosexual
transmission of the lIV virus. As of August 1988, 3,718 cases of AIDS had
been reported to WHO from Tanzania Mainland, but this total is thought to
be a substantial underestimate of the true number.
2.04      Malnutrition and undernutrition, particularly among the highest
at-risk groups (infants, young children and pregnant and lactating women),
is a serious and widespread problem in Tanzania as in many other African
countries. It is a complicating factor in other diseases, increasing the
mortality rates for malaria, measles and complications from childbirth. A
nutritional survey carried out in 1986-87 found 16 percent of births to be
low birth weight, indicating poor maternal nutrition. This same survey
indicated that 40 percent of children under 5 years of age were suffering
from moderate malnutrition (above the median for countries with very high
childhood mortality), while 6 percent were severely malnourished
(marginally below the median). The national average calorie intake is
estimated at 83 percent of requirements, suggesting that a significant



- 7 -
proportion of households in Tanzania consume insufficient amounts of food
for nutritional requirements. While the average diet lacks sufficient
protein and, to a greater extent, fats and oils, it is also deficient in
some important micro-nutrients, notably iodine, Vitamin A and iron. Iodine
deficiency is widespread in much of the country, particularly in the
mountainous interior regions; prevalence has been estimated at 41 percent
nationally. Vitamin A deficiency is very common among children under 5;
prevalence is estimated at 30 percent for this age group, and 6 percent for
the population as a whole. Iron deficiencies are universal except among
the highest socio-economic groups; 32 percent of the population are
estimated to be anemic. The impact of iron-deficiency is most acute in
pregnant and lactating women and children under age 5, especially following
attacks of malaria.
B. Realths Policies. Programs, and Issues
The Health Services Infrastructure
2.05      Health care in Tanzania is provided by the Government, through
an extensive network of facilities at the central, regional, district and
village levels, and by a variety of private and semi-private individuals
and organizations. The former includes services and facilities of the
Ministry of Health (MOH), regional authorities, and district authorities.
The latter includes services provided by voluntary agencies (VAs) such as
churches and charities, industrial health services provided by certain
industries and companies, private services offered by traditional healers
and birth attendants, and by moonlighting physicians. In addition, other
ministries such as that for local government and community development,
agriculture, and public works have important programs which impinge upon
the health and nutritional status of the population.
2.06      Government supported health facilities are designed for both
primary contact between the user and provider, and for referral of patients
to the appropriate next level of care should the initial contact not be
equipped to deal with the ailment/problem. The Government's referral
pyramid follows roughly the administrative structure of the country;
namely, village, ward, division, district, region and zone. 1/ It
comprises the followings
(a)  At the village level, village health workers (VHWs) are trained
in basic first aid, sanitation and nutrition education.
Tanzania embraced the concept of VHWs after the Alma Ata
Conference as a means of delivering PHC at the village level,
when it became apparent that budgetary constraints would not
allow the construction of a dispensary in every village. To
date, however, only about 1,800 VHWs have been trained, covering
approximately 20 percent of the villages.
1/ Although "zone* is not an administrative designation, MOH has grouped
the mainland's 20 regions into six zones to facilitate supervision.



- 8 -
(b) Approximately 2,200 dispensaries have been built, each staffed
by at least one rural medical aide (RMA). They are meant to
provide both basic curative and preventive care, and to oversee
any VUWs in their area. Each serves an average of four
villages.
(c) Rural health centers (RHCs), as conceived, were to be the
nucleus of rural health services, with responsibility for
supervising approximately six dispensaries. The 256 built to
date are each staffed by a medical assistant (MA) assisted by a
team of seven or eight trained health workers. They offer
roughly the same curative and preventive services as
dispensaries but with some in-patient capacity. Because RHCs do
not provide services substantially different from those offered
at village dispensaries, they are often bypassed by users in the
referral chain, and as a result are largely under-utilized.
(d) The 104 district hospitals are meant to offer both primary
health care to those in the immediate vicinity as well as basic
surgical, medical, maternity and pediatric services to those
referred from lower level facilities in the district. Seventeen
of these are VA hospitals which have been designated as district
hospitals and are financially supported by Government.
(e) The 17 regional hospitals offer the same services as district
hospitals but have more sophisticated diagnostic and treatment
procedures and more qualified personnel.
(f) The four consultant hospitals (Dar es Salaam, Mbeya, Mwanza and
Kilimanjaro), the first three of which also serve as regional
hospitals, offer similar surgical, medical, maternity and
pediatric services, but with more advanced equipment and
specialized personnel. That in Dar es Salaam, the Muhimbili
Medical Center, is the apex medical institution in the country,
and includes a medical school.
2.07      As is evident, Tanzania has established a relatively wide and
equitable coverage of health care, with public health facilities reasonably
evenly spread throughout the country. Generally speaking, the utilization
of health facilities is high although there is evidence of some decline due
to a lack of drugs. Service standards have declined precipitously in
recent years. Moreover, Tanzania should be able to obtain a significantly
improved health and nutrition status for its population from the existing
system, if it could be made to operate more effectively. Region-wide
averages of population served per facility sometimes hide wide disparities
among specific facilities. A sample of facilities undertaken by MOHIVHO as
part of the PHC Review in 1984, indicated that some dispensaries served
only about 1,500 people, while others were expected to serve populations
many times larger than the target of 6,500. Major inequalities also exist
in human and material resources allocated per facility.
2.08      While major advances have been made in delivering health care to
the rural population, the emphasis on addressing this need has led to a
major problem which now requires resolution. Tanzania's urban population



is experiencing a crisis in health care: there are far too few facil...ties
at the primary level in urban areas. For example, the PHC Review mentioned
above found that some dispensaries in urban Dar-es-Salaam were atterpting
to cater for over 300,000 people. Urban residents therefore turn to
hospital outpatient departments, which as a resilt see thousands of
patients every day and cannot provide either adequate consultation time per
patient or adequate care for referred patients with more seriuus
complaints. Furthermore, as the donor-financed EDP does not supply
tertiary facilities, nor primary or secondary facilities in urban areas,
thus urban dwellers are not getting the drugs they need for their primary
care.  The situation in Dar es Salaam is especially serious; not only are
there too few facilities at the primary level, but also the three district
hospitals no longer function as hospitals because they lack the necessary
equipment and supplies to do even simple surgical and medical procedures.
As a result, the Huhimbili Medical Center is left as the only functioning
hospital for the 1.36 million population. Naturally, its specialist
services as the apex medical institution in the country suffer as a result.
2.09      Maintenance of health facilities is extremely poor.  Budget
allocations for both building and equipment maintenance are often small
and/or used for other purposes. There is also a shortage of trained
maintenance technicians. As a rule, maintenance personnel are provided by
district or city public works units, and bureaucratic procedures, ever when
funds exist, hamper effective response to repair requests, let alone
appropriate preventive maintenance. Hence buildings and major equipment
are generally in disrepair. The situation in Dar es Salaam is a case in
point: all three district hospitals suffer from broken plumbing and
clogged drains, unsafe wiring, doors and windows broken or missing, and a
high proportion of broken/collapsed beds.
Health Programs and Institutions
2.10      Following a 1983 decision to place responsibility for the
delivery of health care at the local level in the hands of the district
authorities, the health delivery system is administered at three levels:
(i) at the central level, by the Ministry of Health (MOH); (ii) at the
regional level, by the Regional Medical Officer (RMO), who reports to MOH
on technical matters and to the Regional Development Director (under the
Prime Minister's Office) on administrative matters; and (iii) at the
district level, by the District Medical Officer (DMO), who reports to MOH
through the RMO on technical matters and to the District Executive Director
(under the MLG) 2/ on administrative matters.   The MOH has overall
responsibility for formulating health policies and strategies for
implementing those policies; for planning; and for coordinating health
services throughout the country. It currently has responsibility for
operating the six central (consultant and special) hospitals and the
Central Medical Store (CMS), for r'nning centralized support services and
facilities (eg., health manpower development and training, drug
procurement), and for operating national (vertical) programs (eg., EPI,
AIDS Control). The RMO is in charge of the regional hospital and oversees
2/ Ministry of Local Governments, Community Development, Cooperatives and
Marketing (MLG)



- 10 -
the planning, management and supervision of all health activities in the
region. The DM0 has primary responsibility for PHC at the district level,
including administration of the district hospital, RHCs and dispensaries,
as well as supervision, in-service training and support of all district
health workers. In the latter capacity, he heads the district health team,
which includes, inter alia, district coordinators for each of the special
vertical programs managed from the center, however he frequently fails to
have real control over these problems.
2.11      TLks organizational structure of the NOR is given in Annex 1.1.
It is divided into five departmentss (i) health planning and (ii)
administration, which report directly to the Permanent Secretary (PS); and
(iii) hospital services, (iv) preventive services, and (v) manpower
development and training - the technical nucleus of the Ministry - which
report to the PS through the Chief Medical Officer, who is also responsible
for overseeing regional health services. While the broad organizational
structure of the MOH has remained largely unchanged since 1975, 3/ the
role and responsibilities of each of the departments are currently being
scrutinized to ensure that they are capable of fulfilling the changing role
of the Ministry as an strategic policy and strategy formulating body. As
part of this effort, the PHC Steering Committee and Secretariat was re-
established in late 1988 as an in-house "think tank' to consider a number
of basic issues regarding the future role and structure of the Ministry.
The PHC Steering Comvittee is chaired by the Chief Medical Officer and
cwposed of the Assistant Chief Medical Officers in charge of each of the
technical departments and the head of the Planning Department. It is
currently reviewing the PHC strategy to take into account curre.t budgetary
constraints, the decision to decentralize delivery of health services, and
the successful and unsuccessful experiences under past and ongoing
programs.
2.12      The Department of Health Planning (the organizational structure
of which is described in Annex 1.2) was, until recently, a small planning
unit, responsible only for preparing the annual development budgets and for
architectural design of new facilities. When it was upgraded to
departmental status in 1985, it was given much broader responsibilities,
more appropriate to the increasing complexity and size of the health system
and to the changing role of the MOB. Its new responsibilities include, for
example, establishment of a national health information system (HIS),
coordination of external aid in the health sector, coordination of health
systems research, and more thoughtful analysis of short-term and long-term
development needs and priorities in light of budgetary constraints and
changing epidemiological patterns. The establishment of a satisfactory HIS
is of particular priority, if decentralization is to work. Up-to-date
epidemiological information is needed both by local authorities for
priority setting in the management of staff and other resources, and by
central authorities for the compilation of national level data and the
formulation of national health policies. Currently, data is collected at
the facility level by the various special programs on separately designed
3/   Between 1985 and early 1989, MOB also had a Department of Social
Welfare, which currently resides in the Ministry of Labor, Culture
and Social Welfare.



- 11 -
forms and forwarded by diverse channels to their program heads at
headquarters. This is not only burdensome to health workers, but the
information is not systematically pulled together and analyzed nor are the
results fed back to local authorities.
2.13      Unfortunately, the department is not equipped to fulfill its
enhanced role. Only 11 of the 32 approved positions are currently filled,
and many of those on the job have not had training appropriate to their
expected function. Particularly serious is the lack of a permanent
director for the unit, a public health specialist, senior economist, senior
statistician, and an epidemiologist. The existing economists,
statisticians and architect:, while dedicated professionals, were, with few
exceptions, trained in fields other than health planning. They are,
however, slowly acquiring the appropriate skills through short-term and on-
the-job training. The unit is further hampered, as indeed is the entire
Ministry, by the lack of appropriate space, equipment and materials.
2.14      The Department of Hospital Services has responsibility for
supervision of the four consultant hospitals and two special hospitals, and
for providing technical advice to regional and district authorities for
hospitals and rural health facilities within their jurisdiction and
oversees relations with NGOs involved in providing health care. Thus the
Department's overall function is to manage the health care system, the
mrachinery which delivers health care. -.mportantly, it also operates the
CMS, determines the supplies requirements for all hospitals in the country,
and helps manage the supply requirements for rural health facilities,
including the Essential Drugs Program (EDP).
2.15      The Central Medical Store (CMS) is responsible for supplying
health facilities with drugs and other materials, but the system works
imperfectly. In theory, CMS orders supplies on the basis of needs
estimates prepared by the facilities themselves; supplies are delivered to
the CMS warehouses in Dar and are distributed from there to five zonal
stores, from which they are delivered to the regions, and from there to the
districts, which in turn supply dispensaries and RHCs. As an exception to
this general rule, drugs supplied by UNICEF under the EDP go directly to
the zonal stores for further distribution, and vaccines supplied under EPI
are delivered directly to the districts. In practice, except for drugs
provided under the EDP, supplies have been very uneven, due both to budget
constraints and poor planning. When needed supplies do not arrive on time,
facilities purchase what they need locally if funds exist, improvise (for
example, bits of torn waste paper may be used as registration forms), or do
without. The MOH is aware that the system is no longer functioning
adequately, and is seeking donor assistance to rectify the problem.
2.16      The most serious problems faced by this department stem from the
gross shortage of funds available for drugs and medical supplies. These
problems are exacerbated by deficiencies in the operation of the CMS and in
the allocation and budgeting of funds for drugs through the Ministry of
Local Government. Scarcity of pharmaceuticals and other basic medical
supplies has become the most crucial constraint in the delivery of
effective PHC services in the immediate term. In early 1989, the only
significant supplies of pharmaceuticals in the country came from the donor-
funded EDP, with virtually no supplies for the referral system. Moreover,



- 12 -
with the exception of donor-financed medical supplies linked to vertical or
area-based health programs, virtually no medical supplies have been
procured utilizing GOT funds for the last three years. It is vital that
the procurement and financing of these key inputs be established on a
firmer and more sustainable basis. This requires some important policy
reforms including: (i) financial reform of the Central Medical Stores
(CMS); (ii) improved pricing and procurement policy for pharmaceuticals;
(iii) increased budgetary allocations for pharmaceuticals and medical
supplies; and (iv) improved management, efficiency and physical facilities
for the CMS. The pharmaceuticals sub-sector is so central to the health
sector, that it is covered in greater detail in Annexes 6 and 8.
2.17      Recognizing the importance of these issues, the MOH has made the
establishment of an adequate pharmaceuticals and medical supplies system
its number one priority. This is accordingly reflected in the ESAP, the
shortly-to-be approved National Drug Policy and a study to develop an
updated master plan for the CMS. In this context, the MOH, with support
from the Ministry of Finance (HOF), is prepared to proceed with an
integrated set of reforms and is requesting external assistance in their
implementation.
2.18      The Department of Preventive Services is responsible for
managing programs dealing with specific health problems and has broad
responsibility for collecting and analyzing epidemiologic data,
establishing guidelines for disease control, supervising environmental
health, sanitation, school health and health education programs. Its most
significant responsibility, however, is that for operation of most of the
nationwide programs managed centrally, most importantly, (i) the maternal
and child health (MCH) program, which includes the Expanded Program of
Immunization/ Universal Child Immunization (EPI/UCI), family planning and
child spacing programs, and nutrition surveillance; (ii) the village health
worker (VHW) program; (iii) the TB/leprosy program; (iv) the National AIDS
Control Program; (v) the diarrheal control program and a variety of lesser
programs.
2.19      This department has been most effected by the addition of new
programs and responsibilities in the MOH over the past decade as unmet
needs were identified. While these vertical programs have individually
been quite successful in dealing with the problems or issues they were
created to resolve, the proliferation of vertical programs, with their own
systems of supplies and support to health facilities, has gradually
resulted in growing inefficiencies and duplications. The integration of
these programs more fully into the delivery of primary health care at the
local level becomes all the more pressing as the Government attempts to
operationslize its decentralization strategy. The problem is perhaps
epitomized by the MCH program. Though key to the delivery of primary
health care at the local level, the program still functions relatively
independently of the health services hierarchy, with MCH staff reporting
more to their MCH supervisors than to the health worker in charge of the
facility where they work. This issue is one of many being addressed by the
PEC Steering Committee in its formulation of a revised PHC strategy (see
also paras. 3.09 to 3.14 and Annex 10).



- 13 -
2.20      The Department of Mapower Dewlopeut and TrainiAg (DMDT) has
responsibility for determining manpower requirements for the entire health
uystem; piL-ning and implementing all health manpower training (except that
of doctors which is done by the Faculty of Medicine under the supervision
of the Ministry of Education); and formulating career development
strategies for health staff, including in-service educational programs.
The Department operates 98 schools throughout the country for basic and
upgrading training of nurses and allied health manpower, with a total
enrollment of approximately 7,500, and the Centre for Educational
Development in Health, Arusha (CEDHA), responsible for teacher training,
research and curriculum development, continuing education, and production
of health learning materials.
2.21      Tanzania has been unusually successful in producing well-skilled
health staff in large numbers since independence; some 21,000 health
workers (doctors, nurses, medical assistants and aides) are currently
employed. It has done this at a reasonable cost by encouraging the use of
auxiliary health staff; for example, in 1987, the ratio of assistant
madical officers and medical assistants to doctors was four to one. It has
also relied to a large extent on the upgrading of staff 'in service' and on
using iocal training institutions. This has provided a sound career
development strategy and allowed a high rate of retention.
2.22      Given the size of the health labor force and the implications
this has on the Government's budget in terms of training and salary
support, it is essential that the assessment of health manpower needs be
based on sound criteria and that their skills are appro":iately developed
and maintained. However, despite this positive overall picture of the
health manpower situation, there are several indications that the DMDT is
not adequately addressing some of its very important responsibilities.
First, manpower planning, as such, has been based on simplistic assumptions
regarding appropriate staffing standards for each type of facility, without
reference to either variations in workload or disease patterns, or to
resources available to meet implied salary costs or complementary inputs.
'Staffing standards' approved by the Ministry in late 1987, which more than
doubled those previously in effect, are clearly outside the resource
capacity of the health sector for many years to come, and fail to
acknowledge that existing health staff are unable to perform at full
capacity now because they lack the necessary materials and supplies.
Second, the curricula of the basic training institutions have never been
appropriately revised to reflect the primary health care strategy, so that
each of the vertical programs (EPI, MCH, family planning, etc.) finds it
necessary to retrain even newly graduated health workers in the specifics
of service delivery. This approach is not efficient, resulting an
extensive absences of some staff from theit jobs, duplication of effort
and/or inconsistency between training courses. Third, while considerable
effort is being put into updating health learning materials to make them
consistent with today's needs, the department is unable to ensure that they
are delivered where they are needed in a timely manner. For example,
hundreds of copies of the essential drugs handbook have remained stored in
Dar since January 1989, rather than reaching the health workers who are
expected to use them. And fourth, the quality of training being undertaken
is, in some instances quite -oor, largely because the DMDT has not devoted
sufficient effort to supervision.



- 14 -
2.23      Fortunately, the DMDT has already begun to address these
deficiencies. With regard to manpower planning, the department has
solicited the assistance of a WHO-financed specialist, who is assisting its
manpower planning unit to undertake a new assessment of local staffing
requirements based on the annual workload at each facility. The method
being employed correctly involves the district health management team and,
once elaborated, can be used as an ongoing management planning tool at the
district level as well as an aid in projecting training reqsirements
nationwide. Pro forma workload indicators developed in a preliminary
workshop in October 1989 are being applied on a trial basis in two
districts (Temeke district in Dar-es-Salaam region and Kilosa district in
Morogoro region). These will be revised and retested in all districts of
those regions before preliminary application nationwide. Evaluation of the
entire exercise will be completed by about September 1991.
2.24      Once an assessment has been mie of manpower 'needs' based on
sound criteria, a manpower development '-;.an should be formulated jointly by
the DMDT and the Planning Department, t. Lng into account the resources
likely to be available to the sector over time, and the need to allocate
sufficient recurrent budget to non-salary expenditures if those health
workers employed are to be effectively utilized. The output of the
training institutions would be modified as necessary to reflect this long-
term manpower development plan.
2.25      With regard to its other deficiencies, DMDT carried out an in-
house review, which concluded that they result from both a shortage of
staff with appropriate qualifications, and less than effective use of the
staff who are available. Only one person in the department has had
graduate level training in health manpower development, and he is stretched
too thinly, having important responsibilities outside the division which he
heads. The time of existing professional staff is too often taken up with
administrative and clerical tasks rather than responsibilities more suited
to their skills, due in >art to the low skill level of existing clerical
staff, and in part to the lack of carefully defined job descriptions for
professional staff linked to the department's priority functions. The in-
house review recommended that an inspectorate be established to oversee
teaching quality, and that technical, administrative and logistic functions
be allocated to specific staff in each of the department's four divisions.
Interestingly, if staff had suitable qualifications, it may even be that
fewer staff would eventually be needed, with resultant savings in the
salary bill.
2.26      The changing role of the MOH has presented another major
challenge to the DMDTs to help prepare district health teams to take over
the management responsibilities implied by the decentralization of health
services. Not only is the DM0 to have responsibility for managing
resources available to the health sector in the district, including their
allocation among various programs, but also the DMO will be expected to
take over responsibility for the in-service training of district health
staff, the underlying assumption being that the day-to-day supervisors of
district health workers are most cognizant of their needs for refreshing
skills, and the changing demands on their time. The DMDT is therefore
laying the groundwork for two ambitious training programs: the first,



- 1S -
designed to give DMOs the management skills required to run large and
complex health programs responsive to the PHC needs of the population; the
second, designed to train district health teams (a) to recognize the
training needs of their staff, (b) to formulate programs suited to those
needs, and tc) to undertake the training. In order to carry out these
programs, the DMDT has decided to create six zonal training centers, each
responsible for the training of district health teams in three or four
regions. Six existing training institutions would be used for this
purposet CEDHA in the north, and training schools in Mtwara (south),
Morogoro (east), Kigoma (west), Mwanza (lake), and Mbeya (southern
highlands). Minor extensions to existing facilities will be required,
except in the case of CEDHA where adequate facilities already exist.
C. Populationt Policies, Programs and Issues
Population Policies
2.27      The government has a long history of interest in and action on
population issues. For example, concern over the difficulties of
concentrating and serving a scattered rural population led to the
evillagization, program of the 1970s which was, in effect, a national
population redistribution policy. The government also early accepted the
concept of child spacing as a desirable element of maternal and child
health care and family welfare and supported the development of the Family
Planning Association of Tanzania (UMATI) in the 1970s.
2.28      Tanzania's will soon adopt a comprehensive National Population
Policy, reflecting the culmination of more than a decade of gradually
growing concern over the socio-economic effects of rapid population growth,
particularly the pressure on government educational, health and other
welfare budgets. Recent economic shocks, recession and drought reinforced
this concern. Against this background, two international conferences - the
1984 Second African Conference on Population, which gained impact from
being held in Arusha, and the 1985 International Conference on Population
in Mexico - caught public attention and awakened widespread interest in
population growth among members of the Party (Chama Cha Mapinduzi - CCM),
government and general public. These were followed up between 1984 and
1987 by a series of seminars and workshops on population and development,
family life education and child spacing for government and Party officials
and MPs, organized by UNFPA and UMATI with assistance from other bilateral
and multi-lateral sources.
2.29      The recently-created Population Unit in the Human Resources
Division of the Planning Commission (PC) has had the responsibility of
drafting the policy. The Population Polic; Unit set up seven task forces
covering different aspects of population issues, including (i) health,
fertility and family planning; (ii) agriculture, food and nutrition; (iii)
labor, employment and productivitys (iv) socio-cultural and legal aspects
of population: women, youth and the elderly; (v) population, resources and
environment; (vi) information, education, and communication; (vii)
training, research, evaluation and statistics. These task forces were
staffed by rembers of appropriate Ministries and government agencies,
together with university professors and representatives of national
organizations of women, youth, labor, UMATI etc. Upon completion of their



- 16 -
reports, a number of seminars were held vith opinion leaderst and other
interested parties financed by a SPPF provided by the World Bank to
acquaint them with the findings of the task forces and to build a consensus
for the emerging population policy. The Population Unit is now finalizing
the arrangement for implementation which include the creation of the
Tanzanian Council for Population and Development (TCPD), to determine
future policy issues with respect to population, and will be composed of
Ministers from 18 ministries, together with senior representatives from 7
party organizations and 4 religious organizations. Technical matters will
be dealt with by the National Population Committee. The Population Policy
Unit will serve as a Secretariat to both bodies.
2.30      .mongst its key objectives, the draft policy aims to: (i)
integrate population variables into planning; (ii) improve the standard of
living and quality of life of the population through protection of the
environment and enhancing the provision of basic human needs; and (iii)
achieve lower population growth rates through reduction of the birth rate
by voluntary fertility regulation. The specific (and ambitious) targets
are to:
a)   reduce the current estimated proportion of women who get married
before age 20, by 50 per cent by the year 2000, in order to
protect the health of the mother and child;
b)   achieve an average birth spacing of at least two years interval,
by taking steps to attain a contraceptive prevalence rate of at
least 30 percent by the year 2000;
c)   direct a significant proportion of the family planning program,
in terms of family life education and appropriate family
planning services, to all adult males by the year 2000;
d)   reduce the number of children a woman is likely to have during
her lifetime (the Total Fertility Rate) now estimated at 7, to 5
by the year 2000;
e)   lower the infant mortality rate to at most 80 per 1,000
livebirths by the year 2000, through the improved provision of
basic social services; and
f)   decrease maternal mortality from the present level of 200 per
100,000 by 25 percent by the year 2000, through improving access
to and quality of services, and through fertility regulation.
Population Programs and Institutions
2.31      Responsibility for population and family planning activities in
Tanzania is shared by several institutions. In the field of family
planning services, the MOH and UMATI take joint responsibility. For
example, NOH is responsible for pre-service training of "alth workers in
family planning through the introduction of appropriate courses into the
basic pre-service training curricula, while UMATI offers in-service
training for MNH health workers who received their basic training prior to
this introduction or whose skills are felt to require upgrading or



- 17 -
refreshing. UMATI is also responsible for commodity support, that is, it
distributes contraceptive supplies received from donors (mainly IPPF and
UNFPA) not only to its own regional offices, but also to MOH regional
headquarters, from whence they are distributed to health facilities. MOH
takes full responsibility for provision of family planning services in its
facil.'ties, including routine supervision of health workers.
2.32      In the field of family planning demard creation and IEC
(information, education and communication) activities, responsibilitiee are
shared among a larger number of institutions, and the demarcation of tasks
is less clear. Generally speaking, however, the division of roles is as
follows:
(a) UMATI has main responsibility for developing !EC activities
directly related to family planning and its health benefits to
mothers and young children;
(b) MOH coordinates integration of this family planning education
into its general health education program at health centers,
dispensaries and hospital out-patient departments;
(c) The Prime Minister's Office and the WAZAZI wing of the party
network have concentrated on efforts to educate the public on
the socio-economic consequences of large families;
(d) The Ministry of Education (MOE) is responsible for the
introduction of population education in the school curriculum,
through a committee which includes representatives of MOE, MOH,
UMATI and the Planning Commission.
(e) A so far largely untapped IEC resource is the CCM, through its
grass-roots organization. Once the National Population Policy
has been adopted, the Party is expected to take a vigorous and
leading role in this area.
Coverage. Quality and Utilization of Family Plannins Services
2.33      An important achievement of recent years has been a dramatic
increase in the accessibility of basic family planning services. About 85
percent of MCH clinics, and 79 percent of health facilities, now provide
some kind of child spacing services (at least counselling), compared with
around 40 percent some five to seven years ago. Over half of all MCH
clinics provide a reasonably complete range of services.
2.34      The adoption by MOH in 1983 of the "National Child Spacing
Program' stimulated most of this progress. Since then UMATI (jointly with
HOH) has trained at least one or two members of each regional MCH Team
(which consists of the Regional MCH coordinator, the RMO or his
representative, the Regional Cold Chain Operator and the Regional Health
Officer) as Trainers for their health staff in family planning
communication and clinical skills, including IUD insertion; and this
training has in turn been carried out, to varying degrees, in all regions.
In addition, about 800 MCH aides and 100 public health nurses have received
intensive four-week in-service family planning training courses directly



- 18 -
from UMITI.  Funding for most of these training activities by UMATI come
from donors, notably UNFPA, SIDA and DANIDA.
2.35      Despite these improvements in coverage of family planning
services, utilization is still very low. In the absence of good service
statistics and contraceptive prevalence surveys, reliable estimates of
contraceptive acceptance and use are impossible, but estimates by UMATI
based on quantities of contraceptives distributed suggest that, at most,
about five percent of women in the reproductive age groups are currently
using modern contraceptive methods, and about eleven percent have ever used
them. Another estimate by a UNFPA mission gives a figure of between five
and six percent for 1986, of whom 85 percent are using oral contraceptives.
Drop-out rates are high; UMATI estimates that 75-80 percent of rural
acceptors discontinue use vithin a year, although continuation is usually
much higher in urban areas.
2.36      At the same time, however, unmet demand for family planning is
thought to be considerable. The discrepancy between apparently high demand
and low utilization is to a large extent due an iacomplete integration of
family planning into health services and a shortage of contraceptive
supplies and equipment. Cognizant of these issues, the MOH convened a
donors conference in March 1989 to solicit support for an expanded program
of family planning. Substantial support has been pledged from NORAD, SIDA
and USAID for IEC activities, and from UNFPA and USAID for training and
contraceptive supplies. Together with the impetus of the National
Population Policy, this support should be sufficient to enable the
Government to close the gap between supply and demand of family planning
services, generate increased demand and increase quality and effectiveness.
D. tftritions Policies, Programs, and Issues
Prevalente of Malnutrition
2.37      The nutritional surveillance system in Tanzania is
underdeveloped, although UNICEF is assisting the Tanzania Food and
Nutrition Centre (TFNC) in building up such a system. TFNC did undertake
an important survey of child malnutrition during November 1986 - May 1987.
This survey aimed to cover at least three health facilities in one district
of each region, with an attempt to include one facility each in poor, rich
and middle income areas. Broad results are shown in Table 2.1 and in
Charts 2.1 and 2.2.
2.38      Based on the same survey, TFNC made national estimates of
malnutrition for different population groups. These indicated that 80
percent of pregnant women suffered from anemia, 52 percent from iodine
deficiency, and 13 percent from Protein-Energy-Malnutrition (PEH). School
children and other adults showed hiigh prevalence of iodine deficiency (48
percent), and high levels of anemia (23 percent) and moderate malnutrition
(22 percent). In this population group vitamin A deficiency was low (0.1
percent), being only a significant problem in children under 5 (30
percent). For the population as a whole, TFNC estimates prevalence of
iodine deficiency at 41 percent, anemia 32 percent, PEM 27 percent and
vitamin A deficiency 6 percent (see Table 2.2, Charts 2.3 and 2.4).



- 19 -
2.39      The 1986-87 survey found 16 percent of births to be low birth
weight, an indication of poor maternal nutrition, while 40 percent of
children under 5 years of age were suffering from moderate malnutrition and
6 percent from severe malnutrition. On the basis of these results, TYNC
estimates that 1.8 to 2.6 million children in Tanzania (40-60 percent) are
moderately malnourished (including the effects of both past and current
undernourishment), and 180,000 - 260,000 (4-6 percent) severely
malnourished. The prevalence of moderate malnutrition is above the median
(31 percent) for countries with very high childhood mortality, but the
prevalence of severe malnutrition is below the median of 7 percent; the
incidence of low birth weight is around the median for Africa (see UNICEF,
State of the World's Children, 1988). There are wide variations between
regions in all indicators, which seem primarily related to general level of
development. There appears to be no correlation between child malnutrition
indices and adequacy of food production at the aggregate regional level;
for example, the two regions of highest surplus food balance (Rukwa and
Ruvuma) show the fifth and sixth highest levels of total malnutrition.
TFNC found no evidence of any trend since 1960 from the various spot
surveys conducted, except in areas where specific multi-sectoral nutrition
intervention programs like the Iringa JNSP had been undertaken.
Table 2.1
Nutritional Status of Children Under 5. 1987
Region         Number      Average       Percent      Percent    Percent
of        Birth       Low Birth    Moderate    Severe
Clinics     Weight       Weight         PEH         PEM
(kg.)
Arusha            2            3.2          2.8         2.9          0.9
Dar es Salaam     4            3.0         18.0        33.0          4.5
Dodoma            3            3.1          0.7        39.3          4.0
Iringa            4           2.8          25.5        37.0          1.0
Kagera            3            3.0          8.7        68.0          8.7
Kigoma            3            3.1          4.8        23.1         11.3
Kilimanjaro       3            2.9          8.0        26.7          2.7
Mara              3            2.5          n.a.       24.5          7.2
Mbeya             3            n.a.         n.a.       34.5          6.8
Morogoro          5            2.8         15.4         44.6         3.4
Mtwara            7            2.9          6.9         49.2         6.6
Mwanza            3            3.1          6.0         66.9        12.0
Pwani (Coast)     3           2.7          11.4        76.7         15.3
Rukwa             3           n.a.          n.a.       47.1         14.3
Ruvuma            5            2.7         17.9        46.9          5.2
Singida           3           2.9           0.0        42.7          4.0
Shinyanga         4           2.9          13.7        41.8          6.4
Tabora            3            3.0         10.7        24.7          4.7
Tanga             3            2.8          9.9        21.4          2.1
Average for
Tanzania        3.5         2.9          16.0        39.6          6.4
Sources TFNC Surveys, November 1986 to May 1987.
Note: Survey data are not based on a truly random sample.



Percent Low Birth Weight of Children Under 5
1987
Region
Arusha
Dar es Salaam
Dodoma
Iringa                               -
Kagera    H
Kigoma
Kilimanjaro
Mara - n.a.
Mbeya -na                         
Morogoro       __
Mtwara
Mwanza
Pwani
Rukwa    n.a.
Ruvuma         _f_                                       .
Singida        _
Shinyanga         _    III
Tabora         _
Tanga         _               ,        __ ,_i___ij 
0              10              20              30              40              50
*   Percent Low Birth Weight



Nutritional Status of Children Under 5
1987
Region
Arusha
Dar es Salaam                       ...         ..            . .....
Dodoma                .                          .
Iringa                   ..... ..... .  i .        i
KIgoma                                                     i
Kilimanjaro                     ........
Mara                .._.._.___i_
M beya                ................                 -------
Morogoro                                ................    ........
ara         ..........~~~~~.... ........
Mwan  a          .        ..   ...  ~~~..........     ...       .....|
. . . .                            . . . . ..... . ...
Mtwara........
Mwanza                                                    ..... ........................
Pwani                                                                                                  .............
Singida ~~~~~~~~~~.......                        .    .   ...........    ..........     ..... ......................l.l
Rukwa                        .....                                            .......... :: _l
Ruvuma.....................
Singida                          .....
Tanga
Tabora                             ...
0                       20                       40                       60                        80                      100
* Percent Severe PEM [ Percent Moderate PEM



- 22 -
Table 2.2
Estimated Prevalence of Malnutrition In Sanzania 1986-87
Population Group
Pregnant        Children       School             Total
Vsno            c 5 years      Children
& Other
Adults
Type of
Malnutrition         S     No.        I      No.    S        No.      Z       No.
Protein-Energy
Malnutrition        13    91,000    52 2,280,000    22  3,700,000   27  6,070,000
Anemia               80 1,200,000    45 1,980,000    25  4,400,000   32  7,580,000
(Iron Deficiency)
Iodine Deficiency    52   760,000    13   570,000    48  7,900,000   41  9,320,000
Vitamin A Def.       0.7   10,000    30 1,330,000    0.1    18,000   6.1 1,350,000
Sources TFNC estimates, 1987.
Nutrition Programs and Policies
2.40        The health system plays an essential role in the dealing with
malnutrition, particularly for the most vulnerable group, mothers and
children. Among the activities included in the various special programs run
by the Department of Preventive Services which promote good nutritional status
ares
(a) prenatal care of pregnant women, to protect both maternal and
infant health;
(b)   promotion and support of breast-feeding and good weaning and child
feeding practices;
(c)   surveillance of child growth through periodic weighings and
recordings on the growth chart, to alert health workers and
mothers to nutrition problems as they develop;
(d)   immunization of children against infectious diseases such as
measles that can interrupt good feeding and growth;
(e)   oral rehydration therapy, to minimize nutritional losses from
diarrheal diseases;
(f)   nutritional rehabilitation of severely malnourished children; and
(g)   family planning, to ensure adequate spacing of children and
reduction of high-risk pregnancies which could result in the death
or debility of a mother.



Estimated Prevalence of Malnutrition in Tanzania
1986-1987
Number
10,000,000
6,000,000    -         ---------                                         -   .
6,000,000         .                   .-.             _          --_
4,000 00____.  ._.....  
2,000,000                                                               .  . .6
0
Protein Energy     Iron Deficiency    Iodine Deficiency     Vitamin A
Malnutrition (PEM)      Anemia                               Deficiency
Type of Malnutrition
*   Children Under 5    Pregnant Women  M    School Children & other Adults



Estimated Prevalence of Malnutrition in Tanzania
1986-1987
3,700,000
A
91,000
- 18,000 \ t ~~~~~~~10,000
| 1 760,0000
2,980,000   Pregnant Women
7,900,000                           . | |         1
School Children                       *                      Protein Energy Maint
& Other Adults                                              Aei
1.980,000                                      I lodine Deficiency
1,330,000      ] Vitamin A Deficiency
570,000
Children
Under 5



- 25 -
2.41        While the health system is thus designed to support the
nutritional status of the population, nutritional issues go well beyond the
health sector. Malnutrition is a problem with multi-sectoral determinants$
general income level, food production, disease and health status, water and
sanitation, the workload of mothers, feeding customs, and nutritional
knowledge. Approaches to preventing and treating malnutrition must therefore
also be spread across many sectors.
2.42        In recognition of this reality, the Government established, in
1973, the Tanzania Food and NutrAtion Centre (TFEC), to provide a multi-
sectoral overview for nutrition. TFNC is a parastatal with an inter-
disciplinary Board attached to the Ministry of Health. Its mandate includess
(a)   planning and implementing a national food and nutrition program;
(b) advising the government on nutritional matters;
(c)   providing nutrition training to health, agricultural and community
development workers;
(d)   undertaking nutrition education of the public,
(e)   ensuring proper nutritional value of marketed food; and
(f)   carrying out nutritional research.
2.43        TFNC has accomplished a great deal since its foundation, with
financial support from external donors, notably SIDA and UNICE3.  Through its
research and publications, knowledge of the nutritional situation in Tanzania
has been greatly improved. A national nutrition education campaign UChakula
ni Uhai (Food is Life) has been conducted. A national nutrition policy has
been drafted, and is in process of being approved. To date a wide range of
nutritional activities have been undertaken ranging from research on food
storage, nutritional content, weaning practices, traditional food taboos and
preparation methodologies.
2.44        TFNC has also devoted a lot of effort to micro-nutrient deficiency
programs given their public health importance in Tanzania (see Table 2.2 and
Chart 2.3). A program to combat iodine deficiency disorders (IDD) has been
developed, and donor support obtained from the Netherlands (for salt
iodination) and SIDA (iodized oil). The first five-year national program to
combat Vitamin A deficiency is almost completed and is currently being
evaluated. A second five-year program based on an interim evaluation of the
first such program has been developed and requires finance so that it may
commence in July 1990. A similar program for iron-deficiency anemia is under
development, although further operational research is essential to determine
an effective strategy.
2.45        In addition to the programs implemented or envisaged by TFNC, a
number of nutrition-focused projects have been initiated in Tanzania. The
largest of these is the Joint (VROIUNIC0F) Nutrition Support Prograi_e



- 26 -
(JISP) i whose objective is the development of caumnity-based iwmrovements
in nutrition and health, including amelioration of the situation of women. An
important feature of the program, made possible by Tanzania's extensive local
government system, is its reliance on existing regional and district
development structure. A six-month preparation stage entails training of
regional and district development staff, social mobilization to identify
interested villages, election of village health committees with at least a
minimum number of female members, selection of both a male and a female YEW,
and preparation of a village register. Program activities at the village
level are begun with an information film and a "campaign" day during which all
children are weighed and, if necessary, immunized. Subsequently, each village
has a 'health day, once a month or once a quarter for child weighings,
immunizations, etc. Other activities added over time in selected villages in
response to recognized problems have included informal day care for children
of mothers working in the fields, vegetable gardens, small livestock raising,
introduction of grain mills and other labor-saving devices such as more fuel-
efficient stoves.
2.46        The Iringa Nutrition Programme (which commenced in 1983) is fully
integrated into existing administrative structures. In the villages, the
Village Health Committees, together with the Village Health Workers, are
responsible for programme implementation and follow-up. Every three months
they weigh all children under five years of age, compile the growth monitoring
and child death information and discuss the reports with the Village Councils,
which then take action within their power to address the problems which have
been identified. The reports are then sent to the higher administrative
levels, which include the Ward, the District and the Region, so that problem
areas or villages can be identified and provided with special support.
Critical activities aimed at increasing and sustaining people's capacity to
tackle nutrition problems have included actions to increase accessibility to
information about nutrition, the establishment of the village-based
nutritional status and death monitoring system and integrated training. The
programme also provides support to areas identified as crucial for the
improvement of the nutritional status of children and women.
2.47        An evaluation of the program carried out in 1988 indicated
significant improvements in the nutritional status of children. In the 168
villages included, the proportion of severely malnourished children dropped
from 6 percent in 1984 to less than 2 percent in 1988, while the proportion of
underweight children dropped from 56 percent to 38 percent over the same
period. Although the start-up costs in the initial years we.e relatively high
(US$25 per child per annum) as training, monitoring and supervision systems
were being established, these have dropped substantially (now estimated at
less than US$5 per child per annum) as experience has developed. After about
3-5 years, the villages are expected to be able to sustain the activities
themselves with only limited supervision or technical support from outside.
In view of the success to date, the program is currently being extended to
Norogoro, Shinyanga, Rukwa, Kagera, Ruvuma, and Kilimanjaro regions, as well
as Zanzibar with UNICEF support and financing from a variety of donors.
Moreover, the Government is now trying to extend the approach to all other
regions and has convened a National Coordinating Committee on Child Survival
41 Renamed the Iringa Nutrition Programme in 1988.



- 27 -
and Development (NCC CSD) under the Planning Commission to oversee this
process.
2.48        Tanzania has long recognized the essential role which clean water
and sanitation play in maintaining the health and nutritional status of the
population, and has given considerable priority to providing both potable
water and sanitation systems. In urban centers, improved water supplies have
been built to serve some 50-70 percent of the population, and in rural areas,
about 45 percent: however, in both cases problems of inadequate maintenance
and rehabilitation reduce the number actually served to about 25 percent.
Host urban centers also have mains sewer based sanitation systems (serving
perhaps 10-15 percent of the population), supplemented by septic tanks, cess
pits or pit latrines. About 80 percent of the rural households have latrines,
three-quarters of which are considered suitable by MOH. Generally speaking,
however, expansion of both water and sanitation services is only just keeping
pace with population growth, and greater efforts are needed in order to make
substantial imprcvements.
S. Expenditures and Financina
Sources of Funds
2.49        The financing of the health sector in Tanzania is complex, with
Government fundi.ng channeled through four sources: (i) the MOH - responsible
for financing National Programs, e.g., AIDS cor.trol, referral hospitals and a
variety of parastatals; (ii) the hLG budget - which provides the subvention to
the districts to run dispensaries, RHCs and key programs; (iii) revenues of
the District and Urban Councils from the development levy and other locally
generated sources; and (iv) the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) budget - which
essentially covers regional and district hospitals. Other sources of funding
include the Voluntary Agencies (VA), which themselves receive subventions from
the NOH, and multilateral and bilateral donors. All health care is officially
free at Government health facilities, although some small charges have been
levied for higher quality rooms in hospitals, and there is growing evidence of
unofficial payments by clients in order to have access to scarce services,
particularly in the urban areas. Users of VA facilities pay fees which are
used to defray facility a substantial proportion of costs. The Government is
now examining introducing a resource mobilization options for many types of
health care, realizing that the government budget is inadequate to meet the
demand for quality services. Much is also spent in the private traditional
sector, but no precise estimates of such expenditure are available - in rural
areas the payment is usually in the form of a gift in kind based upon
successful treatment, although in urban areas there is a growing trend for
traditional healers to require cash payments in advance. Another source of
finance for the health sector is the contributions of communities. This has
generally taken the form of construction of dispensaries by villages and the
payment of village health workers (VHWs) either in cash or kind. While
experience with such community mobilization has varied from location to
location, such a means of mobilizing resources (specially for PHC) has much to
commend it. Greater community participation and contribution is the most
acceptable form of resource mobilization in Tanzania culturally.
2.50        Central (Mainland) Government development and recurrent
expenditure for health for FY88189 was budgeted at TSh 6,567 million, of which



- 28 -
47 percent came through the MOH budget, 28 percent was through the MLG budget,
and 25 percent was through the Office of the Prime Minister's Office/Regional
budget. Of the MLG expenditure, 68 percent was budgeted to go to District
(rural) Councils as subventions for recurrent health care and 24 percent
similarly to Urban councils; the balance b6ing for development expenditure.
The MLG subventions are expected to cover 70-80 percent of Government facility
costs at District and Urban level, with the remaining 20-30 percent to be
raised by District and Urban Councils from their own internal sources. Total
Government health spending budgeted in 88189 would amounted to about TSh 7,300
million, depending on the extent to v'ich District and Urban Councils were
able to fully complement the MLG subvention with funds, or about 6.5 percent
of Government consolidated budget.
2.51        VAs receive a large part of their funding from government, which
subsidizes 100 percent of the operating costs of the 17 VA hospitals
designated as District hospitals and provides both staff grants (full salary
at Government scale for 'certified, staff) and bed grants (TSh 1,000 for each
'approved' bed) to other VA hospitals. For FY88189, TSh 298 million was
allocated in the budget for 'designated District hospitals" and TSh 69 million
for other VA hospitals, amounting, on average, to about one-third of VA
hospital operating funds. Another one-third of VA funding comes from users
fees. The remaining third comes from external sources. Because Government
subsidies are calculated on a per-bed basis, they have been criticized for
creating incentives to favor inpatient over outpatient care.
2.52        Tie most important donor contribution to the Tanzania health care
system, at least for operating costs, has been from DANIDA (through UNICEF),
which between 1983 and 1987 provided nearly US$ 30 million in drugs and
medical supplies. The total annual inflow, from all donors, is now around US$
11 to 12 million of donor provided pharmaceutical supplies. Districts are
expected to pay the CMS for drug kits delivered to RHCs and rural dispensaries
within their jurisdiction, since their development levy, in theory, has been
calculated to cover the costs of such kits. In practice, however, the
Districts frequently do pay the CMS for drugs received, first, because the
budget allocation for drugs is often insufficient to cover the full costs of
the kits; second, and more importantly, because the Districts run short of
funds, with their own revenues insufficient. The facilities themseLves have
no user fee revenues. VA RHCs and dispensaries are able to pay CMS more
regularly for drugs received, as they charge fees for services provided. In
aggregate, CMS recovers about 50 percent of the cost of these drug kits.
Expenditure Levels
2.53        Over the period 1980/81 - 1986/87, aggregate central government
expenditures on health rose nominally but declined by 9 percent in real terms.
In an attempt to improve the resource position of the sector, total central
budgetary resources for the health sector were increased in nominal terms by
43 percent between 1986/87 and 1987/88 and by a further 41 percent between
1987/88 and 1988189, was an increase of 11 percent in each year. The
situation is not so encouraging if viewed on a per capita basis. Between
1980/81 and 1985/86, central government resources (including the MLG budget)
for health, on a per capita basis, declined by 37 percent in real terms,
although there has been some recovery since this time. While focusing
exclusively on central government health expenditures slightly underestimates



- 29 -
total expenditures on health, the revenues which district and urban councils
have thus far been able to mobilize for primary health appear in general to be
insignificant. Per capita health expenditures have declined despite recent
efforts to bring the aggregate spending on health back to the real levels that
pertained at the beginning of the decade.
Table 2.3
Total Realth Expenditures (Mainland) 1986187 - 1988189
(TSh aillian)
1986/87       1987/88       1988/89
Planning and Development
Ministry of Health               69.4          76.0          285.9
Regional Authorities             62.5          57.3          124.5
District Councils                64.4          61.1           78.9
Urban Councils                   42.5          28.2           68.3
238.7        222.6          557.6
Recurrent Expenditures
Ministry of Health           1,316.6       1,950.9        2,774.0
Regional Authorities           929.4       1,130.1        1,488.7
District Councils              560.6       1,042.0        1,290.8
Urban Councils                 210.9         315.0          457.4
3,017.5      4,438.0        6,009.9
Total                        3.256.2       i.660.E        6,567.5
Source: Ministry of Health, February 1989
2.54         Table 2.4 below shows a functional breakdown of the central MOH
recurrent budget. While this breakdowns suggests a pattern of recurrent
spending in Tanzania weighted toward curative care (as might be expected at
the central level), it is in fact impossible to estimate on the basis of
available information what are the relative shares between preventive and
curative services, or what the optimal share would be. Hospital services
account for 68 percent of the MOH budget, of which 77 percent is allocated to
grants and subventions.   This includes support to the 17 VA designated
district hospitals (TSh 298 million), other VA hospitals (TSh 69 million), the
Muhimbili Medical Center (TSh 783 million) and the Bugando and Kilimanjaro
consultant hospitals (TSh 285 million). 'Preventive services", as such, are
allocated only 6 percent of the central MOH budget, but this underestimates
the actual expenditures on preventive care since all hospitals offer
preventive services (eg., immunizations), and most training expenditure (10
percent of the MOB budget) is for primary health care workers. Moreover, the
real responsibility for preventive health care is at the district level and is
therefore reflected in the MLG recurrent budgets, rather than that for KOH



- 30 -
(the PMO budget is largely curative as it covers the regional and district
hospitals.
Table 2.4
Central MR Recurrent EXpenditures Budget, 1988189
(TSh '000)
Percent
of
Function                                        Amount        Total
200 Administrative and General                   51,923.6       1.9
448 Hospital Services                         1,875,643.3      67.6
449 Preventive Services                         162,980.6       5.9
450 Manpower Planning and Training              290,440.6      10.5
451 Medical Supply                               33,347.6       1.2
452 Health Planning                               3,268.5       0.1
453 Government Chemical Laboratory               41,162.2       1.5
454 Social Welfare                              309,258.2      11.1
455 National Food Control Commission              6,049.8       0.2
Total                                     2,774,074.4    100.0
Source: Ministry of Health and Social Welfare, Republic of Tanzania Recurrent
Expenditures Budget, 1988189
Structure of the Investment Budget
2.55         In 1988189 the three central government (MOH, MLG and PHO)
investment budgets together total TSh 558 million, of which or 52 percent,
came from the MOB, 26 percent from the MLG and 22 percent from the PMO. 'When
donor support is fully accounted for, as much of it is off the budget, 75
percent of investment expenditure is contributed by foreign funding. However,
much of this - eg. drugs, vaccines should more appropriately be reflected in
the recurrent budget. The broad structure of the MOB investment budget
(including foreign funding) appears to be appropriate and consistent with the
policy emphasis on preventive care.   Of this amount, 67 percent is allocated
for preventive care, 30 percent for curative care, and 3 percent for training.
Allocations within the preventive care category also appear appropriate: about
30 percent each for the immunization and diarrheal control programs, and 10
percent for research. The AIDS control program is well funded.
Health Sector vith the Overall Fiscal Framework
2.56         The health sector has been seriously affected by the overall
developments in public sector finance in Tanzania over the last decade. As
the Public Expenditure Review (PER) Al clearly demonstrates, that in addition
5/   See Tanzania Public Expenditure Review, World Bank, Report No. 7559-
TA, May 22, 1989 (3 Volumes), which provides a fuller discussion of
all these issues.



- 31 -
to running a substantial public sector deficit (financed by grants from
donors, foreign and domestic borrowing) for most of the last decade, there
have been significant changes in the composition of public expenditure. The
share of public expenditure going to investment (development expenditure) has
been squeezed from 40 percent of the total to below 30 percent, as the
requirements for debt service have increased. No--debt service recurrent
expenditure (Central and Regional Supply Votes) has fallen slightly as a share
of public expenditure. More striking however, is the change in the
composition of such expenditure. The share of Personal Emoluments has fallen
from about 30 percent to under 20 percent, as grants (mainly subsidies to
parastatals) and other contractual and contingent liabilities have grown.
Whilst in aggregate, the share of recurrent expenditure allocated to Other
Charges has not been compressed significantly, in sectors such as health, its
failure to grow has led to a chronic underfinancing of key inputs to the
sector such as pharmaceuticals and medical supplies. This issue, and the fact
that real wages in the public sector are only 20 percent of their level in the
late 1970s, have undermined the effectiveness of the health system.
2.57         The Government recognizes that it has some major issues to
resolve in the area of public sector finance and public rector management.
The Government therefore intends to introduce reforms in these areas, drawing
upon the analysis of the PER, and utilizing the support of IDA and other
donors in a proposed Public Sector Management operation (FY92). One of the
first sectors to be addressed by the Government is health, due to the
seriousness of its problems, the sensitivity of its services and the fact that
it is a sector identified as a core area for public expenditure. This
emphasis is reflected in the strong focus on this sector in the ESAP and PSAP,
see para. 1.07 and Annex 2. Specifically, the Government intends to tackle
the following:
a) introduce an improved incentive and remuneration package for health
sector staff; and
b)   finance adequately the supply of pharmaceuticals and medical
suppliest
and to do this the Government will:
c)   increase the efficiency of all health sector expenditure,
especially for expenditures on manpower and pharmaceuticals,
through a rational and streamlined allocation of staff, and
reducing losses and polypharmacy, in the case of pharmaceuticals;
d)   enlist communities more effectively in taking more responsibility
for their own health and nutrition status;
r
e)   raise the share of the recurrent budget going to health (from the
current level of about 11 percent to 14 percent of the Central and
Regional Supply Votes, and at least maintain such a level
thereafter); and
f)   examine and then implement other options for mobilizing resources
for the health sector (see para 2.58).



- 32 -
Resource Mobilization in the Health Sector
2.58       Given the difficulties in providing an adequate level and quality
of PHN services to the population funded purely from tight budgetary
repources, the Government has been grappling with cost-effective mechanisms to
generate more resources for the sector, which would not restrict access by the
poor to services. A number of actions aimed at strengthening the financial
base of the health sector have already been identified (as noted above)
includings (i) increasing the efficiency of resource utilization within the
sector, (ii) improving the financing arrangements for critical inputs such as
pharmaceuticals and medical supplies, (iii) raising the share of the budget
allocated to the health sector over the medium-term, and (iv) catalyzing PHC
initiatives at the community level, thereby shifting the responsibility for
provision of basic PHN services to communities themselves. In addition to
these measures, the Government proposes to introduce measures to generate
addltional resources within the health sector. In order to lay a strong
foundation for these measures, it proposes to undertake a study on the long-
term options for financing the health sector, analyzing the efficiency and
equity issues involved in various cost-sharing and resource mobilization
mechanisms. The Terms of Reference for this study are attached as Annex 3.
F. Donor Role in the PEN Sectors
2.59       The donor community has made a significant contribution to the
development of the health sector in Tanzania since independence. Donor
involvement in the health sector was at its height during the mid to late
19709 following the Arusha Declaration, which placed an emphasis on meeting
the basic needs of the population. During this period, the Nordic countries,
and SIDA in particular, made a considerable contribution to expanding the
health system. During the 1980s, the emphasis shifted towards providing the
necessary drug_ and other irputs, to enable the existing system to continue
functioning. DANIDA has been preeminent in this regard, funding the EDP and
EPI through UNICEF. Other donor support for pharmaceuticals imports has come
and in some cases continues to come from the Governments of Netherlands, UK,
Italy, Switzerland. UNFPA is the major supplier of contraceptives at present,
with USAID offering substantial support for a major increase in supply.
Donors such as UNFPA, NORAD and SIDA provide assistance in training staff in
FP techniques and supporting IEC efforts.
2.60       Donors have also supported a large number of PHC ir-itiatives both
as free-standing projects and related to other sectors. During the 1980s, for
example, a number of donors have appended health components to water supply
projects, eg. SIDA in the HESAWA (Health, Sanitation, and Water) Project.
Other donors financing area-based PHC programs include UNICEF, DANIDA, the
Swiss Development Cooperation in Kilombero District, the Federal Republic of
Germany in Bagamoyo District Region, NORAD in Rukwa Regions, and the British
ODA's assistance in Mbeya.
2.61       In the field of nutrition, an important approach has been developed
with the assistance of WHO/UNICEF, funded by the Italian Government, in Iringa
Region, with a focus on health and nutrition at the village level. This is
currently being replicated in other seven regions with donor support through
UNICEF (see para. 2.47). Additional support in nutrition comes from SIDA and
UNICEF for institution building for the TFNC. SIDA and the Government of the
Netherlands are also financing the Iodine Deficiency Program.



- 33 -
2.62       While some donors have re-evaluated their contribution to the
health sector, others are newly convinced that assistance in this sector is
vital to the maintenance of human capital in the country, and must not be
neglected. Donors do have an important role to play not only in strengthening
national programs and supporting area-focused PHC initiatives, but also in
helping the Government confront the major policy trade-offs in the sector.
2.63       Although a unit exists within the MOH ostensibly for coordination
of external aid, such coordination has been very weak due to staffing
constraints. This has made it difficult, among other things, to ensure that
lessons learned under one program are applied elsewhere. It will therefore be
important that, as the PHC Steering Committee develops a strengthened health
strategy for the nation, it ensures that lessons learned from these many
initiatives (both positive and negative) be incorporated.
G. Role of IDA
2.64       In addition to key support to the ERP and the process of
macroeconomic reform, IDA has a substantial portfoMio of investment operations
in Tanzania. Increasingly, IDA support is being channelled through operations
which focus on sectoral adjustment, e.g., Tanzania Agriculture Adjustment
(TANAA) Program, or have a substantial policy content, e.g., Integrated Roads
Program (PY91) and Education Planning and Rehabilitation (FY91). This project
also has a strong policy content (see paras. 3.28 and 3.29) and complements
the policy-based operations of the Bank which support the process of
macroeconomic reform. The policy reform elements supported by this project
(in manpower, staff remuneration, financing in the pharmaceuticals sub-sector,
resource mobilization for the health sector, and increasing the health sector
share of the budget - as outlined in para 3.29) have a strong forward linkage
to the proposed Public Sector Management operation (FY92).
2.65       The propesed project is the first in the health sector and comes
from the culmination of two years of dialogue with the Government, which
included the preparation and agreement with Government of the Tanzania
Population, Health and Nutrition Review (7495-TA). The project responds both
to the priorities outlined in that report and the perceived priority needs of
the Tanzanians, embodied in the ESAP and PSAP (see paras. 1.01 to 1.07 and
Annex 2). It is anticipated that this project will form a strong basis for a
long and fruitful relationship between IDA and the Government in the
population, health and nutrition sectors.
2.66       A number of future initiatives have some bearing upon the project,
including the proposed rood security and women in development (WID) reviews.
The experience gained from and dialogue with Government on these issues in the
context of project preparation will serve as inputs to these reviews. The
recommendations of the reviews will be incorporated into project
implementation wherever this is feasible - particularly as the project
includes important elements relating to food security and WID (see para.
3.14). It is proposed that the experience gained from Component II
(Strengthening Rural PHC) will be developed and expanded as a major component
of future IDA-assisted operations in the sector such as the Human Resources I
project (FY93S).



- 34 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Obiectives ad Sumsarv Description
3.01      Proiect Ob1ectives.  The proposed project will reinforce the
Government's efforts (including the ESAP and PSAP) to raise the quality,
coverage and effectiveness of family planning, nutrition and basic health
services in urban and rural areas, through providing support to critical
and strategic elements of the PHN sectors, with particular emphasis on
strengthening: (i) institutional capacity for health planning and policy
formulation; (ii) PHN manpower development and training; (iii) sustainable
provision and financing of pharmaceuticals and medical supplies; (iv)
micro-nutrient deficiency programs; (v) implementation of the national
population policy; (vi) rural PHC, through the trial implementation of the
revised strategy; and (vii) urban PHC, through reform and rehabilitation of
the system.
3.02      Summary Description.  In order to achieve these objectives, the
project, which complements ongoing and planned PHN activities in Tanzania
financed by other donors and will be implemented over a five year period
commencing July 1990, is composed of three components as follows:
Component I - Strengthening National PHR Systems
a)   Health Planning, Policy Formulation and Information System -
strengthening of the planning and policy formulation
functions 1/ of the MOH; policy-oriented studies on the long-
term financing for the health sector and domestic
pharmaceuticals industry; establishment of an integrated Health
Information System (HIS) at the central, regional, and district
levels; project coordination;
b)   Manpower Development and Training - formulation of a manpower
plan for the health sector, which takes account of resource
constraints; strengthening of the Department of Manpower
Development and Training; support to in-service training at the
district level based in Zonal Continuing Education Centres;
(c) Pharmaceuticals and Medical Supplies Financing and Procurements
reform of the pricing, financing, budgeting and procurement for
the pharmaceuticals sub-sector; procurement of pharmaceuticals
and medical supplies (disbursed in three portions according to
the Government's implementation of agreed policy reforms);
training of staff; rehabilitation of the CMS;
(d) Micronutrient Deficiency Control Programss support to the five
year programs for vitamin A and iron deficiencies;
l/ Similar activities in nutrition are taking place with support of UNICEF.



- 35 -
(e) National Population Policys support to the Population Policy
Unit of the Planning Commission in managing the implementation
of the National Population Policy; establishment of a National
Population Information Centre.
Camponent I! - Strentthening Rural Primary Health Care
(f) Implementation of the recently revised PHC Strategy in ten
selected districts, including: community mobilization for PHC
activities at the village level; support to village PHC
initiatives, including nutrition programs, rehabilitation and
strengthening of health facilities, improved water supplies;
strengthening of district health management; improvements to
supply and maintenance systems; rehabilitation of the district
hospitals; monitoring and evaluation for feedback to PHC policy
formulation.
Component III - Strengthenin. Urban Primary Health Care
(g) Within Dar es Salaam: improvement of management and supply
systems; operations research on and support to urban community
participation; rehabilitation of the basic health network,
including the district hospitals; establishment of an effective
maintenance system; construction of a limited number of basic
health facilities in under-served urban areas; monitoring and
evaluation as a feedback to PHC policy formulation.
Furthermore, related policy reforms will be supported in three major areas,
namely: (i) establishing a firmer and more sustainable financial base for
the sector, through a variety of resource mobilization mechanisms which do
not restrict access to services by the poor; (ii) increasing the efficiency
of resource use by improving the composition, quality and motivation of
health sector manpower; and (iii) establishing a sustainable and adequate
supply of pharmaceuticals through reforms in the pricing, financing,
budgeting, and procurement of pharmaceuticals and medical supplies.
B. Detailed Proiect Description
3.03      In addition to substantial support to the health sector, the
project makes major contributions to the Government's programs and policies
in population and nutrition. With respect to population, the project will
(i) strengthen the Government's capacity to implement the national
population policy (Component Ie.) and (ii) develop the capacity to deliver
effective family planning services at the district level through PHC
strengthening in urban and rural areas (Components II and III). In the
field of nutrition, the project will (i) provide for the integration of
nutrition data within the overall health information system (Component
Ia.), (ii) finance imports of pharmaceuticals and medical supplies for the
treatment of malnutrition disorders (under Component Ic.), (iii) support
the implementation of the vitamin A and iron-deficiency control programs
(Component Id.) and (iv) most importantly, catalyze and support community
nutrition activities as an integral aspect of PHC in rural and urban areas
(Components II and III), thereby contributing substantially to the
replication of the highly successful elements of the Iringa JNSP to four



- 36 -
regions (see paras. 2.45 to 2.47). Component I is described in detail in
paras. 3.04 to 3.08, Component II in paras. 3.09 to 3.16 and Component III
in paras. 3.17 to 3.26. Related sectoral policy reforms are described in
paras. 3.27 to 3.29. The relationship of the project to World Bank
programs of special emphasis is given in para. 3.30.
I - Strengthening National PHN Systems  (US$ 38.5 million)
3.04      Health Planning, Policy Formulation and Information System  (US$
2.6 million). This sub-component will strengthen planning, management, and
the requisite health information system, finance key policy-oriented
studies to be undertaken and provide for the coordination of the Component
I of the project.
(a) Health Planning: As noted in para. 2.13, the Planning
Department (PD) is weak and is in urgent need of strengthening
through the upgrading of existing staff and the placement of
staff in key unfilled positions. The skills of key existing
staff in the Planning Department (PD) will be upgraded through
appropriate training (up to a total of 66 person-months) in
health planning, health economics, financial management and
related disciplines. Tanzanian or African training courses will
be used whenever adequate courses exist, and any resultant cost-
savings could be used to increase the amount of training
provided. All staff chosen for such training will be required
to return to work in the MOH according to normal GOT procedures.
Training will be focused on economists, statisticians and
planners already working in the PD and those to be recruited.
During negotiations the Goverament confirmed that it would
Increase depleted staff levels of the Planning Department (PD),
thr-,ugh the allocation of six additional staff by July 1, 1993,
to fill the following six vacant positionss i) Public Health
Specialist, ii) Senior Economist, iii) Senior Statistician, iv)
Epidemiologist, ,) Health Economist, and vi) Economist (see
para. 7.01 (a)).   The project will also support the work
program of the Building Section, responsible for designing
health facilities, with drawing office supplies, thereby
strengthening the implementation capacity for components II and
III.
(b) Health Policy Formulation: Funds will be provided for two
policy-oriented studies on key issues confronting the health
sector. Firstly, a comprehensive study on the options for the
long-term financing of the health sector in Tanzania will be
undertaken with the support of 9 person-months of foreign
consultants' services and a working group in the MOR. The study
will make recommendations on the appropriate mix of financing
mechanisms for the health sector, taking account of Tanzania's
socio-economic status and the need to maintain access by the
poor to health care. Terms of reference for the study were
reviewed during negotiations and are attached as Annex 3.
During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that
Government and IDA ill jointly review the study's
recommendations and agree upon a plan of action by April 30,



- 37 -
1992, (see para. 7.01 (b)). Secondly, due to its impact on the
pharmaceuticals sub-sector, a study would be undertaken, with
the support of 20 person-months of consultants' services, to
analyze the economic and financial viability of the domestic
pharmaceuticals industry. During negotiations, the Government
gave assurances that Government and IMk will jointly review the
study's recommendations and agree upon a plan of action by July
1, 1992 (see para. 7.01Cc)). The project will also support the
initial implementation of the jointly agreed plans of action
emanating from both these studies; through the provision of
supplies, training and equipment for the long-term financing
options, and the provision of raw materials to the domestic
pharmaceuticals industry through the OGL under Component Ic., if
justified by the domestic pharmaceuticals study.
(c)  Health Information System (HIS):  As noted in para. 2.12,
Tanzania lacks an adequate and integrated HIS capable of
providing timely, adequate and selected data to enable health
managers to manage health services more effectively. This lack
is noticeable at all levels of the system. At the central MHH
regional and district levels, data is fragmented, outdated and
unavailable to policy-makers. At the facility level, a plethora
of forms, and inadequate understnnding of the meaning and
managerial use of the informaticiL, result in poor quality data
which furthermore, is not even ised by the facility staff as a
basis for planned improvementc and monitoring of rervice
delivery and coverage. Build.ag upon support already provided
by DANIDA, the development of the HIS will follow two paths.
First, starting at the central MOH level, the HIS will draw data
(including nutrition status and growth monitoring data) from a
limited number of health programs such as MCH/FP, EDP and EPI.
As experience is gained over time, the HIS will be expanded to
draw data from the remaining programs, eventually covering all
sources and types of ihformation as the system is improved. In
parallel, the information requirements for the management of the
health system at the facility, district and regional levels will
be carefully determined in the context of Components II and III.
An information kit has already been developed for the district
level, comprised of an initial starter kit (furniture and non-
expendable items) and a recurrent kit (forms, stationery etc.).
This kit system will be implemented on a trial basis in about 15
districts (with DANIDA and IDA support). It will then be
evaluated by the GOT, DANIDA and IDA, modified as necessary
based upon this evaluation and in order to integrate the
information requirements of all tiers of the health system, and
replicated to the remaining 104 districts. Contracts for the
supplies and equipment in these HIS kits, other than for the
trials, will not be awarded until the joint review is undertaken
and the viability of the approach established. Careful analysis
of data requirements for all levels (district, regional and
national) will be undertaken so that the number of forms for the
HIS will be kept to the minimum. Once experience has been
gained in operating the revised manual system, computerization
of the HIS will be expanded from the central level to the



- 38 -
regional level and finally to selected districts. The project
will provide for 36 person-months of consultants' services to
complete the design work on the HIS, and undertake trials at the
district level in Dar es Salaam (under Component III - see para.
3.20), and in rural areas (including some of those included in
Component II - see para. 3.14 (b)). The project will provide
for the necessary computers (central and regional levels),
software, training of staff, costs of supervision and supplies
to run the system.
(d) Proiect Coordination: The costs of coordination of project
activities for which the MOH is responsible will be covered,
including the salary of the Project Coordinator, Accountant and
Procurement Officer, and the related operational expenses for
which the MOH is responsible (see Annex 4.2 for an organogram of
the project coordination arrangements within the MOH).
Financial provision of US$ 0.2 million is made within the
project to assist the MOE in preparing future projects for
possible IDA and donor support.
3.05   (    M    r Development and Trainia CUS$ 2.8 million).  This sub-
component will strengthen the DMDT's ability to carry out its increasing
responsibilities both with regard to ensuring the quality of basic training
given to the country's primary health staff and to support the Government's
long-term effort to strengthen district health teams in the management of
human and other resources allocated to them. The project will also support
the development and implementation of a manpower plan, and concomitant
training plan, which takes adequate account of resource constraints (see
para. 3.29 (a)).
(a) DMDT Strengtheningt The organization of the Department will be
strengthened through the addition of an Inspectorate responsible
for ensuring the quality of training of health manpower, and by
the establishment of technical, administrative and logistic
units in each of the department's divisions. Graduate level
training in health manpower education would be provided to the
three persons selected to head the Inspectorate, and the two
divisions responsible for basic education of nursing and allied
health staff. Provision would also be made for office equipment
and supplies, and for six person-months of consultant services
to help design improved logistic and administrative systems.
The GOT and IDA have agreed upon the outlines of the new
organizational structure of the DMDT and the MOH is currently
preparing a detailed plan of action for implementing the
reorganization, adoption of which will be a condition of
disbursement of the overseas training for DMDT staff (para. 7.02
(a)).
(b) Zonal Training Centers and In-service Trainings Support would
also be provided to the Continuing Education Division of DMDT
for the upgrading of five of the six existing training schools
so that they can function as zonal training centers for district
health teams. The project includes the provision of textbooks
and other learning materials; a classroom, small dormitory for



- 39 -
vorkshop participants and storage facilities for learning
materials at each site; and vehicles for distribution of
materials to districts and for supervision. The principals at
two of the six schools are experienced health educators, but the
remaining four have had no specialized training in either public
health or education. Graduate level training in health manpower
education will be provided to the persons selected to head these
four schools. During negotiations, agreement was reached with
Government on the criteria to be used in selecting candidates
for training under this component. The criteria seek to ensure
that the persons selected have appropriate experience and
aptitude for the enhanced roles they will be playing.
3.06      Pharmaceuticals and Medical Supplies (US$ 31.0 million).  The
project will assist the GOT in implementing its revised national drug
policy which will be approved by Government shortly (the recommendations of
a working group on the content of the policy is attached as Annex 7), and
responds to four strategic issues in the pharmaceuticals sub-sector,
supplementing the support of key lonors such as DANIDA, UNICEF and WHO,
namely:
(i) addressing the immediate shortfall in funding for
pharmaceuticals and medical supplies;
(ii) improving the necessary mechanisms for the long-term
financing, budgeting and procurement of pharmaceuticals and
key medical supplies;
(iii)facilitating the storage of pharmaceuticals; and
(iv) strengthening the management of the pharmaceuticals sub-
sector.
(a) Procurement of Pharmaceuticals and Medical Supplies. In order
to address the immediate shortfall in supply, US$ 10 million
will be provided for the procurement of priority drugs and
medical supplies in accordance with the agreed procurement
program and financing plan for 1990;91 (see Annex 5). Total
procurement requirement for vital and essential pharmaceuticals
and medical supplies for 1990191 is estimated at US$ 32.1
million; of which US$ 6.7 million is accounted for by the EDP
funded by DANIDA, a further US$ 1.6 million is to be made
available by ODA for hospital Outpatient Department drugs, US$
4.6 million from other donors and US$ 9.1 million from
Government sources. The IDA project funds will thus provide 31
percent of the finance for the 1990/91 pharmaceuticals and
medical supplies procurement program, as a major contribution to
the PSAP and to address priority needs. The MOB will utilize
this support to supply essential drugs to urban MCH clinics,
dispensaries and health centres (not yet covered by the EDP
financed by DANIDA) as well as procuring d-ugs for the referral
network and vital medical supplies for the whole health system
As the IDA support diminishes, the GOT will progressively take
over the financing of these kits (see para. 3.06 (b)).



- 40 -
(b)  Refom in the Sub-Sector.  The Government, desiring to secure
the long-term financing of the pharmaceuticals sub-sector, has
committed itself to a series of reforms in the pricing,
financing, budgeting and procurement of pharmaceuticals,
including establishing a more effective institutional framework
for the CMS. These reforms are outlined in para. 3.29 (b), with
additional background in Annex 8). Subsequent finance from the
Credit amounting to USs 18 million (in two equal portions of US$
9 million each) will be released in support of these reforms and
measures to mobilize additional resources for the health sector.
This second portion of USS 9 million, will be made available in
support of the pharmaceutical sub-sector reforms to finance
procurement of vital and essential pharmaceuticals and medical
supplies (as outlined in para. 3.29). Satisfactory progress In
implementing the agreed reforms in the pharmaceuticals sub-
sector (see para. 3.29 (b)) will be a condition of disbursement
for the second portion of funds (para. 7.02 (b) ti)). The third
portion, amounting to US$ 9 million, will be made available for
similar procurement, in support of the Government's introduction
of measures to mobilize resources for the health sector based
upon the study outlined in para. 3.04 (a) and Annex 3 (the third
portion). Satisfactory progress in implementing the agreed plan
of action for resource mobilization for the health sector (see
para. 3.04 (b)) will be a condition of disbursement for the
third portion of funds (para. 7.02 (b) (ii)).
(c) Rehabilitation of the CMS: Given the deplorable state of the
C4S central warehouse facility, and given that finance for the
rehabilitation and construction of the ZMS has already been
secured, the central CMS warehouse facilities in Dar es Salaam
will be rehabilitated and handling equipment upgraded. A major
report was prepared on strengthening the operations of the CMS
in 1983 (the Bannister Report). This is being updated and
revised through a study which is being funded by DANIDA, and
will include recommendations on improvements in its management
and institutional organization as well as the physical
rehabilitation of the CHS . However, neither DANIDA nor any
other donor currently has the resources to finance the actual
rehabilitation. Given the complex status of the CMS, with the
buildings and the warehouse staff pertaining to the Ministry of
Works, and various other cadres pertaining to the MOH
(pharmacists), MOF (accountants) and the CMS itself (day-
laborers) there is an urgent need to simplify the management
structure, ownership and improve efficiency. There is also a
need to streamline the manpower of the CMS, reducing
underemployed labor and increasing the remuneration of a more
professional staff. A candition of disbursement for the
rehabilitation of the CMS warehouse complex is IDA approval of
the revised institutional status of the CMS, and the plan of
action for its physical rehabilitation (see para. 7.02 (c)). In
order to protect the investment in the rehabilitated CMS, the
maintenance system in the CMS will be strengthened through the
provision of supplies and the training of maintenance staff,



- 41 -
complementing the assistance from other donors such as UNICEF
and DANIDA. The rehabilitation will result in a reduction of
losses of pharmaceuticals and medical supplies by about 10
percent, as well as facilitating improved management through a
better physical structure for the complex.
(d)  Management and Procurement Trainint.  The managerial and
procurement capabilities of the CMS will be further strengthened
through 42 person-months of training of key managerial,
pharmacist, procurement and warehousing personnel in Tanzania
and abroad, in the fields of procurement, financial control and
warehouse management. Such training under the project will
complement that already provided by DANIDA, UNICEF and WH0, and
will in part be provided through institutional support from an
international procurement agency.
3.07      Micro-Nutrient Deficiency Control Programs (USS 1.4 million).
The project will support the Government's five-year programs to combat
Vitamin A and iron-deficiencies in Tanzania (further details on this sub-
component may be found in Annex 9). A program to combat the third of the
major micro-nutrient deficiencies, namely iodine, has been supported by
SIDA (iodized oil capsule distribution) and the Government of Netherlands
(capacity to iodize salt). During negotiations, Government gave assurances
that it will undertake and review with IDA a mid-term evaluation of both
programs, according to protocols acceptable to IDA, not later than December
31, 1992 (see para 7.01 (d)).
(a)  Vitamin A Deficiency Control Program:   The first five-year
National Vitamin A Deficiency Control Program will finish in
June 1990. An evaluation of this program undertaken by TFNC
Indicated that a continuation of the program, with some
modifications, would be vital to consolidate its achievements,
and reduce the incidence of xerophthalmia (vitamin A deficiency
induced blindness) and enhance the immune systems of small
children, thereby reducing child morbidity and mortality. The
new five-year program has been approved by the National Vitamin
A Consultative Group (NVACG) and appraised by IDA. The program
has six lines of action: (i) training of Medical Assistants
(MAs) and Rural Medical Aides (RMfAs) in the recognition of
clinical requirements for Vitamin A therapy and more effective
Vitamin A tablets administration (due to a lack of
understanding, the vitamin A capsules are frequently not
prescribed to those at risk and unused stocks currently build up
month by month through the EDP); (ii) the promotion of the
production and consumption of Vitamin A-rich foods such as palm
oil in suitabie regions (including a pilot in Kyela district)
and fresh fruits (the extension service of the Ministry of
Agriculture and Livestock Development (MALD) will be responsible
for this activity); (iii) nutrition education and public
information on Vitamin A deficiency (appropriate IEC materials,
focussing on a message that each child should be given fruits
like guava, mango etc. with each meal, will be developed using
such media as films, dances and songs; staff will also be
trained in utilizing these IEC naterials); (iv) the TFNC



- 42 -
laboratory vill be strengthened in order to carry out analytical
and research work on Vitamin A and iron deficiency through the
provision of equipment and chemical reagents; (v) research will
be undertaken on morbidity/mortality risk related to Vitamin A
and the socio-cultural factors contributing to the inadequate
intake of Vitamin A rich foods, and the effects of traditional
food preparation methods on the availability of Vitamin A; and
(vi) technical support will be provided to the NVACG and Vitamin
A program through 10 man-months of consultant services.
(b) Iron Deficiency Control Program: Likewise, the project will
support the five-year National Iron Deficiency Control program
which has four lines of actions (i) training of MAs and RMAs in
the recognition of clinical iron deficiency and in the effective
admir.istration of iron supplements to vulnerable groups; (ii)
promotion of the production and consumption of iron-rich foods
(such as green leafy vegetables) and particularly vitamin C rich
fruits which assist the body in the uptake of iron from the food
(the extension service of the MALD will be responsible for this
activity); (iii) development and utilization of appropriate IEC
materials, targeted particularly to pregnant women; and (iv) a
program of research of morbidity, mortality risk related to
iron-deficiency, the socio-cultural factors contributing to the
inadequate intake of iron-rich foods and a strong program of
operational research on compliance with iron supplementation
tablets and the trials of alternative pharmaceutical compounds.
3.08      Implementation of the National Population Policy (US$ 0.7
million). In order to oversee the impnementation of the shortly-to-be-
approved hational Population Policy (see paras. 2.28 to 2.30), the GOT has
established the Tanzanian Council for Population and Development (TCPD)
(see para 2.29) . The secretariat to the TCPD will be the Population
Policy Unit of the Planning Commission (PC) which will be supported through
the provision of 24 man-months of local and foreign short-term consultants
services; supplies, equipment and the renovation of office space; training
of key support staff in demography and related population fields; and
support to a program of research on population and development. Support to
the TCPD will be an important aspect in strengtheniAg the policy
environment for all the population activities integrated within PHC
strengthening under Components II and III of the project. In addition, a
National Population Information Centre (NPIC) will be established under the
PC in order to provide a research and resource base for population issues
in the country. It will be supported through the provision of books,
periodicals, supplies, equipment, training of staff and 20 man-months of
local and foreign short-term consultants services.
II. Strengthening Rural Primary Health Care (USS 11.6 million)
3.09      The PHC Secretariat of the MOH is in the process of formulating
the revised PHC Strategy, which will comprise operational guidelines for
the recently drafted National Health Policy. During negotiations, the
Government gave assurances that it will agree with IDA on the revised PEC
strategy by December 31, 1990. The project will support the implementation



- 43 -
of the revised PHC Strategy, developed by the PHC Secretariat of the MOH,
in ten selected districts (see paras. 1.14 and 2.63s Annex 10 provides an
outline of the major issues being addressed in the revised Strategy). The
experience of the implementation will be carefully evaluated and will be
used to revise and further refine the PHC strategy. The successful aspects
will be later replicated on a larger scale as part of a national program of
revitalizing PHC in Tanzania for which Tanzania will require external
support including that of IDA. Population (including family planning
services) and nutrition conotitute core components of the PHC strategy.
3.10      District Selections  The selection criteria and procedures
followed for the selection of the ten districts are given in Annex 11. The
following districts qualified:
Resion              District                   Population a/
a)   Kigoma                Kasulu                          320,518
Kibondo                         176,262
b)   Lindi                 Kilwa                            150,212
Lindi Rural                     284,523
Liwale                           52,211
Nachingwea                      118,071
c)   Singida               Iramba                          290,260
Singida Rural                   285,092
d)   Tabora                Igunga                          203,097
Nzega                           295,613
Total                2,175.859
a/ From 1988 Census.
(A map - IBRD No.21769 - showing the location of these districts is
attached.)
3.11      District Health Plan (DHP):  For each of these districts, a
District Health Plan tDHP) will be developed based upon the revised PHC
strategy. Disbursements of IDA funds will be for elements of the agreed
DHP. During negotiations, Government gave assurances that by November 30
each year, for each district included in the trial implementation of the
PUC strategy, the GOT will submit the district health plans for the
forthcoming year, developed in accordance with the approved guidelines
(paras 3.14 and 7.01 (f)), for IhA approval for the forthcoming district
financial year (para 7.01 (e)). During the first two years of operations,
as the ten districts will be in different stages of starting up, this date
requirement will be waived. However, IDA approval will still be sought for
each district plan prior to the disbursement of funds. The staff of the
Program Support Network (PSN) - see para. 5.03 - together with requisite
staff from the MOH and MLG will assist the districts in fulfilling this
requirement. Finances will be channelled directly from the MLG to the
district concerned through the recently approved Account No. 6 which



- 44 -
provides the DMO with control over the funds as a first signatory (see
para. 3.13). Maintenance of this financial arrangement will be a condition
of continuing support to the district concerned (para. 7.02 (d)).
3.12      Role of the DM0:  As the DMO will have a key role in overseeing
the implementation of the DHP, it is vital that the DMO's time is not
concentrated on managing the district hospital. Cognizant of this the MOH
has already authorized each district to appoint an Officer in Charge to run
the district hospital on a day-to-day basis, reporting to the DM0.
3.13      Initial ImDlementation:  In order to start up project activities
during the first project year, a *basic package" of PHC support will be
provided to 5 out of the 10 districts, chosen according to their proven
commitment to PHC as measured by the percentage of their own revenues
allocated to the health sector over the preceding three year period. The
five districts thus selected were Kibondo, Kilva, Nachingwea, Singida Rural
and Igunga. The basic package will consist of (i) a vehicle for the DMO,
(ii) equipment and building materials to rehabilitate two dispensaries
(assuming an input of community labor), (iii) management training, supplies
and equipment for the District Health Team (DHT), (iv) US$ 20,000 for high
priority rehabilitation or equipment for the district hospital, and (v) US$
10,000 for support to community PHC initiatives in the locality of the two
rehabilitated dispensaries. In order to facilitate control over these
funds, the GOT has opened an account (Account No. 6) in the ten selected
districts through which funds for this component of the project will pass,
with the DMO acting as the first signatory (para. 7.02 (d)).
3.14      Full Implementation:    For the subsequent support to the
particular district concerned in the implementation of the PHC strategy (as
embodied in the DHP), conditions for the continuing disbursement of funds
for a particular district will be: (i) fulfillment of the MON directive to
release the DMO from the day-to-day management of the district hospital,
through the appointment of an Offi^er in Charge of the district hospital
(para. 3.12), (ii) continuation of the channelling of funds through Account
No. 6 and (iii) IDA approval of the DIP for the district concerned (para.
7.02 (d)). Responsibility for monitoring the compliance by the districts
with these conditions will reside with the PSN (para. 5.03). The project
support will have three lines of action as follows:
(a) Support to Village PHC Initiatives (USS 3.2 million). As
discussed in para. 2.52, the Government is unable to provide
adequate resources for the PHC needs of the population. Moreover
the effectiveness of such services has been weakened due to a
lack of responsiveness to community needs. As may be seen in
paras. 2.45 to 2.46, Tanzania has much experience in mobilizing
resources and commitment at the community level, with communities
assuming a greater responsibility for their PHC needs. Building
upon past experience, the project will support community
mobilization activities at the village level in the ten districts
selected. District level staff will be trained in community
mobilization through preparatory workshops. Following such
training, these staff (in cooperation with relevant party
officials) will hold behavioral change campaigns in selected
villages of the district according to the annual plan. The
I



- 45 -
objective of these campaigns will be to: (i) catalyze the latent
ability of communities to assess, analyze and then act upon their
PHUN situation (the triple A approach)t (ii) explain to
communities the type of support the district can offer (e.g.,
matching grants, support to the health system); and (iii)
establish follow-up procedures and plan future actions.
Communities will prepare plans for PHC initiatives, identifying
the inputs required (including community labor inputs). Matching
funds for these initiatives will be provided by the district
government, up to a maximum of forty percent of the total costs.
In general, it is expected that communities will cover the costs
of skilled and unskilled labor, raise contributions in cash or in
kind, with the district assisting in the procurement of
manufactured inputs (such as roofing sheets, hand-mills, etc.).
The full range of eligible activities will be indicated in the
DHP guidelines (see para. 3.14 (c)) but includes activities
related to nutrition, family food security, child care,
rehabilitation of health dispensaries, grain hand-mills,
protection of traditional water sources and simple improved water
schemes in arid areas. Altogether, it is estimated that about 70
percent of such disbursements will be for nutrition-related
activities. In each case, the community will be responsible for
the operation and maintenance costs of the activity conceived.
Such an undertaking from the community will be a pre-condition
for district support. The activity selection criteria, financing
arrangements, terms and conditions of district support will be
fully developed in the DHP guidelines (see para. 3.14 (c)).
(b)  Strengthening the District PHC System (US$ 3.8 million).  The
project willt (i) strengthen the district health management team
(DHT) through training in community mobilization, management,
planning, financial control and other key areas; (ii) furnish
vehicles for the DHOs, and appropriate forms of transport for
other key staff; (iii) provide supplies and furniture equipment
for the DHT; (vi) strengthen the maintenance system through the
provision of supplies, equipment and means of transport; (v)
rehabilitate dispensaries and rural health centres including
supplies of equipment; and (vi) support the program of awareness
campaigns at the village level and ongoing supervision of the
health system. The health information system (Component Ia.) and
support to continuing education of staff (Component lb.) are
important complementary inputs to the district level under the
project.
(c)  Strengthening the District Health Referral System (USS 3.2
million). The district hospital plays an important role in the
health system as it is the first point of referral. The project
will support the high priority rehabilitation or upgrading of the
district hospitals in up to five of the selected districts. In
order that the focus of the DMO does not become concentrated on
the district hospital to the neglect of other aspects of PHC,
approval for rehabilitation will only be given after adequate
progress has been made in the implementation of aspects (a) and
(b) of para. 3.14 above (i.e. normally after at least one year of



- 46 -
satisfactory implementation). IDA will review jointly with the
GOT the performance of each district in the implementation of its
DHP, on an annual basis based upon agreed criteria, to determine
which districts will be eligible for such support. Each district
will then be eligible for financial support for priority
rehabilitation according to guidelines prepared by the MOH, which
will include inter alia, rehabilitation of existing buildings,
repair and replacement of key equipment, and when justified,
limited new construction. The DHT will prepare proposals in
accordance with guidelines prepared by the MOH. According to
these guidelines, each district will have a ceiling established
on the finance available for rehabilitation according to the
following basis; (i) US$ 50,000 equivalent per district (in the
case of a district hospital) and US$ 150,000 equivalent per
district in the case of a regional hospital ie. Singida Rural and
Kilwa), plus (ii) USS 1 dollar equivalent per capita. During
negotiations, Government provided assurances that by December 31,
1990 the GOT will agree with IDA ont (i) guidelines for the
rehabilitation of the district referral system in the 10 selected
districts; and (ii) list of criteria for evaluating the
performance of the districts in implementing their DIPs; and
(iii) guidelines for the preparation of district health plans
(DIP) para. 7.01 (f)).
3.15      Monitoring and Evaluation (USS 0.4 million).  As many of these
activities are innovative, and as a key objective is to evaluate and
monitor the trial implementation of the revised PHC Strategy, Monitoring
and Evaluation of this component is critical. Initially, baseline data
will be collected for each district according to a survey instrument to be
developed. Monitoring and evaluation will have three aspects:
(a) day-to-day management monitoring - the Project Support Network
(PSN) (see para. 5.03) will undertake day-to-day monitoring
related to implementation, based on regular reports from the
districts concerned (submitted monthly) and field supervision
(not less than four times a year to each district). The results
of such monitoring will be used to resolve problems as they
arise;
(b) regular program evaluation - a fuller annual evaluation
(including repetition of a sample survey linked to the baseline
survey) and a program of knowledge, attitude and practice (KAP)
surveys will be undertaken, to evaluate the results of project
interventions and to act as a feedback to policy-maker in the
revision of the PHC Strategy. The PSN will commission various
institutions to undertake these tasks; and
(c) external evaluation - a major evaluation of the component will be
undertaken by an agency not involved in implementation, in order
to assess the overall impact of the component, outline major
improvements which may be necessary, and indicate which areas
should be expanded and replicated under a future national program
of PHC strengthening which will be supported by donor and IDA
assistance. The scope of work, relevant protocol, short-list and



- 47 -
qualification of firms/agencies proposed to undertake this
evaluation will be submitted to IDA for approval. The results of
the evaluation will be submltted for IDA review by December 31,
1992 based upon a protocol agreed with IDA by June 30, 1991 (see
para 7.01 (d)).
3.16      Project Management (US$ 1.0 million).  Provision is made under
the project to cover the costs of project management by the Program Support
Network (PSN) in the MLG for this component of the project. Details of
these arrangements are given in paras. 5.03 and 5.04. The project will
provide for 42 person-months of short-term consultants services in the
field of public health, nutrition and other related areas, as well as two 4
wheel drive vehicles, supplies and equipment for the PSN. In addition, the
project will finance the limited incremental operating costs, salary and
travel per diem of the coordinator for this component, and the other key
staff (program manager, public health specialist, community development
specialist, rural economist, architect/civil engineer, accountant and
procurement specialist). As noted in para. 5.03, these staff will be
seconded from existing positions.
III. Strentthening Urban Primary Health Care (US$ 11.5 million).
3.16      As noted in paras. 2.07 to 2.09, since independence Tanzania has
concentrated the implementation of PHC in rural areas to the relative
neglect of urban areas. PHC in urban areas presents a number of
difriculties not experienced to the same degree in rural areas. Firstly,
unless adequate steps are taken for its prevention, it is easier for the
urban population to by-pass lower-tier health facilities and proceed
directly to a hospital for treatment, thereby overloading the hospital and
creating higher costs and inefficiency in the system. Secondly, effective
community participation may be more difficult in urban areas (especially in
those which have developed rapidly and contain heterogenous populations).
Thirdly, in view of large population concentrations, and the rapid growth
of urban areas (with the provision of key infrastructure lagging behind),
increased problems of disease related to environmental sanitation occur.
In order to address these issues, and develop a more effective strategy for
urban PHC, trial implementation of a strengthened urban PHC system will be
undertaken firstly in Dar es Salaam 2/ and subsequently replicated in other
urban areas during future projects.
3.17      This component of the project will support the implementation of
the Government's approved policy to devolve administrative and financial
control of the health system in Dar es Salaam to the three districts which
constitute the region. This component will be fully cofinanced by the
Swiss Development Cooperation (SDC) and DANIDA (see para. 4.09).
2/ Dar es Salaam has been chosen both because the needs are particularly
great as it is by far the largest urban area of Tanzania, with a population
of 1.36 millior. (1988 Census), compared to only 0.22 million for Mwanza,
the second largest urban agglomeration, and because it provides the best
opportunity for close monitoring and evaluation of the results so that they
may be fed back into strategy development.



- 48 -
3.18      The final details regarding the scope and implementation
arrangements of this component are subject to an intergovernmental
agreement between Tanzania and Switzerland which will be finalized shortly;
an outline is provided in Annex 12, however. Within this context, the key
objectives of this component of the project are outlined below:
3.19      Management and Planning of PlC.  Management strengthening of PBC
in Dar es Salaam, including training of the City Medical Officer of Health
(CKOH) and three DM09 in management, planning and financial control. In
addition to the training, the project will provide for office space,
furniture, equipment and vehicles for the CMOH and three DMOs in order to
supervise PHC services. The services of a project adviser will be made
available in order to help launch the varied project activities.
3.20      Health Information System (HIS) Develo2ment.  The project will
provide for short-term consultants'services to assist in the development of
an adequate HIS, together with a computer, supplies, equipment and a
vehicle for supervision. The experience gained in formulating an effective
management and HIS in Dar es Salaam will be an important input into the
detailed arrangements for the extension of the improved HIS nationwide (see
para. 3.04 lc)).
3.21      Community Particivation and the District PHC Comnittee.  The
project will strengthen the involvement of the community representatives
and organizations in PHC management at the village (rural periphery), ward
and the district level, especially in the areas of: (i) needs
identification; (ii) community resources mobilization and funding of the
recurrent costs; and (iii) enhanced community control of resources
utilization. The project will provide funds to support urban community PHC
initiatives. The process for the disbursement of these funds will be
similar to those for Component II (see para. 3.14 (c)).
3.22      Realth Facility Rehabilitation.  As part of the program of
strengthening PHC, existing health facilities (compricing 4 health centres,
15 dispensaries in Ilala District, 15 dispensaries in Kinondoni District
and 18 in Temeke District) will be rehabilitated to enable effective
delivery of health services. This rehabilitation program will include the
referral network of the three district hospitals which are unable to render
surgical services at present and are in a deplorable state of repair,
hindering the provision of effective services of all types. Rehabilitation
will be undertaken in two phases, with the highest priority facilities (16
dispensaries, 3 health centres and the three district hospitals) commencing
under the first phase. During the second phase, the remaining facilities
which are essential to the PHC system will be rehabilitated.
3.23      Health Facility Maintenance.  A key need within Dar es Salaam is
the establishment of maintenance teams which will provide effective and
efficient maintenance of district health facilities, in order to ensure
that the rehabilitated facilities are not allowed to decay again. Small
brigades of skilled staff will based at each of the three district
hospitals, consisting of at least one electrician, plumber, carpenter,
stone-mason and support staff, thereby forming a maintenance brigade (MB).
All staff will be recruited from the existing pool of staff under the City



- 49 -
Engineer, thereby obviating the need to expand the staffing of the
district. Each MB will be headed by a brigade chief, who will plan the
work program to cover maintenance needs both within the hospital and for
outlying facilities, in accordance with directives from the DMO. The
project will provide for vehicles (one 4 wheel drive and 3 motorbikes) for
each MB togetner with training in maintenance management for the MB chief,
tools equipment and supplies.
3.24      Imaroved Access to PHC.  In order to extend PlC services to
underserved communities, particularly on the urban periphery, a limited
number of new PHC facilities will be constructed in such areas. These
facilities will both complement the activities supported under para. 3.21
and act as a base for the trained staff in catalyzing covmunity activities.
A preliminary assessment of underserved areas has already been made. This
will be complemented by a thorough needs assessment, financed under the
project, which will determine the:
-    criteria for the priority ranking of underserved areas;
-    staff requirements, type and size of facility needed (based
upon a sound functional analysis)s
-    government and community contributions for the construction
and equipment of the facility; and
-    means of covering the recurrent expenditures, including
keeping costs low by re-assigning under-utilized staff from
other facilities.
3.25     REy Supplies.  Vital medical supplies, basic diagnostic and other
essential equipment will be provided to the health network, as virtually
all PHC units and the three hospitals are lacking even the most basic items
and equipment. Accountability for the supplies and equipment will be
vested with the responsible officers in-charge of the facilities. The DMO
will monitor the performance of such staff in protecting equipment from
loss or avoidable damage.
3.26      Nutrition and other Operational Research.  Provision will be made
for operations research on PHC, the determinants of ill-health, with a
particular focus on at risk groups and che vulnerable. Operations research
on urban nutrition will be a major area of attention. Due to the lack of
adequate data on nutritional status and the limited experience of
nutritional programs in Dar es Salaam, the project will support, on a trial
basis, nutrition monitoring and operations research on nutritional
interventions targeted to women and children in Dar es Salaam. The data
gathering and operations research will be undertaken jointly by TFNC and
the DSCC in one district of Dar es Salasm. The results will be carefully
monitored. A full evaluation will establish whether an urban nutrition
program will need to be developed.
C. Sectoral Policy Reforms
3.27      Recognizing the decline in the performance of the sector, and the
scope for significant gains in terms of health service quality, leading to
improved health status, the Government has committed itself to a number of
key reforms which will be supported under the project. these includes



- so -
Financing the leath Sector
3.28      In addition to measures to improve efficiency of resource use
within the sector (see par.. 3.29 below) and mobilize resources from
communities by enabling them to play a greater role in the provision of
their own health and nutrition services (Component II of the project), the
project will support the Government in the implementation of some of these
key reforms.  During negotiations the Government provided assurances that
bys
a)   April 30. 1992, the GOT and IDA will reach agreement on a plan of
action for the long-term finacing of the health sector (para
7.01 (b)); and
(b) July 1, 1991, the GOT will reach agreement with IDA on the share
of the recurrent budget allocated to the health sector and an
improved incentives package for health sector staff (para 7.01
(g)). As outlined in the Policy Framework Paper for 1990, a rise
in the health sector's share of the recurrent budget (Regional
and Central Supply Votes) from its current level of 11 percent to
14 percent by 1990191, would represent a satisfactory share. The
Government is already formulating an improved incentives package
for health sector staff.
Efficient Use of Resources
3.29      In order to increase the output of quality services from the
health system, Government intends to rationalize and improve the
utilization of key resources to the health sector - manpower and
pharmaceuticalsimedical supplies. During negotiations, the Government
provided assurances, that bys
(a) December 31, 1991, the GOT will submit the draft health sector
manpower plan for IDA approval, and by July 1, 1992, the M0D will
commence implementation of the health manpower plan taking into
account IDA's comments (para 7.01 (h)). The focus of this plan
is to rationalize the output of trained manpower in accordance
with the priority needs of the health system and the financial
capacity of the different tiers of Government to remunerate staff
adequately so as to provide an incentive to deliver quality
services. Over time, this will result in slower growth and
rationalization of staffing levels, re-allocation of staff within
the sector, increasing focus on in-service as opposed to pre-
service training and a better trained, more motivated and
dedicated cadre of staff committed to providing the best service
to clients;
(b) It will undertake the integrated set of reforms in the pricing,
financing, budgeting, and procurement of pharmaceuticals and
medical supplies, in accordance with paras. 3.06 (b) and 7.02
(b). The major elements of these reforms are highlighted below:
Pricing Policy



- 51 -
(i)      The pricing policy of the C0S will be refonmed so that
all phanmaceuticals and medical supplies will be sold at
replacement cost (based on the prevailing exchange rate
and import prices). In order to do this efficiently,
without constantly revising prices, prices will be set
once for the following year based on the projected
average exchange rate and international prices for the
item.
(ii)     The  1S8 will increase its margins on sales to the
Governmnt. and voluntary agency hospitals fron 5 percent
to a level sufficient to cover all operations costs
(including exchange rate risks which may not be fully
covered by Ci) above; preliminary analysis indicates
that a level of 10 percent might be appropriate). The
existing margins for other categories of consumers such
as parastatals, NGOs and the private sector will be
reviewed and adjusted as necessary. CMS financial
position will be kept under constant review and changes
in prices and or margins will be implemented if
warranted tj maintain the viability of the revolving
fund.
Ciii)    Recently all sales have been strictly on a *cash-and-
carry basis-. The CMS will maintain this policy and
discontinue the pxovision of credit to customers.
Financing and Budgeting of Pharmaceuticals
(iv)     The annual budget for pharmaceuticals will be calculated
so as to provide for adequate budgetary coverage for
stems Mi) to (iii) above.
(v)      As IDA funds diminish, the Government will increase its
own budgetary allocation in TSh sufficient to offset
this reduction, to allow for inflation, exchange rate
movements and increased demands due to population
growth. This will be confirmed in a financing plan with
a Government undertaking to provide adequate budgetary
allocations for pharmaceuticals purchase over the period
1991/92 to 1994/95.
(vi)     The Government will prepare an action plan to clear past
arrears and debts from the public sector (predominantly
district governments and central ministries) to the CMS
thereby replenishing the CMS revolving fund (the current
level of indebtedness is given in Table 1 of Annex 7).
(vii)    The ceiling on the CM1 revolving fund will be raised
fron its current level of TSh 200 million to TSh 2
billion. Thereafter, the ceiling will be adjusted
upwards regularly to reflect movements in the exchange
rate, the inflation rate for pharmaceuticals and



- 52 -
increased pharmaceuticals demand due to population
growth. This will be achieved through the provision of
a waiver for the CMS to pay the TSh counterpart to the
Bank of Tanzania for the pharmaceuticals and medical
supplies financed by the proceeds of the IDA credit.
(viii)   In order to avoid the non-payment by districts for their
EDP kits, funds provided by the central government for
this purpose will be deposited quarterly in advance with
the CMS, with the districts entitled to draw EDP kits up
to the value of the amount deposited. Any further
withdrawals of pharmaceuticals and supplies will have to
be paid for by the districts themselves.
Capacity Building for Procurement
(ix)     The Government will build up the procurement capacity of
the CMS through a program of on-the-job and formal
training with an International pharmaceutical
procurement agency. The Government will ensure that the
staff trained continue to render service to the CMS. In
the interim, as this capacity is being developed, the
CMS will utilize international procurement agencies as
required.
Institutional
*x)      The managerial and institutional structure of the CMS
will be revised by the MOR in order to improve its
efficiency and effectiveness. Terms and conditions of
staff serving in the CMS will be improved in order to
enhance staff performance.
D. Relationship of Prolect to Programs of Special Emphasis.
3.30      The project responds to a number of World Bank programs of
special emphasis.
a)   Human Resources Development.  The project, together with the
Education Management and Rehabilitation Project, will help the
Government tackle strategic issues in the human resources sector,
improve policy formulation and planning, strengthen
implementation capacity and secure a more financially self-
sustainable basis for the provision of services.
b)   Population.  The project supports the Government in the
implementation of the recently approved population policy,
including the strategic planning aspects (t.rough the Planning
Commission) and service delivery (through Co.mponent II,
Strengthening Rural PHC and Component III, Strengthening Urban
PBC).
c)   Women in Development (WID).  Women are key beneficiaries from any
well-designed and implemented PHC program. It is anticipated



- 53 -
that women will be significant beneficiaries under th s project
in terms of improved health care (especially reduced mortality at
child birth), and increased child spacing. The benefits from the
introduction of labor saving technologies, child day care centres
and improved nutrition accrue largely to women under the types of
village-level health and nutrition initiatives which are to be
supported under the project.
d) Povert? Alleviation. As stated iu the project objectives, the
project seeks to reduce poverty both directly and indirectly
through support to PSAP. The successful implementation of the
project should improve health and nutrition status, thereby
contributing to the relief of human suffering and the provision
of basic human needs. Moreover, a successful demonstration by
the Government that it is improving the social sectors, and the
population's access to basic services, will help foster an
environment within which macroeconomic reform can continue.
e)   Environment.  The project makes a contribution towards the
preservation of the environment through a reduction in the rate
of population growth. The planting of fruit trees supported
Component Id, Micro-nutrient Deficiency Control Programs, and the
protection of traditional water sources under the Component II,
Strengthening Rural PHC, will also make a contribution towards
reducing soil erosion.



- 54 -
IV. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimates
4.01     The total cost of the proposed five-year project is estimated at
TSh 17.8 billion or US$ 70.0 million equivalent, net of customs duties and
taxes on civil works and locally-procured goods and services (approximately
USS 2.8 million equivalent). Items imported directly for the project would
be exempt from import duties and taxes. The foreign exchange component of
the project is estimated at USS 53.6 million or 76.5 percent of total
project costs. Detailed costs are presented in Annex 13 and are summarized
by component in Table 4.1 and by summary account in Table 4.2.
Table 4.1
Proiect Cost Summary by Proiect Comkonent
(USS million)
Local        Foreign       Total
T. Strengthening National
PIN Systems                            4.0           34.5         38.5
a. Health Planning, Policy
Formulation and
Information System                  1.0            1.6          2.6
b. Manpower Development
and Training                        1.2            1.6          2.8
c. Pharmaceutical and
Medical Supplies                    1.2           29.8         31.0
d. Hicronutrient Deficiency
Control Programs                    0.4            1.0          1.4
e. Implementation of National
Population Policy                   0.2            0.5          0.7
II. Strengthening Rural Primary
Realth Care                           3.8            7.8         11.6
III. Strengthening Urban Primary
Health Care                           4.7             6.8        11.5
IV. Project Preparation Facility          0.1             0.4         0.5
Total Baseline Costs                     12.6            49.5        62.1
Physical Contingencies                 0.5            1.3          1.8
Price Contingencies                    3.3            2.8          6.1
Total Project Costs                      16.4            53.6        70.0



- 55 -
Table 4.2
Cost Summary by Summary Account
(US$ million)
Local        Foreign      Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works                            5.7           6.1       11.8
B. Supplies                               0.1           3.2        3.3
C. Pharmaceuticals                        -            28.0       28.0
D. Equipment                              0.2           4.8        5.0
E. Furniture                              0.1           0.4        0.5
F. Vehicles                               -             0.9        0.9
G. Consultants Services                   0.3           3.3        3.6
H. Training and Workshops                 1.4           0.8        2.2
I. Project Preparation Facility           0.1           0.4        0.5
Total Investment Costs                       7.9          47.9       55.8
Physical Contingencies                    0.5           1.3        1.8
Price Contingencies                       2.6          2.6         5.2
Total Including Contingencies               11.0          51.8       62.8
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Travel and Per Diem                    1.3           -          1.3
B. Salaries                               1.3           -          1.3
C. Building Operation & Haintenance       0.8           0.2        1.0
D. Equipment & Vehicle Oper.& Maint.      1.2           1.3        2.5
E. Utilities & Services                   0.1           0.1        0.2
Total Recurrent Costs                        4.7           1.6        6.3
Price Contingencies                       0.7          0.2         0.9
Total Including Contingencies                5.4           1.8        7.2
Total Baseline Costs                        12.6          49.5       62.1
Physical Contingencies                    0.5           1.3        1.8
Price Contingencies                       3.3           2.8        6.1
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                         16.4          53.6       70.0
4.02     Investment Costs.  Base costs for the project are in July 1989
prices. Construction costs (for both building and engineering works) are
based on estimates prepared by the MOH together with assistance from a PPF-
financed consultancy firm. The estimates were reviewed and found



- 56 -
satisfactory during appraisal. As most civil works included in the project
involve rehabilitation of existing facilities (many with substantial
community participation), unit costs vary widely, but generally range from
US$50 per square meter (m2) to US$200 per m2.  The unit cost for new
construction activity is between US$300 and US$400 per m2. This is
comparable to construction prices for similar facilities elsewhere in
Tanzania and in other Southern and Eastern African countries. Unit costs
for vehicles, pharmaceuticals and medical supplies were based on
international c.i.f. prices. Costs of furniture, equipment, and supplies
include 10 percent in count-y handling costs and are based on lists
prepared by the MOH and MLG. During appraisal the cost estimates included
in the lists were checked against price quotations given in international
catalogs (including the UNIPAC catalog produced by UNICEF's procurement
wing and found to be satisfactory). Cost estimates for foreign
consultants' serviceE include salaries, allowances and airfares. The costs
of training were based on prevailing course rates and allowances for study
within Tanzania and abroad.
4.03     The project's foreign exchange component of US$ 53.6 million was
calculated on the following basis: (a) civil works and furniture - 45
percent of total cost estimate; (b) equipment - 95 percent; (c) supplies -
95 percent; (d) training workshops - 20 percent; (e) vehicles and
pharmaceuticals - 100 percent; (f) consultants' services - variable between
0 percent and 100 percent; (g) local salaries, travel and per diems - 0
percent; (h) building operation and maintenance - 30 percent; (i) vehicle
and equipment operation and maintenance - 50 percent; and (j) utilities and
services - 30 percent.
4.04     Physical contingencies of 10 percent have been added to civil
works, equipment, furniture, vehicles and supplies. Price contingencies
were calculated based on Bank estimates of international and domestic
inflation and assume the following expected annual percentage rates of
increase by project year (PY):
1990191    1991192      1992193     1993194      1994195
PYl        PY2          PY3         PY4          PY5
Local            21.0        15.0       12.0         10.0          10.0
Foreign           4.9         4.9        4.9          4.9           4.9
Exchange rates used anticipate the maintenance of a constant real exchange
rate, based on the December 1989 exchange of US$ 1 equals TSh 190.
4.05    iecurrent Costs.  Salaries, travel and per diem allowances have
been based upon the prevailing rates within the -overnment, with
adjustments made to reflect the order of magnitude of future incentives
packages to be introduced by the government (see para 7.01 (g)).
Operations and maintenance costs for buildings, equipment and vehicles, and
the costs of services and utilities, have been based on prevailing rates,
adjusted so as to provide adequate coverage for these 4tems.
4.06     Mindful of the serious budgetary difficulties facing the GOT,
every effort has been made to minimize the incremental recurrent costs
implied by the project. This annual increment will amount to about US$0.3



- 57 -
million in the first year, and will rise gradually to about US$1.8 million
by the last year of the project. About 30 percent of the incremental
recurrent costs will be borne by benefi-iary communities, about 33 percent
by district governments and 37 percent by the central government. These
incremental outlays, which will cover salaries and allowances for a limited
number of essential senior technical and managerial personnel, plus
operation and maintenance (O&M) of vehicles, equipment, and buildings, are
equivalent to only about 1.5 percent of total projected MOH recurrent
expenditures for FY89/90 and less than 1 percent of district governments
expenditures. The financial burden on Dar es Salaam is however more
significant, if adequate provision is to be made for the maintenance of
buildings. The SDC will agree on covenants with the Dar es Salaam City
Council (DSCC) regarding this matter. In addition, the proposed IDA-
financed Urban Sector Technical Assistance Project will assist the DSCC to
raise substantial revenues from property tax, thereby providing the
resources to absorb these additional costs. The MOH and district
Governments should thus have no difficulty in absorbing these recurrent
costs.
4.07     Most importantly, a number of project activities will contribute
directly to reducing recurrent expenditures. For example, in the
pharmaceuticals sub-sector, rationalisation in prescription, and the
reduction of polypharmacy, will result in smaller prescribed dosages,
leading to savings of up to 20 percent in pharmaceuticals usage.
Improvements in procurement and storage of pharmaceuticals and medical
supplies is estimated to reduce costs by up to 20 percent and reduce losses
of supplies by up to 10 percent. respectively. Financial policy reforms
supported by the project - including enhanced community participation, the
introduction of resource mobilization measures, improved decentralised
budgeting, and enhanced efficiency in the sector as a whole - will assist
in establishing the long-term sustainability of the health sector.
B. Financing
4.08     The total project cost of US$ 70.0 million equivalent (excluding
taxes and duties) would be financed by (i) the GOT, including beneficiaries
central and district governments, (ii) IDA, and (iii) a number of
multilateral and bilateral sources (the financing plan is shown in Table
4.3 below). The IDA Credit of US$ 47.6 million (SDR 36.1 million) will
cover about 68 percent of total project cost and 79 percent of the foreign
exchange cost. The GOT contribution of US$ 7.4 million equivalent, or
about 11 percent of the total, will finance salaries, allowances, and the
O&M costs of vehicles, equipment, and buildings. It is composed of central
government contributions of USS 3.1 million for component I and the
management of Component II, district government contributions of US$ 2.5
million for components II and III, and commu.ity beneficiary contributions
amounting to US$ 1.8 million to cc er imputed costs of self-help labor and
the other inputs in cash and kind to commence and maintain the village
level PHC initiatives of Components II and III.
4.09     Co-financing from other external sources includest  (a) US$ 12.2
million equivalent from the Swiss Development. Cooperation, for civil works,
supplies, equipment and technical assistance for Component III -



- 58 -
Strengthening Urban PHC; (b) US$ 1.3 million equivalent from DANIDA for the
elements of Component Ia (Health Information System) and part of the costs
of the rehabilitation of the district hospitals in Dar es Salaam (Component
II); (c) US$ 0.7 million equivalent from the Governmeat of Belgium for
technical assistance for the health information system and Component II -
Strengthening Rural PHC; (d) USS 0.7 million from UNMPA for the
implementation of the National Population Policy; and (e) US$ 0.1 million
equivalent from the British ODA to finance the study on thr long-term
financing options for the health sector. No cross-effectiveness conditions
are specified as the components, whilst related, are free standing, and may
proceed independently of one another.
Table 4.3
Financins Plan al
Local           Foreign        Total
-----------(US$ million)----------
IDA                           5.3              42.3          47.6
Co-financings
Government of Belgium       0.1               0.6           0.7
DANIDA                      0.6               0.7           1.3
SDC                         5.0               7.2          12.2
ODA                         0.0               0.1           0.1
UNFPA                       0.1               0.6           0.7
sub-total                5.8               9.2          15.0
Government:
of which - Central           2.4               0.7           3.1
- District          1.5              1.0            2.5
- Beneficiaries     1.4              0.4            1.8
Sub-total                5.3              2.1            7.4
TOTAL                   16.4              53.6          70.0
Note:
a/  Excludes taxes and duties of US$2.8 million.
C. Procurement
4.10     Project-related procurement arrangements are summarized in Table
4.4 below. Items financed by IDA will be procured according to IDA
guidelines as elaborated in paras 4.11 to 4.14 below. Where procurement of



- 59 -
similar items is involved, the MOH and MLG will ensure reasonable
standardization of such items, irrespective of the source of finance.
4.11     The major civil works contract for the rehabilitation of the CMS
warehouse complex in Dar es Salaam and all other civil works packages
valued at more than USS 250,000, will be awarded on the basis of
international competitive bidding according to IDA guidelines. For civil
works tenders, local contractors will be eligible for a margin of
preference of 7.5 percent as compared to the quote of competing foreign
contractors. Civil works contracts for the lower tier health facilities in
rural areas, with an average value of about US$ 40,000 per contract, will
be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding (LCB) (aggregating to
US$ 2.0 million), given that international firms are not expected to show
an interest in these relatively small and scattered works whose completion
is spread over time. However, if international firms are interested, they
will not be precluded from participation. Since some sites for rural
dispensary and clinic rehabilitation are scattered in remote areas in the
10 districts chosen for Component II, where private contractors are
unlikely to venture, civil works related to this subcomponent may be
undertaken by force account (up to a to+rl value of US$ 0.4 million
equivalent) by the appropriate district government. Disbursement will be
on the basis of completed units based upon agreed production standards,
strict productivity control and accounting.
4.12     Contracts for equipment, pharmaceuticals, supplies and vehicles
worth more than US$ 100.000 will be awarded on the basis of international
competitive bidding (ICB) procedures according to IDA guidelines. In
addition, procurement of pharmaceuticals may be through UNICEF or a similar
international procurement agency, selected in accordance with IIA
guidelines for the procurement of consultants services. For goods tenders,
local suppliers will be eligible for a margin of preference of 15 percent
as compared to the c.i.f. price of competing imports, or the prevailing
customs duty, whichever is lower. Procurement of equipment, furniture,
supplies and vehicles which cannot be grouped into bid packages of US$
100,000 or more (mainly for such items procured for the ten scattered
districts under Component II - Strengthening Rural PHC) may be procured
through:  (a) LCB procedures aggregating to US$ 0.8 million equivalent, or
(b) oprudent international and local shoppings by comparing prices obtained
from three independent suppliers, aggregating to US$ 3.1 million
equivalent. LCB procedures in Tanzania have been reviewed and are
acceptable to IDA, except that the Government has been advised that any
local preference for parastatals will not apply to the Bank-financed
portions of the project.
4.13     Consultants' services will be procured in accordance with IDA
guidelines. Other items including travel, per diem, salaries and operating
costs will be approved through regular Government procedures.
.



- 60 -
Table 4.4
Procurement Arrangements a/ b/
(US$ million)
Procurement Method
ICB      LCB        Int./   Other   Total
Local
Shopg.
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works               7.2       6.7 c/    -         1.2 c/  15.1
(3.4)    (2.0)      -        (0.4)    (5.8)
B. Pharmaceuticals          28.0       -         -         -       28.0
(28.0)     -         -         -       (28.0)
C. Equipment                 3.5       -         1.5 d/   1.2 el   6.2
(3.5)     -         (1.5)     -        (5.0)
D. Furniture                 -         -         0.7 d/   -         0.7
-        -         (0.3)     -        (0.3)
E. Supplies                  1.8       0.8 d/    1.0 d/   0.5 el   4.1
(1.8)    (0.8)      (1.0)     -        (3.6)
F. Vehicles                  0.5       -         0.5 d1   -         1.0
(0.4)     -         (0.3)     -        (0.7)
G. Conaultants Services      -         -         -         4.1 f/   4.1
_        _         _        (1.6)    (1.6)
H. Training & Workshops      -         -         -         2.6 /   2.6
_        _          _       (1.7)    (1.7)
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Travel & Per Diem         -         -         -         1.5 g/   1.5
(0.5)    (0.5)
B. Salaries                  -         -         -         1.6 &l   1.6
C. Building O&M              -         -         -         1.3 ^l   1.3
D. Equipment/Vehicle O&M    -          -         -         3.1 ^/   3.1
E. Utilities & Services      -         -         -         0.2 ^/   0.2
III. Proiect Prep.Facility      -         -         -         0.5       0.5
-        -          -       (0.5)    (0.5)
Totals                         41.0       7.5       3.7      17.8      70.0
(37.1)    (2.8)      (3.1)    (4-6)   (47.6)
a/ Costs include physical and price contingencies.  b/ IDA amounts are
shown in brackets. c/ Small scattered civil works contracts financed by
IDA and SDC under LCD end force account including imputed value of
community self-help labour. d/ Small packages of items funded by IDA, SDC,
UNFPA and DANIDA. e/ Equipment and supplies procured by beneficiary
communities and/or according to procedures of cofinancing agencies. f/
Consultants services procured in accordance with IDA and cofinanciers
guidelines. zi Items procured in accordance with Government regulations.
These are acceptable to IDA and the cofinanciers.



Procurement Arrangements for the IDA Credit
(US$ 47.6 million)
ICB 37.1
^ t  O       t     h      e~~~~~~~Ohr   4.6
Int./Local Shopping 3.1
Procurement Method 8I
Procurement Method



- 62 -
4.14      Contract Review.  Bidding packages for civil works valued at more
than US$ 100,000 equivalent (mainly the rehabilitation of the CHS warehouse
complex and some district hospitals) and for goods valued at more than
US$ 100,000 will be subject to IDA's prior review of procurement
documentation, including tender documents, evaluation reports, and draft
contracts. Thereby 85 percent of disbursements from the credit will be
subject to prior contract review. Smaller packages will be subject to
random post-award review by IDA. The MOH and MLG will therefore be
required to keep full procurement documentation on file for easy access.
For technical assistance, invitations for proposals, firms' submissions,
evaluation reports, and draft contracts for large consultancy assignments
will be reviewed by IDA prior to award. Similarly, for individual
consultancies, IDA will review terms of reference, curriculum vitae, and
draft letters of appointment before such appointments are made.
D. Disbursements
4.15     The IDA credit will be disbursed over a period of five-and-half
years, from 1990-1996, with disbursements completed by December 31, 1996
six months after project completion. The proposed allocation of the credit
and the percentage of expenditures covered is given in Table 4.5 (further
details are provided in Annexes 13 and 14.) All applications to withdraw
proceeds form the IDA credit will be fully documented, except for training
and workshops, and civil works and goods valued at less that US$50,000, for
which disbursements will be made against certified statements of
expenditure (SOE). Disbursements for civil works undertaken through force
account will be on the basis of evidence satisfactory to IDA of completion
of the relevant units. Supporting documentation will be retained by
project executing agencies and will be available for review as requested by
IDA supervision missions and project auditors.
. Accounts
4.16     Special Accounts.  In order to expedite disbursements, the
Government will establish two Special Accounts for the project, one each
for the MOH and the MLG subcomponents, in a commercial bank acceptable to
IDA. An initial amount of US$ 1.25 million and US$ 0.75 million equivalent
will be deposited by IDA to the MOH and NLG accounts, respectively, after
receipt and approval of a appropriate withdrawal applications. These
amounts are estimated to cover about four months of eligible payments by
each project executing agency. Replenishment applications will be
submitted monthly and will be accompanied by full documentation except for
items eligible for disbursement on the basis of certified statements of
expenditure (SOE).
4.17     Budgetary Provision.  Adequate provision will be made in the
annual budgetary estimates of each implementing agency so that project
activities will be ivplemented in a timely and effective manner.  By May 31
of each year, GOT will reach agreement with IDA on adequate budgetary
provision to support the project during the subsequent financial year (see
para. 7.01 (i)). The amounts budgeted will include the GOT counterparts,
IDA and co-financier portions in both the recurrent and development
budgets, as appropriate for project interventions in the MOH, MLG, TFNC,



- 63 -
Planning Commission and the 10 districts selected for Component II. In
order to facilitate prompt commencement of the project, the MOH and MLG
have already made adequate budgetary provision for fiscal year 1989/90.
Table 4.5
Allocation and Disbursement of IDA Credit
IDA Allocation      Percentage of Expenditure
Disbursement Category                               to be Financed
SDRm a     S$ m
1. Ministry of Health
a)  Civil Works                                     100 2 of foreign and
i)  Civil works for                             85 2 of local expenditures.
Component I b.        0.8       1.0
ii)  CMS rehabilitation   1.5        2.0
b)  Vehicles, Furniture,       2.3        3.0       100 Z of foreign and
Equipment and Supplies                           85 2 of local expenditures.
c)  Consultants Services       1.3       1.7        100 2 of total expenditures.
and Training
d)  Travel and Per Diem        0.1       0.2        100 2 of eligible expenditures.
e)  Pharmaceuticals & Medical Supplies              100 X of total expenditures.
i)  First portion        7.6      10.0
ii)  Second portion       6.8       9.0
iii)  Third portion        6.7       9.0
f)  Overseas Training          0.3       0.3        1002 of total expenditures.
2. Ministry of Local Government
a)  Civil Works                1.8       2.4        100 2 of foreign and
85 2 of local expenditures.
b)  Vehicles, Furniture,       4.4       5.8        100 2 of foreign and
Equipment and Supplies                           85 2 of local expenditures.
c)  Consultants Services &    0.5        0.7        100 2 of total expenditures.
Training
e)  Travel and Per Diem        0.2       0.3        100 2 of eligible expenditures.
3. Proiect Preparation         0.4       0.5        Amount due.                             U
Facilit                                                                                 I
4. Unallocated                 1.4       1.7
TOTAL                      36.1      47.6                                                j
_        .~~~~~~
!
!



I~~~~~~~~
AW...  .."..........N 
...., . .....
_   t   ~~~aD
H..~~~~~~~~~~.       ..........     -s
40
2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2C
X 73 1 ~I !U8 
Z C)                        "
V90



- 65 -
P. Accountinh and Auditing
4.18     The MOH and MLG will each maintain separate detailed accounts for their
respective subcomponents. At the end of each financial year, project accounts
and financial statements suitable for auditing will be made available for audit
by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. Audited financial statements
acceptable to IDA vill be submitted to IDA within nine mouths of the end of the
central government's fintncial year, i.e. by March 31 each year, (see para 7.01
(j)). SOEs will be included in the audit and specifically addressed in the audit
report.



- 66 -
V. PROJECT M&N&GEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Proiect Management
5.01      The main responsibility for project management will rest with
two ministriest ti) the MOH, for components Ia, b, c and d and (ii) the
MLG, for the administration of Components I1 and III. The Planning
Commission will be responsible for the implementation of Component le. In
order to coordinate project activities, a Project Coordination Committee
(PCC) has been formed, comprising representatives of these two main
ministries (MOK and MLG), the MOF, Planning Commission, TFNC and the Dar es
Salaam City Council (DSCC). The PCC is chaired by the Permanent Secretary
from the MOH (an organogram of the PCC is attached as Annex 4.1). The PCC
will meet at least every quarter in order >o review progress and resolve
outstanding issues. It will review the bi-annual progress reports before
submission to IDA (see para. 5.11).
5.02      Within the MOH, a project coordinator from the Planning
Department has been appointed to coordinate proje-t implementation. An
organogram outlining these arrangements is attached as Annex 4.2. The
Project Coordinator will be assisted by an Accountant and a Procurement
Officer, who have already been appointed. The Project Coordinator will
liaise closely with the relevant staff in the following departments and
agencies of the MOH, who are responsible for the implementation of
activities as fol.lowss
-    Planning Department - for Component Ia (Health Planning, Policy
Formulation and Information System).
-    Department of Manpower Development and Training (DMDT), in
particular the continuing education section, for Component Ib,.
Manpower Development and Training. Responsibility for the
implementation of district level continuing education will be
with the DMO of the district concerned, under the guidance and
supervision of the DMWT.
-    Department of Hospital Services (DHS) for Component Ic,
Pharmaceuticals and Medical Supplies. Procurement and
distribution of the pharmaceuticals and medical supplies will be
the responsibility of the CMS (which currently reports to the
ACMO of the DHS) see paras. 2.14 to 2.17.
-    Tanzania Food and Nutrition Centre (TFNC) for Component Id.
TFNC will coordinate other agencies (such as the MALD and MOE,
see para. 3.07) involved in the execution of the micro-nutrient
deficiency control programs.
-    PHC Secretariat, which reports to the Chief Medical Officer, and
is responsible for preparing and refining the PHC strategy, the
implementation of which will be supported through Component II
(see para. 5.03).



- 67 -
5.03      Likewise, within the HLG, a Project Coordinator from the
Department of Local Government has been appointed.  The coordinator will be
assisted by a Program Manager who will head a small unit (the Program
Support Network - PSN) located in the Department of Local Government, which
will be responsible for management, monitoring and evaluation of Component
II, Strenthening Rural PHC. The PSN will be based in Dodoma, with a sub-
office in Dar es Salaam, and will draw upon existing staff on a full-time
basis ftom the MLG (a Community Development Specialist, an Accountant and a
Procureuent Officer; the last two have already been appointed). A Public
Health Specialist will be made available on a full-time basis from the MOH,
and an Architect/Civil Engineer from the Ministry of Works on a similar
basis. Staff, whose qualifications are acceptable to IDA, will be
appointed to the position of Community Development Specialist and assigned
to the positions of Public Health Specialist and Civil Engineer by December
31, 1990 (see para. 7.01 (k)). Field supervision will be undertaken
jointly with staff from the MOH, drawn from either the central or zonal
level. The PSN will ensure that the selected districts adhere to the
conditions of continuing disbursement to the district concerned (see paras.
3.14 and 7.02 (d)). The MOH will maintain responsibility for sectoral
policy guidance for the PHC strategy implementation. The PHC Secretariat
of the MOH will maintain regular contact with the PSN in the MLG. Both the
MOH and MLG are represented on the PHC steering committee. An organogram
outlining these arrangements is attached as Annex 4.3.
5.04      Execution of the PHC Strategy will be the responsibility of the
ten district governments selected (see Annex 11). The DMO will take
overall responsibility for supervising implementation at the district
level, will be the first signatory on funds released to support the
district PHC program, and will hold the function of the program coordinator
at the district level. He will report to the DED on all administrative
matters, the RMO on technical matters, and receive guidance on
implementation priorities from the District PHC Committee. The DMO will
act as first signatory for project expenditures (through Account No.6) with
the District Executive Director being the second signatory (see para.
3.13).
5.05      Subject to the details to be established in the inter-
governmental agreement between Tanzania and Switzerland relating to
component III, the Dar es Salaam City Council (DSCC) will be responsible
for implementing Component III, Strengthening Urban PHC.  The City Medi'l
Officer of Health (CMOH) will supervise the three DMOs in the Dar es Salaam
region, who will be responsible for project implementation in their own
districts. The CMOH will chair a Coordinating Committee for the project
component and will be assisted in this task by a project adviser, whose
main function will be to catalyze and advise on project start-up
activities. An organogram outlining these arrangements is attached as
Annex 4.4.
5.06      The Chief of the Population Policy Unit of the Human Resources
Division of the Planning Commission will be responsible for implementing
the subcomponent to assist the implementation of the National Population
Policy.



- 68 -
B. Project Preparation and ImPlementation Schedule
5.07      Status of Proiect Prenaration.  The project has been prepared by
designated teams within the MOH and NLG. A PPF was approved by IDA to
assist project development and to cover some project start-up costs prior
to credit effectiveness, includings
a)   consultant services for a PHC documentation centre, analysis of
patient load at the Muhimbili Medical Centre, and an assessment
of rehabilitation needs for the Dar es Salaam health system:
b)   supplies, equipment and vehicles for the sections of the MOH and
MLG responsible for project development;
c)   travel, per diem and other costs for planning workshops and
staff training related to project components (especially
Component II - Strengthening Rural PHC); and
d)   the provision of the basic package of inputs for PHC
strengthening to five rural districts through Component II (see
para. 3.13).
5.08      The GOT has also benefitted from support from other donor
agencies in the preparation of this project. DANIDA has financed
consultants services and other support for: (i) strengthening the health
information system; (ii) the reformulation of the PHC strategy by the PHC
Secretariat; (iii) an assessment of the rehabilitation and equipment needs
of the three district hospitals in Dar es Salaam; and will finance the (iv)
cHS master plan study (see para. 3.06). The SDC has provided substantial
inputs for the preparation of the Urban PHC Component, including financing
the planning workshop to develop the component framework. The WHO has
financed consultant services to assist in a re-evaluation of manpower
needs. UNICEF, through dissemination of the results and experience of the
Iringa JNSP, has inspired many of the developments in the social
mobilization and nutrition aspects of the PHC strategy. FAO and SIDA have
assisted TFNC in developing the vitamin A deficiency control program.
UNFPA has assisted in financing the preparation of the sub-component to
assist in the implementation of the national population policy.
5.09      The project is in a state of preparation which will permit
timely implementation because: (i) terms of reference for 80 percent of
consultants services and for the key policy studies have been discussed and
agreed with Govermnent; (ii) final procurement lists for pharmaceuticals
and medical supplies for the first portion of the Credit (up to the agreed
amount of US$10 million) have been prepared and approved by IDA; and (iii)
the MOB and MLG nave already appointed key staff (paras 5.02 and 5.03) and
made adequate budgetary provision for the project in FY 1989/90 (para
4.17).
5.10      Project Implementation Schedule.  The project will be
implemented according to the schedule outlined in Annex 15.



- 69 -
G. Prolect Reporting
5.11      To facilitate close monitoring of the project, the project
executing agencies will also submit to IDAs (a) bi-annual progress reports
providing details of implementation progress, constraints and project
expenditures during six-month period under review; and (b) within six
months of the project's closing date, a final project completion report
(PCR) on the implementation experience and project outcomes, prepared in
accordance with IDA guidelines on PCRs. IDA will supervise the project
regularly (about twice a year). An annual review of project implementation
will be undertaken jointly with IDA and any cofinanciers wishing to
participate.
5.12      IDA and the GOT will undertake a comprehensive review of
Component le. Micro-Nutrient Deficiency Control Programs and Component II
(Strengthening Rural PHC) no later than December 1992 (see para. 7.01 (d))
according to agreed evaluation protocols. The results of the review of
rural PHC will help to determine future IDA assistance to Tanzania in this
area.



- 70 -
VI. PROJECT RENMPITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits and Justification
6.01      The proposed project is a major contribution to the ESAP and the
Governments reforms to the health sector, and therefore buttresses the
process of economic reform by contributing both to poverty alleviation in
the immediate term, and to poverty reduction in the medium term through
building up Tanzania's human resource base.
6.02      Benefits to the Government.  The project will assist the
Government in undertaking much needed reforms in the health sector, such as
improving long-term sustainability and efficiency, and improving access to
services in neglected areas of the country and the quality of services
nation-wide. The project will strengthen Government's capacity to
implement other key policies in the PHN sectors, such as the national
population, drug and nutrition policies. The project has a strong
institution-building focus in terms of planning, policy formulation and
implementation in the MOH, the MLG and the Dar es Salaam City Council. The
project represents a major response to the Government's ESAP, and will
contribute significantly to the development of Tanzania's human resource
base during the process of economic adjustment.
6.02      Benefits to Communities and Households.  Communities and
households will benefit from improved access to and quality of preventive
and curative services.  The entire popila-tion utilising health services
should benefit from the improved availability of pharmaceuticals and
medical supplies under Component Ic. Given the specific items to be
procured through the IDA credit, this will benefit about 10 million people
per annum in terms of better diagnosis of disease (through increased
supplies for laboratory tests), about 2 million people in urban areas in
terms of improved availability of essential drugs and 0.5 million people in
terms of improved drugs for in-patient treatment. The benefits of the
micro-nutrient deficiency control programs are more narrowly focussed. In
terms of Vitamin A deficiency, on a conservative basis, the control program
should reduce the incidence in children under 5, by 20 percent in the first
year (260,000 cases - see Table 2.2) and by up to 50 percent by the fifth
year (650,000 cases). The iron-deficiency control program, as it is newer
and more experimental, is estimated to make an impact from the second year
onwards. A conservative estimate would be that the incidence of iron
deficiency anemia would be reduced by 3 percent in PY2 (benefiting about
40,000 pregnant women, 60,000 children under 5, and 240,000 others) with a
reduction of 20 percent in PY5 (benefiting approximately 240,000 pregnant
women, 400,000 children under 5 and 1.6 million others). Direct benefits
of PHC strengthening will be focussed on the populations of those areas of
the country receiving concentrated support under the project namely, the
ten selected districts (about 2.2 million persons) under Component II, and
in Dar es Salaam (at least 1.4 million persons) under Component III. In
rural areas benefits will include improved nutrition, access to family
planning services, sanitation, and water supply as aspects of the district
PHC program. The benefits to households from other elements of Component I
are more diffuse, but the impact of a more effective and sustainable health
system for the whole population will be significant.
6.03      Benefits Nationally.   For the country as a .nole, project
benefits include a healthie: population and labor force, contributing to
increased output. A reduction in the incidence of micro-nutrient



- 71 -
deficiencies within the population, improved child nutrition, and a
strengthened health system able to provide more effective preventive and
curative services are all important in this regard. Strengthening the
implementation of national population policy, thereby contributing towards
reducing the pace of population growth, will reduce the rate of increase of
pressure on Tanzania's physical resource base (thereby contributing to the
protection of the environment), and on the recurrent budget for the
provision of social services to a rapidly expanding population. Due to the
demographic issues involved, with the exception of the demand for MCH
services and to a lesser extent primary education, such benefits will only
accrue to any significant extent from the year 2000 onwards.
B. Risks
6.04      Whilst there has not been a previous IDA-assisted project in the
health sector, the preparation of the project has benefited from an
analysis of the implementation experience of IDA-assisted projects in other
sectors and donor funded projects in the health sector. The lessons learnt
have been incorporated into the design of the project so as to minimize any
risks and effectively manage them during implementation. The main risks
are three-fold:
(a) The first risk is that efficient implementation will be hampered
by weak administrative capacity in the implementing agencies.
In order to minimize this risk, the implementation capacity of
these agencies (MOH, MILG and the offices of the DMOs and CMOH in
Dar es Salaam) is being strengthened under the project, through
the provision of training, additional staff, and technical
assistance.
(b) The second risk is that the inferior performance by staff
(resulting from poor motivation due to low salaries) may
undermine effective implementation of project activities. The
Government is aware of this issue and is already reviewing the
remuneration policy for staff, with a view to moving towards a
program of reform of the civil service to be supported in the
Public Sector Management operation (FY92). The project will
also contribute to reducing this risk through the provision of
non-salary inducements to staff (such as training, recognition,
and improved supervision) and a dated covenant on the
introduction of an improved incentives package for staff (see
para. 7.01 (g)).
(c) The third risk is that the macroeconomic environment may
deteriorate again if the Government fails to continue the
program of economic reform with due diligence. This risk is
being addressed by the Bank and the donor community through
country dialogue, policy-basel operations and the PFP.
Fundamentally, the Government recognizes that integrating the
social sectors into a continuing program of coherent economic
reform provides the best route for the resolution of Tanzania's
economic malaise.



- 72 -
VII. ASSURANCES AND RECONOEUD&TIONS
7.01      During negotiations agreements were reached with Government on
the following:
(a) by July 1, 1993, the MOH will have strengthened the Planning
Department by a net increase of six staff, filling the existing
vacancies for a Public Health Specialist, Senior Economist,
Senior Statistician, Epidemiologist, Healtih Economist and an
Economist (para. 3.04 (a));
(b) by April 30, 1992, the GOT and IDA will reach agreement on the
plan of action for the long-term financing for the health sector
(paras. 3.04 (b) and 3.28 (a));
(c) by July 1, 1992, the GOT and IDA will review the study on the
domestic pharmaceuticals industry and agree on a plan of action
(para. 3.04 (b));
(d) by June 30, 1991, the GOT will submit an evaluation protocol,
satisfactory to IDA, for the mid-term evaluatio.. of the
implementation of the PHC strategy in rural areas, and by
December 31, 1992, undertake this evaluation (in accordance with
the agreed protocols) and a similar one for the Micro-nutrient
Deficienty Control Programs, and review them with IDA (paras.
3.07, 3.15 (c) and 5.11);
Ce) by November 30 each year, for each district included in the
program of PHC strengthening, GOT will submit the district
health plans for the forthcoming year, developed in accordance
with the approved guidelines (para. 7.01 Cf)), for IDA approval
for the forthcoming district financial year (para. 3.11).
tf) by December 31, 1990, the GOT will agree with IDA on: (i) the
revised PHC strategy; (ii) guidelines for the rehabilitation of
the district referral system in the 10 selected districts under
Component It; (iii) the list of criteria for evaluating the
performance of districts under Component II; and (iv) guidelines
for the preparation of district health plans (DHP) (paras. 3.09
and 3.14 (c));
(g) by July 1, 1991, the GOT will increase the share of the
recurrent budget allocated to the health sector to a level
satisfactory to IDA and adopt an improved incentives package for
health sector staff (para. 3.28 (b));
(h) by December 31, 1991, the GOT will submit the draft health
manpower plan for IDA review and comments, and by July 1, 1992,
the MOH would commence implementation of the health manpower
plan, taking IDA's comments into account (para. 3.29 (a));
Ci) by May 31 each year, the GOT will reach agreement with IDA on
adequate budgetary provision to support the project and ensure



- 73 -
that these funds are allocated i' a timely manner to the project
entities (para. 4.17);
(j) no later than 9 months after the closing of the central
government's fiscal year (ie. by March 31 each year), the GOT
will submit accounts for the project, audited by independent
auditors, to IDA for approval (para. 4.18); and
(k) by December 31, 1990, the GOT will appoint a community
development specialist and assign a civil engineer (from the
Ministry of Works) and public health specialist (from the MOH)
to the PSN, whose qualifications are acceptable to IDA
(para.5.03).
7.02      The following would be conditions of disbursement:
(a) for the overseas training of Y)MDT staff, the GOT will adopt a
plan of action for strengthervcg the DMDT satisfactory to IDA
(para. 3.05 (a));
(b)  (i)  for the second portion of funds for the importation of
pharmaceuticals and medical supplies, the GOT will furnish
evidence to IDA that satisfactory progress has been made in
the implementation of the agreed set of reforms in the
pricing, financing, budgeting and capacity building in the
procurement of pharmaceuticals (paras. 3.06 (b) and 3.29
sb));
(ii) for the third portion of funds for the importation of
pha-maceuticals and medical supplies, the GOT will make
sat..sfactory progress in commencing the resource
mobilization measures for the health sector, as contained
in the agreed plan of action for the long-term financing of
the health sector (paras. 3.04 (b), 3.06 (b) and 7.01 (b));
(c) for the rehabilitation of the CHS warehouse complex, that IDA
is satisfied with (i) the revised institutional structure for
and (ii) the plan of action for the rehabilitation of the CMS
(para. 3.06 (c)); and
(d) for the release of funds for the particular district concerned
in Component II (apart from the "basic package" of PHC inputs),
the GOT will ensure that (i) the district has appointed an
Officer in Charge of the district hospital thereby releasing the
DMO from the day-to-day management of the district hospital
(para. 3.12), (ii) funds will continue to flow through Account
No. 6, and (iii) the DHP for the district concerned is submitted
to IDA for approval (paras. 3.13, 3 14 and 7.01 (f)).
7.03      The institutional arrangements for implementing the project have
been reviewed by IDA and foi-d to be satisfactory (Annex 4 and Chapter V).
7.04      With the above assurances, the proposed project forms a suitable
basis for granting of an IDA Credit of SDR 36.1 million (US$ 47.6 million
equivalent) to tne United Republic of Tanzania, at standard IDA terms, with
a 40-year maturity.



- 74 -
TANZANIA                            ANNEX 1.1
Page 1 of I
HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
ORGANIZATION STRUCTURE - MINISTRY OF HEALTH
44      _____~~~_     _..,                             .
dii   i    I    i
W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d I I



- 75 -
AMUU 1.2
Page 1 of 4
TANZANIA
HEALTH AND NUTRITIOW PROJECT
THE STRUCTURE OF THE 'LAAINGN DEPAMRENT
I.   Introduction
1.        In 1985 the Planning Unit of the MOH was upgraded into a full
department whose director was answerable directly to the Principal
Secretary. Initially the new department consisted of four sections, namely
those for: planning; evaluation, information, and statistic; building5 and
projects agreements and contracts. The planning section was later split
into a planning section (long-term planning) and a budget section (annual
development plans). In 1988, the planning section was further
disaggregated in a planning section and a health systems research section.
In the meantime the evaluation, information and statistical section
contracted to a more modest statistical section, which is currently being
expanded again into a national health information section. The projects
agreements and contracts section has evolved into the donor coordination
section.
2.        The actual staffing situation is as follows:
Staff
Higher Level
i) Statistical Section
(Health Information Section)                   (4)
ii) Health Systems Research section                 (1)
iii) Planning Section                                (1)
iv) Budget Section                                  (2)
v) Contracts Section                               (3) +
(Donor Coordination Section)
vi) Building Section                                (2)
Plus the Acting Director of Planning           (1)
Total                          (14)
The functions of the different sections of the Planning
Department have not always been clearly redefined in accordance to its
evolving structures. Furthermore, due ts, a chronic shortage of experienced
manpower and logistic support, the PlannIng Department has always performed
far below expectations. This had led to dissatisfaction, both within the
Department (ending up in a lack of motivation and frustration) and outside



- 76 -
Aunex 1.2
Page 2 of 4
the Department (resulting into the relative neglect of its coordinating
role).
3.        The roles of the different sections are as follows:
I.   The Statistical Section
4.        The Statistical Section is supposed to:
-    collect, compile and order statistical data on the health
status of the country;
-   write and make available statistical reports for the use by
other directorates, regions or any other institution dealing
with health; and
-    survey population trends  1/.
5.        Good informational services from this section have been in high
demand throughout the Ministry sinee its inception. However, the section
has been confronted with various difficulties:
-    several vertical programmes devoloped their own reporting
systems independently of each other, and of the Statistical
section, resulting in overlapping efforts, inefficient
scattering of data collection and compilation, and
fragmented information, which is not really useful for
systematic health management purposes; and
-    the statistical section has never been designated as the
overall focal point for all reporting systems. A lot of
information (hospital reports, district or regional annual
reports, etc.) does not find its way to the section, but
rather remains scattered within the Hinistry or is not
collected on a systematic basis although available in the
periphery or other ministries.
TI. The Realth System Research (HSR) Section
6.        This section has taken over most of the applied, problem solving
research activities of the Planning Section (see below). Its purpose is
not to execute its own research (although it can occasionally initiate such
research if no alternatives emerge), but rather to coordinate and orient
research efforts going on elsewhere in the country, and to support the
implementation of policy recommendations.
11 The Statistical Section was initially expected to evaluate health plans
and project implementation as well and to advise the ministry accordingly,
but it was soon realized that in this role the section was duplicating
efforts from the Planning and Budget sections.
I



- 77 -
Anmex 1.2
Page 3 of 4
III. The Planmins Sectian
7.        Since the transfer of the responsibilities for the annual
development plans to the Budget Section, and of the HSR activities to the
HSR section, the role of the Planning Section has mainly been in the
development of long-term sector plans and of guidelines for
regionalldistrict health planning. The section is also responsible for the
monitoring of the activities of the parastatals under the MOH (MHhimbili
Medical Centre, National Institute for Medical Research and Tanzania Food
and Nutrition Centre).
IV. The Budget Section
8.        The Budget Section has taken over the short-term planning
activities of the Planning Section, i.e.,
-    the preparation of the annual development budget of the MHf;
-    the 6-monthly monitoring of the development projects; and
-    the quarterly financial reporting on the progress of these
development projects.
9.        The Budget Section advises on the acceptability of development
projects proposed by the regional or district authorities since some of the
costs of those decentralized initiatives will have to be supported by the
central government (e.g., training of personnel, hospital equipment). Due
to a lack of adequate manpower and logistics, the preparation of the
development budget has frequently been limited to the compilation of annual
development plans on the basis of departmental sub-plans, adjusted to fit
into the ceilings and guidelines set by the Ministry of Finance, without
rigorous analysi; of each project.
V.   The Contracts Section
10.       The Contracts Section must continuously update the information on
all donor support to the health sector, including loans, grants, technical
assistance, and fellowships. The Section is also supposed to monitor the
actual use of donor support on a 6-monthly basis, and evaluate and
negotiate the donor contributions to the health sector on the basis of
prioritized needs as defined by the National PHC Steering Committee and the
overall health strategies of the country. Although recognized as very
important given the crucial role the donor community plays in the health
sector, the Contracts Section has been chronically under-stalfed and has
never been really operational. The strengthening of this Section and
developing it into a full donor coordination office is an extremely high
priority.
VI. The Building Secticn
The Building Section is mainly a technical section, preparing
plans for rehabilitation of health facilities, preparing terms of reference
for tender procedures (including building standards, etc.), monitoring the
implementation of building projects on a quarterly basis (for use by the
Budget section).



- 78 -                     ANU 1.2
Page 4 of 4
PERSONNEL IN THE PLANNING DEPARTMENT
ACTUAL
APPROVED              STRENGTH
DESIGNATION                      ESTABLISHMENT           AS PRESENT 2/
1987/88   1988/89
Director                                1         1
Senior Economist I                      1         1                 1
Senior Economist II                     1         1                 1
Economist I                             -         1                 -
Economist II                            2         2                 -
Economist III                           4         2                 4
Health Secretary I                      2         1                 -
Health Secretary II                     -         1                 2
Health Planner                          -         1                 -
Medical Demographer                     -         1
Epedemiologist                          -         1
Computer Analyst                        -         1
Architect I                             1         1                 1
Architect II                            1         1                 1
Assistant Executive Engineer            1         1                 1
Building Inspector                      1         1                 1
Principal Statistician                  1         -
Senior Statistician                     1         -                 -
Statistician I                          1         1                 -
Statistician II                         1         1                 -
Statistician III                        2         2                 2
Statistical Assistant I                 2         2                 2
Statistical Assistant II                2         2                 1
Statistical Assistant III               2         2                 -
Personal Secretary III                  1         1                 -
Typist III                              1         1                 -
Accounts Clerk                          1         1                 1
Office Attendant III                    1         1                 -
TOTAL                               31        32                18
Source: Ministry of Health, Planning Department
21 As of June 1989.



- 79 -                   ANNEX 2
TANZANIA                  Page 1 of 14
HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
PRIORITY SOCIAL ACTION PROGRAMME
A SUMMARY
1.        The commitment to provision of basic social services for the
population as a whole has been a consistent feature of Tanzanian Government
policy since the 19608.   Targets for universal primary education, rural
health care and universal access to clean water have been at the forefront
of the planning process from the start. However, the economic difficulties
which have confronted all sectors and regions of Tanzania for more than a
decade, have been undermining earlier achievements in the social sectors.
The urgent need to reverse this decline, as well as the need to address
possible dislocations arising from the economic reforms, is the broad
justification  for the Priority  Social Action Programme  (PSAP).   This
programme is an integral part of the Economic Recovery Program, Phase II,
i.e. the Economic and Social Action Programme.
2.        The Government's response to the economic crisis has been to embark
on a process of structural adjustment since the early 19808. This process
has been accelerated during the Economic Recovery Programme 1986/7 to 1989.
During the ERP, substantial progress has been made in terms of macro-economic
objectives, with output increasing at an average annual rate of 3.9 percent
per year during 1986 to 1988, faster than the rate of growth of population.
The implications of this economic success for the standards of living of the
mass of the population are not straightforward, however. partly because of
unevenness in sectoral performance, partly because the economic recovery has
required a focus on productive sectors in resource allocation, and partly
because of the potentially unfavorable short term impacts of ERP. Central
to the economic recovery is a decline in employment in some sectors, in order
to shift resources into more productive and profitable sectors. Therefore
the ERP has had widely varying effects, depending on the sources of peoples
incomes and the speed with which they can respond to the new economic.
environment.
3.        Although the aims of ERP in the social sectors have been to
maintain the commitment to provide for the basic needs of the population, to
rehabilitate social and physical infrastructure and reactivate existing
capacity, resources have not been adequate to achieve these objectives.
Therefore, the social services have continued to perform poorly and to
deteriorate. Because of the essential contribution of social services to
productivity growth in the medium and long term, it is clear that economic
recovery will not succeed without a strategy for revitalizing these services.
This is the rationale for the PSAP, which aims to rehabilitate and enhance
basic welfare services, both because of their importance in themselves and
because of their essential contribution to productivity growth in the medium
and long term. PSAP is not a replacement of government activities in the
social sectors, but is intended to consolidate and extend them. However,
PSAP is not simply a programme ... increase resources for the social sectors;
it is alio a programme for restructuring the systems of delivery, finance and
managem8 t of social services to ensure greater efficiency in the use of
resources, a wider coverage and their sustainability in the longer term.
Thus the PSAP is designed to be an integral part of the continuing process
of economic recovery, indeed, the nezt phase of economic adjustment will



ANNEX 2
- 80 -                   Page 2 of 14
explicitly integrate the economic and social sectors in the form of an
Economic and Social Action Programme.
4.        The context of the PSAP is, therefore, the need to address with
urgency the problems of content and coverage of social services, and to
ensure tb*t economlc growth results in beneflts for low income groups. To
address t.Aese concerns, immedlate actions are proposed in the areas of
health, education, water supply, food security, incomes and employment. The
measures are designed to provLde for improvements and for the organizatLonal
reforms which will ensure that these improvements are consolidated and
extended.
TSE STRATEGY FOR PRIORITY ACTION IN THE SOCIAL SECTORS
5.        It is recognized that constraints on the central government budget
will continue to limit allocatlons to the social sectors, and that any
comaitment to soclal devalopment must be based on a realistic assessment of
likely resource availability.  Furthermore, the problem facing the social
sectors are only partly a result of the economic crisis which has confronted
Tanzania since the 19708. Central to the PSAP is an acknowledgment that
lessons must be learned from past experience in order to secure sustainable
financing arrangements, an incentive structure and management systems which
enable the full utillzation of existing capacity, and maintenance procedures
hilch conserve the capital stock, as wall as a renewed focus On targeting
vulnerable groups.
6.        Because the PSAP aims to achieve both an lmmediate improvement in
resource availability and to undertake necessary Lnetitutional restructuring,
the time horizon for the programme is three years.  The reorganization of
delLvery systems, management and financing arrangements is a complex matter,
which in many cases must be done through sequential stages. It will require
time to develop the commnaity participation stressed by the PSAP, thus the
programme  requires  a  three-year  period  before  effective  results  can
realistically be achleved.
7.        The strategy involves an analysis of the economlc requirements of
each of the social sectors, in term  of capital investments and recurrent
requlrements, the latter comprLsing labor, traniLng, materlal inputs and
maintenance.   The emphasis of the  strategy  is  on rehabilitation and
management of existing facilitles, training, retraining and incentives,
mechanisms of dLstrLbutLon of recurrent inputs, and maLntenance procedures.
Methods of financing these requLiements are also examined, in the light of
severe government budget limitations, and the strategy proposes that the
financing of social sectors in the medlum and longer term wlll requlre a
combination of budgetary shLfts, user charges and coammunity contrlbutlons.
StrategLes to Increase local tax revenues are also under conslderatlon,
together with the feaslblilty of insurance schemes. The preclse combination
of methAds of financing social se-vLces will need to be reviewed and adjusted
on a continuing basis. The PSAP itself hLghlights the issues whieh need to
be taken Into account in constructing a sustaiLable financlal system.



ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 14
- 81 -
8.        In the short term, additional donor financing of both local and
foreign exchange costs of reviving the social sectors will be necessAry. The
Government is aware of the issue of sustainability. which has Implications
for the design of programmes. In particular, programe design must involve
greater awareness of the recurrent costs associated with projects to which
donors provide capital support, and further consideration of the role of
donors on the recurrent side. This is of vital importance in the context of
the PSAP, since constraints are appearing increasingly in the form of the
TShilling budget, In addition to shortages of imports.
9.        Donor  support to  PSAP  should  take  into  account  Tanzania's
continuing foreign exchange constraints. This means that PSAP should, as far
as possible, be financed by donors on a grant basis.
10.       The PSAP addresses  issues  of management,  accountability and
implemntation capacity as part of its concern with the longer run
sustainability of the social programmes. The government is embarking on a
restructuring of public expenditure.   In addition, decentralizlztion is
proposed to facilitate community monitoring and control, and the programme
addresses the training needs which these community level structures will
require. It is recognized that these developments will take time, and that
it is unlikely that they will be fully operational throughout the country
within the period of the PSAP. One of the PSK? objectives is to undertake
pilot testing and the initial phases of implementation. Further issues of
management and organization concern the central provision of certain
services, such as drugs, textbooks and national food stocks.   The PSAP
Includes recommendations for improvement in these areas along with its
proposals for decentralization. The issue of implementation capacity is also
addressed, in terms of the need for a review of implementation bottlenecks,
action to redress them, and the training implications of improved
implementation.
11.       In the contezt of limited resources, it is clear that targeting,
i.e. the design of policies to ensure that benefits are focused upon the most
vulnerable groups in the population and the poorest regions of the country,
is an urgent necessity. The identification of such vulnerable groups is a
major priority in the formulation of a policy-oriented research programme.
The outcome of this research will form the basis of improved targeted
interventions in the future.
A SUMOMRY OF THE PRIORITY SOCIAL ACTION PROGR&MOE
12.       The Priority Social Action Programm  contains practical optlons to
fulflll the following objectivess to mobilize resources to prevent further
deterioration of the vocial sectors, and restore performance in the short
run; to move towards a more sustainable social service delivery system in the
medium term; and to ensure an improved system of food security, by enhancinb
food availability and by Increasing levels of employment. More specifically
the objectives ares
(i)     to make institutional and management reforms which can
-        ~~~~~~A



ANNEX 2
- 82 -                   Page 4 of 14
enabling   environment   for   improved   efficiency,
accountability and mobilization of community support,
and hence sustainabilityg
(ii)    to restore an adequate supply of and effective demand
for basic instructional materials in schools and to
improve the learning environment;
(iii)     to restore an adequate supply of essential drugs and
health care equipment in order to safeguard standards
of provision of universal basic health services;
(iv)     to rehabilitate and improve maintenance of existing water
facilities in order to provide improved access to safe
watert
(v)     to improve the distribution of food from surplus to
deficit areas so as to reduce the wide market4ng margins
between producer and consumer prices for staple
foodstuffs;
(vi)     to accelerate the creation of employment and income
generating activities in small-scale manufacturing and
services;
(vii)     to support coiamiuty-based public work schemes to create
employment opportunities for low Income people and
improve their access to food and other essential goods
and services, with preference being given to women;
(viii)    to provide a nutritional "safety-net' if necessary for
families who are unable to earn enough to buy adequate
food.
13.       The selection of projects making up the PSAP portfolio follows
from these objectives. The overall criterion guiding the choice was the
commitment to safeguard Tanzania's long standing basic needs objectives.
14*       The financLug requirements for PSAP are summarized in
Table 1. The total cost of the entire three-year program is $314.65 million.
Of this total, $179.69 mlllion is expected to be provided through projects
and programs already in the pipeline, for which donors have previously
indicated their anticipated level of finAncial support.  That leaves an
unfunded gap of $134.96 million, which is the 9i now being requested from
donors. In addition, donors are requested to reconfirm commitments already
made and speed up disbursements.
15.       gstimtes for the outer years are necessarily less firm than for
the first year. These figures vill be updated on a yearly basis.
16.       Further details are discussed in the following secions, sector by
seci  . For  *'  seci  ,  4   o 01  reports   ve also been prepared whicb



ANNEX 2
- 83 -                   Page 5 of 14
carry detailed analysis of the policy issues involved. These are available
on request.
TABLE 1
PRIORITY SOCIAL ACTION PROARAM (1989190-1991/92)
SuDmARY OP FINANCING REQUIREMENTS
(US$ MILLIONS)
TOTAL RIfElENTs             1969/1900   1900/1991  1991/1992    TOTAL
EducatIon                    22.04     21.95      1.556      60.84
Hbalth                       45.60     60.00      67.60     160.00
Water Supply                 24.00     24.60     29.60       70.20
Food S.curity                6.64       5.54       5.7t      16.01
Employment                   2.08       2.18       2.14       6.80
P romM
t:U"?                        99.91     104.22    110.62     814.65
EUEML SUPO
ALRDY IDENTFE
Educetion                    10.69     10.59      10.59      81.79
Health                       26.00     83.70      86.60      96.80
Water Supply                 17.20      17.20     17.20      51.60
Food S eurIty                0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
Employment                   0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
Programe
Total                         8.709     61.49      64.89     170.69
-UMM   GAP - PSAP RE4UEST
Education                    12.24      11.85      4.96      28.55
Helth                        19.60      16.80     20.90      68.70
Water Supply                  0.70      7.36      12.06      26.60
Food Scurity                  5.64      5.64       5.78      16.81
Employment                    2.08      2.18       2.14       6.80
Prorm
Touta                        40.09      42.60      46.09     104.08
PROJECTS IN EDUCATION
17.       The objective of priority interventions in the educational sector
is to ensure a smooth transition from a centrally funded school system to one
that will be mainly funded by the local community.  In this transitional
period, within the framework of the proposed PSAP interventions, the
institutional details of the new system will be developed and refined.
Efficiency and cost-effectiveness will be fundamental principles of the new
system. Institutions such as Tanzania Elimu Supplies (TES) will be exDected
to run commercially. Given the magnitude of work involved in school material
production and distribution, this activity will be opened up for other bodies
and institutions to permit broader participation.
PRIMARY EDUCATION
18.       For Primary Education the main objectives that require immediate
action ares
(M)     production and distribution of textbooks;



ANNEX 2
- 84 -                    Page 6 of 14
(ii)     the absence of effective demand for books and other
school materials which would requLre an increase in the
Government's subvention to Districts from the present
TShs.200/pupil to TShs.450/pupill
(iii)     improvement of the distribution of school materials at
district level first by removing the TES monopoly over
textbook distribution and secondly by providing support
for district level transport;
(iv)     improvement of the learning environment by supporting
the rehabilitation of badly rundown schools;
(v)     increaring parent and community involvement in schools
by reviving Parents Committees and establishing the
Community Managed Primary School System in pilot areas;
(vi)     transport for school inspectors.
4
SECONDARY EDUCATION
19.       Secondary education is seriously under-funded and is in great need
of immediate support in the form of textbooks, teaching materials and
laboratory equipment and supplies. Since Tanzania is nearly at the bottom
of the African league in secondary education enrolment rates (only 6 per cent
in 1987), and in view of the demonstrated ability of parents to build and run
private secondary schools, it is proposed to support this effort on a
priority basis by establishing a Fund in Support of Community Financed
Secondary Schools.
OTHER
20.       School  Transport.    The  reforms  currently  being  made  have
significantly reduced the Government's capacity to provide adequate transport
services to the student population. While the number of students has been
increasing yearly, the urban public transport system, which itself has been
facing serious capacLty problems, has been unable to transport students to
and from school at the required times. Coupled with the rapidly increasing
transport costs, including fares, the level of hardship for many students has
increased and the absenteeism rate has soared. This applies to students at
all levels, from primary to university. An important activity in PSAP will
be to provide adequate and reliable transport to students. To accomplish
this, special buses will be obtained and set aside for the sole purpose of
transporting students.
21.       Books. Although the requirements for teztbooks and other teaching
materials have been shown for primary and  secondary schools,  serious
shortages have occurred at the university and other institutioos of higher
learning. The current book supply program cannot cope with the \igh dweand
of these institutions and the piblic at large.  In order to imprav* this
situation, a special allocation for books, which will be placed at the



ANNEX 2
-85-                       Page   of 14
bookstores of these Institutions as well as in general libraries, is
requested under the PSAP.
22.       Table 2 below provides a sumc,ey of PSAP projects in the education
sector, the amounto of donor supports already secured and the gap for which
futher donor support will be required.  The Government is requesting an
additional US$28.55 million. The bulk (69 percent) will go to meeting urgent
requirements in primary schools, even though considerable support has already
been secured for textbooks and the rehabilitation of primary schools.



ANNEX 2
-86 -                        Page 8 of 14
TABLE 2
PRIORITY SOCIAL ACTION PROGRAM: EDUCATION
US$ MILLIONS) 
1g9/19"0   1900/1001   1M91/1M       TOTAL
TOTAL REJIR!MENTS                    22.88      21.95       16.66       60.82
PRIM"RY EDUCATION                  14.05      13.18       11.67       89.08
Tontboois                          3.49        8.40       8.46       10.68
Exercise books and mterials       4.76        8.8        2.80       10.89
Distributioh Support to Districts    0.42     0.98        0.72        2.12
Rebhb. of peimay schools,          3.68        8.68       8.68       11.49
sethom comunity participation   0.65           0.56       0.64        1.70
Transport of *chool Inspectors     1.00        1.00       1.00        8.00
SECOISARY EDUCATION                 6.78       2.00        2.00       10.74
Textbooks                          2.67       2.57        0.47        5.61
Laboratory Equipant/suppl)ie       2.21       2.21        0.71        5.18
Support to community schools       2.00       2.00        2.00        6.00
OTHER                               2.00       2.00        0.60        4.50
School transport                   1.00        1.00       0.00        2.00
Books                              1.00        1.00        M.CI       2.60
EXTiRNAL SUPPORT ALREADY IDENTIFIDC    10.60    10.60       10.60       21.60
PRIMARY EDUCATION                   7.41       7.41        7.41       22.28
Toxtbooke (1IDA)                   8.45       8.46        8.50       10.48
Exercise books and materials      0.00        0.00       0.00        0.00
Distribution Support to  iestrict    0.12    0.12        0.12        0.86
Rehab. of primary choonl           8.68        8.68       8.88       11.45
Strengthn community participation   0.00      0.00        0.00        0.00
Transport of school Inspector      0.00       0.00        0.00        0.00
SECONDARY EDUCATION                 3.16        8.16       8.16        9.54
Txtbooks                           0.47       0.47        0.47        1.41
Laboratory Equipmsnt/supplies      0.71       0.71        0.71        2.18
Support to counlty schools         2.00        2.00       2.00        6.00
OTHER
School transport                   0.00        0.00       0.00        0.00
Books                              0.00       0.00        0.00        0.00
WUDB GAP PSAP 1    JEST              12.24      11.85        4.90       28.55
PRIMARY EDTION                      6.64       6.75        4.46       16.85
Textbook*                          0.00       0.00        0.00        0.00
Morclse books and atrials         4.76        8.38       2.80       10.89
Distribotlon Support to Districts    0.80      0.66       0.60        1.76
Rehab. of primry schools           0.00       0.00        0.00        0.00
ftrengthn comunity 9rptlelpstion   0.68       0.56        0.64        1.70
Transport of school lnspector      1.00        1.00       1.00        8.00
SECONDARY DUCATION                  8.00       8.60        0.00        7.20
Textbooks                          2.10        2.10       0.00        4.20
Laboratory Equip snt/suppli        1.50        1.50       0.00        8.00
Support to community schools       0.00        0.00       0.00        0.00
OTHER                               2.00       2.00        0.50        4.60
School tranort                     1.00        1.00       0.00        2.00
Rooks                              1.00        1.00       0.60        2.50



ANNEX 2
- 87 -                   Page 9 of 14
23.       Other urgent issues are also being addressed by the Government such
as the need for better salaries for teachers and the rehabilitation of public
secondary schools.
24.       The Tertiary Education Sector has not been fully covered by the
PSAP.  In addition, there are a number of ongoing and planned activities in
Education which will be addressed outside the PSAP.
PROJECTS IN HEALT-
25.       Like the other social services health is constrained  riumarily by
inadequate financing, poor management and inadequate staff compensation which
has eroded worker morale, performance aud productivity. Various programmes
are underway to alleviate these problems in the medium term. Specifically
a comprehensive master plan for an improved medical supply is being worked
out.   Also, the Government is actively examining the introduction of
alternative sources of finance, such as user-fees, comminity contributions
and participation in support of health services.
26.       However, in the short term, immediate support is needed to improve
the situation because the time lag involved in developlng appropriate
community based structures to manage and account for the funding of the
health sector is bound to be long.
27.       Priority action is needed to:
Mi)     improve the supply of pharmaceuticals,  particularly
essential drugs and other basic equipment and supplies
by filling the gap left by the donor supported Essential
Drug Programe (EDP) which presently covers only RECe
and dlspensaries in rural areas;
(ii)     provide referral transport to a small number of Rural
Health Centers and district hospitals on a pilot basis
in order to enable the referral system to function
satisfactorily;
(iii)     establish a credit scheme to enable Primary Cooperatlve
Societies to purchase referral transport for dispensaries
In their respective areas and to establlsh a Health
Transport Maintenance Fund at each level, financed by the
Secretaries members;
(iv)     strengthen  current  efforts  in  AIDS  control  by
establishing a reserve fund from which emerging problems
can be studied and remedial action taken lmmediately to
speed up the implementation of the AIDS Control
Programme;
(v)     introduce a pilot Health Insurance Scheme In Dar es
Salaam In order to test and develop appropriate
arrangement to protect those who have been adversely



ANNEX 2
-88 -                     Page 10 of 14
affected by the withdrawal of parastatal health services
to the general public;
(vi)     whert feasible extend/develop a two-tier (grided) medical
service system in order to raise additional revenue by
charging the relatively well.off for higher grade
services in order to support a basic health service that
remains free for all;
(vii)     in addition, in order to reverse the deterioration of
health facilities, it is proposed to embark on a
rehabilitation    programme,    involving    community
participation to the maximum extent possible.   The
prograime would also involve the establishment of a
decentralized maintenance system within the health
sector;
(viii)     in order to improve resource management within the health
sector, it is proposed to embark on a training programe
for health managers, in management skills and information
systems
28.       The project portfolio for the energency action programe in health
is  summarized  in  Table 3 below.   Over the 3 years  it will require
approximately US$30 m$Ilion p.a., totalling US$91.20 million for the whole
period. The bulk (81Z) is for the supply of drugs.
PROJECTS IN WATER SUPPLY
29.       The Government has long given priority to supplying both urban and
rural populations with Improved water services and a number of projects
funded by donors are underway to meet this objective. Most donor support is
directed at the development of new systems or the expansion of existing
systems. Some donors also assist with rehabilitation and maintenance work
on existing systems.   Overall, however, rehabilitation and maiutenance
efforts for existing systems has lagged behind investments in new systems
resulting In the deterioration of water services for much of the urban and
rural population. Resources are required to rehabilitate existing pumping
facillties and deliver systems, and improve maintenance capabilities. The
priority program for water will focus on these rehabilitation and maintenance
requirements and as such will complement existing water supply development
programmes thereby ensuring better management and increased efficiency in
the deliver of water services.  The PSAP  will provide support in three
areass rehabilitation of existing urban and rural systems, strengthening of
maintenance capabilitiesg and training and institution building.
So.       Much of the  rehabllitation efforts will aim  at halting the
deterloration of the bar ss Salaam system which serves the largest urban
population In the country. Priority will also be given to the rehabilitatoan
of pumps and ancillary equipment in existing rural systems. Maintenance



ANNEX 2
-89-                    Page I Iof 14
PfrI    V SOCIAL ACTION PROORAMMEt HEALTH
050 1IL1IONS)
1IM1AM0  1M/1001   1001/1002    TOTAL
TOTAL RElyDREUENTs                45.60      50.00     57.50      181.00
20.00     27.50      29.00       02.60
quypp nt/Spplleo                  *.00       7.00      5.00       n1.00
En. Ref. Tramp.                   2.40       2.40      2.40        7.20
AIDS Control                      1.00       1.00       1.00       8.00
Health Finne. Scheme              0.40       0.40      0.40        1.20
H"elth Fe. babsS.                 2.00       4.00       7.00      18.00
Healtb Met. Tr"o.                 0.70       0.70      0.70        2.10
VIlIa"e mu Init.                  8.00       7.00      11.00      28.00
EXTERNAL SUPPORT ALREADY IlENTXFI  20.00     88.20     86.60       96.80
Snags                            10.80      22.00      22.50      62.60
Equlpee*t/Supl _Ie                6.00       2.10      2.40        6.50
Em. Ref. Tranap.                  0.00       0.00      0.00        0.00
AIDS Control                      1.00       1.00       1.00       8.00
Hnelth Fimn. S _b..               0.80       0.20      0.10        0.60
Health fac. Rehab.                1.20       2.40       8.20       0,J0
Heblth Mpt. Tang.                 0.50       0.70      0.60        1.60
VI Ilag mm Init.                  8.70       5.80      6.60       15.60
UINUIU P CA P5W RSIUEST           19.50      16.80      20.90      56.70
Drugs                             7.70       5.50      6.50       19.70
f uipnentSuppl l_e                7.00       4.90       8.60      15.50
Em. Ref. Trranp.                  2.40       2.40       2.40       7.20
AD Control                        0.00       0.00      0.00        OX,
HeaIth Flan. Scheme              0.10       0.20       0.80       0.60
HeaIth PF. Rehab.                 0.t0       1.80       8.60       6.20
Healtb Nbs. TeRg.                 0.20       0.00      0.10        0.80
Villag BE  lnit.                  1.80       1.70      4.20        7.20
capacity will be strengthened for both urban and rural systems through the
provision  of  repair and maintenance kits,  leak  detection and control
equipment, and water purification and testing chemicals.   In addition,
vehicles, mobile workshops and commiuncation equipment will be provided on
a limited basis to Improve response time in emrgency situations. Training
and Institutional str egthening will be emphasized to  ensure that proper
maintenance procedures are developed and implemented.  Training will be
supported by the Water Training Institute and will focus on the operation and
mainteLance of water schmes, particularly at the village level The PSAP
will also provide upport for improved operation of the National Urban Water
Authority (UHA). A *tw{ning arrangement between NUVA and an ezperienced
water suply and sanitation agency abroad will be developed to Improve NUVA's
technical and managerial capacities, with emphasis on Improved maintenance,
repair and revenue ge'aeration.   In addition  to the requirments above,
completion of on-going development projects expected to generate ls the last
year of the PSAP additional requirements for maintenance of the new syst_e.
31.       Table 4 provides a breakdown of priority item  required by the
water sector. The unfuded gap over three years totals US$26.5 million.
ROJECTS IN FOOD S8CURITY
!
I



ANNEX 2
Page 12 of 14
- 90 -
32.        As a result of the reforms in food grain pricing and marketing,
there are now greatly improved incentives to farmers to produce food for
sale.   However, marketing  infrastructure,  including  transport,  storage
information services and credit have not yet been developed sufficiently to
ensure that consumers are not adversely affected by unduly large interseason
and interregional variations in food grain prices. At present, high urban
TABLE 4
PRIORM SOCIAL ACTION PROORUAME: WATER SUPPLY
(IUS MILLIONS)
109/11990   1"0/111   12M1/1M       TOTAL
TOTAL RhIllREYEFTS                 24.00       24.60        29.60       75.20
R.hsblltltblon                     4.60        5.20         6.20       13.00
Maintenanc                         4.00        4.00         4.00       12.00
Training & I..tltution Bld.       0.40        0.40         0.40        1.20
Water $upply Deelopemot           15.00        15.00       20.00       50.00
EXTERNAL SUPPORT IDENTIFIER        17.20       17.20        17.20       51.60
Rdh.bi ltation                     2.20        2.20         2.20      .6.60
U.lntaeon .-                                                -            -
Training A latitution Bldg.        -           -            -           -
Water Supply Ohelopmmnt           1.OO         15.00       15.00       45.00
TOTAL UIUIWD OP-PA Ro=              6.80        7.40        12.40       26.60
REHABILITATIO11                    2.40        J.00         8.00        *.40
Pump. & Spenr                     0.40        0.40         0.40        1.20
Waer   t.OAr.                     0.20        0.20         0.20        0.60
Pipe Fitbi.. & ACC.               0.40        0.40         0.40        1.20
Lor Ravm Pumping Station          1.40        2.00         2.00        5.40
MAINTUNANCE                        4.00        4.00         4.00       12.00
Chemicals                         1.70         1.70        1.70        5.10
W & Mobi l. Wrk.hop               0.40        0.40         0.40        1.20
Coma. Equipment                   0.40        0.40         0.40        1.20
Leak Doteotion A Control Dteih    1.60         1.50        1.60    '  4.60
INSXTII1TIONAL WLRDONS a
TRAINIO                           0.40        0.40         0.40        1.20
T.imning Arrang. tor NA          0.20         0.20        0.20        0.60
Operation a moist. Training      0.20        0.20         0.20        0.60
YAITENANCE REIIUWM FOR
RCENTLY 0VELOPE SWIWE              -           -           5.00        6.00
food prices coexist with large rural food stocks which cannot be moved to
locations close to urban markets. In addition to high transport costs, most
traders do not have storage capacity, and during heavy rains have difficulty
in moving food from rural areas. The lack of storage facilities for the
growing private grain trade sector means that a reasonable level of stocks
camnot be held in urban areas. This increases the sharp fluctuations in
prices. The situation is worst in Dar es Salaam which is the largest food
deficit area.
33.        To rectify this situation on a priority basis the following actions
are proposeds
tl)     public support for Improved market informationg



ANNEX 2
- 91 -                   Page 13 of 14
tll)     the mobilisation of both road and rail transport to bring
grain from the surplus areas to Dar es Salaamt
(Wii)     the construction of Grain Centrs which will be leased
out to grain dealers and cooperatives;
(iv)     the expansion of private gaddy milling in the Mwanza
areas
(v)     credit for grain traders;
(vi)     special interventions in livestock and fish markets.
34.       A total of US$16.45 million is needed to  cover the priority
interventions in the food sector as summArized in Table 5.
35.       Even with adequate food supplies on the market, some iow income
households may still find it difficult to buy enough food until the
Government'ia policies have had a chance to generate more jobs aw-d raise
incomes. Priority actions to create a 'safety-netg for these households are
discussed in the next section.
TABLE 5
PRIORITY SOCIAL ACTION PROGRAMs FMOD SECURITY
(US$ MILLIONS)
1909/1990   190/191   1991/19w 2    TOAL
LORiWED GAP4W                  5.54       5.U4       5.78      16.61
Mob. of Tra"J.tor Ora         2.00       2.00       2.00       6.00
wagonor TAZARA A m            I.60       1.?        1.67       5.00
Lveck Wago                    0.t0       0.30       0.40       1.00
Orais stor. Cet. (DIM)        0.60       0.50       0.50       1.50
Pady MIIIng Lk.1Rg.           0.8        0.30       0.40       1.00
An.F.d Ind. (OM)              0.67       0.67       0.66       2.00
Livestock KpreJ As.e.         0.10       0.10       0.10       0.80
PROJECTS FOR INCOMES AND DEPLOYMENT
36.       A three-pronged approach vill provide the basis for priority
actions to ensure that everyone has access to an adequate amount of food.
The first set of interventions aims to accelerate the growth of employment
and income generation In small-scale manufacturing and services.   This
provides the main way of stimulating self-sustaining growth processes and
ensuring that the benefits of the ERP are distributed as widely as possible.
However, the rate at which new jobs can be created may not be sufficient to
provide adequate Incomes quickly enough to remove the threat of nutritional
decline. The second and third elements of the strategy, temporary public
works schemes and income transfers, are designed to provide a 'safety-net'
for those who cannot find new jobs.



ANNEX 2
-92-                  Page 14 of 14
37.       This approach requires a more precise definition of sources of
vulnerability to food insecurity than is possible at present and better ways
of identifying families hose nutritional welfare may have been affected by
economic stagnation and the short run consequences of the MP.
38.       The intention is to finance training support and credit for small
scale industries and services largely from counterpart funds. However, sos
ezternal fin..nce will be required to provide tools and other artisan-type
inputs.
39-       Table 6 provides a sumnary of the sosts of the PSAP for incomes and
t .oyment projects, which totals US$4.3 million.
TAULE 6
RIORTm  SOCIAL ACTION MGM: EhPLOYMENT
(M MILLIONS)
1580/100   1050/108    101/1082     TOTAL
UDNRED GAPP         T        2.08       2.18       2.14        6e.0
Sb4to Ieir.I  S..       1.18       1.88       1.84        4.00
L  Int.Rd.Vabl   (OMb      o0.80       0.o0       0.40         1.00
Tr"e Plnt.Shen"             0.40       0.o0       0.40         1.80
40.       The requirements for employment generation and the provision of a
*safety-net,' are likely to be much longer than the PSAP Request in Table 6.
However, in view of the limited ezperience in Tanzania with these type of
interventlons, it is necessary to begin with a pilot exercise to develop
cost-effective approaches that can be repeated on a wider scale.



- 93 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 3
HEATHI AND NUUTRION PROJECT
STUDY ON THE LONG TRIM OPT1ONS POR PINANCING HEALTH CARE IN TANZMNIA
TRM  OF REFuREE    (TOR)
Pre-ambles Since Independence, Tanzania has focussed on provision of basic
needs to its population and self-reliant development. These principles were
enunciated forcefully in the Arusha Declaration (1972), which amongst other
objectives aimed for free health care for all. From the mid-1970s onwmrds,
economic difficulties have severely weakened Government's capacity to
adequately fund social services such as health and education. Various forms
of cost-sharing and cost-recovery have already been introduced in the
education sector, and now the Government wishes tc strengthen self-reliance in
health sector, to ensure long-term financing of health care for its population
without adversely affecting low income groups in society.
In order to finance the health sector, it is unlikely that one measure
alone would be sufficient, rather a series of measures may need to be adopted.
Some measures such as charges for medical investigations. vaccinations for
travel abroad, for medical services rendered to foreigners in Tanzania, can be
introduced fairly easily. Other measures, such as health insurance, cost-
sharing for drugs etc. are far more complex and require further study; whilst
the Government has already decided to shelve indefinitely proposals for a
registration fee.
Objectives of the Studys The objective of the study is to help the Government
identify and prioritise possible measures to assist in the long-term financing
of the health sector.
Scope of Works The study will examine a range of possible measures/options to
finance the health sector, and for each such measure wills
i) determine the likely amounts of revenue to be raised;
ii)  determine the organizational arrangements (including control of funds
collected, acountability etc.), and estimate the costs of such
arrangements;
iii)  assess the impact of such measures on various population groups
(especially the vulnerable and low income);
iv) based on (iii) recommend categories of services rendered or population
groups attended who should be exempted from payment;
v) how much decentralisation (discretion in setting fee levels should be
given to districts and or facilities);



- 94 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 3
vi) make recommendations oan (a) mechanisms required to maximise the health
benefit from the expenditure of such revenue (e.g. whether revenue
should be retained at facility, district or central Ministry of
HealthlTreasury level); and
vii)  indicate the practical steps required to implement each measure
(including the need for trial implementation including the cost of such
trials).
The options to be examined include the following (specific issues
additional to those listed above and included in brackets).
A)    Cost-Sharing for Pharmaceuticals - (Patients would share the cost of
pharmaceuticals prescribed - not necessarily 100 percent). Should such
a scheme atart in an area currently not receiving adequate public sector
pharmaceuticals supply e.g. an urban area llke Dar es Salaam? If
patients were to pay even full cost for drugs at public health
facilities, how much cheaper would this be for patients than buying from
private pharmacies? In rural areas could payment be made in kind (e.g.
maize, rice, chickens), if so, how could this be managed? Should there
be cross-subsidisation of drugs? What exemptions should there be?).
5)    Cost-Sharita for Hospital Food - (Patients would share the cost of food
provided In hospitallhealth centres). How would this be collected?
What impact would it make on the volwaes of meals provided by the
hospitallhealth centre i.e. if relatlvesifriends were to provide meals
to patients there could be a co6t-saving as well as a revenue-raising
potential. The logistical impacts on public horpitals of relat3'res
providing meals and the experieace of voluntary agency hospitals in this
regard should be reviewed.
C)    Two-tier Hospital System - (Expansion of the existing limited Grade 1
bed facilities providing better amenities to those who can pay. Would
the additional revenue collected more than offset higher costs? What
level of charges should be established? What level of demand might
there be at these fee levels?).
D)    Health Insurance - (Beneficiaries would pay a premium which would then
cover the costs of medical services provided - premia could come from:
I) employers, or deductions from employees pay, for the formal
sector.
ii) premium payments from the self-employed (who could be given a card
proving they had paid, when requesting medical services).
iII)  levies on primary cooperatives (to cover rural inhabit'.nts) - who
could also be given a card); and
iv) foreign tourists (who could make a payment on arrival to give
short-ternm medical cover).
(Several issues need special attentions Should such insurance be
applicable to all citizens on a mandatory basis or on an 'optional' free



- 95 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 3
to choose basis, what would be the ramifications of these? If optional, would
those covered be entitled to higher quality service such as under a two-tier
system? Should there be some system of co-payment or deductible - what would
be the ramifications of this? Should the premia collected go to a central
health fund? If so how would this be allocated to facilities? Would setting
up a billing system (with facilities sending payment requests to the central
fund be feasible? How would this be controlled? How could payments from the
different categories of persons (i) to (iv) be ensured). The consultants
should provide information on the advantages, pitfalls, problems and
consequences of health insurance as it has been operated in other
(particularly) African countries.
E)    Capitation Fee - Parastatals (and perhaps private firms) would pay a
capitation fee to enaole their employees to have access to the
Government health referral facilities (regional and referral hospitals,
Muhimbili Medical Centre).
F)    Strengthened Link between Develoume,t Levy and Health System - (A
specified portion of the Development Levy (DL) could go to health,
thereby strengthening the link between the Development Levy and health
care ptzwided. Efficient delivery of service could result in a
reduction in the overall DL; alternatively the DL could be raised to
increase the health portion in order to improve or develop services. (As
the DM0 would be responsible for rendering services and would be
accountable to the District Council through the DED, communities would
be able to make a strong link between their payment of DL, health
services rendered and the responsibility of the DM0).
G)    CoimmitX Health Maintenance Funds and Oranizations - Could funds be
established at the village level to cover the costs of referring
patients etc.). Is the experience of health maintenance organisations
(BMOs) applicable to Tanzania - especially in rural areas).
H)    Special Fund Raisins Events - Celebrations, festivals, lotteries etc. to
raise funds for the health system.
I)    Reduced Overseas Treatment - This is really a cost-saving measure.
(Could more use be made of regional referrals to countries such as
Zimbabwe, Kenya? What would be the investment costs required to reduce
overseas referrals - would the:e be economically viable?).
The consultants should highlight the consequences for the health system
in not adopting any of the measures above i.e.
either reduced service quality
or      the need for the Government to increase budgetary allocations to
the health sector.



- 96 -
Page 1 of 1
HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
OVERAIL LROJA T COORDINTION
The organogram for the Project Coordination Committee is as follows:
Project Coordination
Committee (PCC)
Chairman -
Permanent Secretary MOH
L
m~~~~o Lim LLZ L+rA



- 97 -
AMNK 4.1
Peg. 1 of 1
UKALIW A-" NU3XION  mmOUC
cffPONI It                  NATIOIAL Pn SYSTDSs
|Ministryr of Health
(MOB)
Chief Medical
Officer (CMO)
Planning Dept.
(PD)
ACMO        ACMO Hospital  A     Pre
Manpower      Services        vent
Planning    TNC          Proect
Comission             Coordinator(PC)                  - - - - - - - -         
_____-_Reporting Links
- - - -Coordination Links



- 98 -
AMK 4.3
Pago 1 of 1
ULTE AD M ON PCT
CONPONEUT 1 - STRENGTUUNING RURAL PRC
Organogram of the Implementation Arranga-.ntas
PHC Steering
Committee.
PC  --                                                      |    Project
Secretariat                                                      Support
Coordination, Technical                     Network
Discus&'on                           (PSN)
F       E
I       V
N       A
A       L
N       U
C       A
E       T
I
RHO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
N
IR}lO I                                                                         (DED)I
District RHC|_
Committee
Advice on Policy         r-_nFinance



- 99 -
TANZANIA
HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT             ANNEX 4.4
Page I of I
COMPONENT III STRENGTHENING URBAN PHC
ORGANOGAM OF THE IMPLEWENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
Central Government                      [       MLG
City council                            [ Cit  Director
City Health Department                    City Medical
Of ficer of Health
AssstaceUnit
District          DM0         DMO
District    Medical                                             Assistant
Officer     _                                         City
Director
Fineace District District Etc. Etc.
Officer  Public    Health
Health    Officer
Nurse



- 100 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 2
TANZANlA
MEALTS AND NUTRITION PROJECT
PROCCRNUT PROGRAM FOR PARUANCEUTICALS 1990/91
Background
1.        Provision of an adequate supply of pharmaceuticals and medical
supplies to the health system is the number one priority in the sector.
Without these supplies, effective services cannot be delivered. In
addition to the supply of pharrzaceuticals, the situation with respect to
medical supplies and equipment is particularly acute. Virtually no
supplies have been imported over the last few years outside of special
donor supported health programs, especially that for AIDS. This had led to
a situation in which certain items, programs, and areas of the country, are
relatively well supplied, whilst others have only minimal supplies. This
is not conducive to an efficient use of scarce resources, nor is it
equitable.
2.        Pharmaceuticals Requirements (1990191).  Making a conservative
estimate for of the requirements vital (life-saving) and essential drugs
for all the tiers of the health system, the total requirement for 1990191
would be US$27.5 million.
Sources of Finance: The current committed sources of finance
includes
Amount
Source                      US$ m equivalent   Items
a)  Governrent
i)   CMS through the OGL         3.00           -Overall Program
ii) CMS through the
Preferential                1.50          -Overall Program
iii) Procurement of
Locally Manufactured
Drugs                       2.50          -Essential Drugs
b) Donor Support
i)   DANIDA                      6.73           -EDP Kits
ii)  ODA                         1.60           -OPD Kits
iii) FRG Commodity Aid           2.13           -Overall Program
iv)  Other Donors                2.00
TOTAL                      19.46
Leaving an unfunded balance to be covered by the IDA Credit of US$
8.04 million.



- 101 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 2
3.    Medical Suwplies (1990191).  Given the extremely low stock of medical
supplies in the country, there is a great urgency to replenish stocks.
About US$ 15 million is required for this purpose, however the annual
consumption of the highest priority supplies is estimated at around USS 3
million.
Sources of Finance: The current committed sources of finance
include:
Amount
Source                              USS m eouLvalent
a)    Government
i)   Procurement of locally
produced items                      2.11
b)    Donors
i)  Various                              0.50
TOTAL                               2.61
Leaving an unfunded balance to be covered by the IDA Credit of
US$0.39 million.
4.         The balance of the first portion of the IDA Credit funds
(US$1.57 million, i.e., US$10 million minus $8.04 minus $0.59) will thus be
utilized to replenish vital stocks of supplies commencing with laboratory
reagents and equipment.



- 102 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 6
TANZANIA
HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
THE PEARM&CEUTICALS SUB-SECTOR - BACKGROUw AND ISSUES
I. Procurement and Distribution
1.        Tanzania has developed a national list of essential drugs,
consisting of 192 items, whir.h must be followed by the government
pharmaceutical system. The establishment of this list has been successful
in reducing drug purchases, improving patterns of drug utilization,
management, information and monitoring, and facilitating bulk purchase of
drugs with a consequent reduction in drug costs.
2.        Selection, procurement and distribution of drugs and medical
supplies in Tanzania is handled by three main agencies Central Medical
Store (CMS), National Pharmaceutical Company (NAPCO) and Non-governmental
hospitalsIagencies
3.        The Central Medical Store (CMS), which is a part of the MOH, is
responsible for the procurement, distribution and supply of all drugs and
medical supplies for the MOH; it also handles the distribution of all drugs
supplied under the UNICEF/DANIDA-supported EDP. Procurement of drugs,
which must be from the national list of essential drugs, is by importation,
barter protocol, purchase from local manufacturers, or donor grants. About
66 percent of all drugs and medical supplies in Tanzania are procured by
CUS, and it charges a 5 percent service fee on all items for the public
health system and NGO facilities, and a 50 percent fee for parastatals.
4.        Foreign exchange for the importation of pharmaceuticals is
allocated by the Central Bank to CMS, which then invites tenders.
Selection aAong tenders received is made by the Pharmaceutical and Supplies
Committee. 4'The next several steps of obtaining import licenses, opening
letters of credit and shipment of the stock itself usually take between 6
and 10 months. CMS is then responsible for warehousing and distributing
goods to MOH facilities. From CMS warehouses, supplies are moved to five
zonal medical stores located (ZMS) in Iringa, Moshi, Mtwara, Mwanza and
Tabora, and from there they are distributed to their assigned regions.
5.        There are a number of areas that need improvement in the present
CMS system, as followst
- the CMS procurement section is severely understaffed and lacks
the skills and training needed for trading on the international
market, hence it must rely heavily on suppliers with
representation in Tanzania;
- to guard against items going out of stock, CMS buys and stores
larger than needed quantities of goods, thus tying up scarce
capital and storage space;
- there is no effective quality control of incoming supplies, no
chemical, microbiological or physical testing of products is



ANNEX 6
-103 -                           -Page2`of 6
one, other than occasional visual inspection, although CMS is
constructing a central laboratory capable of running most of the
required tests;
- CMS's physical facilities are in poor condition and receive
inadequate maintenance - only a few buildings have suitable
shelving and equipment for pharmaceutical storage, and
temperature control and air conditioning are major problems;
- the organization of shelving, storage and distribution from
stores is poor, with much time wasted searching for items and no
established system for removal of out-dated, useless items.
Some drugs are even left in the open air for long periods,
resulting in deterioration of quality;
- the inventory management system is ineffective, with the CMS
microcomputer usually out of order, and there is no precise
information available on stocks - hence the rate of pilferage is
high (estimated at about 30 percent for non-EDP drugs).
- the CMS practice of subdividing bulk deliveries of drugs into
appropriate quantities for health facilities, (to promote the
rational use of drugs) is carried out manually - thus there is
room for error and increased drug losses in re-packaging; and
- the ZMS also lack adequate equipment, inventory control,
accounting capability and maintenance.
6.        The CMS supply and distribution system also suffers from chronic
shortages of supply in areas not covered by the EDP program. Since in
general only a quarter to a half of orders are fulfilled, regional and
district administrations have come to disregard the normal quarterly
ordering cycle and place orders frequently. CMS then sends them whatever
is in stock. Thus expensive and inappropriate drugs may be used - for
example ampicillin for common colds, quinine injections instead of
chloroquine etc. The only items supplied in adequate quantity are locally
produced infusion solutions.
7.        The Essential Drugs Program supplies pharmaceuticals in the form
of essential drug kits to MOH rural health facilities through a DANIDA-
financed, UNICEF-implemented program in place since 1983. UNICEF handles
all procurement. Quantities are determined on the basis of one smaller
yellow kit (36 items) per 1,000 consultations for dispensaries, and one
larger blue kit (52 items) per 2,000 consultations for RHCs. The UNICEF
Packaging and Assembling Center in Copenhagen procures pharmaceuticals
through international tender and packages them in the two types of kit.
Substantial cost savings are thus realized, amounting to 30-40 percent of
drug costs. UNICEF is further responsible for delivering kits directly to
Zonal Medical Stores, at which point they enter the normal CMS system. The
ZMS then delivers them to District Stores and facilities pick them up there
either directly themselves or through the EPI transport system. DANIDA
gives technical support to CMS to assist it in its part of this
distribution system. The EDP distributes about 35,000 kits a year to
dispensaries and about 4,000 kits a year to RHCs, on a monthly delivery
schedule. It has been extremely successful in assuring a regular and



ANNEX 6
- 104                       Page 3of 6
adequate flow of pharmaceutical supplies to those parts of health system
covered by it, namely MOH lower-level rural facilities.
8.        The National Pharmaceutical Comany (NAPCO) is a parastatal
company under the Ministry of Industry and Trade which sells
pharmaceuticals to the general public, private pharmacies, parastatal
medical facilities, regional trading companies, and VA health facilities.
It accounts for about 30 percent of Tanzania's total pharmaceutical
imports. NAPCO is a profit-making company with large investment holdings
in the local pharmaceutical industry (TPI and Keko, see paras. --). It
generally buys brand-name products, specialty pharmaceuticals and medical
supplies, and sells them with at least a 30-40 percent mark-up in price,
depending on what the market will bear. Its prices are in fact extremely
high, because of its captive market. For example, imported brand-name
chloroquine syrup is sold for six times the price of a generic product from
a local manufacturer, and more than double the price from a private
importer. Actual profit figures were not available, but NAPCO's sales have
risen recently, from TSh 141 million in 1984185 to TSh 291 million in
1986187. Foreign exchange allocations to NAPCO over the past three years
have fluctuated widely.
9.        NAPCO's procurement is handled mainly through a purchasing
committee, consisting of the General Manager, Branch Managers, Marketing
and Operations Manager and a professional pharmacist; however there is at
present no technically qualified member. This committee draws up the list
of items to be purchased, taking into account quality, demand, price
comparison, financial factors and delivery schedules. The quality of
products is monitored, certificates of analysis are requested for each item
and all are checked for quality, quantity and price by the Societe General
de Surveillance (SGS) based in Geneva.
10.       NAPCO handles the distribution and supply of pharmaceuticals to
some non-governmental health facilities and private pharmacies. It has a
warehouse and five retail stores in Dar es Salaam, Dodoma, Moshi, Mwanza
and Mbeya. These are generally clean, well maintained, stocked and
organized, with air-conditioned rooms for storage of temperature-sensitive
items. Inventory control is computerized. No re-packaging or
transportation is done. Warehouses and stores are secure and pilferage is
not an important problem.
11.       Non-Governmental Agencies are known to import substantial
quantities of drugs and medical supplies, but little precise information on
quantity, variety or value is available. There is sometimes a problem with
some of the NGOs who receive bulk drug donations without adequate
discussion with donors of drug selection, quantities, quality control
procedures, or even language used on the package and labels (which
sometimes is unknown to most Tanzanians). Major creligious organizations,
such as the Catholic and Episcopalian churches and the Muslim Council (Aga
Rhan Foundation), procure supplies through their overseas procurement
departments and hence obtain cost savings through high volume purchases.
They do their own monitoring of the quality of their procurement.
12.       The Private Sector.  Under the Economic Recovery Program, the
Government allows free importation of pharmaceuticals on the national
essential drugs list, through the own use of foreign exchange and the Open
General Licence (OGL). These private importers sell to non-governmental



- 105 -                      ANNEX 6
Pag-e4 ~of 6
health facilities and private pharmacies. There are no government
procedures for monitoring these products for selection, quality or safety
or their storage systems, although in theory the Pharmacy Board must
approve all drug impe-ts.
II. Local Production
13.       Tanzania has four major established pharmaceutical manufacturers,
whose combined installed capacity amounts to about 10 percent of the
country's drug requirements. They ares
- Reko Pharmaceutical Company (Keko), government-owned
- Tanzania Pharmaceutical Industries (TPI), government-owned
- Mansoor Daya, privately-owned
-  Shelly's Chemical Company Ltd., privately-owned.
14.       The Keko Pharmaceutical Company is a parastatal company under the
Ministry of Industry and Trade and is located in Dar-es-Salaam. It was
established in collaboration with the People's Republic of China, which
supplied machinery and expertise, and in 1982 also received a DANIDA grant
of Danish Kroner 14 million Kroner for physical plant rehabilitation and
additional equipment to produce infusion solutions. Keko's current work
force is 130 employees, and it occupies four buildings for, respectively,
offices, production facilities including laboratories for quality
monitoring, and two warehouses. None of the production or storage areas
are air-conditioned. The plant is not poorly maintained and is in dire
need of rehabilitation; however the laboratories are adequately equipped
and staffed.
15.       Keko's current production capacity, using relatively simple
technology, is 1.2 billion tablets and one million liters of infusion
solution. Currently, only tablets of aspirin, paracetamol, chloroquine and
tetracycline are produced, although there is capability for 10 other
products. In recent years only a fraction of production capacity has been
used (about one half in 1987), due to shortages of raw materials, packaging
materials and spare parts. Production over the last three years has been
rising steadily for tablets (from 44 million in 1985 to 373 million in
1987), but fluctuating for solutions (from 202,000 liters in 1985, 496,000
in 1986, and 399,000 in 1987). Only very basic quality testing of products
is carried out, and as a result quality control is poor. This is also due
to the lack of stringent quality requirements by CMS, the major buyer.
16.       All Keko's production is purchased by CMS or NAPCO.  Generally
speaking, Keko is a profitable enterprise, though it has suffered lo ses in
the past. In recent years however, these profits may only be paper profits
reflecting inventory valuation gains due to devaluation (1986 profits were
TSh 17.5 million).
17.       Tanzania Pharmaceutical Industries (TPI) is also a parastatal
under the Ministry of Industry and Trade, and is located in Arusha. It was
established in 1976 by the Ministry with a development Joan from the
Tanzania Investment Bank and technical support and management from a
Finnish company Orion, partially financed by FINNIDA. Since 1984, however



- 106-                        ANNEX6
Page 5 of 6
it has been under local management, though it still uses technical
assistance from Orion, including validation of quality assurance tests.
TPI's current work force amounts to over 130 employees. The physical plant
is well designed and maintained, with adequate air-conditioned areas.
Quality control is good, and there is an excellent laboratory for all
necessary tests.
18.       TPI has large state-of-the art production facilities and can
produce 36 products in solid, liquid, semi-solid or injectable forms. At
present it produces 24 items and has capacity for 1.5 billion tablets, 50
million capsules, 10.5 million injection vials, and 0.5 million liters of
liquid semi-solids. This capacity could be doubled easily by doubling the
current single 8-hour shifts. However since 1984 only a small fraction of
production capacity has been used, due to low foreign exchange allocations
for procuring raw materials. Currently most raw materials are being
donated by Finland or Norway.
19.       TPI sells almost all its products to CMS and NAPCO and has
frequently encountered difficulties in receiving payment. It is a viable
and profitable enterprise, capable of producing quality products at
competitive prices, and has shown consistent profits since 1985; 1986
profits were TSh 21.9 million.
20.       Mansoor Daya is a privately-owned pharmaceutical manufacturer in
operation since 1965. It is 56 percent owned by Tanzanian nationals and 44
percent owned by the Twyford Laboratories of the UK. The current work
force is 50 employees. The factory is located in Dar es Saiaam and
occupies one large building. The physical plant and production facilities
are inadequate in some. respects, for example, there are no air-conditioned
areas. In addition, insecticides are manufactured in the same building as
drugs for human consumption, a dangerous practice which the Government
intends to rectify. There are only two staff in the quality department,
and testing is minimal due to lack of facilities.
21.       Mansoor Daya can produce tablets, capsules, liquids, lotions,
aerosols and pastes in over 50 formulations. There is installed annual
production capacity for 300 million tablets, 6 million capsules, 180
thousand liters of liquid and 0.5 million aerosol units. However only a
fraction of production capacity is being used due to lack of foreign
exchange and spare parts.
22.       All Mansoor Daya products are sold to NAPCO or to private
pharmacies; CMS has discontinued buying from Mansoor Daya for the last 3
years. Prices are competitive. The only data that could be obtained on
production, pricing and profits, were that the company had sales of TSh 27
million in 1986 and TSh 14 million in 1987, and makes a pre-tax profit of
about 20 percent on turnover.
23.       Shelly's Chemical Company, Ltd. is a privately-owned
pharmaceutical company located in Dar es Salaam. Its current work force is
39 employees. It occupies one large building, with another under
construction. Physical plant and production facilities are good, but still
need improvement. Quality control of the manufactured product is adequate,
but none of the currently marketed formulations have been properly tested.



ANNEX 6
- 107-                         Page6`of 6
24.       At present, Shelly's has the capacity for annual production is 35
million tablets, 13: million capsules, 250 thousand liters of liquids. 20
thousand kg. powders and 20 thousand kg. creams. It plans to increase this
capacity subetantially over the next year or tvo, following expansion and
improvement of current physical plant and production facilities. However
since 1984 only a fraction of capacity has been used due to a limited
supply of raw materials and lack of adequate space. Nonethelfss,
production has generally r.Aen over the past three years.
25.       Shelly's products are sold to NAPCO, to local private hospitals.
and to private pharmacies, but not to CMS.  Prices are competitive with                  P
both imported drugs and other local manufacturers. Shelly's is a viable
and profitable company, and made profits of TSh 4.5 million in 1986187.
26.       Generally speaking, the four Tanzanian pharmaceutical companies
described above have many similar problems. All have suffered from low
utilization of production capacity due to shortages of foreign exchange,
and all but TPI are in need of rehabilitation expansion and improvement of
physical plant and quality control systems. There are also additional
structural problems for the entire Tanzania local pharmaceutical industry,
including uncoordinated working regulations of the Treasury, MOH, Bank of
Tanzania and Ministry of Industry and Trade and disruptions in the regular
suply of glass and plastic bottles, paper cartons, etc. from domestic
manufacturers.
27.       On the other hand, all the companies benefit from the large
national demand for pharmaceuticals coupled with shortages of foreign
exchange for imported drugs. Thus all have low inventory and real interest
costs, and can charge high prices. The highly controlled supply and
distribution system, with CHS and NAPCO the only two important buyers,
means that companies have no marketing or promotion costs. Indeed this
situation of essentially captive markets is probably largely responsible
for the generally low investment in quality assurance and control shown by
the companies. There are no research and development costs, since most
formulations are supplied free. The Government has abolished the 100
percent import duty on active drugs and raw materials, thus substantially
reducing the cost of raw materials. Depreciation costs shown in the
accounts are small because of the low exchange rate rates used (historic
accounting practices have resulted in valuing capital at exchange rates for
the 1960s and 1970s, when the plants were built. However, this implies
that the firms are not in reality providing sufficient depreciation for
assets which need to be substantially revalued in the light of the currency
devaluation - a more adequate reflection of depreciation costs would wipe
out many of these firms paper profits. Moreover, pharmaceutical products
are simple and cheap to manufacture, since only a few processing steps are
required to turn the raw material into a final product. It is therefore
not surprising that all the companies now make profits despite severe
underutilization of capacity and t..e other constraints mentioned above.



- 108 -                ANNE  7
Page 1 of 9
TANZANIA
HEELTR AND NUTRITION PROJECT
UDCCIUENDATIONS OF TSE WOMGI GROUP ON THE
NATIONAL DRUG POLICY
The following represents the recomendations of a working group,
comprised of Government officials together with the technical expertise
from WHO and DANIDA, to the MO on the content of a national drug policy.
The KOH is still reviewing these recommendations. It is anticipated that
the Government will adopt the National Drug Policy later in 1990.
introduction
a.   The overall objective of the national drug policy is to make
available to all Tanzanians at all times the essential pharmaceutical
products which are of quality, proven effectiveness and acceptable
safety at a price that the individual and the community can afford,
when these are needed to prevent, cure or reduce illness and
suffering.
b.   In addition to making pharmaceutical products available, the national
drug policy aims at rationalizing the use of drugs through better
information, prescription and compliance. Rational use of drugs
include the availability of alternative methods of treatment when the
use of pharmaceutical products is unnecessary.
c.   The national drug policy aims at developing and supporting the
national pharmaceutical industries with a view to increase local
production, thus encouraging self reliance.
d.   The national drug policy aims at using the potential of traditional
medicines of acceptable safety side by side with allopathic medicines
when such treatment is acceptable to the individual.
DRUG AVAILABILITY
To ensure that essential drugs are available to all Tanzanians the policy
will be achieved through a careful selection, procurement, distribution and
quality assurance.
1. DruM selection
a.   The policy aims at selecting pharmaceutical products in accordance
with the concept of essential drugs. Essential drugs are those of
the utmost importance and are basic, indispensable and necessary for
the health needs of the population.



- 109 -
AMn     7
Page 2 of 9
b.   The selection of drugs will be done by a committee of experts and
will be based On specific criteria such ass
disease pattern
safety, efficacy, quality
cost and price
therapeutic advantage
c.   Drugs will be selected and distributed as generic drugs.  All
registered drugs will bear their generic name (INN) even when
available under brand names only.
d.   The policy aims at keeping the number of drugs in the market
reasonably small. It will allow for a maximum of two brand name
products for each drug on the national drug list.
e.   The pharmaceutical legislation and regulations will reflect the
national drug policy.
f.   The registration of drugs will be manufacturer specific.
2. Drut Procurement
a.   The procurement policy aims at securing both the necessary quantity
and quality of pharmaceutical products, according to the national
drug list, which will meet the medical needs of the majority of the
population. Donations will only consist of drugs included int he
national drug list. Procurement will be directed towards
manufacturers in preference to brokers and trading houses.
b.   Criteria for procurement planning will be that essential drugs are
given priority. Priority will also be given to local manufacturing
companies and when feasible to regional manufacturers before
considering overseas suppliers.
c.   The procurement policy aims at securing the lowest possible price
without affecting quality. This policy aims at coordinating and
consolidating national procure_ent for both the public and the
private sector. The policy also aims at keeping the prices for
imports of both raw materials and finished goods at the low end of
international price levels.
d.   The long-term objective is to achieve optimal self-reliance through a
snift from importation to increased local production. In addition to
drug formulation the policy will later aim at producing intermediate
and raw materials when there is a national comparative advantage or
to enter into production partnerships within the region.



- 110 -
ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 9
3.   Distribution
a.   The aim of the drug distribution policy is to ensure that essential
drugs are always available to those who need them and are distributed
in the most cost effective manner.
b.   Only registered drugs will be distributed in the country.
c.   Drugs will continue to be distributed through the public, parastatal
and private sectors.
-    The CMS will distribute drugs to the health sector according to
the National Essential Drugs List (EDL).
-    Parastatals, other private organizations and the private
pharmacies will distribute essential drugs as a priority.
d.   In the pharmacies the sale of essential drugs under generic name at
low cost will be promoted.
e.   A better coordination among the three sectors will be sought mainly
In the field of transportation and storage.
f.   Storage, inventory control, quality surveillance, facilities will be
modernized to meet the requirements of an effective distribution
system.
4.   Quality Assurance
a.   The aim of the policy is to ensure that drugs reaching the patient
are safe, effective and of high quality. The quality assurance
system will include managerial, technical and legal elements.
b.   The drug inspection system will assure that the policy is achieved in
all aspects and at all levels of the drug supply system.
The relevant aspects of testing samples will be carried out in
national drug control laboratories under the authority of the
Government Chemist.
c.   All specifications on pharmaceutical products will be stated in laws
and regulations.
RATIONAL DRUG USE
1.   Education and Trsina
a.   The aim of the national drug policy is to ensure that drugs are
prescribed, dispensed and used rationally.
Education and training of health workers will be a major element to
achieve rational drug use.



- 111 -
ANNEX 7
Page 4 of 9
b.   Education of doctors, dentists, pharmacists, nurses, medical
assistants, rural medical sides and others will include all the
pillars of PHC so that the place of a national drug policy is viewed
in its proper perspective.
c.   Curricula for health workers will contain the necessary elements of
the essential drugs concept to allow conceptualization of rational
drug use from the start of training.
d.   Continuing education will emphasize the importance of rational drug
use.
e.   Standard treatment schedules for comnoz 4iseases will be prepared for
use by all health workers.
f.   Education and training of scientific and technical manpower for drug
research, evaluation, control and distribuion will be emphasized,
and allowance will be made for training of personnel in management of
the national drug policy.
g. All prescriptions will be made using the generic (INN) name of the
drug.
h.   Education and training will incorporate instructions in the use of
alternative treatments where drugs are not indicated.
2.  DruP   Infomation
a.   The aim of the drug policy is to ensure that unbiased information
about the correct handling and use of drugs is available to health
workers at all levels and to the end user.
b.   Independent and reliable, scientifically-based literature aiming at
rational prescribing and dispensing will be disseminated to health
workers and health units at all levels, including hospital
pharmaceuticals and supplies committees.
C.  A national formulary will be developed to provide information about
the essential drugs and standard treatment schedules to heLj,th
workers at all levels.
d. Information about drugs, appropriate drug use, and alternatives to
drug use will be disseminated tu the public and to the individual end
user in a language understandable to all.
3.   Control of Misuse
a.   The policy will aim at controlling the import, distribution and use
of illicit, adulterated and/or illegal imported drugs. In addition



- 112 -
ANNEX 7
Page 5 of 9
It is the aim to reduce dispensing and sale without medical judgement as
well as overprescription and polypharmacy.
4.   Hospital Pharmaceuticals and Supplies Cammittees
a.   Hospital Pharmaceuticals and Supplies Coamittees will be made
operational in all hospitals in Tanzania.
b.   The comuittees vill be made responsible for the hospitals estimation
of drug requirements, the drug budget, monitoring of standard
treatment schedules and overall drug use, the provision of up-to-date
information to prescribers and dispensers, and other matters
pertaining to the rational use of yharmaceutical products.
c.   The Ministry of Health in collabore'I.on with Muhimbili Medical Centre
will establish a coordination centre for all hospital Pharmaceuticals
and Supplies Committees. This centre will monitor the functioning of
all committees.
5. Advertlilna and Promotion
a.   Ethical criteria for drug promotion and advertisement will be
established in order to support the improvement of health care
through rational drug use. They will constitute legal obligations.
b.   Labelling and advertisements for drugs must be based on
scientifically established evidence and be in good taste.
Advertising must be objective and in accordance with the
pharmaceutical legislation.
c.   Advertising to the public must be educational in purpose and
restricted to over-the-counter (OTC) drugs. Drug advertising
directed at children will not be permitted.
d.   Promotion will be in keeping with the national health policy and in
compliance with the national regulations.
e.   Scientific studies and surveillance must not be misused as a
disguised form of promotion.
f.   Medical representatives must possess a relevant technical background.
The total number of representatives in Tanzania will be strictly
limited.



- 113 -
ANNEX 7
Page C of 9
N ONAL PCTICL PROWCON
1.   Promotion
a.   The national drug policy aims at promoting the national
pharmaceutical industries (parastatal and private) with a view first
to become self-reliant in formulation of drugs from Imported raw
materials.
b.   The policy also aims at increasing the national capability in
packaging, bottling, labelling and production of chemical quality
excipients (glucose, salts, starch, dyestuff, etc.).
c.   The long-term policy is to support the gradual development of self-
sufficiency in the production of intermediary and raw materials on
such chemical entities, where Tanzania has a comparative advantage in
production. Where feasible, regional joint production of both
finished products and raw materials will be promoted.
d.   An integral part of the national policy is to promote and support
production in hospitals of a specified range of pharmaceuticals.
e.   The promotion and development of the national pharmaceutical
industries will become a multi-sectoral activity both encouraging
national and international investment and transfer of technology. It
will provide the necessary protection until the industries have
matured to full competitiveness.
f.   It is the policy to encourage research and development of drugs based
on natural products.
2.   Product Ranae and Coordination
a.   The aim of national production will be to produce essential drugs in
sufficient quantities to meet the national demand. Priority will be
given to those used to treat the main diseases of Tanzania.
b.   Public and private pharmaceutical manufacturers will work in
consonance to produce the quantities of essential drugs without
unnecessary competition using the most economic methods.
c.   Prior to achieving self-sufficiency for all the essential drugs
needed, local pharmaceutical industries will use their capacity to
produce a limited number of vital drugs to satisfy demand.
d.   An effective co-ordination of national production will involve
intersectoral inputs from MON, MOP, Minietry of Industries and Trade,
BOT and private pharmaceutical companies. The MOB will coordinate
these activities.



- 114 -
ANNEX 7
Page 7 of 9
3.   Pricing Kechanism
a.   The policy of pricing for locally produced drugs aims at keeping
prices us low as possible at levels which individuals or institutions
can afford.
b.   Price discriminAtion will be allowed in favor of vital and essential
drugs from the national drug industries.
c.   Patents policy within the national drug policy will be in line with
existiwg Tanzanian laws governing patents for both processes and
products.
TRADITIONAL MEDICINES
1. Promotion
a.   The aim of the national drug policy will be to promote the use of
safe traditional medicines in organised health care along the lines
of Primary Health Care.
2.   Research and Production
a.   The research and production of traditional medicines will be directed
towards prevailing health conditions and the needs of the country.
b.   Medically and economically justified medicines will be given priority
in research and production.
c.   The short-term aim of research will primarily focus on the
identification of traditional remedies, screening of traditional
materia medica, and assessing the safety of the products.
d. The long-term objective of the research is to assess efficacy of the
drugs and to develop appropriate methodology and technology for
industrial production.
3.   Safety and Use
a.   The policy aims at using traditional medicines of acceptable safety
and effectiveness.
b.   Research into the safety of the medicines which appear to have wide
acceptability by users will be undertaken so that traditional
medicines take their rightful role in health care delivery system.



- 115 -
ANNEX 7
Page 8 of 9
LaRO L COOPERATION
a.   The national drug policy aims at maximising intersectoral cooperation
anJ collaboration in order to reach the overall goal of an efficient,
cost-effective and modern pharmaceutical sector ihich contributes both to
the personal health and the economic health of the nation.
b.   The Ministry of Health vill become the focal point for this
cooperation. It will establish a high level committee to oversee
that the policy is being duly coordinated between tb2i various sectors
and that collaboration contributes to the objectives of the national
drug policy.
The sectors involved are:
Ministry of Health
Ministry of Industries and Trade
Ministry of Communication and Works
Customs
Treasury
Bank of Tanzania
National Chemical Industries
Private Drug Manufacturers
Pharmaceutical Society of Tanzania
Christian Medical Board of Tanzania
Others.
TECNICAL COOPERATION WITH OTHER COUNTRIES
a. The aim of the technical cooperation with other countries -
developing and developed - is to maximize utilization of the limited
resources.
b.   Technical cooperation within the region (SADCC and PTA) will be
fostered in the following areas: production of drugs, research and
development, transfer of technology, evaluation of drugs, joint
procurement of raw materials and finished products, training and
manpower, development and exchange of information and emergency
situations.
ANNEX
c.   Increased use will be made of regional facilities mainly in the field
of quality assurance.
FINANCIL RESOURCES
a.   The aim of the national drug policy is to provide essential drugs to
those who need them at the lowest price consistent with good quality.



- 116 -
ANNEX 7
Page 9 of 9
b.   Requirements for financial resouirces will be based on careful
estimation of the total quantities of drugs needed in the country
through all sourcess Ministry of Health, parastatals, NGO's, private
wholesalers and pharmacies, including the cost of local production.
c.   The policy will be directed towards involvement of different
governmental, parastatal, private organisations and individuals where
justifiable, towards partial financing of drug supplies.
d.   The Ministry of Health will work in close collaboration with all
interested parties, including the Planning Commission, Ministry of
Finance, Ministry of Industries and Trade, the Bank of Tanzania, so
that due priority is given to financing of essential drugs for the
nation.
LIGISLATION
a.   Legislations and regulations as well as the organisation and
functions of the regulatory authorities will be developed to support
the objective of the National Drug policy.
b.   Other legislation which affect the implementation of the policy but
under the armpit of other ministries will be worked out in
collaboration between these ministries and the Ministry of Health.



- 117 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 7
URALTI AND NUTRITION PROGRAM
THE CASE FOR REFORM IN THE PHAUMACIUTICALS SUB-SECTOR
INTRODUCTION
1.       There are five main problem areas in the pharmaceuticals sub-
sector as follows:
(a) Arrears in payment;
(b) Procurement procedures;
(c) Budgetary control;
(d) Central Medical Stores; and
(e) Domestic Pharmaceutical Production.
A) ARRSARS IN PAI)1
2.         There is considerable pressure on the CMS to provide
pharmaceuticals and medical supplies even when Government agencies do not
have sufficient budgetary allocations to pay for them. This has resulted
in the accumulation of enormous arrears to the Central Medical Stores
(CMS), as may be seen from table A7.2.1 below:
TAWLS A8.1 - CNS DEBT SMOURY AT 30TE JUNE 1989
Aency                                   TSh Mlllions
Regions                                     117
Ministries                                   30
Dar es Salaam City Council                  115
Town Councils                                22
District Councils                           115
Mission Hospitals                            13
Muhimbili Medical Centre                    136
Parastatals                                  20
Ministry of Defence                          25
Zonal Stores-(estimates)
Mwanza                              143
Tabora                              85
Iringa                              64
Mtwara                               74
TOTAL                                       847
3.       The impact on the CMS, and in turn on the domestic pharmaceuticals
industry, has been severe. Non-payment of debts has led to an erosion of
the value of the revolving fund to the extent that it now operates on a TSh
400 million overdraft facility at the Bank of Tanzania and its current
overdraft exceeds this level at approximately TSh 700 million. As CMS is
not paid, in turn it is not able to pay all its debts and limits its



- 118 -
ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 7
payments to the main domestic manufacturers, KERO and TPI. This
jeopardizes the financial performance of the enterprises and disrupts
production, thereby raising their unit costs.
B) PROCURUMENT PROCEDURES
OGL Requirements
4.       Strict procedures exist to ensure that the country's scarce
foreign exchange resources are used in accordance with predetermined
policies of the Government. Foreign exchange for the importation of
pharmaceuticals until recently has been allocated by the Bank of Tanzania
(BOT) to CMS, which then invited tenders. However, the Government has
recently introduced the Open General Licence (OGL) facility which is
available for use by the importers of pharmaceuticals.
5.       The BOT has imposed strict prccedures on importers to ensure that
they have the funds available to meet their requirements 2
(a)   Government Departments have to demonstrate that the funds
available within their budget to pay for imported goods; and
(b) Parastatal and private sector companies have to provide 100
percent of the TSh equivalent price at the time that the
Letter of Credit is opened.
6.       These requirements have a significant effect on the availability
of drugs because:
(a) Government Budgets do not make sufficient provision for the
procurement of drugs, as explained in the introduction to
this report and considered further in the following section;
(b)   Parastatal pharmaceutical companies do not have the funds
available to provide the 100 percent deposit required by the
Bank of Tanzania and therefore have to borrow the necessary
funds at commercial interest rates (currently 31 percent).
As the lead in time for the procurement of drugs or the
necessary raw materials is anything from six months to a
year, the financial burden placed upon the Parastatals is
heavy; and
(c)   Mission Hospitals may have the funds to deposit 100 percent
of their procurement but it means that the opportunity cost
of using the interest foregone to buy further drugs is lost.



- 119 -
ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 7
Import Procedures
7.       The following procedures must be followed for the importation of
essential drugs:
a.    Proforma invoice required from supplier;
b.    Pharmacy Board ensure that the drugs requested are  on the
Essential Drug List and issue a Permit;
c.    An import licence is obtained from the BOT;
d.    A letter of credit is opened with the BOT and a  deposit of
100 percent lodged with the bank;
e.    Pre-shipment documentation is obtained through the BOT;
f.    Frequently, procurement of drugs takes more than four
months, so it is necessary to obtain a new import licence;
g.   Pharmaceuticals are cleared through the port with the import
documents.
8.       The process is time consuming and further delays the import of
essential drugs. The procedures involved usually take a minimum of twelve
weeks which together with a lead in time for manufacture and shipment of
sixteen to eighteen weeks, means that procurement will often take six to
nine months. Consideration should be given to extending the duration of
the import permit at least in the case of essential drug imports.
Price Variations on Procurement
9.       In the table below the variety of recent prices paid for certain
common pharmaceuticals is highlighted :
TABLE 8.2 - MNIT PRICES OF PEARNACEUTICALS (TSh)
Domestic
Products      FOB     UNIPAC
Product               Units    price         price    price
Aspirin                  1000      390        435        207
Chloroquine             1000      2100       1595      1095
Tetracycline            1000      3250       1776      1365
Paracetamol             1000      1200        479        719
Salin Solution          lltr       250        194       196
Anti acid tablets        1000     2120        457        625
10.      The table clearly demonstrates that the major drugs manufactured
locally are considerably more expensive than those imported, at least for
current levels of output. There was also some evidence to suggest that
drugs procured under tied national aid programmes were more expensive than
drugs procured on the general market or through UNIPAC.



- 120 -
ANNEX 8
Page 4 of 7
C) BUDGETARY CONTROL
Inadequate Budgeting
11.      Underfunding of pharmaceutical purchases through the budget has
had a number of undesirable effectos
(a)   Unfair pressure is placed upon those with responsibility for
controlling stocks to issue them when no funds are
available;
(b)   Inadequate supplies of stocks are  available to meet needs;
(c)   CMS is not paid for its issues, and its revolving fund is
severely depleted;
(d) Pharmaceutical manufacturers receive payment only after
waiting for additional funds to be made available to CMS
which can lead to inefficient procurement and expensive loss
of production.
Control of the Budget
12.      Given the nature of essential drug expenditure, it is important
that control of the budget is in the hands of those who have the power and
authority to procure the drugs and issue the drugs. There is a strong
argument for suggesting that the only organization that can adequately do
that is CMS because it is the only body which can influence the purchasing
cost of the drugs by the quality of their procurement procedures, and it is
best placed to know the overall procurement needs of the health system.
D) CENTRAL MEDICAL STORES
13.      Financially, the CM8 operates through a revolving fund whereby it
procures drugs from suppliers both in Tanzania and overseas and sells them
with a mark up to cover its costs to other parts of the Health Service.
However, this revolving fund has, over recent years, been severely de-
capitalized by the inability of many of its customers to pay for the drugs
they have received. The table below shows how the fund has reduced in
value over recent years.
14.      The table shows the rapidly worsening state of CMS and the
acceleration in this situation since 1987, when the rate of devaluation of
the TSh accelerated. It further shows how the lack of adequate budget
provision in the Central Government Estimates has seriously weakened their
debtor position and led to the need for the TSh 400 million overdraft
facility with the BOT, which it is likely to exceed. The position would be
even worse if CMS were required to pay the interest on the overdraft, but
as a Government department, the interest is met by the BOT. This position
has been caused by the inability of CMS to recover its debts from
government departments. It would now seem very unlikely that the
departments will ever be in a position to pay off these debts. The most
appropriate course of action would seem to be to write off the historic



- 121 -
ANNEX 8
Page 5 of 7
debts of the departments at some agreed date, say the debt outstanding
prior to 1989. This should only be contemplated as part of a overall
package of measures designed to put the revolving fund back on a vi.'ble
footing, so as to avoid a recurrence of the problem.
TABLE 8.3 - CS PFUNDS POSITION
BALANCE AT    DEBTORS
YEAR EDG                   Bu            AT
JUN 30               AT YEAR END   YEAR END
1979                     (6.0)         49.3
1980                      25.8         65.5
1981                      33.5         74.3
1982                      67.4        118.0
1983                      29.1        132.3
1984                      18.8        156.9
1985                     (32.8)       276.9
1986                      26.7        335.8
1987                     (113.7)      442.0
1988                     (141.6)      937.0
1989 (Estimated)          (700.0)     961.0
Mark-uo
15.      CM0  covers its costs by charging a 5 percent mark-up on its sales
to government departments and higher mark-up rates to other customers. In
the table below a comparison has been made between the departmental charges
(mark-up) and the expenses charged through the Price Adjustment Account.
TABLE 8.4 - UNDR RECVERY BY CM
DEPARMBNTAL                   mNDR
CHARGES          EXPENSES   RECOVERY
TSh'OOO          TSh'00O    TSh'OOO
1986              22945             69631      46686
1987              36552             62242      25690
1988              45402             66121      20719
16.      The table highlights the under recovery that CMS make on its
departmental charges. Whilst this is not significant in the overall scale
of CMS's financial problems, it is a demonstration that there is a need to
increase the mark-up to about 10 percent to cover the direct costs and
future exchange rate risks. Such mark-ups should be kept under constant
review to ensure that they remain adequate.
Pricing Policy
17.      CMS has a policy of selling its drugs and medical equipment at the
weighted average price of its procurement plus the mark-up. In a period of



- 122 -
ANNEX 8
Page 6 of 7
rapidly increasing prices, this leads to an erosion of the value of the
revolving fund in real terms. (The only exception to this rule is made
where the goods can be manufactured locally, where the CMS bases its price
from the latest price of the lot..ily produced goods). Only by selling its
stock at latest invoice price will CMS be able to maintain the real level
of the revolving fund. In addition the latest invoice price should be
adjusted to reflect the current exchange rates so that the price reflects
the current invoice price.
Capitalization of the Revolving Fund
18.      As has already been demonstrated, the revolving fund has been
severely depleted by the effects of exchange rate pressures on procurement
prices and the inability of government departments to pay for goods
received. In order to resolve these problems, an integrated package of
refonms will have to be introduced simultaneously at the beginning of the
accounting period (ie. fiscal year). The actions to be taken would include
the following:
(a)   the recapitalization of the revolving fund by a once-off
cash injection sufficient to meet its current needs for
procuring vital and essential drugs and equipment;
(b)   the inclusion in the budget of sufficient funds to ensure
the procurement of one years supply of vital and essential
drugs and equipment;
*c)   the adoption of a higher level of mark u' on goods;
(d)   the adoption of improved accounting and stock control
systems to enable the suggested amendments to stock pricing
to be implemented; and
(e)   the write off of the old government department debt together
with the Introduction of a requirement to provide funds in
advance of procurement or through the surrender of the drugs
element of the budget to CHS.
m) D4STIC  RC               PODCTION
19.      Items that are procured locally are considerably more expensive
than those imported from overseas. A recent (April 1988) WHOIDANIDA report
on the pharmaceutical industry in Tanzania concluded that the products were
generally of a good quality and were fairly efficiently produced.   An
analysis of their costs and production levels revealed that their
production figures were low and, particularly in the case of TPI, were
inadequate to meet their high level of fixed costs. In the table below the
production levels of TPI have analyzed;



- 123 -
ANNEX 8
Page 7 of 7
TABLE 8.S - TPI CAPACITY UTILZATION
(percentage of Installed capacity)
YEAR     TABLETS    CAPSULES  SYRUPS  GRANULES   INJECTABLES
1984       19          20         9       7           16
1985       10          35        11       7           53
1986       21          16         9       1           26
1987       17           8        12      11           40
1988       14            -       12       1           11
20.       Such a low level of capacity utilization, when coupled with high
fixed costs lead inevitably to high prices. For a 10 percent increase in
production there is a fall in unit costs from 495 to 371. At 50 percent
capacity utilization, there is a further fall in units cost to 256. When
it is appreciated that 100 percent production is only based on one 8 hour
shift for 5 days a week, it is clear that there is a considerable
opportunity to reduce unit costs, reduce prices to CMS and save foreign
exchange on the added value element of the drugs produced.m A similar
picture emerges from a review of KEKO cost structure, although the effect
is not so marked, because TPI has relatively new plaat with high financing
costs whilst RER0's premises are older, with lower financing costs.
21.      Production figures are low not because of poor demand, but rather
scarcity of raw materials which is itself caused by a lack or 'ash to
procure the raw materials. The lack of cash is in part due to CHS being
unable to meet its obligations to the local drug producers which once again
leads to the failure to make adequate provision in the budget for medical
products. This failure to make adequate provision for medical goods in the
budget leads to:
(a)   departments not paying their debts;
(b)   CMS revolving fund being forced to rely for its survival on
an overdraft from the BOT;
(c)   RERO and TP1 being short of funds;
(d)   KEKO and TPI having to reduce production; and
(e)   the unit cost of items supplied to CMS and the health sector
is higher than it would need to be.



- 124 -
ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 8
TAN IlL
DK&LTB AND NUTRITION PROJECT
Miczonutrient Deficieacy Control Program
A.  The Second National 5 Year Program for the Prevention and Control of
Vitamin A DeflcA2aca and Xerophthalmia in Tanzania
I, Program Obiectives
Broad Obiective
To reduce Vitamin A deficiency, xerophthalmia and nutritional blindness to
a level where they are no longer of public health significance by the year
2000.
Specific Objectives:
Short term: To make vitamin A capsules available in all health facilities
in Tanzania, for children at high risk of developing xerophthalmia and
train health workers on its proper administration.
Long term: To ensure regular and adequate dietary intake of vitamin A and
Vitamin A conservation in young children by:
a)   Initiating public awareness and action about nutritional childhood
blindness and poor nutrition through all available forms of media.
b)   Promoting breastfeeding.
c)   Reinforcing nutrition education programs in order to motivate the
consumption of both Vitamin A and provitamin A rich foods consumed by
high risk populations, especially preschool children.
d) Motivating households to have home gardens and asssociated
horticultural practices.
e)   Motivating the consumption of edible oils especially Red Palm Oil.
f)   Reinforcing efforts on programs aimed at reducing the prevalence and
severity of vitamin A deficiency contributory factors as measles,
protein energy undernutrition, diarrhea and upper respiratory tract
infections.
II. Program Design
The program is composed of a closely-related specific projects/
activities:



- 125 -
AMNEX 9
Page 2 of 8
PROJECT NO. I. VITANIN A CAPSULS DISTRIBUTION
ObJectives     1.   To improve availability of Vitamin A capsule (VAC) in
hospitals and use of VAC provided at lower levels via
Essential Drug Program (EDP).
2.   To revitalize the regional Vitamin A Deficiency (VAD)
surveillance system.
PROJECT NO. 2: TRIAL PRODUCTION AND CONSffPTION OF VITAMIN A RICE FOODS
ObJectives     To promote the production and consumption of dark green
Leafy vegetables (DGLV), fruits, red palm oil and animal
foods rich in vitamin A, at household, school and community
levels for the control of vitamin A deficiency.
Trial 1: DGLV Production and Use.
Trial 2:  Red Palm Oil Production and Use.
PROJECT NO.  3s  NUTRTION EDUCATION AND COhhHDICATION
Objectives     To create awareness on the importance of the consumption of
Vitamin A rich foods espeuially for children and lactating
mothers and on the importance of preventing diseases
related to Vitamin A deficiency.
PROJECT SUPPORT ACTIVITIES
1.  LABORATORY DEVRMNT
OBJECTIVES:    a.   To strengthen TPNC Laboratory as a reference
Laboratory for the purpose of research monitoring and
evaluation of the Vitamin A Control Program.
b.   To support Tanzania Bureau of Standards (TBS)
Muhimbili Medical Centre (MMC) and Sokoine University
of Agriculture (SUA) Laboratories to establish the
capacity for Vitamin A analysis.
2. OPERAflORAL RESEARCH
OBJECTIVE:     To answer basic questions about the causes of Vitamin A
deficiency, effective methods of prevention and control
under Tanzania conditions.
3.  MONITOING AND EVALUATION
OBJECTIVEs     To monitor and evaluate the progress and success of the
national Vitamin A Control Program.



- 126 -
Page 3 of 8
III. Proarsa Orpanization
3.1       The program is part of the Tanzania Prevention of Blindness
Program (TPBP) which is under the National Prevention of Blindness
Committee (NPBC) chaired by the assistant Chief Medical Officer Prevention
in the KOH. Experience of successfu' national control programs indicate
that an intersectoral committee representing relevant institutions seems to
be an effective mechanism for managing Vitamin A deficiency control
program. Thus. the National Vitamin A Consultative Group (NVACG) was
formed in 1987 as a National Unit of the International Vitamin A
Consultative Group (IVACG), which is responsible for:
a) Coordination at the national level of institutional strategies to
combat Vitamin A deficiency and xerophthalmia; and
b) Formulation of strategies and policies with regard to control
measures.
Coaposition of the WACG
The composition of the NVACG (which is chaired by the MALD, the
secretariat being in the TFNC) is as follows:
Ministry of Health
Tanzania Food and Nutrition Centre (TPNC).
Muhimbili Medical Centre (MMC)
Ministry of Education
Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock Development
Ministry of Agriculture Training Institute
Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM)
Tanzania Bureau of Standards
Sokoine University of Agriculture (SUA) - Department of Food Science
and technology
The NVACG has four task forces, namely on Vitamin A in PIC,
Nutrition Education. Coamunication, and Laboratory development.



- 127 -
ANNEX 9       
Page 4 of 8
B * PRELDEIEMRY OUTLINE OP A PLAN OF ACTION FOR ANMIIA CONTROL IN ThANUI
1. Introduction
a. Situation analysis
b. Justification for control program
2. Policy basis
a. Relevant government policy statements
b. Government institutional basis
c. Collaborating institutions
3. Objectives
a. General
b. Specific
4. strategies
a. Research
b. Laboratory strengthening
c. Training
d. Planning Workshop
e. Interventionlpilot studies
f. Strengtheningladjustment of ongoing programs
g.  Monitoring/evaluation
h. Resource mobilization
Description of activities
l.a. Situation analtsis
-    National Anemia Consultative Group (.V--CG) will conduct a
literature search, including published as well as locally
available unpublished sources.
-    A local consultant will be contracted to write a comprehensive
and synthetic review of the available material,l including
conclusions as to (a) severity of anemia in different sex/age
groups, pregnancy and lactation in different areas of the
country, and (b) the extent to which inferences can be made
regarding how much of this anemia is due to iron deficiency,
folic acid deficiency, hookworm, malaria, and schistosomiasis,
(c) the prevalence and geographical/age/sex distribution of each
of these diseases. This will form the basis for an Anemia
Situation Analysis.
4.a. Research
The project will include two research projects. One of these will be
chosen by N&CG as having the highest priority in facilitating the



- 128 -
ANNEX9
Page 5 of 8
development of a national plan for the control of anemia. The other
will be a study of compliance by pregnant women with health workers'
prescriptions regarding iron tablets and malaria prophylaxis and
reasons for any non-compliance. This will be mainly a gualitative
study and thus will be conducted mainly by the TFNC sociologist. The
study will take place in one village in each of the four regions of
the country receiving PHC. support from IDA (Lindi, Singida, Tabora,
and Kigoma). Various categories of health professionals in the same
areas should be interviewed on their perceptions regarding these
drugs and how they believe the local women perceive them.
4.b. Laboratory development (see below under 4.f.)
4.c. Pilot etudies
Pilot studies will, if possible, take place in the 10 districts
included under Component II of the Project.
Study Is       Search for methods to increase campliancke with iron
suwplementation in premancy
There will be three groups: one control, a second to test whether
compliance with prescriptions of ferrous sulphate and prophylactic
chloroquine can be improved by health worker and patient education,
and a third to test whether compliance is greatly improved by
providing slow-release iron tablets (which are free from side
effects, but more expensive).
Group ls  Control area.
Group 2:  In this area, efforts will be made to improve compliance.
How this will be done will depend partly on the findings
and recommendations from the compliance research project
described above. Relevant health workers will receive
extra training and supervision. They will be asked to
inform pregnant women better why iron, folic acid and
malaria prophylaxis are being provided to them, and to
listen carefully and respond sympathetically to any
complaints about side effects. The dose of ferrous
sulphate provided will be only two tablets containing 60 mg
elementul iron each per day during pregnanzy. Where less
than four months of treatment has taken place, it will be
continued after delivery. The pregnant women will be
questioned about side effects from iron tablets and the
with complaints will be asked to try taking a half tabl.
with each meal and to return in to weeks to discuss whtt. r
this helped. The women will also be advised not to consume
coffee or tea at or soon after taking the iron tablets.
Group 3:  In this area, slow-release iron tablets will replace the
usual ferrous sulphate tablets in the essential drug kits.
If the first workshop recommends it, Paludrine will replace



- 129 -
ANNEX 9
Page 6 of 8
chloroquine for use in malaria prophylaxis or pregnant
women. Health workers should not be told what the slow-
release tablets are, but simply iraormed that they are
another form of the iron medication they have been giving
to mothers. They should not be given any special training,
nor should they be told that the effectiveness of these
iron tablets is being tested. When the test is over, they
should be asked whether they believe the new tablets have
less side effects and whether they thought compliance was
better. If Paludrine is given, its effectiveness and
compliance with it will be compared with chloroquine. The
extent to which it is saved by others and uned in family
treatment of malaria symptoms will also be determined,
including the use of qualitative research methods.
Study 2a       Effects of increased fruit coneumution on anemia urevalence
This pilot study will be conducted in cooperation with the National
Vitamin A Deficiency/Xerophthalmia Control Program. One district
will be chosen as control district and one as experimental. In each
district, a probability sample from appropriate vulnerable groups
will be examined for Vitamin A and iron status, pre- and post-
treatment. (Sample sizes will be determined by a statistician.)
Anyone found to be severely deficient in Vitamin A will be treated
immediately with retinol capsules and anyone found to be severely
anemic will be provided with iron tablets and referred for treatment.
Control:  This will be Kasulu District.  Everyone between 1-45 years
of age will be provided with iodized oil capsules. For
most, this should be their second dose. The first was
distributed in 1987.) In addition to the studies needed
for this to serve as a control district, an IDD evaluation
study will be conducted at the same time. (Estimates will
be made regarding whether acceptance of the capsules is
higher or lower than the first time. A sample of the
population and health workers who were there in 1987 will
be asked about side effects that time and this will be
compared to the extent possible with levels of side effects
experienced during the second round. An impact evaluation
of the second round of capsule distribution will be
conducted based on the planned pre- and post-examinations.)
Experi-   In Singida Rural District, an attempt will be made to
mental:   increase production, household availability and use in the
diet of preschool children of five foods: papaya, mango,
guava, pumpkin, and yellow meet potato. This will be done
through a social marketing approach combined with
distribution of seeds or seedlings for home cultivation
through primary schools. This district is one in which a
school feeding program has already began. It is close
enough to the Tengeru Horticultural Center to be able to
receive technical assistance and supervision from them.



- 130 -
ANNEX 9
Page 7 of S
Workshops will be held to train the trainers (for example,
ward coordinators, who already were involved in the school
feeding program as trainers) and eventually one teacher in
each primary school should learn how to plant and care for
these crops. The will also learn about Vitamin A and iron
and its increased absorption with Vitamin C at the same
meal. Relevant teaching materials will be provided to
them. Agricultural extension in this district should be
sensitized and prepared to assist the project. For
example, teachers should be able to call for help with any
problems experienced with plant diseases, etc. A
supervisory horticultural extension worker should be
provided with a motorcycle by the project.
The social marketing component will aim to encourage the
growing of these foods and their consumption. In
particular, mothers will be encouraged to provide one of
these foods to their young children with or after every
meal. They should also be encouraged to consume these
fruits themselves.
The population-based pretest should be done just before the
seedlings are distributed to the schools. Thus, no
education or communication component should be included
before this time. The post-test should be done about one
year after seedlings have begun to be distributed t the
students for planting at home. (In addition, extra studies
on IDD may need to be done in the Control area.)
4.d. National Anemia Planning Workshops
i.   First workshops  situation analysis and researchipilot project
planning
-    The First National Anemia Workshop will be for one week,
including two days on the topic of situation analysis. A
select group of experts and a small group of key decision-
makers will be invited.
-    The anemia situation analysis will be presented and
reviewed, suggesting any necessary additions/revisions.
-    For the next two days, working groups will examine research
plans and pilot study plans, recommending any necessary
changes and advising on local and regional manpower and
other resource needs.
-    On the final day, recommendations will also be made to the
National Anemia Consultative Group (NACG) regarding any
extra research or pilot studies deemed necessary to assist
in developing a national anemia action plan.



- 131 -
ANNEX 9
Page 8 of 8
ii.  Second Workshops  two years later for reviewing progress and
results from the research and pilot studies s0 far conducted;
whether any complementary research/pilot studies are needed; and
to determine the extent to which any components of a national
anemia action plan can begin to be implemented.
4.e. Monitoring and evaluation
i. An anemia monitoring network will gradually be formed during the
five-year period. This will consist of an appropriate staff
member from (a) every regional hospital, (b) sentinel hospitals.
A sentinel hospital is defined as one where hemoglobin (and/or
other indicators of anemia) is measured on all pregnant women
attending for routine prenatal care. Hospitals which take blood
only on patients suspected of having anemia will not be
included, (c) national experts in anemia.
ii. Capability of measuring hemoglobin and perhaps other indicators
of anemia will be strengthened in all regional hospitals. The
method used will be standardized, using the most appropriate
cyanmethemoglobin method. Equipment will be purchased where
necessary and training will be provided, and the existing system
for purchase and distribution of necessary reagents will be
strengthened if necessary.
iii. A standard form for reporting will be prepared and distributed
to all regional and sentinel hospitals (preliminary draft
attached). These forms will be submitted quarterly to NACG.
iv.  A National Anemia Newsletter will be initiated, edited, printed
and distributed by NACG to all participating hospitals and other
interested parties.



- 132 -
ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 4
TANZANIA
MEALTE AND NUTRITION PROJECT
MAJOR TiDEMS OF THE REVISED
PRIMRY DUT CARE STRATEGY
I. Introduction
1.        Since the early 1970's, Tanzania has been in the forefront of
the implementation of primary health care (PHC) as the fundamental health
strategy of its health sector. Early progress in the social sectors,
including the implementation of the PHC strategy, has been undermined by
the general deterioration of the economy. Tanzania has come to rely
progressively on donor support it the health sector, without integrating
this support within an overall strategy or framework. Conscious of this,
in mid-1989, the MOH developed a revised national health policy emphasizing
the centrality of PHC. Within the context of this policy, the objective of
revising the PHC strategy is to pride such an integrating framework taking
account of the following issues:
i) the changed economic circumstances, particularly the changing
role of the state, with its need to reduce commitments and
mobilize resources for key social sectors;
-i) the various donor financed PHC initiatives in the country, the
need to carefully evaluate them, learn any lessons, and
replicate the positive aspects; and
iii) the centrality of the Ministry of Health (HOH) in establishing
and maintaining health policy, but with the district being
responsible for service delivery, with technical support from
the regional level under the guidance of the MOH.
2.        The remainder of this Annex outlines the major themes which the
revised PHC strategy will encompass.
II. General Observations
3.        Good health is a major resource for social, economic and
personal development and an important dimeasion of quality of life. Health
promotion goes beyond health care and aims at advocacy for health. The
overall health policy in Tanzania is to improve the health of all
Tanzanians. The specific objectives of the health policy are to:
(a)  improve the health of the population by decreasing infant
mortality and increasing life expectancy through provision of
adequate and equitable maternal and child health services,
control of communicable diseases and treatment of common
conditions;



- 133 -
Annex 10
Page 2 of 4
(b) ensure that health services are available and accessible to all
people wherever they are resident in the country, whether in
urban or rural areas;
(c) move towards self sufficiency in manpower by training all cadres
required at all levels from village to national referral level;
(d) sensitize the community on common preventable health problems so
that the community itself can identify their problems and woik
out priorities in finding appropriate solutions;
(e) promote awareness in Government and the community at large that
health problems can only be adequately solved through multi-
sectoral cooperation, involving such sectors as education,
agriculture, water and sanitation, community development, women
organizations, Party and non-governmental organizations; and
(f) create awareness through family health work that the
responsibility for ones health rests squarely with the
individual himself as an integral part of the family.
4.        Primary Health Care is defined as 'essential health care based
on practical, scientifically sound and socially acceptable methods and
technology made universal accessible to individuals and families in the
community,through the full involvement,and at a cost that the community and
the country can afford to maintain at every stage of their development in
the spirit of self-reliance and self-determination. It forms an integral
part both of the country's health system, of which it is the central
function and main focus, and of the overall social and economic development
of the community".
5.        Primary health care starts with the community and in the
community providing care as close as possible to where people live and
work. Both the social goals and the means to achieve it are in agreement
with the Party policy of Socialism and Self-reliance. Therefore, the PHC
approach has been adopted by the Government as the rational and equitable
way of improving the health of the population of Tanzania.Primary health
care is delivered at the first level of contact of individuals, the family
and community with the national health system being it village health
worker, dispensary, health centre or hospital.
6.        The primary health care strategy recognizes that health is
determined by a variety of factors, not all of which are commanded by the
health care system. Hence, it is essential to involve other sectors such
as education, agriculture, water, community development as well as the
Party and leaders at all levels. Only a concerted effort by all parties
involved can bring about good health.
7.        The primary health care strategy aims at coordinating all basic
health services and programmes to maximize utilization of available
resources, and thereby deriving full benefit from the efforts invested.



- 134 -
Annex 10
Page 3 of 4
8.        Primary health care addresses the main health problems in the
community, providing promotive, preventive, curative and rehabilitative
services.
II. Basic Requirements for Primary Health Care
9.        Community Involvement.  Genuine community involvement is the
most essential prerequisite for a successfully implemented primary health
care strategy. To be genuine it must be based on truly voluntary
involvement, and very importantly, there must be a real devolution of
authority and power as well as responsibility. It is considered imperative
that the commmnity should be involved right from the planning base, through
implementation to monitoring and evaluation. Involvement must be generated
and maintained from village to national level. In order to ensure genuine
community involvement mechanisms will be created to channel community views
to institutional and community organizations in health.
10.       Multi-sectoral Collaboration.  Good health does not only require
a strong health service, but is involves several other sectors as stated
above. To foster true multl-sectoral collaboration coordination of
planning, implementation and evaluation of all health-related activities
must be achieved. Thus sectors and organizations such as CCM, NGOs,
Education, Agriculture, Water and Community Development must work together
in preparing and implementing joint action plans for health, which seek to
improve the social and economic well-being of the comunuity. Service
systems should strive to support initiatives which come from the
communities.
11.       Dibtrict Health Services - Centrality of the District.  National
plans of action must institute a fair distribution of resources and
programmes throughout the country with preferential allocation to under-
served Districts. The most suitable and practical unit for identifying and
improving its health services is the district where health professionals,
auxiliaries, workers from other sectors and community members have the
opportunity to coordinate their activities   This decentralized
administrative system to the district is emphasized to also facilitate the
development of district health systems.
12.       The district health plans must be developed by the District PHC
committees chaired by the District Commissioner. The other members of the
PHC committee aret
-    District Executive Director
-    District Agricultural Development Officer
-    District Livestock Development Officer
-    District Water Engineer
-    District Community Development Officer
-    Secretary-Social Services Community of CCM
-    District Health Officer
-    District PHC Coordinator
-    District MCH Coordinator and
-    DMO - Secretary



- 135 -
Annex 10
Page 4 of 4
13.       The district action-programme should be a joint action
observings
-    individual and family action
-    community action
-    bottom up planning,
-    inter-sectoral action and
-    integration of vertical programs.
14.       Community-based Health Care (CBHC).  CBHC is health care by the
people. This care begins at home and in the community. It frequently
exists in the communities as a traditional health system provided by
Traditional birth attendants (TBAs), Traditional healers (THs) and mothers.
TBAs and Tis provide mainly curative care. In order to give impetus to
CBEC the Goverment has introduced a cadre of village Health workers (VHCU)
who in particular concentrate on the preventive aspect of bealth care. The
main objective is to promote individual and family well-being. In a number
of villages the Government and NGOs have supported small CBHC projects in
order to achieve this objective.
IV. Key Issues In the PlC Strategy
15.       The key issues addressed in the reised strategy includes
I) Mobilization of resoratces for PHC;
ii) Health planning and udgeting;
iii)  Community participazion:
iv) Women and health;
v) Leadership for PHC
vi) Basic and continuing education, including staff
development;
vii) Supervision;
viii) Research in health;
ix) Effective IEZ
x) Promotion of household food security and adequate
nutrition;
xi) Adequate supply of water and basic sanitation;
xii) Maternal and child health including family planning;
xiii) Immunization against major preventable diseases;
xiv) Prevention and control of epidemics and local
endemic diseases;
xv) Appropriate treatment of common disorders and
injuries;
xvi) Provision of essential drugs and equipment.



- 136 -
ANNEX 11
Page I of 2
TANZAU
DEALT! AND NUTRITION PROJECT
DISTRICT SELECTION CRITERIA AND PROCESS
I. Criteria
The selection of the 10 districts to be included in the trial
implementation of the revised PEC strategy will be based on two sets of
criteriat
A) Health need;
B) Commitment to PBC.
These criteria will be applied in a two step manner as follows:
Stop :s All regions to be ranked according to Infant Mortality Rate
(IMR). Malnutrition data for under-five children will be used as a cross-
check.
Decisions Poorest 10 regions go forward to step 2.
Filters All districts with significant donor support (actual or
committed) will be removed from the list.
Step 2: All of the remaining districts to be ranked by allocation of
their own funds for health as a percentage of own funds (i.e. Central
Government subvention funds excluded) as a measure of commitment to health.
Supplzmentary infonmation will be included based upon the known competence
and commitment of the DMO and DED.
The top 10 ranking districts from step 2 will be chosen.
II. Selection Pro.ess
Selection of the PHC trial implementation districts was done by the
PEC Secretariat with representatives from both the MOH and the MLG.
The criterion used in the selection of 10 trial implementation
districts was mainly based on the level of infant mortality rate and
external donor support.



- 137 -
ANNEX 11
Page 2 of 2
First Step
Regions with infant mortality rate In descending order were listed as
follows$
Reaion                INK
Rukwa                 170*
Ruvuma                170*
Kigoma                163
Mtwara                161
Mbeya                 161*
Iringa                152*
Lindi                 151
Shinyanga             150*
Morogoro              140*
Tabora                140
Mara                  140*
Mwanza                139*
Singida               137
Kagera                133*
Dodoma                133*
Coast                 121
Tanga                 112
Arusha                108
Dar es Salaam         108*
Second Step
Those regions which receive external donor support in relation to
Primary Health Care were excluded. These have been marked with an asterisk
in the table above.   These exercise left seven regions for consideration
and these were arranged in descending order:
Re&ion                INn
Kigoma                163
Lindi                 151
Tabora                140
Singida               137
Coast                 121
Tanga                 1Y2
Arusha                108
Third Step
The remaining four regions with high IMR were then selected. These
are Kigama, Lindi, Tabora and Singida. All Districts in the regions among
those with very high IMR were picked except for Kigoma urban and rural
districts which are expected to have donors in the near future. All four
districts of Lindi region were earmarked, namely Lindi, Nachingwea, Liwale
and Kilwa. The committee decided then to choose two districts from each of
the remaining two regions. Igunga and NzeRa from Tabora, and Iramba and
Singida for Singida region. The criteria used here were the performance of
respective DfO'a In PlC activities.



- 138-                    ANNEX 12
Page 1 of 13
DAR Z8 SALWMI Ufla HLT! VROJE!CT
1. Proieat Sumaarz
The Dar es Salaam (DSM) Urban Health Project covers component III
of the IDA Tanzania Realth & Nutrition Project (THNP). It was
initiated two years ago and developed by a fully participatory
approach involving beneficiaries, and donors during pre-appraisal
missions (Nay, July/August 1989), and the appraisal mission
(October/November 1989) including the 6 days project preparation
workshop.
The DSM urban health project covers the administrative area of
_he DSM City Council (DCC), i.e. the three districts Temeke,
Ilala and Kinondoni with a population of approx. 1.4 million
(growth rate 5% per annum).
The goal of the project is to strengthen the DCC to rehabilitate
functionally and structurally the DSM urban and rural primary
health care (PHC) delivery system which has progressively
deteriorated over the years.
Being based on and following the national health sector policies,
the project will contribute to the government's effort to provide
effective health services to the population of DSM through (i)
strengthening of health management capacity of the DSM health
system, (ii) the rehabilitation of existing health facilities,
i.e. 3 district hospitals, 4 health centres and 49 dispensaries,
(iii) the provision of medical equipment and supplies, ana (iv)
the improvement of health services coverage by the construction
of additional health facilities where proven necessary.
Furthermore, the experience gained during planning and
implementation of the project will be used to generate national
urban PKC strateqies and guidelines.
The benefioiaries of the DSU urban health project are (i) the
population of the three districts of Dar es Salaam, (ii) the
Ministry of Local Governments, Community Development,
Cooperative and Marketing (NIGCDCK) including the DSM City
Council (DCC) with the City Health Department and (iii) the
Ministry of Health (NOR).
Donors of the project involve (i) Swiss Development Cooperation
(SDC), (ii) Danish International Development Association (DANIDA)
and (iii) IDA.
The present proposal for a project document is fully based on the
outcome of the project preparation workshop that was held in Dar
es Salaam from 24.10. - 28.10.1989. A comprehensive workshop
report (appendix 1) has been compiled and distributed to all
participants, beneficiaries and donors concerned in December
1989. The present document
-    attempts to compile the elements of the DSM Urban Health
Project with the aim to achieve a project document that will
form the basis for the clearance and subsequent
implementation of the project,
-    focusses on the project components that will be subject to
the bilateral funding arrangement between the Swiss and the
Tanzanian governments thus, the contributions of the other



- 139 -                  ANNRX 12
Page 2 'f 13
donors such as DANIDA and IDA are not detailed,
outlines the first five years of this project with a
particular emphasis on the first two years.
Section 3 reviews briefly the Tanzanian health sector and
presents specific health delivery constraints in DSM as well as
the strategies to overcome the prevailing problems.
Sections 4 and 5 summarize the goal and the relevant
developmental objectives of the OSM urban health project to reach
the goal within a five year period.
Section 6 presents the proposed components and subcomponents of
the project with regard to activities and inputs required.
2. IntraduatioA
The thrust and main project content of the DSM urban health
project were identified during the Kay 1989 IDA mission in which
SDC was represented. Extensive discussionu were hesld with
Tanzanian governkent officials who also led a field visit to
selected health facilities in DSN which provided insights to the
mission participants. An initial set of components was agreed
with the government.
During the subsequent July/Atugust IDA preappraisal mission the
possible project components were reviewed and a tentative
proposal wae prepared. This was done in both formal and informal
vays. The preappraisal mission was followed by two important
srep4 which have taken place in Dar es Salaam.
First, an invaluable health facility survey was conducted by the
o-H in collaboration with the Estates Department of the Universi-
ty of DSM (appendix 2). The results of the survey have been
submitted to the MOH and a number of interested parties. The
health facility survey contains clear indications of what needs
to be rehabilitated according the level of health facility, the
type of work to be undertaken, workmanship required, scheduling
of activities and costing. In addition, the report proposes the
establishment of three health facility maintenance teams, one for
each district under the leadership of the DM0. Furthermore the
facility survey shows that DCC must ensure effective preventive
maintenance of old and new health facilities.
Secondly, a five-day project preparation workshop, attended by a
cross-section of future possible implementors in the DCC,
MNGCDCI, NOR and two non-governmental agencies, was held the last
week of October 1989 (appendix 1). The basic background document
was the draft project proposal prepared during the July/August
IDA preappraisal mission. In addition, the health facility survey
report was one of the background documents reviewed at the
workshop by the participants.
The tasks of the workshop during the five days of deliberation
included extensive discussion of the issues and problem listed
in the draft project proposal. It was necessary for all the
participants to understand the issues at hand and to also bear



- 140 -              ANNEX 12
Page 3 of 13
comon perception of the best way to solve the problems. Above
all, it was crucial that the participants were fully aware of the
alternative solutions and their implications to Tanzania and the
amount of the resources available.
Extremely wide consensus was achieved at the workshop regarding:
-    The Main health and health service problems of DSM;
-    the most desirable project components;
-    possible effective strategies of the project;
-   necessary implementation arrangements in which the three
existing districts (Teseke, Ilala, Kinondoni) will become
the effective focal points for decision making regarding
district health development plans and programme
implementation (administrative decentralization within Dcc
into the three districts is already a reality);
-   a rational administrative structure for the implementation
of the project:
-   scheduling of activitles within the overall framework of the
project based on equity/coverage priorities;
-   priority areas which need further assessment and the
necessary studies.
There are these achievements of the workshop which finally led to
the drafting of the present proposal for a project document to be
submitted to the Tanzanian and Swiss Governments for further
negotiations and agreements.
3. The Ntalth Sector in YanMana - Achieveamets and Problems
General
Tanzania has a reputation as a country having created and
developed the health sector based on primary health care
principles emphasizing community health workers (CHW). The
Tanzanian health sector development aiming at equity often served
as a model in Africa and many other parts of the developing
world. After independence the Tanzanian government attempted to
extend health services to rural arcas and to achieve high
accessibility of health services in all parts of the country. It
also committed itself to providing basic health services free of
charge. These goals and commitments lead to a substantial
increase of lower level health facilities (dispensaries, rural
health centers) and to efforts of training grass-root and
midlevel health cadres such as rural medical aids, health
officers, medical assistants, public health and NCR (mother child
health) nurses. Particular progress was made in the seventies and
this development resulted in the fact that 90% of the population
lives within the range of 10 km of a health facility. In
addition, the PHC strategy - as declared at Alma Ata in 1978 -
was adopted by Tanzania and efforts were made to train more CHW
with particular emphasis on preventive activities as well. This
development and the implementation of major more vertical health
prograMMes through bilateral and multilateral donor support (such
as the immunization programme, child survival programmes, TB and
leprosy control, essential drug programme) has definitely
increased the quality of health care and also resulted in an
improved health status as reflects^d in morbidity and mortality
data.



- 141 -                ANNEX 12
Page 4 of 13
Despite these developments the situation in the health sector is
deteriorating: Underserved areas increase and there ic an acute
shortage of medical equipment and drugs as well as a substantial
lack of motivation among the various health cadres as a
reflection of inadequate salary schemes not covering essential
needs. The deterioration of the health sector is mainly due to
the population growth at a level of approx. 3% per annum as well
as the economic constraints. The former factor lead to a gradual
decrease in health service coverage due to the population growth
that was not matched by the development efforts in the health
sector. The economic constraints on the other hand have led to a
gradual deerease of the funds allocated to the health sector,
i.e. although central government health expenditure rose
nominally between 1980 and 1987, it declined by approx. 10% in
real terms.
Dar es Salaam Health Serviess
The development of the Tanzanian health sector as outlined above
had a particular impact on urban settings. The PHC strategy and
the relevant national guidelines (endorsed by the MOH in 1983)
focussed primarily on rural areas. This applied not only on the
staff development (chiefly the strengthening of the CHW level),
but also on the construction of new health facilities based on
the national standards (1 health center per 501000 inhabitants, 1
dispensary per 10'000). Consequently, urban areas with high
population increase rates (Dar es Salaam approx. 5% per annum)
became substantially underserved leading to congestions and
shortages at the existing health facilities and a shift of basic
health care to higher level facilities that ought to perform
referral roles, as reflected in the Muhimbili Medical Center
performing actually activities of a district hospital. The lack
of sufficient funds being allocated to the health sector led to a
gradual structural deterioration of the health facilities, to a
major crisis in the provision of medical supplies, equipment and
drugs as well as to social pressure, low motivation and
commitment of the health staff. Thus, one is confrontod with a
situation whereby (i) 500'000 out of the 1,4 million inhabitants
of Dar es Salaam region are underserved, (ii) the quality of care
is low at all levels, and (iii) consequently the acceptability of
the government health services is low. More specifically, the
following reasons led to the present situation:
-    Health services infrastructure is not distributed equitably
within the city. The access to health facilities is poor for
many parts of DSM, notably also the more rural areas where
the population is dispersed and where communication is
difficult. In the city center, health facilities are
concentrated in certain areas which are not necessarily
accessible to the growing locations. There are no health
facilities in some areas of DSM. On the other hand available
evidence shows a selected number of over-burdened health
facilities;
-    Excessive immigration to 0SK has created unplanned pockets
of large populations in areas which are already underserved
in most of the basic public health services. According to
th& 1988 national census, OM has an annual growth rate of
4.8* compared to the national rate of 2.8%. Currently, DSM



- 142 -                ANNEX 12
Page 5 of 13
accounts for nearly 6.0% of the national population. The
fast growth rate has exacerbated health services delivery
and demand and has skewed provision, health promotion and
needs;
-   There has been progressive deterioration of services in DSM
over a long time. Buildings have not received preventive
maintenance, they continue to deteriorate to extremely poor
conditions, in some, and contributed to interruption of
service delivery. Water, power supplX, drainage and sewage
disposal and basic furniture are in poor condition.
Rehabilitation of the buildings is estimated to cost a
considerable amount of money. Further, it is estimated that
preventive maintenance would require an annual allocation of
about USS 300,000 (at October 1989 rate of exchange, 1US$ =
TSH 145 -> 43'500'000 TSH) compared to a present government
allocation for maintenance of TSH 100'000.
-   Deteriorating economic conditions have had their impact in
the performance of the health sector, as in other sectors.
Shortage of basic equipment, supplies and drugs are common
and do not in anyway satisfy the demand for services.
Health staff face mounting professional and social pressures
to provide services they cannot without the necessary
inputs. DMO lack adequate facilities to work in, offices
are as congested as the 'atient areas. Adequate health
management is neglected due to the existing conditions and
inadequate health information system;
-   Health management is concentrated at the DCC, the City
Hall, where all decisions are made. Centralization of
decision-making away from the location of problems, often
makes timely decision-making difficult. In consequence the
DMO is responsible for the district, but has no authority to
solve the problems he finds or develop the district from one
level of care to another.
-   The Tanzanian health delivery standards policies partly
reflected do not seem to apply in DSM.
strategies to Overcome the Problems
Despite the great problems of the DSM health sector implying
seemingly insurmountable financial requirements which would be
needed to reverse the trends, available information clearly
indicates that a well planned urban health programme can reverse
that downward spiral. Presently prevailing government
commitments, policies and strategies will form the basis of such
a programme. This basis consists of:
-   Awareness of the near-crisis situation of the DSM health
services and recognition of the basic determinants of the
problem are seen at all levels, i.e. the DCC, the central
goverment and the population.
-   MOH recognizes the previous emphasis on rural PHC and urges
to establish an urban PHC strategy based on the experience
to be made while improving the DSM health services.
-   The central government and DOC wish to implement the
decentralization policies for decision-making and resource
allocation at district level.



ANNEX 12
- 143 -                 Page 6 of 13
There are plans to extend the essential drug programme (EDP)
to urban areas as well.
The government coumitment to alleviate the situation is
further reflected in the current evaluation of novel
approaches to the financing of the health sector involving
the communities.
4, Goal of tho Dar es Sal_am _rban-gealth projeot
considering the evolution of and the present status of the DSM
health services (as outlined in section 3), the goal of the DSM
health project will be:
Strengthen the DCC to resuscitate and rehabilitate the DSM
urban and rural primary health care delivery system which
has progressively deteriorated over the years.
Being based on and following the national health sector
policies, the project will contribute to the government's
effort to provide effective health services to the
population of DSM through (i) strengthening of health
management capacity of the DSM health system, (ii) the
rehabilitation of existing health facilities, (iii) the
provision of medical equipment and supplies, and (iv) the
improvement of health services coverage by the construction
of additional health facilities where proven necessary.
Furthermore, the experience gained during planning and
implementation of the project will be used to generate
national urban PHC strategies and guidelines.
5. Obteotives of the Dar es Salas. Urban Health prolct
Within the goal of the project (section 4), the following
developmental objectives of the project were identified:
5.1. Strengthen the Offices of the CMOH and the DMOs in
district-based (decentralized) health management and health
planning with the aim to improve the effectiveness of health
services, to optimize the use of resources and to provide
operational and health indicators by districts for further
health development.
5.2. Evaluate and monitor by basic operational studies the needs
for health services in DSM, the type of service required,
the size the catchment population and the optimum location
of the new facility among the many needy areas of DSM, with
the aim to sequence project implementation based on
priorities and to establish a system that helps to monitor
project performance with regard to coverage, quality of care
and acceptability of care.
5.3. Rehabilitate the structure of the existing health
facilities and construct new health facilities in
underserved areas with the aim to achieve and improve health
service coverage and to ensure structurally sound and
medically/hygienic acceptable working conditions.



- 144 -              ANNEX 12
Page 7 of 12
5.4. Establish a district-based health facility maintenance
scheme with the aim to provide preventive maintenance for
all health facilities.
S.5. Provide medical equipment and supplies to all rehabilitated
or newly constructed health facilities with the aim to
ensure that health facility workers have the necessary
medical tools and instruments to deliver effective health
services.
5.6. Generate through the implementation and continuous
evaluation of the project information about the crucial
determinants in urban health care delivery with the aim to
contribute to the development of the national urban PHC
strategy and guidelines for implementation, emphasizing
community involvement and participation.
Figure 1 shows the framework for the improvement of the DSN
health care delivery system based on the objectives
5.1.-5.6.
6.  Summary of Project content by Component/Sub-componeit with
regard to activities and inputs:
The following project components were identified based on the
objectives 5.1.-5.6:
1.  Support to the CNOH and DMOs in district-based health
management and health planning,
2.  Evaluate and monitor the DCC health service coverage and the
underlying health service user and provider patterns,
3.  Rehabilitate and expand DCC health facility infrastructure
within the context of developing an urban PHC strategy,
4.  Establish district-based health facility maintenance
schemes,
5.  Provide medical equipment, supplies and drugs for DCC health
facilities.
6.  Conceptualize the experience gained  in components 1-5 for
the benefit of developing a national urban PHC strategy.
The following section will outline the activities and inputs for
each component with its respective subcomponents. It must be
emphasised that the details of the proposed activities are found
in the relevant chapters of the Report of the Project Preparation
Workshop (appendix 1) and the Report on the Health Facility
Survey (final version 10.1989, appendix 2); these details are
therefore not repeated here.
*.1.  alazeEauci xuaviu          ANDaemmmN  an inauun
6.1.1. X  lith manage3eat supportj



- 145 -               ANNEX 12
Page 8 of 12
Mliv.tit w
-    Develop and provide adequate task-oriented management
approaches for CNR01 and DROs,
-    Strengthen district-based decision-making and resource
allocation,
-    Introduce a district health management system,
-   Create and promote district health management teams,
-    Identify staff needs and demands to understand determinants
of staff motivation and methods to maintain it at CMOH- and
at district-level.
Iniouts:,
-   Ensure implementation of decentralization policy through
project agreements and project set-up (organizational and
decision-making structure),
-   Construct and equip new offices for CMOR  and DMOs,
-    Provide transport to COH and DMOs,
-   Enable initial seminars in each district with CMOH, DMOs and
their teams to familiarize with and continuously strengthen
their new role(s),
-   Commission a study on a comprehensive staff motivation and
incentive scheme that is feasible for DCC management staff.
6.1.2. Health planning support
AgtivitieS
-    Establish annual operational plans for each district as a
collaboration between CMOH, DM08 and their teams,
-    Breakdown of the annual plans into monthly activity charts
for each DMO and his team,
-    Follow the implementation of the operational plans based on
the monitoring of the relevant indicators set in the plans,
-    Determine staff standards and staff performance standards
based on existing health facility structures,
Inputs
-    Provide on-the-job joint planning/training (district-based
and health facility-based) through experienced health
planner (approx. 2 man-months per year and district),
6.1.3. Xealth servio. saagecet support
Activities
-    Evaluate existing health service management with regard to
user and provider factors,
-    Establish diagnostic criteria for the major causes of
morbidity for each health facility level (1 st priority:
dispensaries),
-    Establish case management criteria/guidelines for major
causes of morbidity and for each facility level,
-    Establish drug utilization standards and drug supply orders
based on the criteria in accordance with the EDP principles,



- 146 -               ANNEX 12
Page 9 of 13
Establish/re-establish case referral criteria,
Ensure record keeping at each health facility level based
on sub-component 6.1.4.,
Identify methods and means of creating and maintaining the
motivation of the health facility staff (see also 6.1.1),
Identify approaches to build and maintain community
involvement and participation in urban health care
activities,
Ensure continuing education and special training of health
facility staff,
Monitor staff performance in relation to project objectives
and against the background of the motivation and incentive
scheme (see also 6.1.1.)
Undertake coverage and user/provider study according to
6.2.1. and 6.2.2. based on the detailed separate protocol
(submitted to CHOH on 15.1.90),
Commission and undertake in-depth study on a possible staff
motivation and incentives structure (as for 6 1 1.),
Implement findings of the motivation/incentive study at
district level,
Provide staff transport in each district,
CMOH, DMO and public health experts to evaluate the results
of the user/provider study, on-the-job training/introduction
and follow-up of the diagnostic criteria and case management
quidelines,
Establish operational links with EDP.
6.1.4. Health information system
Activities
-    Establish a MOH endorsed health information system for the
DCC, with particular regard to the minimum required data for
each level of health facility,
-    Train staff of health facilities in the use of the health
information system,
-    Enable and ensure rapid retrieval of health information for
each level of facility.
Lnnats
-    CNOH and expert collaboration with MOH, particularly the
health information unit and the EDP,
-    Launch initial training and follow-up courses (partly linked
with inputs 6.1.1.-6.1.3.),
-    On-the-job training linked with inputs 6.1.2. and 6.1.3.
6.1. S. Traiaing of staff from the office of CMao  and of ODU-



- 147 -                AMEX 12
Page 10 of 13
-    Determine training needs for the staff of CMOH and DMO teams
and establish criteria for eligibility for training,
-    Regularly train or facilitate training and upgrading of the
staff of CMOH and OMOs, i.e. the district health team, in
(i) special subjects/fields and (ii) in the handling of
their day-to-day activities, mainly activities 6.1.2. -
6.1.5.
InDut
-   Allocate man-months and -years as well as funds for training
within &nd outside Tanzania, based on activities of 6.1.2.
6.2.* EVALUATION AND MONTORING ^ 1  aenLTE SWEvIC COVERAGE
6.2.1. Initial coverage study in relation to user/providor
patterns
Note A detailed study protocol for subcomponents 6.2.1 and 6.2.2.
has been compiled and submitted to the authorities for
clearance on 15.1.1990. The final study protocol is found in
appendix 3 (not annexed to this draft document).
Activities
-   Undertake a series of descriptive studies to assess the
coverage of health services in the three districts, incl.
the pattern of health service use and provision,
-    Launch a household-based analytical study to understand
determinants of health service utilization and determinants
of community involvement and participation,
-    Establish criteria for the rational planning of health
service extension based on thri operational studies mentioned
above.
Inputs
-    Provision of consultants and local (district-based) health
service staff for the studies,
-   Analytical/evaluation capacity at CMOH and DMO level by
training and activities of the project assistance unit.
6.2.2. Continuous monitoring of coverage development and
user/provider patterns
Actvties
-    Establish monitoring criteria based on the evaluation of
6.2.1. with regard to choice of indicators and timing;
emphasis is put on a set of both service- and community-
based indicators.



- 148 -
ANNEX 12
Page 11 of 13
ZnIu
-   Allocate one man-month per year of district health
management team and one man-month per year of
consultant/expert support throughout project implementation.
6. 3. -m RBXLrtAY!OM hZD an TNNSZOX OF MIALT SERVXC
6.3.1. Rehabilitation of existing health facilities
Activities
-   Establish rehabilitation standards based on the September 89
health facility survey on district hospitals, health centers
and dispensaries (a detailed report of the health facility
survey including costing was compiled by the MOH and the
Estates Dept. of the University in October 1989, appendix
2),
-    Compile bill of quantities for the structural rehabilitation
works,
-    Establish rehabilitation schedule (with regard to priorities
(see 6.2.1. and 6.2.2.1 and timing) and launch
rehabilitation programe,
-    Coordinate hospital rehabilitation with the specific DANIDA
inputs with regard to standards and timing,
-   Associate maintenance teams (6.4.) to hospital
rehabilitation as on the job training.
Tnp-uts
-    Commission detailed enginsering study assessing the first
two years of project implementation,
-   Appoint building expert to CNOH/project team,
-    Select and contract building companies,
-    Establish indicators to monitor structural rehabilitation
6.3.2. Eztension of health facilities to underserved areas
Activities
-    Plan expansion of health services based on the results of
sub-components 6.2.1., 6.2.2. and the engineering study of
6.3.1. with regard to priority and standards (structure,
function and staffing),
-   Establish construction schedule and launch it,
-   Monitor implementation.
InDlts
-   Assign man-months of building expert (6.3.1.) to expansion
planning and implementation,
-    Select and contract builders.



- 149 -                ANNEX 12
Pane 12 of 13
6.4 a  umMnTnMaNO  OF' RB3ILTYKED AND NEW HLYXNi IAOILITYES
Aetivities
-    Form and train district-based health facility maintenance
teams for structural maintenance works,
-    Introduce concepts of preventive maintenance of buildings
and major equipment
Inputs
-    Endorse position (decentralization, DMO responsibility) of
district-hospital based maintenance unit within DCC health
department through project agreement
-    Training programme/courses for maintenance teams,
-    Provide work environment for maintenance teams; workshop,
transport, equipment.
6.5. PROVISION oF XMDICAL EOUXPMMNn. SUPPES AND DRUGS
6.s.l. provision of medical equipmsent and supplies
Activities
-    Review list of equipment and supplies present, for repair
and needed for each health facility,
-    Establish procurement list and procurement schedule,
-    Repair defect equipment as established in the review
mentioned,
-    Establish control/surveillance system to maintain
rehabilitated/resupplied levels at each health facility.
flPmts
-    Assign man-mc.aths of health planning expert for review,
procurement and monitoring,
-    Equipment and supplies according to needs,
-    Assign man-months of district-based maintenance teams for
the repair of equipment.
6.S.2. Provision of drugs for health facilities
-    Ensure coordination of rehabilitation schedule with the EDP
schemes for urban hospitals, health centers and
dispensaries,
-    Relate effect of the activities of sub-components 6.1.3. and
6.1.4. to the qualitative and quantitative composition of
the EDP sets for the DS0 health facilities,
-    Provide management and logistic support to EDP to ensure
continuous drug supply from central units to districts and
the health facilities,
-    Monitor and ensure the rational use of drugs based on the
activities of sub-components 6.1.3. and 6.1.4.
Inputs
-    Functional sub-components 6.1.3. and 6.1.4.
-    Assign man-months of CMOH and/or project assistance unit
t     's    i    



- 150 -
TANZANIA                       ANNEX 12
*ANZAI     Page 13 of 13
HEALTH AND NUTRITION  PROJECT
Nu .                sad mlt-
Health Manage                   t~~~sedait.asz  by  I   a  elth
AesIwlItee     I " XItbo d oetvtetesaow
H 4 *_ _ w . 11 ~~~~avalaled
Da.eattallUttSwal
arni Healthcg"n t
gt: ,st  ;e4gtm
I  Otte1U               OpAm
_____              ~~~~the aeeienitt
Lppeottat  I hae      3q       I_ baeS     sawima
at bett _
ls_eeUtaac
Moaetiiate
- I P   I_ uti_isi
*~~~~~d  seaf I
I ___
Ate.
AI u
reta .d
StztgwAiel @bJaettva (Link objeastiv-aftion (Vagtal)
Lin UAhMI~- Ouspet (patg)
latar-satise" (Ponst")



TANZANIA
HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
Summary Accounts by Year
Base Costs
(TANZANIAN SHILLINGS  Million)                Foreign Exchange
1990/1991 1991/1992 1992/1993 1993/1994 1994/1995  Total       %      Amount
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
________________
A. CIVIL WORKS                                        366.2    716.9    695.0    332.5        139.8  2.250.4    51.7   1,164.3
B. SUPPLIES                                            86.5     134.3    199.7    120.5        83.0   624.0   96.1    599.9
C. PHARMACEUTICALS                                  1,900.2   1,710.2   1.710.,       0.2       0.2  5.321.0   100.0  5.321.0
0. EQUIPMENT                                          146.1    257.0    290.6    152.1         113.2   959.1   96.1       922.0
E. FURNITURE                                           20.1      27.7      25.6      17.1       7.9     98.5    75.4       74.2
F. VEHICLES                                            84.3      27.6      30.4      15.2       7.6    165.0  100.0    165.0
G. CONSULTANTS SERVICES                               149.8    173.1      137.9     112.6      118.2   691.5   90.9    628.3
H. TRAINING AND WORKSHOPS                             100.7     113.9      88.6      61.2      51.8    416.2   35.0       145.8
I. PROJECT PREPARATION FACILITY                       88.3          -         -         -         -    88.3    75.4        66.5
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                 2.942.1   3,160.6   3.178.0     811.4     521.7 10,613.8    85.6   9.087.0
II. RECURRENT COSTS
_______________
A. TRAVEL & PER DIEN                                  66.0      59.5      38.3      37.8      39.6    241.1      0.0       0.0
B. SALARIES                                           28.8      46.0      77.3      48.5      36.0    236.6      0.0       0.0   .
C. BUILDING OPERATION& MAINTENANCE                    10.7      28.2      45.5      53.9      58.1    196.4    30.2       59.2   V'
0. EQUIPMENT & VEHICLE OPERATION & MAINTENANCE        31.2      66.3     106.3     128.3      142.1    474.2    50.7     240.4
E. UTILITIES & SERVICES                                4.6       6.2       7.8       7.8      * 7.8     34.1    36.0      12.3
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                    141.3     206.2     275.2     276.3     z83.5  1.182.4    26.4      311.9
Total BASELINE COSTS                                    3.083.4   3.366.8   3.453.2   1.087.7     805.2 11.796.2    79.7   9.398.9
Physical Contingencies                                  55.3     102.7     110.4      52.0       19.1    339.5    70.5     239.2
Price Contingencies                                    683.5   1,361.7   1.884.9     940.2     821.3  5.691.6    68.6   3.906.8
Total PROJECT COSTS                                     3,822.2   4.831.2   5.448.4   2.079.9   1.645.6 17,827.3    76.0  13.544.9
Foreign Exchange                                     3,266.6   3,821.7   4,264.5   1,227.3       964.8 13,544.9    0.0       0.0
February 5, 1990 17:26
Io 
o 



TANZANIA
HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
BREAKDOWN OF SUKARY ACCOUNTS
(US$ '000)
Bease Costs                              Total lncl. Cant.
Local (Excl. Duties &                       Local (Excl. Duties &
For. Exch.    Taxes)      Taxes    Total   For. Exch.    Taxes)        Taxes    Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS                                        6.128.1       5.716.0         - 11,844.1    7.467.8        7,675.2         - 15.143.0
B. SUPPLIES                                            3,157.3         126.8        -  3,284.1    3,954.6          174.8         -  4,129.4
C. PHARMACEUTICALS                                   28.005.0              -        - 28,005.0   28,005.0              -         - 28,005.0
D. EQUIPMENT                                           4,852.8         194.9        -  5.047.?    5.938.3          262.5         -  6.200.8
E. FURNITURE                                             390.6         127.8        -    618.4       482.2         173.2         -    655.5
F. VEHICLES                                              868.5             -        -    868.5       946.2              -        -    946.2
G. CONSULTANTS SERVICES                                3,306.7        332.9         -  3.639.6    3,684.9          372.8         - 4.057.8
H. TRAINING AND WORKSHOPS                                767.2       1.423.1        -  2.190.3       828.9       1,773.8         -  2.602.7
I. PROJECT PREPARATION FACILITY                         350.0         114.5         -    464.5       363.2         127.6         -    490.8
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                   47,826.2      8,036.0         - 55,862.2   51.671.3       10.559.9         - 62,231.2
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. TRAVEL 8 PER DIEN                                        -       1,269.1        -  1,269.1            -      1.534.2         -  1.534.2    n
8. SALARIES                                                 -       1,245.0        -  1.245.0            -      1.575.5         -  1.575.S   t
C. BUILDING OPERATION & MAINTENANCE                     311.8        721.8         -  1,033.7       367.3         944.6         -  1,311.9
0. EQUIPMENT S VEHICLE OPERATION & MAINTENANCE        1.265.2       1,230.8           2.495.9    1,488.9        1,609.4         -  3,098.3
E. UTILITIES 8 SERVICES                                  64.5         114.9        -    179.4        74.6         147.1         -    221.7
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                     1,641.5      4,581.6         - 6,223.1       1,930.8      5,810.8         -  Z.741.6
Total                                                     49,467.7      12,617.6         - 62.085.3   53.602.1       16.370.7        - 69,972.8
February 5, 1990 17:26
3 w



TANTANIJA
HEALTH AM6 MITUITION PR ,OACT
8BlAttt OF StU_M ACCOUINiTS
4TANZANIAN SHILLINtIS  U gllon)
eas Costs                 Physlcal Conti kgOeat"             Prie Contignc fIo                     Total SAcl. Cont.
Local                          Local                              Local                               Local
t(xel. kato. a            for, (ltd. outle 6                      (Esnl. Duties                       (encl, k.1,4a6
For. Etch. Taus)  taxes   total   Extt. Tfaz) Tfe   Total  For. Etch. Tazes)  Texas  Total   For. Etam.  Tae.)  faze    Total
1. ttVESTEtNT COSTS
A. CIVIL MORS                                      t.t64.3 1.086.0        - 2.250.4  99.2  92.6          - 191.9       663.2  803.6         - 1,66.8    1,0262. 1.902.2         - 3.900.I
B. SUPPLIES                                          699.9   24.1             624.0  51.6   2.4          - 61.2        233.6   to.7         -  403.3    1,042.3   48.1              1.081.5
C. P AICEUTICALS                                   s.32t.0       -        - 0.321.0      -      -        -    -       1,066.4      -        - t.065.4    6,987.3    0.0          - 8.887 3
0. EQUIPMENT                                         022.0   37.0         - 959.1  73.6   3.0            -76.6         855.1   28.6         -  13.7       1.680.9   60.6         -  1619.6
E. .FUMirTRE                                          74.2   24.3              G-.$   7.3   2.4 a-    .7                43.1   18.1         -   61.2        124 6   44 9         -    169.4
. VENICLES                                          168.0       -        -    165.0                     -              67.9       -        - 67.9          232.9       -        - 232.9      ..
4. cOtrNUTANTS SERVICES                              626.3   63.3         -   691.8       -      -       -             332.4   33.1         -  365.6        840.7   06.4         -  1,057.1   vj
N. TRAINING A4ND IDRKSaOPS                           145.6  270.4              416.2      *        _                    64.3  192.2         -  256.5        210 t  462.6         -   672.7    0
A. PRtoC7 PREPARATINP FAClEITr                        66.8   21.6              08.3      -      -        -    -         15.6    7.1         -   22.7         82 1    28.8       -    110.9
Total ItNESTMENT COSTS                                9.067.0  .526.8        - I0.613.6  239.2  100.3       - 339.8     3.6e1.7 1,102.4        - 4.794.l   13.017.9 2.720.6         - ts.747.4
is. RECIRENT COSTS
A. TRAVEL 6 PER DIEN                                        241.1             241.1         -       -      -              -   108.8        -   1s5.s               386.6        -   396.6
8. SALARIES                                             -  236.6         -   236.64         -       -      -              -                    t1ot7  -  .187  -  418.3         -   418.3
C. sUILDING OPERATION 6 MAINTt EtNCE                 59.2  137.1         -    196.4      -                             41.2   121.3            162.5       100.4  258.8         -   358.9
D. EQUIPMEWT S VEHICLE OPERATION o MAINTENANCE      240.4  233.8         -   474.2       -                    -        66.2  206.3         -  372.5        406.6  '40. I        _   560.7
E. UTILITIES 5 SERVICES                              t2.3   21.6         -    34.1              -          -            7.7   17.6         -   25.3         20.0   39.4         -    89.4
Total RECURREHT COSTS                                   311 .9  870.8        -  1.182.4     -      -        -    -        215.1  662.4         -  897.8        827.0 t,82 .9        - 2.079.9
Total                                                  9,398.9 2.397.3        - 11,796.2  239.2  100.3       - 339.8     3,906.6 1.704.8        - 5,691.6    13,544.9 4.282.4        - 17.827.3
ftrugwy S. 1*90  17:26
0t 



TANZANIA
HEAtTH MO NUTRITIONt PROJECT
Sumary Accounta by Year
Totals Including CantlngencIO                              Totala Including Contingnc5es
(TANZAAtAN SHILLINGS  Msillion)                                      (US$ 00)
1990/4t99l 1991/4992 1992/1993 1993/1994 1994/ 1995  Total  t290/1991 1991/t992 1992/1993 1993/1994 1994/1995  Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS                                      510.6  1.166.2  1,272.1    666.0    294.2  3.909.1   2.259.2  4.683.7  4.6C0.2   2295.t8   1.004.2 15. 43.0
B I SLWPLIES                                         117.0    210.5    349.8    233.5    177.7  1.089,5        547.8    645.3   1,320.0    839.9    606.4  4.129.4
C. PI4ARMACEUTICALS                                2.200.2   2.24S.2   2.385.3      0.3       0.3  6.897 .3  I0.004.0  9,004.0   9.001.0        1.0       1.0 28.005.0
C. EOUIP4IENT                                        195.2    399.9    S05.     288.3    232.0 3 .6 9, 35    863.8  9.602.0   1.906.2   1.037.1    791.8  6.200.8
E. FURNITURE                                         27.4      44.5      46.t      34.0      17.4   169.4      424.2    178.7    173.8    122.3         59.4   665.5
F. VEHICLES                                          403.9     39.3      48.4      26.6      14.7   232.9    459.5    157.9    1482.7         95.8      50.3   946.2
G. CONSU1TANTS SERVICES                              184.7    246.6    218.8    192.9    244.1  1.057.1    847.1    990.2    825.8    693.8    730.9  4.057.8
H. TRAINING AND WDRKSltOPS                           128.0    169.0    149.8    417.0    409.4   672.7    566.2    678.7    564.4    420.9    372.3  2.602.7
1. PROJECT PREPARATION FACILITY                 -    10.9    -          - _                          440.9    490.8  _-                                    -   490.8
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                               38637.8  4.516.2  4,975.2   1,5S8.6  1,059,6 15,747.4  t6,006.7  18.4375  18.774.2  5,606.5  3.616.3 62.231.2
It. RECURREWN COSTS
A. TRavEc 5 PER DIEN                                86.7      92.4      67.1      70.8      79.6   396.6    383.5    37t.0    253.2    254.8    271.7  4,534.2
S. SALARIES                                          37.9     71.4    136.2       95.1      77.7    4t8.3    167.7    286.6    513.9    342.3    265.1  1.575.5
C.  IEUILOING OPERATION a MAINTENANCE                13.9      42.9     78.1    102.4    121.7   358.9         61.4    172.1    294.6    368.4    415.4  1.3'1.9
0. EQUIPMENT 4 VEHICLE OPERATJiONt  MAINTENANCE      39.9      99.0    178.6    238.2    290.9   846.7    476.7    397.7    674.1    857.0    992.9  3.098.3
E. UTILITIES B SERVICES                              5.9       9.4      13.3      14.7      46.2    59.4       26.3      27.6      50.0      52.7      55.t   224.7
Total RECURRENtT COSTS                                  184.3    345.0    473.2    521.3    586.1  2.079.9    815.5  t,266.0   1.785.7   1.875.2  2.000.2  7,741.6
~~~~~~~~~........ .... ........ -  -.--.--.......--- .-.-.......- .... ..... ----- .......... .... --- ..... ........-
Total PROJECT COSTS                                   3,822.2  4,83t.2   5;448.4   2,079.9  t.6,45.6 17821.3  46,942.2  49,402.5  20,559.9  7,481.7  5,6t6.5 69,972.8
February S. 199   17:26
I,-
09
iOD



TANZANIA
HEALTH AND IUTRITItON t .CT
Project Components by Year
Totals Including Contingencies           ,                            Totals Including Cont nI gcles
(TANZANIAN SHILLINGS   0001                                                    Lust t000)
iS0c/9S9   1991/1992   1992/1993   ;993/19S4   1994/199S        Total       1990/199S  f991i;/92 1992/1993 1993/1994 ;94/i;995  Total
........... ............. ........... ........... ........... ............  .....----.-...  -----.-- ........ ......... .......*--.-. --......... ......... --. -.- 
A. STRENGTHEtNIG OF NATIONAL PHlt SVSTEM
. HEALTH PtLA-ING  ZIDMtPORIIATZION SYS.Ett         15St183.0   167.795.2   105.43S.S  1t0.792.5   2t5.733.4    810.939.6           669.0     673.9      397.9     614 4      736.3  3.091.4
2. tANPOWER DEVELOPMENT AND TRAIIN"G                  96,406.S   207.983.3   226.65.0   257.626.3  126,197.4, 912.747.5              422.1      636.3     855.2      926.4     427 3  3.46ti.3
3. PH4ARK=CEUTICAL AND MEDICAL SL'PPLIES           2,386,497.0 2.626.858.4 2.726.981.2    48.607.8    43.838.t  7.834.762.6   10.668.6  tO.49.6  t0.290.5            174.8      149.6 3t.733.2
4. MICRAITRIENT DEFICIENCY PROGRAMS                    57,038.0  103.320.5    86.475.2    69.811.4    70,90.61 413.545.7             38S.1      414.9     326.3      236.7     242.0  1.605.1
S. NATIONAL POPULATIOt POLICY                          73.061.9 S   S3S3.0    28,306.6       7.980.6      6,788.9    163,630.7       323.3      222.6     144.6       26.7      30.0    749.0
Sub-Total STREGTHENING DF NATIONAL PHH SVSTEM          2.795.185.5 3.161.350.4 3,183.833.3  S50,718.6   464.453.3 IO.155.546.0   12.368.t  t2.696.2  12,014.S   t.89t.0   1,S68.2 40.644.9
S. STRESTHENING RWRAL PHC                                353.009.0   664.764.6 1.t32.296.S   844.241.8   81t.t86.2  3.809.498.t    1.562.0   2.86.8   4.272.8   3.036 8   2.768.6 14.326.0
C. STRENtGTHENING RmSA  RHC                              563.026.0 1.001.09S.9 1,132.256.1   684.968.1   369.992.9  3.751.328.9    2.491.3   4.020.5   4.272.7   2,463.9   1,262.8 14.5t1.0
0. PRODJCT PREPARATION FACILITY                          l1o.931.9            -           -            -            -    110.931.9      490.8          -          -         -          -    490.8
Total PROJECT COSTS                                      3.822.152.4 4.831.2t0.8 5.448.366.6 2.079,91.84 1.46,5637.5 *7,827,304.9   169,12.2  19-40-.-  20-569.9   7.48t.7   S6t6.6 G9,972.6
........... ........... .... ....... ........... ........... ............  .........--- ... ---. --.----.... ......... ........  .......  ......-.-.
YIbr'ua s. 1990 17:26
LA
LA
Ut
0 w
'll
O W
00.       ~



TANZANIA
HEALTH AND NJTRITIOI PROJECT
Sufmary Accounit by Project Cosonnt
(TANZANIAN SHILLINGS MtlI10nl
STRENGTHENING OF NATIONAL PHN SYSTEt
HEALTH                                                                                                                      Physical
PLAHNMNG AND    NA,TO1ER    PHAR4ACEUTICAL  MICROMITRIENT   NATIONAL                                    PROJECT              Contig6c too
INFORatTION   DEVELOPMENT    AND MEDICAL     DEFICIENCY    POPULATION STRENOTWAING  STRENGTHENING  PREPARATION              --_----__-__
SYSTEM    AND TRAINING      SUPPLIES       PROOR4AS       POLICY      RURAL PHC      URBAN PHC      FACILITY     Total      7    Amount
1. IWVSTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WRKS                                                -         11.8            330.5             6.6         0.8         393.3         t.337.4            -   2.2sO.4   8.5   191.9
9. SUPPLIES                                               28.2          56.3                -           74,5        12.1         380.6            64.2            -    624.0   0.0    61.2
C. PHARMACEUTICALS                                           -             -         5.320.0             t.0           -              -              -            -   5,321.0    0.0    0.0
0. EOUIPENEtT                                             22.5          56.3            112.7           43.4        1a.1          5B7.6          183.4                 959.    0.0   76.8
E. FLUMITURE                                              33.2             -             8.8               -         1-.           5.2            40 4            -       005    9.0     9.7
F. VEHICLES                                                4.8          14.3                -            8.6         3.8          91.2            42.5                  165.0    0.0     0.0
G. CONSULTANTS SERVICES                                  I37. 6         27.8            24.*            71.0        25.1          142.9          202.2                  691.5   0.0      0.0
H. TRAINING AND WORKSHOPS                                 97.9         t03.2             16.2           49.6        s9.2          61.6            28.5            -    416.2   0.0       0.0
I. PROJECT PREPARATION FACILITY                              -             -               -                             - -  __,_-_--    __        _00.,3               00.3    0.0     0.0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                      384.1         439.7         5,812.3           225.5       1t5.0       1.640.5         t.907.6         80.3  t0,613.8    3.2  339.5
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. TRAVEL 0 PER OIEN                                     50.0          29.0                -           14.5         2.6         121.8            23.2                  24t.1   0.0      0.0
8. SALARIES                                              20.6 3                            -            5.0        12.2         165.1            24.7                 9236.    0.0      0.0
C. BUILDING OPERATIONS& MAINTENANCE                       3.2             -30.7                           -                      32.6           121.0            -     40.4    0.0      0.0
0. EQUIPMENT B VEHICLE OPERATION B MAINTENANCE           t2.4          53.8             39.4            6.7         6.3         243.t           1tt.4            _     474.2   0.0      0 0
E. UTILITIES A SERVICES                                  22.2             -      _                      4.0         4.0           3.2               -            -      34.1   0.0      0.0 tfl
E.  UTILITIES    B    SERVICES  -------------  ----------    -------------                       ----     -----    -------
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                       118.4          82.8            78.t            30.2        2S.6         565.9           281.2            -   1.182.4   0.0    0.0
Total BASELINE COSTS                                         502.5         522.5         S.090,4           200.7       141.7       2.206.3        2.186.8          88.3  11.796.2    2 9   339.5
Physical Contitngeefs                                       0.4          29.4            45.2             9.5           -          83.6           163.4            -    339.5   0.0       0.0
Pr1c0 Ccntlsnca                                           200.4         360.0___  _ _.t 89a    2        148 4        4.         1, 5496        t.399 1          22 7   5.69t.6   3.4  194 8
Total PROJECT COSTS                                          801.9         9t2.7         7.834.9           413.5       t83.5       3, 09.5        3.75t.3         440.9  17.827.3    3.0  534.3
Forelgn Eichangs                                          469.3         494.9         7.434.8           286.4       136.8       2.522.S        2.118.1          62.1  13.544.9   2.7  367.6
February 5. 4990 17:26
Co



TAMZIA
HEALTH AM NUITRITION PRWOECT
PROOECT COST SUARY
(TUaANIAM SHILLINSS  000)                                  (U51 '000)
S Total                                       S Total
S foe.i    a 6n                               S forelig  Bgam
Local      Foritn        Total      E.ctmn     Coat.   Local   Foreign   Total   Exchnga   Coats
................ ........................ *. -"------"-""@--"............ ......... ....... ........ ........ ................ ---.--......... ....... 
A. STRENSTHElNit  OF NATROI.AL  PM  SYSTEM
t. HEALTl PLAIUNS AMf IWOlTATIU  SYSTEM            201.214.6    301.28.B    E02.496.5          60       4  1.0S9.0  1.605.7  2,644.7          60       4
2. Il_E3R OEIVSLUPEM  AND TRAINING                  227.86.6    294.625.6       22.511.2        96        4  t.tof.4  1.5S0.7  2,750.1         se       4
3. IMUCEWTICAL AND MICAL SUPPLIES                   226.871.7  5.663.4B4.3  5.890.3256.0        96       60  1.194.1 29.B07.B    31.00t.9      96      50
4. NIcUSIImtSWT DEFICIElCY P=MAPS5                  74,534.2    181.170.7    259.70t.9          71       2    392.3   953.5  1.234.S          71       2
5.  ATINAL POPULATIU  POLICY                         39.012.7    106.722.1   140.714.6          75        I    184.2    561.7    746.0         75       I
Su-Total STUNTHEtIN  OF NATIONAL PM SYSTEt             760.5t6.0  6.47.264.4  7.3t2.803.3           90      62 4.029.0 34.459.4 3B.488.4          90      62
S. ST_EffNl41N4  RURAL PHC                              717.3*3.2  1.489.024.4  2.206.337.5         67      19  3.775.3  7.837.0 it.612.3         67       t9
C. STWIEN9EMIIZ 1*3 PlfC                               89.7509.9  1.296.049.0  2.18B.806.9          s       19  4.608.?  G.82t.3 t1.520.0         50       19
O. PO_ CT PPARATION FACILITY                             21.790.0    66.50.0    88.210.0            79       t    114.5   350.0   464.5           7B        I
Total BASELINE COSTS                                   2.397.342.0  9.398.857.8 11.796.109.8          80     100 02.617.6 49.467.7 62.065.3         so    t00
PI"yacal Contlnulclos                                  100324.2   239.19656   339.620.7           70       3    529.0  1,259.9  1t787.0         70       3
Priea Contl1ngmwu                                    1.764.773.4  3.906.61B.0  .69t.584.4        69       48  3.225.1 2.075.5  6,100.6          47      10
Total PtWECT COSTS                                     4.282.439.6 13.544.865.3 17.827.304.9          76     151 16.370.7 53.602.1 69.972.8         77     113                             l
........... ............ ....... ..... ......... ....... ........ ........ ........ ................-- ---------
Pnarwy 5. 1990 t7:2B
o  tAI
0 0



TANZANIA
HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
SUARV ACCO1STs COST SUARY
(TANZANIAN SHILLINGS  '000)                                    (USA  CO0o)
X Total                                         S Total
Foreign  Ee"                                   % foreign  Easa
Local      Foreign        Total      Excthae   Coats   Local   Foreign   Total   Eachanp   Costs
........... ............ ............ ......... ....... ........ ...... .. ........ ......... ............................................................ 
1. INVESTNANT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS                                      1.0t 6.035.5  1.164,339.0  2.20.374.1           52       iS  5.716.0  6,t28.1 11,844.1          52       19
11. SUPPLIES                                           24.095.4    199.691.8    623,987.1           96        5     126.8  3.iS7.3  3,284.1         06        5
C. PHARkACEUTICALS                                             - 8.320.9N0.0  5.320.,N0.0          100       45         - 28.005.0 29,005.0         100      45
0. EQUIPIIEMT                                          37,034.5    92,030.1    059.064.6            96        a     194.9  4.862.8  5.047.7         96        a
E. ftNNITURE                                           24.273.0      74.214.0      98,487.0         76        1    127.8    390.6    518.4          7S        I
P. VEHICLgS                                                    -    165,015.0    165.0t5.0         too        I         -    868.     868.5         100       1
6. CONSULTANTS SERVICES                                63.254.8    628265.4    681.520.2            91       6    332.9  3.306.7  3.639.6           Si        6
N. TRAININ   D   SHSPS                                270.396.0    *45.768.0    416.164.0           35        4  1.423.1    767.2  2.190.3          35        4
1. PRWECT PMEPARATI   FACILITY                         2t,7e0.0      66.sco.0      88.250.0         7T        t    114.5    350.0    464.5          7S        I
Total ItESTET COSTS                                     I.t26.8 e.l  9.086.973.3 t0.613.812.4          06       9o  8,036.0 47.826.2 s5.862.2           a6      90
Physical ContinrIea                                   t0,f'4.2    238,196.5    339.520.7          70        3    128.0  1.258.9  1,787.0          70        a
Price Contingantls                                  1.10.,409.9  3.691.680.5  4.7a4.099.4           77      41  1.995.9  2,156.2  4,852.1           56        7
Total INCLUDING CONTI GNCIES                           2  8,.572.2 13.017.860.3 15.747.432.B           83      133 10.59.9 S1,671.3 62,231.2           83     100
........... ............ ............. ......... ....... ........ ........ ........ ................  ................---..----
It. RECURREHT COSTS
A. TRAVEL * PER 0IEM                                 241,136.0              -    241.130            -        2  1,269.f         -  1.269.1                   2
S. SALARIES                                          236.156.0              -    236,686.0          -        2  1.24.0          -  1,245.0           -       2
C. SUILDtN OPERATION * AINTENANCE                    137,14S.1      59,249.0    196.394.1          30        2    721.8    3t1.8  1,033.7          30        2
0. EOUIPIENT S VEHICLE OPERATION 8 MAINTENANCE    233,844.3    240,380.5    474,224.8              S1        4  1.230.8  1.265.2  2.401.9          S1        4
E. UTILITIES * SERVICES                               21,822.s      12,255.0      34,077.5         38       o     114.9      64.5    179.4         26        0
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                    870,102.9    311.884.5  *.182.387.4           26       tO  4.581.6  1,641.5  6.223.1           26      10
Price Continr go     s                                682.364.6    215.120.S    897,481.0           24        8  1,229.2    289.3  1.118.S           19       2
Total INCLLDING CONTIGENCIES                           1.s552.67.4    S27,006.0  2.079.72.4           26       18  8.810.8  1,930.8  7.741.6          25       12
Total BASELINE COSTS                                    2.397.242.0  9.398.857.8 1 .706,186.8           80      100 12,617.6 49,467.7 62006S.3           0o    t00
Physical Contnawnctes aOD,324.2    239.196f.                                       3398.20.7         70        3    828.0  1,258.9  1,787.0          70        3
Price ContInrencies                                  1.784.773.4  3,906,811.0  5.691.584.4           69       48  3.225.1  2,875.8  6,100.6          47       10
Total PROJECT COSTS                                     4.282,439.6 13.544,865.3 17.827.304.9           76      iSi  16.370.7 S3,602.1 69.972.8          77     113
............................... ............ ............ ......... ....... ......... ........ ........ .......................  --.--....... -- .. -
February S. 1990 17:26
CO
I-h
00)



TANZANIA
IEALT tAND EUIRTTION P _Ct
Fsmnmctns Plan By DiaoLm.t Catgt.y
UsS '0001
SWISS OElEtPIENT                 GOVERNIE1T OF                DISTRICT                    COMNT OF
104             tFPA      COlOPERATIll t   GAtlDA        8 EtClGII    BRIT151t CI      O VE RtEt   BENEIICIANIRS    tANZANIA      . Ot.
A    t   S    Amout S          Amount    S    Amount  %       AS mt   I           Amount          % A.out  7           Amount  5      Amount S
A CIVIL WIMtS                       8,6.6  3?.?         -   -    80902.t  62.9  1.0?8.6  7.t           -                                       76.6  1.2    :64 70.2  .1629.4 3 S21
8  SUPPLIES                         3.623 4 87 7   63.2  1.5         302.2    7.3        - 9  t O  7                                           3120.    2 39   0.2   12628 t .
C  PHAUNIEUTICAS                   2a.005 0 100.0       _    _           _      _        _-  -  --                        -I. I                                           26.00550  4 00
D  EOUIPINT                         4.648  8t.6   68 i7              972.6  16.1    48.6  0.8          -    -        _    _        _   _          _    _.t  02   6.055 5   97
a FUR0ITIE                            3069.  47.2       -   -        328.6   50tt.*2 -                                                                         17.4  26      6886   0.6
F. VtEICLES                           694.2  73.4    20.0  2.1       23220   24.5        -   -         -     -       -   -         -    -         -    -               2-   946.2   *.4
a. CONSULTAUTS                      T.t75.6  3.6  119.1  2.9       1.230 .6  30.3   132.6  3.3   698.0  17.2   93.3  2.3    196.6  4.9             _            t 69 0.2   t 057.t  5.tt
". TOAININ                          1.710.0 68.7   310.0 11.6        162.5    7.0        -             -     -       --                  --             -     4~1:.         .0         
I P_OACt PREPAUATIO  FACILITV        490.9 100.0       -   -            -      -        -   -               -       -    -        .   -          -    -          -    -    40.9   0 7
ti PER OlEt                          4*4.6  32.2   10.7  0.7          46.2    3 t           _      _                           2 -  223. 4                    785.9 49.5   t.534.2   2 2
NSAkLARIES                               -     -    10.6  0.7-                 -        -             -     -       - -       2613.7 16.?    666.0 61.3      335.2 21.3   i.675.5  2 3
L SEILOING  AIFE CEw                     -    - t6.O3  467                                                                        t 4 5 -   -  26.2  O           3 223   .311 9   19
a  EOIIIPINI 6 VEH"ICLE OPERATION               -   22.5 0.7         179.3    .6         -                                -1,463 .347.2    868.  16.4    664.4 2? 9  3.066.3   4 4
N. IITILId,IIS                                  -   20.4  0 2-                           - --                        -  -             -       -         -    2014a00.6       221 7   02
Total OthunBWnt                      47.6237  66 t   6;5.1  0.9   12.107 6   ;74  4.259.;  1.;   698.0   ;.0   933  01  2,5;; 7    3 6   1.653.4  2.6   3.064 3  4.4  696972 t 000 0
........ .....  ...... ....  .......... ......  ....... ....  ....... .....  ...... ....  ....... .... ............   ............  ........ ....
*eruy  S. 1990  17:26
44
Io .c
II



W44
-t a
-4
oi
90:4    0 o06s Is AjwSwj
.....  ... ........  ...........  ... ......  . ... .......   .... ......   ..... .......  .... .......  ...... ..........  .... ......  ............
e'n-tC0      0 0W   9-'0 -LC9  9_ *       00o-1   90t 9t10,5  9*           9 i0-C  50    10 t       o      0089       05   L000t  94L    04 0                5*0    9cn9    I 99  4 tc09t                                                uw'     neaSSO 10ol
O                                                                                                                                                    -   - ....
'0  0011  0    6069  -     -           -    ~~~                                                                       ~ ~~~               ~      ~       ~      ~~----------------- ---- ------  0001  9 069111139 NClLVOWd3dd 239008
0*. 9005 9        L0t  0t   1091   0 0  0o0            iI   ;99          t9   ;'9U                                          ; I -             n    i 9LSCI                       o 09  9                                          10009  1       0 3 I'"  10911   e
*   -         S O00  0 0  19Cl1  *'   * S9S        I SIt  S9-*    90 9       0019     -    -          9't C 900         -    -          -        -             -              C O  I1   L StC'01                               100    llOn  3610102"L"385   9
"  *   G'%C   * S90  09WO9' 9   S9  6 t0'0    -    -                   0  9005        00O  gl0 o0    Gist tO s0SC                       -        -             9 1    -       *" 06     *`S'9c        03lISAS 4164  7IISW   0 60110MUORI O  1001-W'
409 _           _    06_ 0_ 0_0 _ _9 _09 _ _210 _01ll _WSW    0                                                                        
1'599         * *         009'S    0  t 0*'t0      --         -    -                             --      -    -           -   --        -        -_- -                        -00-  -       - 9 S              0      6   410312       1     111_        9S
Iit's  *             I * SC9 I   0 01   O O91      -    -                                              -      -                      -                                        0 O1 I 0I     n, *                          21030JI0  103161    1   01
C SB'9 00 t vG 9C9'S   6 C* t9                     - - -                                                                                -  -    - -    - *'0                                                   1N C  1C94-  - - 0tt9 S0lddnS  1f 3OWOOW 'C
000'5    O   S   t 00'1    0 dC 41590             -     -      -          900        0-   -1       -0       09         -    -          -                      -     -        9-    - 40'0          *     911  SWIOOS  'f  01661610 NIWS  '
",'OA  0no, 9            111101AS 516  1100141 A08 55030        4 'C
1   :UI  O '    C* *  90C       ' S t I                     l      S. _   _  9    110"S  9  10't    S S'9 C 1691 -        -    0*S t  c0pt  31  1106                          9l i1 10
..........  ..... ............... .......   .... .......   .... .............. . ...... .....   ,. ,.,,........   .... ........  ....    .. ......    .... .,,  .............. ....... ... ,, lSA d01  llllUlDI 
ton     XJa                                               "am *            M. I S      It  stm **           *unw         II     *m       II        *o           %  *uoi        S        *ww
,   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _   _ _  _ _   _ _ _   _'M _   _ _ _3A- _ _   _----M  ' 1 I_I _  0   - -  - --   ---v-o   M-O,---_--_  _ -f I_  _ _   ---M-- - _- V_-a_  _   -- -   - --- - _- I ---
SO tIt"l               SlilVAlnl            Aoll          woi             AOII   amans           nl         IMM11w3                    *dF;---
0 103U503                            41819l10                       0 1J313                          1101>1A0 913*9
(000. 90*)
esumuoue3 19910d AOq aid  flu          uoj
123900   wM1f1"1  0f  "I
91901516



TANZANIA
HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
Financing Plan by Foreign Exchange / Local / Taxes
(USS '000)
SWISS
DEVELOPMENT         GOVERNMENT OF BRITISH  OISTRICT                  GOVERNMENT OF
IDA     UNFPA  COOPERATION DANIDA      BELGIUM      ODA   GOVERNMENT BENEFICIARIES   TANZANIA       Tota
Amount Amount       Amount Amount          Amount   Amount    Amount         Amount        Amount  Aru
aws==fl oc=sCw    sacauss c3====  cz=nnsa  ..s=w   u=ww===.         .==          =ncssss w==z=
I.   Forefgn               42,311.7   543.8     7,176.5   702.0          638.4    85.4       982.6         484.4         677.1 83.60
II.  Local (Excl. Taxes)   5,311.9   101.3      5.021.0   557.8           59.6     7.8    1,535.2        1.369.0        2.407.2 16.37
III. Taxes                        -       -            -       -             -        -          -             -
Total Project               47.623.7   645.1    12.197.6 1.259.7          698.0    93.3    2,517.8        1,853.4        3.084.3 69.97
February 5. 1990  17:26
'I
0 -1



TANZANIA
HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
D1sbursement By Financier By Semester
(USS '000)
Swiss
DEVELOPMENT        GOVERNMENT OF BRITISH  DISTRICT                GOVERNMENT OF
IDA   UNFPA  COOPERATION DANIDA    BELGIU4       ODA  GOVERNMENT BENEFICIARIES   TANZANIA      Total
Amount Amount    Amount Amount           Amount Amount   Amount          Amount        Amount  Amount
Semester
I          6,566.4  149.4       988.9  260.3           61.1   30.6       127.2          57.6         214.6  8.456.1
2          6,566.4  149.4       988.9  260.3           61.1   30.6       127.2          S7.6         214.6 8.456.1
3          6.94, .7  104.1     19721.5  179.7         112.4   16.1       176.4         150.2         292.2  9,701.2
4          6.948.7  104.1      1.721.5  179.7         t12.4   16.1       176.4         150.2         292.2  9.701.2
5           7.246.9  64.7      1,718.1   190.0         67.5       -      289.6         302.5         3329.7 10.280.0
6           7,246.9  64.7      1,818.1   190.0         67.5       -      259.6         302.5         330.7 10,280.0
7           1,685.4   2.2      1.091.2      -          70.8       -      318.6         226.5         346.1 3.740.9
8           1.685.4   2.2      1,091.2      -          70.8       -      318.6         226.5         346.1  3.740.9
9           1,364.3   2.3       479.0        -         37.1       -      377.0         189.9         356.7 2.808.3
10          1,364.3   2.3        479.0       -          37.1       -      377.0         189.9         358.7  2,808.3
10 ~ ~    --   - 1,364.3  -------       ------   - - -----  ------   - -----     ---------     --------- 358.7 -,808.
Total             47.623.7 645.1    12,197.6 1.259.7         698.0   93.3   2,517.8         1.853.4       3,084.3 69,972.8
February 5. 1990  17:26
I oo 



-163 -                             ANNEX 15
TANZANIA                             aNge 15    2
UEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
,~~~1                P11      PU        P6       P4        P
p0    l        i        "I       FT4
1.     Stieaoth_nlea  of cantral ViW Istwat
o.  Health Plelasn  Policy Ponsltlea
and Interaction Systm
-uport to buildingp section                                                    
II)    P.11ev Plomalaton
- esorc mbltio study
-   Iiee Aotin of ercoac
miiiatiofl
* ditic ptanwotala                                                -        _
Iary study
MU  e_pert edvica
- tralning of district staf
- polinf kits
b) itall_
- coOatar to rgiloc
ew P I'
- coordinstico
-  r     tion for *futre
pDroJect
b.  Mialo _t Dvelopmt A Training
1)    Manec   Plan
a:r  -}   t ,elan
=    ,:..h IDA~
- I plmntation
11i)    cetinunoa Edultion
- traning of OWT StUff
-  pradlng of se0l0
educAtion centr o
- scouiation of aGgcuimn                                               
and learning  atrial.
- ourriculum   d supevision
""t1oilt                                          - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -_ 
c.  ftaemacesticala  Medical  Siull.
prertlona oF I00/1.
procowrma  progtri-
- fiasiti. ll ofd rdor-m_
_ ;    -  rat.' plan
- revle  of m_teb  plea
and raor- prcgre  *lh IDA
- apimtcautimo of P mncial
- Inplmtatnlonf revisd-                                                    -         -        -
- rbabillttlor of CUS
_ staf tr anlie                                                   _
- paloesuiIcaa proea
d.  Mitro-hrian  Sdliiael Prottra
_ capam dltribtioen                                             -
ilortry daslo_mA
-ramera
monltorlna                                             -        -
ii)    PLd-i
p program deosn
_ progr_ delop  I_t
-istl po        *  li tP
* .ata   hmwA aaof the MU1 staff
traising as
- ertloa    d t PIctC                          -=-
- policy iepamstatoa                                                                       
- Salcon of dl trlits
- bi posae to fir"t
6 districts
- SiW prpred for first
I di trct
- basIc pack   to resaining
- easagp     training                           .
- spporttoA hflth ste_                                 _ _ _  



-_  -     -     -   ---                            *~IIt21
-.-.-  -     ... _                         eddam    .
Wed          - ,"z,
lotw S n *
-z      -o Z        -ea          -           q9T -
-    MK           -                             u.t191qq.



- 165 -
ANNEX 16
Page 1 of 2
TA   l
HELTH AND NKTUITION PROJECT
LIST OF DOCUMENTS 0N TOE PiOJECT FILE
A.  ProJect Related
1.  "Report of an Agpraisal of the Ministry of Health Medical SUpDlY
Svstem in Tanzania", P. Bannister et al, June 1982.
2.  'DSM Urban Health Proiect - Project Preparation Workshop
Report", Swiss Tropical Institute, Basel, December 1989.
3.  "Dar es Salaam Urban Health Facilities Proiect - Condition
Survey Report' (2 Vols. (Main report plus Annex)), Estates
Department - University of Dar es Salaam, Dar as Salaam, October
1989.
4.  'Dar es Salaam - Health Facility Survey, (3 Vole. - Main RePort,
Appendices. Site Plans)', Coviconsult for Danida, Copenhagen,
June 1989.
5. 'Dar es Salaam Hospital Equipment Lists', DANIDA, Copenhagen,
January 1989.
6.  'Proiect Cost and Finance Tables', World Bank, Washington, D.C.,
February 1990.
7.  'Health Information System - Proposal for a Plan of Action", L.
Werner, Dar es Salaam, August 1980.
8.  'The Second Five-Year Proaraume for the Prevention and Control
of Vitamin A Deficiency and Xeropthalmia", P. Shipp, WHO,
January 1989.
9.  'Financial Analysis - Central Medical Stores, a Summary', S.
Mueller, MOB, Dar es Salaam, November 1989.
10.  'Proposal for Consultancy for the Development of a Medical
Supply System in Tanzania (Manlnand)', DANIDA, Copenhagen, May
1989.
11. 'Population and Development Policy - Project Proposal',
GOT/UNFPA, Dar es Salaam, July 1989.
12.  "Population Information Centre - Proiect Proposal', GOT/UNFPA,
Dar es Salaam, October 1989.



- 166 -
ANNEX 16
Page 2 of 2
B. *   ackaround
1.   "Tanzania Population, Health and Nutrition Sector Review", World
Bank, Report No. 7495-TA, October 1989.
2.   "Priority Social Action Program (PSAP)", Ministry of Finance,
Dar es Salaam, December 1989.
3.  'Health Sector of Tanzania - Reinvestment and Identification
StudYs, Dangroup International (for the African Development
Bank), Copenhagen, April 1988.
4.   'Support to the National Programme on Essential Drugs - Plans of
Action 1991 - 1993', UNICEF, New York, October 1989.
5.   "National Drugs Policy', Ministry of Health, Dar es Salaam,
(forthcoming).
6.   "National Health Policy", Ministry of Health, Dar es Salaam,
(forthcoming).
7.   'National Population Policy", Planning Commission, Dar es
Salaam, (forthcoming).
8.   'Medium Term Programme for the Development of a Health Systems
Research Unit", MOH, Dar es Salaam, March 1989.
9.   "Campaign for Increased Production and Consumption of Vitamin A
Rich Food Crogs", UNDP, New York, July 1989.
10.   "Training Sector of Health in Tanzania - An Overview of
Infrastructure Plans and Challenges', MOB, Dar es Salaam, March
1989.
11.   'Access to the Free and Essential Drugs Under Socialism and
Self-Reliance", G. Munishi, University of Dar es Salaam,
December 1988.
12.   "Report of a WHOIDANIDAIFINNIDA Joint Mission on Local
Pharmaceutical Production in the United Republic of Tanzania",
WHO, Geneva, April 1988.
13.   "Strengthening of District Health Care Systems based on Primary
Health Care in Tanzania (Mainland)', MOH, Dar es Salaam,
September 1988.
14.   "Integrated Social Development Programmes - A Study of UNICEF -
Supported CSD Programmes in Tanzania', S. Mushi, University of
Dar es Salaam, November 1988.
15.   "Terms of Reference - Study of Emergency Rehabilitation
Requirements for Muhimbili Referral and Teaching Hospital",
African Development Bank, Abidjan, March 1989.



IBRD 21769
UGANDA                    To                                              0         r          3A=4 J2 N,_ oTo   0i NeV fAo0roi                                                            _     4So..* /X
REEULEEA                             Wl                                      K   NYA                                                   UAN D A $ jN         ECZAI
IN                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CIE V-UN;I K-
t KBObIDO i t *0/ ~ T   AN                                                                                                   I  NZANIA
ANGOLA                |i 7'
K.h.-sr.\_  \   t   <   \   S                             _                   /  tGAt_            N     ^~ 9                  VHC. NAM1IAt Mbi9ADnTAGASCAR
;S-tk KIGONuA S b / GEITA   KW1MlIA                 I                     NO  f08                                            _                                        4k OAtWKsINCETR
9; MVANDA~Ki                                                                                           S   /W A                     5                         /hAfNJ \((/3-40>L O^ALTATNIUO$THEPRIC
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SA~~                                      Ez\ \\6IRA  1          o,o                M 3L       l      Gj             79OASIt  6,    /......... 11 L13TAPLL
P-    AFRI  *~0~AIOu
HANAN ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ *                     OEWN    
8   \ \   f   tU Mt,>   f   /   T    MhEYA    5;;?t_ RJ^N   G    A+   +     ;5                               k           -    RAILROADS~~~~~~T AN  Z AN  I 
*             ~HEALTH AND
HANDENA                 W IB NUTRITION  PROJECT
__  \\  5 _ t /tMUPINDr/X/~TAGtA                                                                      <                  DSTRENGTHEONDAING
JR7 \S g  wo*_Sw<==1/ fzVo + Sh t    9                                                                                              9-INTERNATIONAL PHN SYSTEMS
ZANfSAB       AND RURAL PHC
BAOA OVO  ~ ~  ~                 PNC~~R~TRIAP  IPRENTATION
C IIWD8 IN J  ITHE PROJs
Klrlo.                                                                                              P-                                                             ZONAL TRAININA  CELWEP_
ZONAL TEAINING aENTERS BEING
MPAN,.A\                                           ~NG,                                                                                         VHALATD UNADE N ER EPOJECT
ISSALAAM R"  WI                  WR
p                                        ES SALARG          ZONAL MEDICAL STORES
U   DISTRICT HOSPITALS
ESLOSO  MORO  RIO  KISARAWE                 ~~~~~~~0 NATIONAL CAPITAL
R1 EGION CAPITALS
CHUN ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0T 0DISTRICT CAPTIkLS
_ZrOAIREolow                          3?     '           {   <# z1E1A                                                                                                     SECONDARY RO/AM 3!-  )  R    1D A
S.  f                                                   N   G                                                                        R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SEd6  AILROADS
DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
R EGION EDUNDARVES
--INTERNATIONAL BIOUNDARIES
LJLANGA        N                                            '6~~~~~ 1    I    N  NIEI7-O
Z A   M   B ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    IYG                           N                     ~aS..0
T -o                                                                                                                                                     MTWng
-                                                   MEW~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
IMLWI                                                                                                            AIN~~.OO 0 A0110.A0W.A  
ROY                                                                                       IOTA N. 00t0.ba.A0.~~M IQ U 
T. Toia&a       3                                                          36                                                        0'o0
FEBRARY 199



t.                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T A N Z A N I A
HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
STRENGTHENING URBAN PHC:
GREATER DAR ES SALAAM PHC FACILITIES
A   DISPENSARIES
o   AK"i CUNICS
/o   EAtTH CENTEs
-        ALt WEATHEES bOADS SOUND AND LOOSE SURFACE)
-  DR WEATHE R0AOS
-OTHE R ROADS AND TACKS
J  e,       .                                                 -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FOOTPAT14S
LA MROADS
*TOWNS AND ShLADES
DSTSSCT SOUNCAS
DAR U SESALMRAEGONSJUDAY
K I N   ON 0 F oiol 
J:            u              r soe 4E~~~~~~~~~iBRO 21771                                             3P43D'
czs  g               *                    >          .      ,      . kb                                          I N D I A                   ,1
L.'
F-W  ~        -
4              S
o   4        a
~~YANOA~ ~~~~~~OEA
C   ~ ~~~~R~QF MCAN
3.r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S
-au -\- -
/ ~         ~                 ~               ~                \ ) -)
.    ,,  ,>,          . j                                                                '                          (~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3SI



( \               t              KAWE  T A N Z A N I A
HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
STRENGTHENING URBAN PHC:
CENTRAL DAR ES SALAAM PHC
AND REFERRAL NETWORK
MSASANR PENINSLAA
A    EMYa
\M I K O C H E N I                                >/                        /                           CHCLW
*    SI  CEALTH EnER
MEADANI BAY        |.   DISTRCT HOCTALS
\+    M BHU MEDICAL CENTER
RESIDENTIAL AREA DENSITiE.
MEDIUM
BY ,HIGH
MAIN ROADS
RAILROADS
I U     IINNDN   Z
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mi.
a - GISTRICT TOUNDARIES  U  3                                                       0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~XIUT
T  A     I     N   Y   0   N : Y   0   -0     Iv/,45
-H   \                                                                      V __r n i.,                X   I G   A    M    8  0    N    I
C5      AEI             aA3A15DIA, 



