Document of
THE WORLD BANK
For Official Use Only
Report No.: 19964
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TANZANIA
HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
[CREDIT NO. 20980]
DECEMBER 28, 1999
Africa Human Development Group 1
Eastern and Southern Africa
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Tanzania Shilling
Appraisal: US$1 = Tsh 193; Closing: US$1 = Tsh 680
Weights and Measures
Metric System
Fiscal Year of Borrower
Central Government: July 1 - June 30; Local Government: January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIDS - Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
APL - Adaptable Program Lending
CHF - Community Health Fund(s)
CMS - Central Medical Stores
CSP - Cost Sharing Program
DANIDA - Danish International Development Agency
DCP- Drug Capitalization Program
DHB - District Health Board(s)
DHMT - District Health Management Team(s)
DMDT - Department of Manpower Development and Training
DMO - District Medical Officer
GOT - Govermment of Tanzania
HIV - Human Immuno-deficiency Virus
HMIS - Health Management Information System
H&N - Health and Nutrition
HRD - Human Resource Development
HSR - Health Sector Reform
ICR- Implementation Completion Report
IDA - International Development Association
MOH - Ministry of Health
MRALG - Ministry of Regional Administration and Local Government
MPH - Master's in Public Health
MSD - Medical Stores Department
NHI - National Health Insurance
PHC - Primary Health Care
PIU - Project Implementation Unit
PHN - Population, Health and Nutrition
PS - Permanent Secretary
PSN - Project Support Network
QAG - Quality Assurance Group
SAR - Staff Appraisal Report
SDC - Swiss Development Corporation
SDR - Special Drawing Rights
SWAp - Sector Wide Approach
TFNC - Tanzania Food and Nutrition Council
USAID - United States Agency for International Development
Managers and Staff Responsible
Vice President: Callisto Madavo (AFRVP)
Country Director: James W. Adams (AFMTZ)
Sector Manager: Dzingai Mutumbuka (AFTH1)
Task Team Leader: Oscar F. Picazo (AFTH1)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface
Evaluation Summary .................................                                                      i
Introduction.                                                                                          i
Project Objectives.                                                                                    i
Implementation Experience and Results .................................1i
Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned ................................. iii
Part I: Project Implementation Assessment .................................1 j
Introduction .I
Project Objectives ..................................1
Achievement of Project Objectives .................................2
Implementation Experience .................................7
Major Factors Affecting the Project .................................9
Sustainability of Project Activities ................................. 10
Borrower Performance .................................                                                12
Bank Performance .................................                                                    12
Assessment of Project Outcome ................................. 13
Future Operations .................................                                                   14
Key Lessons Learned .................................                                                 14
Part II: Statistical Annexes .................................                                          16
Table 1 Summary of Assessments ................................. 16
Table 2 Related Bank Credits ................................. 17
Table 3 Project Timetable ................................. 17
Table 4A  Credit Disbursements, Cumulative and Actual in U.S. Dollars ................ 18
Table 4B Credit Disburements, Quarterly and Cumulative in SDRs ...........                    ............ 19
Table 5 Key Indicators of Project Implementation ................................................... 21
Table 6 Key Indicators of Project Operation .......................................................... 23
Table 7A  Studies Conducted Under the Project ....................................................... 24
Table 7B Long Term  Training Sponsored Under the Project ................................... 25
Table 7C Short Tenn Training Sponsored Under the Project ................................... 26
Table 7D  Workshops, Seminars and Conferences Supported by the Project ........... 27
Table 7E Study Tours Conducted Under the Project ................................................ 27
Table 7F Rural PHC  Civil Works Completed Under the Project ..............                  ............... 28
Table 7G Rehabilitation and Equipping of District Hospitals Under the Project ..... 28
Table 8 Project Financing ......................................................... 29
Table 9A Project Costs by Expenditure Categories, Estimated and Actual ......... .... 30
Table 9B Project Costs by Project Components, Estimated And Actual .......... ....... 31
Table 10 Status of Legal Covenants ............................           .............................. 32
Table 11 Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ..................                .................. 39
Table 12A Actual Bank Staff Inputs ..........................................................        40
Table 12B Bank Missions ..........................................................                   41
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



Appendices
Appendix A: Completion Mission's Aide Memoire
Appendix B: Proceedings of the MOH and MRALG Internal Assessment
Workshop for the H&N Project
Appendix C: Borrower's Comments on the Draft ICR
Appendix D: Map of Tanzania



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TANZANIA
HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT (TZ-PE-2774)
PREFACE
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Tanzania Health and
Nutrition (H&N) Project, for which Credit No. 20980 (Sector Investment Loan) in the
amount of SDR 36.1 million (US$47.6 million equivalent at the prevailing exchange rate)
was approved on March 6, 1990, signed on March 7, 1990, and made effective on April
6, 1990. The credit closed on June 30, 1999; the original closing date of June 30, 1996
was extended for two years in 1996 and for another year in 1998. The last disbursement
was made on November 3, 1999. An undisbursed balance of SDR 2.4 million (US$ 3.3
million at the prevailing exchange rate) will be cancelled once funds due from the
Government are received and the accounts are closed. Any undisbursed balance will be
cancelled.
2.    The ICR was prepared by Mr. Oscar F. Picazo, Economist of the Human
Development Group 1, Eastern and Southern Africa (AFTHI), with assistance from Mr.
David Robalino, Young Professional, AFTH1. It was reviewed by Mr. Dzingai
Mutumbuka, Sector Manager, AFTHI, and Mr. James W. Adams, Country Director for
Tanzania. Additional comments were received from Dr. Philip Gowers, Principal Health
Specialist, Ms. Chiyo Kanda, Task Team Leader of the project, and Mr. Andrew Follmer,
Operations Analyst, all of AFTH1. The draft tables in the Annex were prepared by Dr.
Faustin Njau, the Project Coordinator for Component I; Mr. Barney Laseko, Financial
Management Specialist, AFMTZ; Ms. Emily Mwai, Information Technology Assistant,
AFTH1; Mr. Robalino, and Mr. Picazo. The borrower reviewed the report before it was
finalized.
3.    The report was initiated during an ICR mission from September 17 to 21, 1999,
comprising of Dr. Emmanuel Malangalila, Social Sector Advisor, AFMTZ; Mr. Picazo;
and Mr. Laseko. The ICR is based on information collected during that mission,
discussions with borrower representatives, and data from project files. The borrower
assisted in the preparation of the ICR by contributing views as reflected in the
Completion Mission's Aide Memoire (Appendix A) and by holding an internal
assessment workshop jointly sponsored by the implementing agencies, the Ministry of
Health (MOH) and the Ministry of Regional Administration and Local Government
(MRALG) (Appendix B). This ICR reflects many of the inputs, comments, and
observations made during this workshop. The Government also provided comments as it
evolved and formally responded to the draft ICR (Appendix C).






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TANZANIA
HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT (CR. TZ-PE-2774)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    The Government of Tanzania (GOT) undertook the Health and Nutrition (H&N)
Project to raise the quality, coverage and effectiveness of family planning, nutrition and
basic health services in the country. The Project is the first IDA credit in the sector,
amounting to SDR 36.1 million (or US$ 47.6 million). It was made effective on April 6,
1990, and closed on June 30, 1999, after two extensions of the closing date. The Project
was designed to have three components: Component I involved the strengthening of
national population, health and nutrition (PHN) systems; Component II provided health
interventions in ten rural districts; and Component III was planned to cover similar
interventions in urban Dar es Salaam. Eventually, Component III was spun off as
parallel-financed set of activities funded by the Swiss Agency for Development and
Cooperation (SDC).
Project Objectives
2.    The objectives of the H&N Project were to raise the quality, coverage and
effectiveness of family planning, nutrition and basic health services through provision of
support to critical and strategic elements of the PHN sector with particular emphasis on
strengthening the institutional capacity for health planning and policy formulation;
manpower development and training in the health sector; sustainable provision and
financing of pharmnaceuticals and medical supplies; control of micronutrient deficiency;
implementation of the national population policy; rural primary health care (PHC)
through a trial implementation of the revised PHC strategy; and urban PHC through
reform and rehabilitation of the urban health system in Dar es Salaam.
Implementation Experience and Results
3.    The project suffered from poor quality at entry: it was prepared with very
ambitious objectives, complex implementation and coordination arrangements, poorly-
phased covenants, and ill-considered cross-conditionalities between different
implementing agencies. Weak GOT ownership at the start and poor project management
(in part due to lack of previous IDA experience) resulted in poor project performance in
the first three years. A midterm review led to project restructuring in 1996, resulting in
clearer project direction, more feasible workplans, and more streamlined implementation.
MOH staff training early on also contributed to the improved implementation. With the
restructuring, planned activities were completed and project objectives were largely
achieved. Project achievements in policy reform (health financing and pharmaceuticals)
are highly satisfactory and these have begun to yield the expected resource-mobilization



Tanzania Health & Nutrition Project ICR                          Page ii of iv
and efficiency impacts. The full range of benefits from these policy changes (in terms of
sustainability and continuously improving services) will be realized in the long term.
Other areas of project involvement were rated satisfactory including the procurement of
drugs, training and manpower development, civil works/rehabilitation, rural PHC
services, and health management information system. The implementation of the
national population policy, however, was less satisfactory.
4.    The closing date was extended twice in recognition of the project's development
potential and the much-improved pace of implementation. The project was first extended
in June 1996 to complete the activity backlog during the first three years; the second
extension in April 1998 was made primarily to complete the pretest of alternative
financing schemes and to support the GOT's Health Sector Reform initiatives. Both
extensions proved to be warranted. By the original closing date, only 42% of the credit
(reckoned in SDRs) had been disbursed; the three-year extension resulted in a cumulative
disbursement of 55% so that by project's closing, a total of 97% of project funds had
been disbursed. Despite initial difficulties with project management and covenant
compliance, all civil works under this project were completed, all the planned training
were undertaken, all the drugs and supplies were procured, and all the health financing
pretests were carried out.
5.   In addition to the poor quality at entry, the project suffered from factors outside
the Government's control, including the transfer of the Tanzania portfolio from one
World Bank division to another, frequent changes in IDA task manager, and the overall
shortage of technical and managerial skills in Tanzania. However, there are factors
within GOT's control that could have improved project performance including adequate
allocation of counterpart funds, political acceptance of the need to restructure the
pharmaceutical subsector, and to institute user fees to generate resources and improve
efficiency, swift action to improve project management including contracting of
management functions, more adequate planning especially in civil works, and a stronger
procurement capacity.
6.    Borrower performance showed a slow but consistent improvement in project
ownership, management, and capacity building. According to the internal GOT project
assessment workshop, project preparation had much to be desired, but project
implementation was on the whole satisfactory largely due to the dogged commitment of
the implementing agencies, the Ministry of Health (MOH) and the Ministry of Regional
Administration and Government (MRALG), to the objectives of the project. Government
leadership in the sector increased dramatically as the project matured, donor coordination
improved, and MOH's commitment to pursue certain reforms, despite initial
Parliamentary difficulties, eventually paid off with key legislative actions in health
financing and MSD autonomy. Donor coordination and Government leadership in the
sector also showed dramatic improvement during project implementation, paving the way
for a multidonor-supported Health Sector Reform Program which the follow-on IDA
credit will support.
7.    Despite extensive background studies during project identification, Bank
performance during project preparation and appraisal were deficient: the Bank's task
team could be faulted for designing an overly complex project including cross-ministerial



Tanzania Health & Nutrition Project ICR                           Page iii of iv
project responsibility that made coordination difficult; being oblivious to critical project
risks (e.g., weak government ownership at the start, cross-conditionalities and covenants
that are outside the purview of implementing agencies) and inadequate supervision
during the first three years of implementation. Project supervision dramatically improved
after the midterm review followed by formal restructuring in 1996, and the entry of a new
task team. Thus, overall project supervision was satisfactory, according to the internal
GOT assessment workshop as well as the Bank's Quality Assurance Group assessment.
8.    Without doubt, the sustainability of the Tanzanian health sector and project-
initiated activities more specifically, have been considerably enhanced relative to the
situation in the late l 980s when the project was designed. Budget allocations to the health
sector have doubled, and there is a significant and increasing source of extra-budgetary
revenues from user fees, community health funds, and hopefully a health insurance
program for civil servants. Drug and medical supplies are better financed and managed
now than in the past. The substantial number of project-trained staff continue to serve in
civil service, and there is stronger Government commitment to support human resource
development even as it seeks greater cost-sharing for staff undergoing training.
Communities have been shown to be a critical element in sustaining health investrnents
and for providing additional resources for the health system. Yet, even with these
positive developments, Tanzania remains a poor country, and economic growth is
expected to continue at a modest pace. Thus, the Government budget for health and
household contributions for health services will remain inadequate for the foreseeable
future, and donor support will continue to be needed.
Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
9.    Future IDA operation should preserve and expand the gains achieved under the
H&N Project and should continue to assist the GOT in the further development of the
health sector, with households, communities, local governments and the private sector
having a more active role in the financing, delivery, and/or management of health
services. On the basis of this principle, the successor IDA credit, the Health Sector
Development Program, is being designed as an Adaptable Program Loan (APL) to
support, in coordination with other donors, the Government's HSR Program. The first
phase of the 12-year APL focuses on: further strengthening of health service delivery
through phased decentralization of health services; further human resource development
through the rationalization of training institutions; strengthening of central support
systems; and expansion of alternative health financing initiatives.
10.   The H&N Project provides the following useful lessons:
* Project preparation should take account of project risks as comprehensively as
possible and should reduce the complexity and extent of the project on the basis of
the magnitude and probability of these risks.
* The relationship between IDA and the host government during project negotiation
should be weighed carefully. Cash-strapped poor countries often find themselves



Tanzania Health & Nutrition Project ICR                          Page iv of iv
with little countervailing power and IDA should avoid the temptation to exploit this
vulnerability by imposing too many conditionalities detrimental to implementation.
* The involvement of multiple agencies/ministries make project implementation more
difficult. Thus, the benefits of an inter-ministry project must be weighed carefully
against the cost of coordination.
*  Critical policy reforms (e.g., health financing and pharmaceutical sector reforms)
should be pursued as project outcomes rather than upfront conditionalities. If certain
conditionalities are required, their timing for compliance should be carefully planned
depending on the nature and objective of the conditionality, as well as it being
reflective of government commitment. Compliance to these covenants and
conditionalities should be within the purview of the implementing agencies.
* Project components should be designed with an internal logic behind them and not
merely used as baskets to put activities in need of funding. The synergy and mutually
reinforcing nature of the project components should be taken into account.
- Economic liberalization and related macroeconomic reforms provide strong
underpinnings for sector reforms and significantly enhance their achievement.
Analytical and policy work between the two should be done hand in hand and in
mutually supportive manner.
3 Baseline data and performance targets should be defined at project appraisal. These
enhance monitoring of project progress; their absence inhibits supervision and makes
impact evaluation virtually impossible. Data gathering pertaining to these indicators
should be made an intrinsic part of the project.
* For skill-scarce countries or sectors, training should be conducted as soon as possible
so that the project can benefit from staff's acquired management and technical
expertise. Procurement should be made a central concern of project management.
* Counterpart funds should be calculated globally for the whole project, rather than on
a contract-by-contract basis, and should take into account extra-budgetary resources
generated from project-supported initiatives such as user fees, prepayments and
membership contributions or premia from risk-pooling or other community health
financing schemes, and community inputs into village health initiatives.



PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Introduction
1.    The Government of Tanzania (GOT) implemented the Health and Nutrition
(H&N) Project over a nine-year period from March 6, 1990 to June 30, 1999. It was the
first IDA project in the health sector and was prepared during a period of fiscal difficulty.
The project saw the transition in Tanzania's economy and the social sectors from its
socialist orientation to one relying on a more pluralistic and competitive environment
with private medical practice being allowed and with households and communities being
accorded a critical role in the demand for health services. The project was extended
twice (in June 1996 for two years and again in April 1998 for another year); in the last
year, the project was closely linked with the preparation of a follow-on IDA credit, the
Health Sector Development Program, within the context of the GOT's Health Sector
Reform (HSR) Program to be funded by a consortium of donors and the GOT itself.
Project Objectives
2.    The objectives of the H&N Project were to raise the quality, coverage and
effectiveness of family planning, nutrition and basic health services through provision of
support to critical and strategic elements of the population, health and nutrition (PHN)
sector with particular emphasis on strengthening the institutional capacity for health
planning and policy formulation; manpower development and training in the health
sector; sustainable provision and financing of pharmaceuticals and medical supplies;
programs to control micronutrient deficiency; implementation of the national population
policy; rural primary health care (PHC); and urban PHC through reform and
rehabilitation of the urban health system in Dar es Salaam.
3.    To achieve these objectives, three project components were implemented which,
in hindsight, proved to be mere pegs to hang unrelated activities for funding, making the
project unwieldy. Component I, Strengthening National PHN Systems (US$38.5 million,
according to the SAR), was based in the Ministry of Health (MOH) and coordinated by
the Project Implementation Unit (PIU). It covered health planning, policy formulation
and information system; manpower development and training; pharmaceutical and
medical supplies financing and procurement; micronutrient deficiency control programs;
and national population policy.
4.    Component II, Strengthening Rural PHC (US$11.6 million in the SAR), was
based in the Ministry of Regional Administration and Local Government (MRALG),
formerly in the Prime Minister's Office, and coordinated by the Project Support Network
(PSN). This component was for the most part amorphous and poorly delineated. It
involved the implementation of the then-recently revised PHC Strategy, including
community mobilization for PHC, support to village PHC initiatives, rehabilitation and
strengthening of health facilities, improved water supplies, strengthening of district health
management, improved supply and maintenance systems, rehabilitation of district
hospitals, and monitoring and evaluation for feedback to PHC policy formulation. The



Tanzania Health & Nutrition Project ICR                                Page 2
component focused on 10 poor and hard-to-reach districts where there was no other
donor present. It was also designed to benefit from policy and prograin innovations in
Component I, but the different pace of implementation in these two components as well
as the different loci of responsibility made such synergy difficult to achieve.
5.    Component III, Strengthening Urban PHC (US$11.5 million, in SAR), was
planned as parallel-financed set of activities based on the bilateral agreement between the
GOT and the SDC. It was implemented by the City Commission as the Dar es Salaam
Urban Health Project (DUHP Phase I), supported by expatriate technical advisers. The
project covered three urban districts and involved the improvement of management and
supply systems, rehabilitation of health facilities, establishment of a maintenance system,
and operations research. Although Component III was described in the SAR as part of
the H&N Project, it operated as a separate project and was completely spun off by DUHP
Phase II.
6.    Evaluation of Project Objectives: The original project objectives were too
ambitious. Some of these objectives were translated too strictly as inflexible project
conditionalities and covenants which project managers saw as benchmarks to be met
rather than directions to be pursued. A basic design flaw was made in making these
policy changes (on user fees and on pharmaceutical reforms) conditions of project
disbursement, resulting in stalled activities during the first three years. The absence of
outcome measures and baseline data also made it difficult for project managers, the
implementing Ministries, and other stakeholders to assess progress. As the 1994 midterm
review indicates, the project "was perennially in noncompliance with these covenants,
always facing the danger of cancellation under the Bank's effort to restructure its
portfolio," and by implication, always facing the risk of not meeting its development
objectives. Finally, the project design severely underestimated the political constraints of
introducing reforms, the local management and technical capacity to put them in place,
and the time it took for policy changes to be implemented once the political constraints
have been eased. The midterm review in 1994 and the project restructuring that followed
clarified the direction for the project, developed key performance indicators and feasible
targets, distinguished project activities that are priority and less priority, provided
directives to strengthen coordination between Components I and 11, and emphasized
health financing initiatives. The restructuring proved to be the project's turning point,
paving the way for much better implementation performance.
Achievement of Project Objectives
7.    Although little was accomplished during the initial years, the project restructuring
expedited many activities from 1996 onwards. As a result, project development
objectives were largely achieved by project's end. Project achievements in policy reform
are highly satisfactory, impact has been considerable, and the full benefits of these will be
realized in the longer term. Other areas were rated satisfactory: supply of
pharmaceuticals and reforms in this subsector, training and manpower development, civil
works, rural PHC services, and HMIS. However, project support for the implementation
of the national population policy was less satisfactory.



Tanzania Health & Nutrition Project ICR                              Page 3
Component I: Strengthening National PHN Systems
8.    Health Planning: Project training inputs were substantial and are bearing fruits in
terms of stronger planning at the central MOH and better management by district medical
officers (DMOs). In all, 30 persons received Masters degrees in public health, health
planning and policy, pharmaceuticals management, construction management,
information technology, human resources, and nutrition. No fewer than 66 persons also
received short-term training on project management, food fortification, health financing,
equipment maintenance, and medical stores management. Most of the project-trained
government personnel are still in civil service. Most observers note the much improved
planning capacity and more satisfactory policy and technical discussions at MOH and the
focus districts compared to the situation at project inception. The project also supported
the development of district health planning guidelines which have become standard
requirements for government financing of district health services.
9.    Policy Formulation and Health Financing: Through conditionalities, the project
influenced greater budget allocation to the health sector, with the proportion of the budget
devoted to health dramatically increasing from 6-7% in the late 1 980s to 12% in 1998/99.
More importantly, the project enabled the shift in the Tanzanian social-sector paradigm
from a free-care govemment monopoly enshrined in the 1967 Arusha Declaration to a
system in which households contribute to the financing of care and the private sector has
an important role in service provision. Such change was underpinned by project-
supported policy and legislative reforms including Cabinet Paper No. 25/6 (June 25,
1993) establishing the Cost Sharing Program (CSP) in government health facilities, the
Parliamentary Act establishing the Medical Stores Department as a semi-autonomous
body in 1993 and concomitant reforms in drug supplies and financing, and the draft
Cabinet paper on community health funds (CHFs) to make it a national policy, drawing
on the pretesting experience in 10 project-supported districts. Another policy
achievement was the enactment of the National Health Insurance in April 1999, which
will initially cover 50,000 central government employees and their dependents.
10.   Health Management Information System (HMIS): The project aimed to support
the development of an HMIS to register data from maternal and child health and
immunization programs and to eventually cover all programs in all districts. Up to
February 1997, progress had been less than expected in this area due to frequent changes
in the HMIS workplan. The project itself provided minor financial support; most of the
HMIS activities were funded by other donors. During 1997-99, HMIS activities picked
up, and modules for PHC were developed and introduced nationwide. All 114 District
and 20 Regional Health Management Teams (D/RHMTs) have been trained on the
HMIS, 20 regions have computerized their HMIS, and 2 districts are being pilot-tested
for computerization. These were made possible by DANIDA (the major donor), the
H&N Project, GTZ, and UNICEF. DANIDA plans to conduct an evaluation in
December 1999 of the impact of these HMIS initiatives on management capacity; it is
also supporting the development of the hospital HMIS module.
11.   Manpower Development: The project initiated the reform of the Department for
Manpower Development and Training through the creation of an Inspectorate Unit
responsible for monitoring staff performance as well as the establishment of technical,



Tanzania Health & Nutrition Project ICR                              Page 4
administrative and logistics units within each MOH division. The project provided
consultants to design the logistics and administrative systems; sponsored staff training
programs at central, zonal, and district levels; supported the Continuing Education
Division for the upgrading and equipping of 5 of the 6 zonal training centers including
provision of textbooks and other learning materials; and funded the completion of the
Human Resource Development Plan. The impact of these interventions on service
delivery remains to be quantified.
14.   Financing and Procurement of Pharmaceuticals and Medical Supplies: The
project provided 31% of the US$ 32.1 million required to address immediate shortfalls in
the supply of medical supplies and drugs. Difficulties were experienced under this
subcomponent in the early 1990s due to the stringent project conditionalities that required
reforming the institutional structure of CMS and that delayed the disbursement of IDA
funds. In September 1993, CMS was made a semi-autonomous Medical Stores
Department (MSD) by an Act of Parliament; the new entity was jointly capitalized by
IDA, DANIDA and GOT to make it financially viable. GOT reformed drug pricing to
reflect replacement costs and directed all government health facilities to channel their
drug funds through MSD. The project rehabilitated the central MSD office as well as 5
of the 7 MSD zonal stores, and provided training in procurement and financial control.
MSD now has a relatively well-trained management staff that can procure drugs and
supplies locally and internationally, selling them at replacement costs. Procurement and
distribution are supported by an MIS between center and zonal stores and a transport and
logistics system integrated with procurement. While the MSD has established a well-
capitalized revolving fund, it suffered from the demand constraints by public health
facilities due to the inadequate and erratic funding from the Treasury. To address this
issue, the project pilot-tested the Drug Capitalization Program (drug revolving fund) for
hospitals. Drug availability has improved dramatically especially in districts with CHFs
and facilities with drug revolving funds.
13.   A GOT-sponsored external review of MSD in March 1998 suggests that
improvements still need to be made in the following areas: (a) Procurement - the
introduction of a supplier database, computerized tender scheduling package, and review
of quality assurance system are needed to eliminate leakages and wastage; (b) Inventory
control - some tracer items were still out of stock 13% of the time, necessitating
introduction of new inventory control system; (c) Financing - distribution and personnel
costs can be reduced further; (d) Information system - there is a need to build in-house
capacity and reduce dependence on consultants. Management problems related to the
duplication of functions between MSD's Board of Trustees and the Medical Tender
Board have been solved by June 1999.
14.   Micronutrient Deficiency Control Program: The project supported activities to
train rural medical aides in the recognition of clinical requirements for vitamin A and
iron; educate the public and promote consumption of foods rich in vitamin A and iron;
and conduct research on the effects of vitamin A and iron deficiency on health, as well as
studies on the socioeconomic determinants of the consumption of foods rich in vitamin A
and iron. Key achievements include the establishment of a micronutrient surveillance
system (25 sentinel centers) which generates semestral indicators on nutritional status;
the development and distribution of policy guidelines and information, education, and



Tanzania Health & Nutrition Project ICR                              Page 5
communication (IEC) materials on the control of micronutrient deficiency to public and
private health facilities; training of extension staff on micronutrients in all health units in
24 districts; managerial capacity building; holding of national nutrition workshops and
radio campaigns; completion of nutrition research studies; and the diffusion of a more
efficient technology in palm-oil extraction. A 1994/95 impact evaluation of this
subcomponent in 14 districts in 8 regions provided mixed results: a slight increase in the
use of vitamin A capsules but low utilization of ferrous sulfate relative to earlier trends.
However, it appears that malnutrition in under-5 children has been considerably reduced,
although other non-project interventions could also have helped. The micronutrient
program has been mainstreamed in the health system and the Tanzania Food and
Nutrition Council (TFNC) enjoys govermnent support.
15.   National Population Policy (NPP): In 1990, the Government began
implementing the NPP through the Tanzanian Council for Population and Development
which was created and received project support through the provision of consultants;
supplies, equipment and the renovation of office space; staff training in demography; and
a research program on population and development. The National Population
Information Center was created in the Planning Commission as a research and resource-
information base for population issues. Project support came in the form of books,
periodicals, supplies, computer equipment, vehicles, staff training, and consultant
services. Annual plans were developed and disseminated, and workshops with
parliamentarians and religious groups were held. However, many of the planned
activities were never executed, and implementation delays occurred due to frequent
changes in the management of the Population Planning Unit (PPU). After the initial spurt
of activities, little follow-on work has been done. Thus, this subcomponent was
repeatedly rated unsatisfactory and consensus is that outcome has been negligible
especially during the second phase of the implementation (1996-98). Overall, project
involvement in this area has been minor. One positive outcome of project support is that
the PPU is now part of the Planning Commission with a dedicated budget. PPU also
managed to implement some of the activities of the population policy under the GOT's
Family Planning Program using resources outside the H&N Project.
Component II: Strengthening Rural PHC
16.   Support of Village PHC Initiatives: Activities in this subcomponent included
training of district-level staff in community mobilization, IEC campaigns in selected
villages in the 10 focus districts to inform them of the types of support they could get
from their district for PHC activities, and district health planning. All of the 10 project
districts produced district health plans that have received funding for implementation.
Overall, supervision reports indicate positive impact of community involvement in
rehabilitating and maintaining primary health facilities. Field reports suggest that
communities that actually participated in planning and rehabilitation have a high
commitment to and sense of ownership of their primary-care facility. Moreover, health
infrastructure that relied partly on village funds appear to be better maintained.
17.   Village-level PHC civil works include 34 shallow wells, 16 grain storage
facilities, and 3 day-care centers. The October 1998 internal evaluation of Component II
shows that in general, smaller-scale village level investments appear to have experienced



Tanzania Health & Nutrition Project ICR                                Page 6
more difficulties relative to larger-scale investments. For instance, most of the shallow
wells have dried up. Also, most of the community-involvement projects (chosen by
villagers themselves) has focused on rehabilitation of health facilities at the expense of
nutrition-related activities, e.g., fish farning, seed oil extraction, vegetable and fruit
gardening, or day-care centers. Finally, training was only implemented up to the ward
level and did not go deeper to the grassroots.
18.   Strengthening the District PHC System: This component involved the
rehabilitation and maintenance of 87 dispensaries and 22 rural health centers using
community based approaches in 10 districts. Earmarked equipment were mostly in place.
The subcomponent also involved strengthening the district health management team
(DHMT) through training in community mobilization, management, planning, and
financial control (5 DMOs and 1 RMO were trained, all have been promoted); provision
of one vehicle for each of the 10 districts; provision of bicycles and other forms of
transport to key staff; provision of office furniture and supplies for the DHMT; and
strengthening of the facility maintenance workshops through the provision of tools,
equipment and supplies. While many of the planned outcomes were realized - all of the
project districts now have health plans - supervision reports for Singida, Iramba, Igunga,
and Nzega indicate that a number of problems remain including bat infestation of
dispensary roofs, poor water provision, underutilized kitchen facilities, and intermittent
undersupply of drugs especially for chloroquine-resistant malaria and schistosomiasis.
Many health centers have reported increased utilization, but some have figures lower than
expected.
19.   Strengthening the District Health Referral System: This component involved the
rehabilitation and equipping of 10 regional/district hospitals. The districts were selected
based on poverty indicators and the absence of any other donor supporting the district.
All physical rehabilitation was completed and earmarked equipment and furniture are in
place. However, some of the hospital instruments and equipment procured appear to be
of substandard quality. Also, problems remain regarding shortfalls of staff in some
rehabilitated facilities.
Component III: Dar Es Salaam Urban Health Project (DUHP)
20.   DUHP was implemented in three phases between 1990 and 2000. Phase 1 (1991
to mid-1 993) focused on the rehabilitation of facilities in poorest state, equipping and
provision of medical supplies to these facilities, and staff training. In Phase II (mid-1993
to 1996), better-off buildings were repaired, and IEC was introduced to enhance access.
Cost sharing was also introduced. Although staff salaries remained, staff morale
significantly improved due in part to the better workplace and working conditions. In
Phase III (1996-2000), the remaining batch of facilities were repaired. Three district-
focused roving maintenance teams were organized, each team consisting of one full-time
technician and four artisans (electrical, civil works, plumbing, carpentry), which proved
to be successful in keeping facilities in good repair. In the mid-1990s, long before the
Local Government Reform (LGR) Program was geared for implementation, DUHP
proposed alternative organizational forms to devolve health services. The organogram
involving facility boards and district health boards was approved by MOH and MRALG
and is in keeping with both the HSR and LGR. Board members are chosen from actual



Tanzania Health & Nutrition Project ICR                                 Page 7
users of the health facilities (not necessarily influential persons) and serve a term of one
year on a voluntary basis.
21.   DUHP' s outcomes are quite impressive. In all, 60 urban health facilities
(dispensaries, health centers and district hospitals) were rehabilitated, staffed, and
supplied. The rehabilitation program combined quality and cost effectiveness, i.e., the
average cost for the rehabilitation of a dispensary stands at about Tsh 16 million, which
seems reasonable given the size of the structure and the amount of work done. The
roving teams are keeping facilities well maintained; evaluation reports indicate staff
satisfaction with their state of repair. A pilot drug revolving fund at dispensaries appears
working well. DUHP has also provided working models of Facility Boards and District
Health Boards which are very active. Each District Health Board now holds its own
meetings; receives reports from all facilities in the district; formulates the district's health
plan; develops the budget; and allocates health expenditures within the urban district.
The project has thus successfully established an annual process resulting in the
production of comprehensive but standardized district health plans.
Implementation Experience
22.   Overall, the H&N Project is rated satisfactory and all of the planned activities
were eventually carried out. However, implementation in the early years was
unsatisfactory due to poor quality at entry (see below). The project enjoyed a satisfactory
rating in the mid-1990s with the revamped effort by the Government, a new task team of
the Bank, and project restructuring. However, the project reverted back to unsatisfactory
status in 1996/97 due to problems with counterpart funds, delays in civil works, the
stalled rehabilitation of the MSD, and inability to disburse the second and third portion
for pharmaceuticals due to noncompliance to a legal covenant. Most of these problems
have been resolved by 1997, paving the way for satisfactory implementation for the rest
of the project's life.
23.   Quality at Entry: For the first three years, implementation was unsatisfactory due
to weak project management and problems with procurement, audit compliance, and
compliance with legal covenants which were made as cross-conditionalities, making
implementation of one component dependent upon the other. The project also suffered
from inadequate supervision from IDA due to frequent changes in the task manager.
Poor handling by IDA management of the transfer of Tanzania from the Southern to the
Eastern Africa country department also contributed to poor project supervision during
this period. In hindsight, "quality at entry was unsatisfactory," according to a World
Bank Quality Assessment Group report, and "there seems to be general agreement among
all parties, including the government and earlier project managers, that the project design
was too complex" for a sector that had no previous experience managing an IDA credit,
and faced serious scarcity in project management skills. Moreover, ownership of the
project was very limited, if at all, at project inception. Staff who have institutional
memory of the project stated that no stakeholder consultations were held, and that the
GOT was in a highly vulnerable position due to a serious need for foreign exchange to
purchase drugs. In the Quality Assurance Group's view, the project was presented to the
IDA Board prematurely, "possibly in response to perceived pressure to lend".



Tanzania Health & Nutrition Project ICR                              Page 8
24.   Extension of Closing Date: The Bank's and the GOT's recognition of the
project's development potential, as well as the much-improved pace of implementation,
provided the rationale for the two extensions of the closing date. The task team
recognized that the large overhang of activities from 1990-94 meant that the project
would not disburse fully by the original closing date. Thus, the project was extended in
1996 for two years until June 1998 in order to complete planned activities. At the same
time, the project was restructured to accommodate the new health financing innovations
developed during the project as well as to support Government initiatives for health
sector reforms. The second extension, made in April 1998, was premised primarily on
the need to complete the pretest of alternative financing schemes and support
operationalization of GOT's health sector reform along the lines of a sector wide
approach. Although it was clear that there would be an unspent balance at the end of the
project, the Bank made a deliberate decision not to make any cancellation at the time of
extension to allow for flexibility to support the pilots that are innovative but financially
unpredictable in nature. Both extensions proved to be warranted: the backlog of activities
were all completed, the health financing pretests were successfully carried out, and the
project served to facilitate the development of sector-wide program.
25.   Project Management: Project management initially suffered from serious
weaknesses including poor understanding of the project concept, weak project
coordination between PIU/Component I which was based in MOH, PSN/Component II
which was based in PMO/MRALG, and other implementing agencies (TFNC, PPU and
CMS); inadequate staffing; changes in MOH leadership and project coordinators; lack of
basic office procedures, annual work planning, and budgeting processes; and inadequate
understanding of Bank procedures. Midway through the project, these problems had
been largely addressed through intensive staff training, hiring of more experienced
project coordinator (the third and last), computerization of accounting functions, and
GOT's persistent effort in operationalizing the project concept.
26.   Procurement: Procurement, especially international competitive bidding (ICB),
was difficult in the early years owing to project staff's inexperience and lack of
familiarity with IDA rules and procedures. Although MOH capacity to procure drugs
internationally has improved, similar capacity to procure medical equipment and
instruments need to be further strengthened, based on one experience (Tender No. 7 of
1997/98) that resulted in the entry of less-than-qualified suppliers and the importation of
some substandard goods. In this regard, there is a need to develop better and more
stringent specifications and to strengthen Tanzania's currently limited pre-shipment and
post-shipment inspection capacity. Selective procurement based on prequalified bidders
need to be explored, and in fact this was the GOT Tender Board's preferred route for
Tender No. 7 but was prevailed upon by IDA to go through ICB. Procurement of
technical assistance still leaves much to be desired, especially for quality- and cost-based
selection, and this has to be addressed in the follow-on IDA credit through more intensive
capacity building, or in the interim, through a procurement agent. Project management
also informed IDA that in certain cases, operating through IDA-mandated letters of credit
was more expensive and laborious (due to the excessively high fees charged by local
banks) than through direct payment against shipping documents.



Tanzania Health & Nutrition Project ICR                              Page 9
27.   Disbursement and Financial Management: Due to problems with project
management, disbursement-related covenant compliance, and generally poor work
planning and budgeting, the rate of disbursements was very low for the first four years;
only about a quarter of the credit (reckoned in SDRs) was disbursed during that period.
The last five years, however, have been satisfactory as the turn-around time for workplan
development and IDA approval was expedited, major covenants were met, and project
management was dramatically improved. By closing date, 97% of the credit had been
disbursed. In terms of financial management, all audit reports were submitted to the
Controller and Auditor-General. The manual accounting system delayed submission of
financial reports in the early years, but the computerization of the accounting system
(using a simple spreadsheet) made financial reports more readily available. Financial
management was generally adequate; a statement of expenses is being finalized.
28.   Counterpart Funds: GOT had difficulty meeting its counterpart-fund obligations
under the project in 1994-96 due to fiscal crises. Given that most African countries are
prone to this problem, project managers have proposed that in the future, other in-country
resources should be counted as counterpart funds, including user fees from cost recovery
programs; fees from drug revolving funds; prepayment contributions in community
health funds; membership premia under health insurance programs; and in-kind
community contributions in the rehabilitation of facilities. The policy on what constitutes
counterpart funds should be reviewed.
29.   Civil Works: Although the project was not supposed to finance new construction,
the absence of a thorough technical evaluation of the project's rehabilitation program
resulted in the setting up of new structures which were deemed a technical necessity.
Project preparation also failed to come up with unit-cost estimates for rehabilitation;
these had to be generated during project implementation itself, but once they were
developed (Tsh 10 million for a dispensary; Tsh 38 million for a health center; and Tsh
200 million for a district hospital), they proved to be useful negotiating tools with
contractors. In some cases, the problems resulting from inadequate planning or poor
performance of contractors led to several amendments of contracts and delayed
completion of works. In the late 1990s, delay was also due to El Nino rains resulting in
the poor accessibility of project sites. International contractors sometimes did work of
inferior quality, according to project management.
30.   Project Monitoring: The lack of baseline data severely constrained project
managers' and Bank staffs understanding of what the project is about and what it is
supposed to do. There were no simple indicators or targets with which to measure
progress. Lack of household and facility-level baseline data made the assessment of
impact virtually impossible. The project was "retrofitted" in 1997 through the
development of a logical framework, and this assisted in the preparation of the ICR. An
end-of-project evaluation by an external team of consultants is planned to take place in
early 2000 which should provide information on the impact of project interventions.
Major Factors Affecting the Project
31.   Factors Outside Government Control: (a) Poor quality at entry, resulting in poor
implementation at the outset, can be traced in part to Bank pressure to lend as much as



Tanzania Health & Nutrition Project ICR                               Page 10
the Government's lack of readiness for the project, a finding highlighted under the QAG
review. (b) Project supervision also suffered from the transfer, in the early 1990s, of the
Tanzania portfolio from one World Bank division to another. (c) Scarcity of technical
and managerial skills of the kind required for the project was, and continues to be, a
problem in Tanzania, and not one that the Government could have easily addressed.
32.   Factors Within Government Control: (a) The intermittent budgetary constraints
accounted for the inadequate allocation of counterpart funds to the project especially in
the mid-1990s resulting in project implementation delays. (b) The reform process could
have moved much faster if not for the initial political resistance to eliminate the
government pharmaceutical monopoly and to implement cost sharing. As a result, major
delays were experienced in the approval of the long term health financing strategy, the
action plan on the domestic pharmaceutical industry, and reforms in drug pricing,
financing, budgeting, and procurement. (c) Project management and coordination could
have been improved much earlier, but PIU remained weak for most of the early years of
the project. Recommendations were made to contract out some of the management tasks
to outsiders including expatriates, but these were largely ignored. (d) More adequate
planning, especially in the civil works component, could have prevented delays and
improved contractor performance. (e) Stronger procurement capacity could have
prevented the importation of inferior medical equipment and instruments.
Sustainability of Project Activities
33.   Largely as a result of the change in health policy, GOT representatives expressed
greater confidence over the sustainability of activities supported by the project especially
in alternative health financing schemes and pharmaceutical reforms. However, the
continued implementation of HRD, HMIS, and rural PHC activities hinges on the
robustness of the GOT health budget and therefore on the Tanzanian economy.
34.   In terms of health financing, the CSP in government hospitals is well established;
CHFs have gained support from the political leadership as well as households; the
hospital drug revolving funds promise a more sustainable drug financing and supply
pending resolution of policy constraints on cost recovery; and the NHI program for civil
servants offers opportunity for greater cost recovery in lieu of the current arrangement of
direct government subsidy. Modest cost sharing is also being implemented in training
programs, though a more intensified cost recovery effort as well as adoption of other
revenue mechanisms may be called for. Likewise, budget allocation to the health sector
has dramatically increased. There is certainly a better prognosis for financial
sustainability of the Tanzanian health system than it was at the onset of the H&N Project.
35.   Major activities in the HRD Plan are of uncertain sustainability. Firstly, the
Plan's implementation will continue to be highly reliant on external donors especially the
training of DHMTs which has been made more urgent with the devolution of health
services, and the MPH training of district medical officers. Secondly, the zonal training
centers continue to suffer from the lack qualified staff, inadequate budget for
maintenance and selective upgrading of zonal training centers, and lack of funds for the
purchase of books and other leaming materials.



Tanzania Health & Nutrition Project ICR                               Page 11
36.   HMIS activities are also likely to continue relying on donor support. In the
medium term, the newly-signed DANIDA Health Sector Program Support, Phase 2 will
provide Tsh 270 million annually until 2003 for logistics and equipment support.
However, the longer-term sustainability of these activities is not ensured since the
recurrent budget for supplies and other key inputs is inadequate. Decentralization also
poses a challenge to HMIS in that local authorities need to be persuaded to include HMIS
supplies in the district budget. Regional-level HMIS implementation may also be
adversely affected by decentralization.
37.   The institutional and financial sustainability of drug supplies in Tanzania is much
better now than it was a decade ago. With respect to the sustainability of the Hospital
Drug Capitalization Program, strengthening the capacity in hospitals (e.g., management
and accounting of drug revolving fund revenues, better prescription and dispensing
practice) would be critical, which should be dealt with in the next IDA credit. In
addition, the existing policy of 50% cost recovery under the CSP, as well as the current
absence of a mechanism for the Treasury to reimburse health facilities' expenses for
drugs dispensed to waived and exempted patients, may inhibit the development of a fully
refinancing mechanism. This issue certainly needs to be addressed in the planned
program evaluation in January 2000. Short of a full cost-recovery policy for drugs,
additional budgetary allocation is needed for the shortfall.
38.   Rural PHC activities have mixed sustainability prospects. Institutional
sustainability is being enhanced with the adoption of district rolling health plans in the 10
districts; the increasing GOT commitment to support DMOs' Master's training in public
health and management; and the planned revision of the existing PHC strategy that will
explicitly recognize the level of resources as a fundamental planning parameter, in
addition to health patterns, technology, and management structure. Ranged against these
positive factors are the continuing inadequacy of maintenance budget for rehabilitated
PHC facilities and the lack of funding for PHC community mobilization. Some
communities have already mobilized their maintenance funds, and the district block
grants planned under the HSR Program as well as the CHFs can become important
financing sources for such maintenance. Overall, these and other factors need to be taken
into account in the development of a replication strategy for rural/district PHC, which
still needs to be done.
39.   Project-rehabilitated and -equipped health facilities also needs to be sustained. At
present, the preventive maintenance budget for these facilities is very limited; the number
of maintenance technicians is deemed inadequate; and the technically competent ones are
often ill-motivated due to low salaries. Inadequate security in some facilities has led to
losses of portable medical apparata. Moreover, recurrent funding for lab reagents, x-ray
films, and other supplies are, in general, inadequate, thus reducing the usefulness of
installed equipment. Districts have been empowered to use revenues from user fees for
maintenance upkeep, but these are not enough. GOT needs to set aside a larger
proportion of the budget for maintenance as a matter of policy, or if this is infeasible, use
alternative mechanisms such as the block grants and the CHFs. In addition, a
"maintenance culture" need to be inculcated at all levels. The project did set up
preventive maintenance programs in the rehabilitated hospitals, including maintenance
workshops for hospitals, but staffing continues to be a problem. Community involvement



Tanzania Health & Nutrition Project ICR                             Page 12
in maintenance is critical, and MOH needs to exploit this further. GOT also needs to
examine the possibility of securing maintenance staff for health facilities at the district
level in line with the overall decentralization policy, possibly under the local council.
MOH and district authorities also need to learn the successful and innovative
maintenance program implemented under Component III by the Dar es Salaarn City
Commission.
40.   Overall, the sustainability of the health system in Tanzania remains fragile. The
combined effects of resource-mobilizing efforts (budgetary as well as extra-budgetary
means), as well as the efficiency-enhancing interventions (district planning, stronger
facility management), are still not likely to fully sustain the considerable investments
made under the H&N Project as well as other donor projects in the sector. It is estimated
that the GOT can only provide 39% of the recurrent cost requirements of the existing
health system. Serious stock-taking within GOT needs to occur on the optimal size of the
health system that the country and its donor-partners can afford. This issue needs to be
comprehensively and consistently dealt with in the Health Sector Reform Program, the
Civil Service Reform Program, and the Local Government Reform Program that the GOT
is undertaking.
Borrower Performance
41.   According to the GOT internal assessment workshop,projectpreparation was
deficient due to GOT's failure to adequately involve all stakeholders in the process, and
inexperience with IDA preparation procedures. The Government also negotiated the
project under very difficult circumstances; at that time, it faced a serious fiscal and
foreign-exchange crisis making it unable to procure drugs and medical supplies in the
international market. Thus, GOT had to accept difficult conditionalities for the use of
project funds for drug procurement.
42.   Project implementation was, on the whole, satisfactory. However,
implementation in the first 3-4 years was unsatisfactory due to the project's inherent
complexity; difficult coordination among several implementing agencies including MOH,
MRALG, PPU, and TFNC; weak project management; and frequent changes in MOH
leadership and project coordinators. Compliance with project covenants were
considerably delayed because the critical ones (user fees, MSD autonomy) required
Parliamentary action. Once the project management issues and policy covenants have
been addressed, however, project implementation became satisfactory, especially in the
last three years. GOT also successfully built on the achievements and experiences gained
from the project to support its more ambitious Health Sector Reform Program.
Bank Performance
43.   The amount of background studies was considerable and sector analyses were on
the mark, making project identification satisfactory. However, the GOT internal
assessment workshop rated project preparation and appraisal as deficient, echoing
similar findings from the QAG review. The project was overly complex with too many
components and subcomponents (some not well defined); involved multiple



Tanzania Health & Nutrition Project ICR                               Page 13
implementing agencies that made coordination difficult; and entailed covenants that were
complex, difficult to achieve, and some outside the purview of the implementing
agencies. Quality at entry was poor. Although the project preparation team identified
major risks such as weak administrative and technical capacity, poor staff motivation, and
uncertain macroeconomic environment, their implications were not sufficiently taken into
account. Less obvious risks were not considered, e.g., the sector's socialist background
and the political will to transform it, weak GOT commitment to and ownership of the
project at the start, and lack of prior IDA involvement in the sector. To make the best of
the situation, the first three years were virtually used for ground work and capacity
building (formulation of sector and subsector plans, staff training on IDA procedures and
specific technical areas, building a constituency within MOH for critical reforms
sponsored by the project). As a result of poor preparation, project supervision was
unsatisfactory in the first three years, according to GOT's internal assessment workshop
and the QAG review. Poor preparation was compounded by frequent changes in task
managers occasioned by the transfer of Tanzania from the Southern to the Eastern Africa
department in the Bank. A new task team took over the project in 1993-94, undertook a
midterm review, and on this basis restructured the project. From then on, supervision has
turned satisfactory. Thus, overall, supervision over the nine years of the project is rated
satisfactory.
Assessment of Project Outcome
44.   Project impact on sector policies are substantial and will be the project's longer
lasting legacy. The GOT has laid the foundation for a more sustainable financing and
pluralistic delivery of health services, a difficult task given its socialist background.
During the project, the health sector was opened to private medical practice, fees were
adopted, and a semi-autonomous pharmaceutical agency was established - reforms aided
by the economy-wide structural adjustments, including privatization and fiscal
rationalization. It is difficult to measure the impact of these changes in terms of better
access, quality of care, and improved health services, especially under continuing
economic difficulties and the confounding factor of the AIDS epidemic. There is
evidence, however, that access is better in project areas and that quality was enhanced
with a more reliable drug supplies and rehabilitated and equipped facilities. The physical
objectives of the project were substantially met, with all the planned civil works and
equipping activities completed. However, given the extent of rehabilitation that needs to
be done in Tanzania's 114 districts, the work done in the 10 districts barely scratched the
surface.
45.   Project impact onfinancial objectives and institutional development, though
dramatic, were only partially achieved. GOT annual allocation to the health sector
almost doubled in the nine years of the project, partly due to project covenants. User fees,
pioneered in the project, have had demonstration effects in the education and water
sectors. CSP now yields significant financial contributions to the sector (13% of
nonsalary recurrent costs); without the project's pushing for this reform, underfunding in
the sector would have been more persistent with adverse impact on the access and quality
of health services. However, significant amounts of revenue continue to be uncollected
(42% to 75%, according to the Revenue Targeting Study). The impact of other alternative



Tanzania Health & Nutrition Project ICR                               Page 14
financing schemes designed or pretested in the project remains to be shown; although
they have a clear potential for mobilizing additional resources, there are concerns about
their high startup and maintenance costs. Some ways of reducing these costs include
greater use of local rather than expatriate consultants, better rate negotiation with
consultants/staff, a tighter community mobilization and training strategy relying on
roving "zonal" teams, and finalizing "best practice" manuals and guidelines so that they
can be used more widely in roll-out areas. Project impact on institutional development
with respect to MSD is large and yielding benefits, i.e., more reliable drug supply. The
impact of enhanced MOH planning capacity is expected to yield improved policy
formulation to ensure quality services. However, similar institutional-development
impact with respect to district health boards remains to be realized. These boards have
been set up in CHF districts but those in the remaining districts are yet to be established.
Moreover, hospital management still leaves much to be desired even in focus districts.
Future Operations
46.   Future IDA operations should preserve and expand the gains achieved under the
H&N Project and should continue to assist the GOT in the further development of the
health sector. The successor IDA credit, the Health Sector Development Program
(HSDP), is being designed as an Adaptable Program Loan to support, in coordination
with other donors, GOT's Health Sector Reform initiatives. The HSDP aims to address
the sector-wide capacity and management issues and tackle the negative effects of a
fragmented project approach. The first phase of the 12-year project focuses on further
strengthening of health service delivery in the context of decentralization and greater
focus on cost-effective package of health services; further capacity building and human
resource development especially the rationalization of training institutions; strengthening
of central support systems in planning and budgeting, regulation, pharmaceutical
procurement, and joint donor implementation; and expansion of health financing
initiatives including CSP, CHF, drug revolving funds, and health insurance.
Key Lessons Learned
47.   The following are the key lessons learned from the project:
*  Project preparation should take account of project risks as comprehensively as
possible and should reduce the complexity and extent of the project on the basis of
the magnitude and probability of these risks. Key risks that should be taken into
account are government project ownership, sector leadership, management and
technical capacity, and the extent and pace of the reform program.
*  The relationship between IDA and the host government during project negotiation
should be weighed carefully. Cash-strapped poor countries often find themselves
with little countervailing power and IDA should avoid the temptation to exploit this
vulnerability by imposing too many conditionalities detrimental to implementation.
* The involvement of multiple agencies/ministries make project implementation more
difficult. The separation of implementation responsibilities inhibits accountability,



Tanzania Health & Nutrition Project ICR                               Page 15
imposes a heavy burden on coordination, and engenders problems with respect to
scheduling of related activities, especially if one agency's activity is contingent upon
the completion of another agency's activity. Thus, the benefits of an inter-ministry
project must be weighed carefully against the coordination costs.
* Critical policy reforms (e.g., health financing and pharmaceutical sector reforms)
should be pursued as project outcomes rather than upfront conditionalities. If certain
conditionalities are required, their timing for compliance should be carefully planned
depending on the nature and objective of the conditionality, as well as it being
reflective of government commitment. Some conditions should be used upfront for
negotiation, some are better suited for project effectiveness, and others can be applied
for funds disbursement.
* Compliance to these covenants and conditionalities should be within the purview of
the implementing agencies. It is counter-productive to make these implementing
agencies bear the adverse consequences of noncompliance or prolonged delay in
compliance for something that is outside their control.
* Project components should be designed with an internal logic behind them and not
merely used as baskets to put activities in need of funding. The synergy and mutually
reinforcing nature of the project components should be taken into account.
* Economic liberalization and related macroeconomic reforms provide strong
underpinnings for sector reforms and significantly enhance their achievement.
Analytical and policy work between the two should be done hand in hand and in
mutually supportive manner.
3 Baseline data and performance targets should be defined at project appraisal. These
enhance monitoring of project progress; their absence inhibits supervision and makes
impact evaluation virtually impossible. Data gathering pertaining to these indicators
should be made an intrinsic part of the project.
* For skill-scarce countries or sectors, training should be conducted as soon as possible
so that the project can benefit from staff's acquired management and technical
expertise. Procurement should be made a central concern of project management.
* Counterpart funds should be calculated globally for the whole project, rather than on
a contract-by-contract basis, and should take into account extra-budgetary resources
generated from project-supported initiatives such as user fees from cost recovery
programs, prepayments from community health funds, membership contributions or
premia from risk-pooling or prepayment arrangements, and community inputs into
village health initiatives.



Tanzania Health & Nutrition Project ICR                                               Page 16
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1 Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives    Substantial      Partial       Negligible        Not
Applicable
Macro policies                                                                     x
Health sector policies               X
Financial objectives                                X
Institutional development                           X
Physical objectives                  X
Poverty reduction                                   X
Gender issues                                                      _               x
Other social objectives                             X
Environmental objectives                                                           x
Public sector management                                                           X
Private sector development                                                         X
B. Prolect Sustainability                         Likely        Uncertain       Unlikely
|B. Project Sustainability                                          X        ll
Highly       Satisfactory     Deficient       Highly
Satisfactory                                 Unsatisfactory
C. Bank Performance
Identification_x
Preparation assistance                                           x
Appraisal                                               _        x       _
Supervision                 _
D. Borrower Performance
Preparation                                             _        X
Implementation
Covenant compliance                              X
Operation                                        X
E. Assessment of Outcome                            X



Tanzania Health & Nutrition Project ICR                                             Page 17
Table 2 Related Bank Credits
Credit Title and Amount          Purpose                Year of             Status
Approval
Past Operations - None
Following Operations -    APL program purpose: To    March 2000      Appraisal mission made
Health Sector           improve access, utilization,  (planned)     in August 1999; under
Development Program     quality, and financing of health            preparation
(TZ-PE-58627)           services through increased
efficiency and effectiveness in
allocation and use of resources
to maximize their impact on
health outcomes especially
among the poor, women, and
children
Project development objective
(Phase I): To improve
resource management and
quality of health services
through sector reforms and
institutional capacity building  I
Table 3 Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                Planned Date            Actual Date
Identification                                March 1988             March 1988
Preparation                                   March 1988             May 1988
Pre-appraisal                                 July 1988              July 1989
Appraisal                                     September 1988         October 1989
Negotiations                                  December 1989          January 1990
Board Presentation                            March 1990             March 1990
Signing                                       March 6, 1990          March 7, 1990
Effectiveness                                 April 6, 1990          April 6, 1990
Midterm Review                                September 19, 1994     September 19 -
October 6, 1994
Project Completion                            December 31, 1996      December 31, 1999
Credit Closing                                June 30, 1996          June 30, 1999



Tanzania Health & Nutrition Project ICR                                          Page 18
Table 4A Credit Disbursements, Cumulative and Actual in U.S. Dollars
Fiscal            SAR Estimates                    Actual                Actual
Year        Quarterly     Cumulative      Quarterly     Cumulative    Cumulative as
(US$ Mn)      (US$ Mn)       (US$ Mn)       (US$ Mn)      % of Credit
FY 90 Q4           0.20           0.20          0.12           0.12           0.25
FY 91 Q1           0.30           0.50           0.02          0.14           0.29
Q2           0.50           1.00           2.18           2.32          4.87
Q3           10.50          11.50          0.03           2.35          4.94
Q4           1.00           12.50          0.02           2.37          4.98
FY 92 Ql           1.00          13.50           1.67          4.04           8.49
Q2           1.00           14.50          0.00           4.04           8.49
Q3           10.60         25.10           0.02           4.06          8.53
Q4           0.69          25.79           0.13          4.20           8.82
FY 93 Ql           0.60          26.39          0.20           4.39           9.22
Q2           0.60          26.99           0.04           4.43          9.32
Q3           10.28         37.27           0.01           4.44          9.32
Q4           1.20          38.47           0.06           4.50          9.45
FY 94 Ql           1.20          39.67           1.33          5.83           12.25
Q2           1.20          40.87           0.12           5.95          12.50
Q3           0.90          42.07           0.51           6.47          13.60
Q4           0.90          42.97           5.91          12.37          26.00
FY 95 Q1           0.90          43.87           0.38          12.75          26.79
Q2           0.90          44.77           1.38          14.13          29.68
Q3           0.40          45.67           0.71          14.84          31.17
Q4           0.40          46.07           1.84          16.68          35.04
FY 96 QI           0.40          46.47          2.80           19.49          40.94
Q2           0.40          46.87           0.46          19.94          41.89
Q3           0.09          47.27           1.66          21.60          45.38
Q4           0.09          47.36           0.48          22.08          46.39
FY 97 Ql           0.09          47.45          0.11           22.19          46.62
Q2           0.15          47.60           0.62          22.81          47.92
Q3                     ______              3.82          26.63          55.95
Q4                                         3.10          29.73          62.46
FY 98 Ql                                         1.00          30.72          64.54
Q2                                         1.55          32.28          67.80
Q3                                         1.94          34.21          71.87
Q4                                         1.17          35.38          74.32
FY 99 Ql                                         1.86          37.24          78.24
Q2                                         3.72          40.96          86.05
Q3           _                             1.53          42.49          89.26
Q4                                         1.92          44.41          93.30
FY 00 Ql                                        2.88           47.29          99.35
Q2       __0.08                                          47.37          99.52
Note: The percentage of disbursement was calculated using the original total credit
amount of US dollar equivalent, i.e., US$ 47.6 million. Due to exchange rate fluctuations
which resulted in the increase in the US dollar value of the credit, the figures in this table
do not necessarily match those of the SDR disbursement table.



Tanzania Health & Nutrition Project ICR                                          Page 19
Table 4B Credit Disbursements, Quarterly and Cumulative in SDRs
Fiscal Year                    Quarterly                    Cumulative
(US$ Million)                 (US$ Million)
FY 90 Q4                                  0.10                          0.10
FY91 Ql                                   0.01                           0.11
Q2                                   1.51                          1.62
Q3                                  0.02                           1.64
Q4                                  0.01                           1.66
FY 92 Ql                                  1.26                           2.92
Q2                                  0.00                           2.92
Q3                                  0.01                           2.93
Q4                                   1.00                          3.03
FY 93 Ql                                  1.32                           3.16
Q2                                  0.03                           3.19
Q3                                  0.01                           3.20
Q4                                  0.04                           3.24
FY 94 Q1                                  1.00                           4.18
Q2                                   0.08                          4.27
Q3                                  0.37                           4.64
Q4                                  4.17                           8.81
FY 95 Ql                                  0.26                           9.08
Q2                                  0.95                           10.02
Q3                                  0.48                           10.50
Q4                                   1.17                          11.67
FY 96 Q1                                  1.86                          13.53
Q2                                  0.31                           13.83
Q3                                   1.13                          14.97
Q4                                  0.33                           15.30
FY 97 Ql                                  0.76                          15.38
Q2                                  0.43                           15.81
Q3                                  2.73                           18.54
Q4                                  2.24                          20.78
FY 98 Q1                                  0.73                          21.51
Q2                                   1.13                         22.64
Q3                                   1.44                         24.08
Q4                                   0.87                         24.95
FY 99 Q1                                  1.39                          26.34
Q2                                  2.65                          28.99
Q3                                   1.10                         30.09
Q4                                   1.42                         31.51
FY 00 Q1                                  2.12                          33.63
Q2                                  0.06                          33.69



Disbursement Profile for Tanzania Health and Nutrition Credit
40.00
35.00       -  1Actual Amt. Cumulative       -           -
30.00    + -Profile Amt. Cumulative
25.00   .    & Original Amt. Cumulative
a     2 0 . 0 0                                         - - - - - - - - - - - - - -           - - - - - -   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --Re v i s e d
15.00   .       .//                           ..                                                                     Dt 
10.00,                                                           ;W                                                              Ds.
f / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Original.En
5.001                                                                               Closing Date;  1  Fq            C;
0.00
q> W     ,             \O          9     &          <    Q      r En) ding
Quarter Ending



Tanzania Health & Nutrition Project ICR                                             Page 21
Table 5 Key Indicators of Project Implementation
Subcomponent         Cate-    Unit    Target                 EOP Status
gory
Strengthening of Planning
and Policy Formulation
Staff positions filled, staff  IB    No. of   6 posts; All 6 posts filled; 66 staff weeks of training
trained, office equipped and        positions;    66   completed; Planing Unit equipped
supplied                           staff-weeks  staff-
weeks
Establishment of District Health  IB  No. of     5   All 10 project focus districts have DHBs;
Boards; formulation of district      boards           district planning guidelines in use in all
health planning guidelines         established        CHF districts
and using
guidelines
Studies on the Financing of
the Health Sector and
Pharmaceutical Industry
Studies on pharmaceutical     0       N.A.      N.A. 13 studies completed for pharmaceuticals,
sector, CSP, NHI, and CHF                             NHI, CSP and CHF and provided basis for
reforms
Health Management
Information System
HMIS operational             IB      No. of      20   All 20 RHMTs and 104 DHMTs provided
regions          with HMIS training, with support from
various donors
Policy Reforms in Health
Financing
CSP implementation            0      No. of      10   Fees now collected at all facilities in all 104
districts   _    districts
CHF pretesting                0      No. of      10   10 districts pretested and ongoing; more
districts        CHF districts planned
NHI design                    0      Yes/No     Yes  Parliament enacted NHI law in April 1999
Strengthening of DMDT         _
Creation of Inspectorate Unit   IB   Yes/No     Yes  Unit established; Plan completed; 4
and development of HRD Plan                           principals and 7 staff trained
Strengthening of Training
Schools
Training schools equipped,    P        5         5   All 5 zonal training centers rehabilitated,
supplied, and upgraded to zonal                       but still lack qualified staff
training centers
Pharmaceutical Management
and Financing
Transformation of CMS into    IB     Yes/No     Yes  Parliamentary Act provided MSD
autonomous MSD                                        autonomy; MSD recapitalized; cost policy
changed; new management took over; 42
staff trained



Tanzania Health & Nutrition Project ICR                                            Page 22
Table 5 Key Indicators of Project Implementation (Continuation)
Subcomponent         Cate-    Unit    Target                EOP Status
gory
Provision of Pharmaceutical
and Medical Supplies
Procurement of drugs and      P     US$ Mn   28.00 In all, US$18.79 Mn of drugs were
supplies                                             procured
MSD Rehabilitation
Physical rehabilitation of MSD    P   1+7       1+7  The central office and 7 zonal stores were
rehabilitated
Micronutrient Deficiency
Control Program
Development of policy       0; IB   Yes/No      Yes  All planned activities completed; in
guidelines and IEC materials,                        addition, surveillance system established
training, and awareness
campaigns
National Population Policy
Creation of NPIC             IB     Yes/No      Yes  Population Planning Unit now part of
I_______________________           ___L__ Planning Commission
District Support and
Community PHC Initiatives
PHC construction              P       No.      N.A. 34 shallow wells; 16 grain storage facilities;
3 day-care centers constructed
Strengthening the District
PHC System
Rehabilitation of dispensaries    P   No.      N.A. 87 dispensaries; 22 health centers
and health centers                                   rehabilitated
Strengthening the District
Referral System
Rehabilitation of district    P       No.       10   10 hospitals rehabilitated
hospitals
Key: IB=institution building; P=physical; O=others. This table continues next page.



Tanzania Health & Nutrition Project ICR                                           Page 23
rable 6 Key Indicators of Project Operation
Project Impact      Follow-up Actions      Outstanding Issues          Planned Actions
to be Maintained       Being Taken
Health planning and  Reforms including     Devolution of health    Implementation in initial 35
policy formulation    decentralization to be  services, including fiscal  districts
sustained and expanded   responsibility
under the more ambitious
Health Sector Reform
Program, with GOT and
multi-donor support
Health management  Continuing support to   Recurrent cost funding    Provision in the GOT budget
information system    HMIS logistics and   for stationery and
equipment to be provided  supplies
by DANIDA
Cost sharing       Program maintenance     Impact of fiscal        Formulation of policy
program            and further strengthening   decentralization on CSP    guidelines on use of fee
of financial management                         revenues generated by
facilities under local
authorities
Community health   Pretest for urban CHF;    High CHF startup and  Scaling up rural CHF to more
funds              baseline survey of rural   maintenance costs    districts; closer analysis of
districts where CHF will                       startup and maintenance costs
be replicated                                   with the view of further
____________________ .___________________       reducing  them
National health    Development of fee      Development and         PPF-funded technical
insurance          structure and payment    installation of clairns  assistance to develop and
scheme in June 1999;   processing, accreditation,  install systems; Board and
planned program         and other systems;      management decision on an
launching in January   ensuring that            acceptable level of
2000; appointment of    administrative costs do    administrative costs
NHIF Board and          not go beyond statutory
recruitment of Executive   12% of revenue
Management Team         collection
Manpower           Implementation of the   Insufficient GOT        Donor assistance is being
development and    HRD Plan                resources to fund the   sought to fill the resource gap.
training                                   HRD Plan
Pharmaceutical     Maintenance of MSD      Uncertain sustainability    Evaluation of hospital drug
management and                             of hospital drug        revolving funds planned;
financing                                  capitalization program  policy change of current cost
due to less-than-full cost  sharing policy on drugs is
recovery of drugs      required
Micronutrient      Program maintenance                             Provision of recurrent cost to
deficiency control                                                 TFNC
program
National population   None                 None                    None
policy
District support and  Maintenance of buildings  Inadequate budget for  Provision of more budgetary
community PHC      & equipment             maintenance             resources for maintenance
initiatives
Strengthening      Maintenance of buildings  Inadequate budget for  Provision of more budgetary
district referral  & equipment             maintenance             resources for maintenance
system                                    I                       I



Tanzania Health & Nutrition Project ICR                                            Page 24
Table 7A Studies Conducted Under the Project
Title, Purpose and Date of Study     Consultants   Status        Impact of Study
Development of District Health Planning     Prof.            C     In use in all districts
Guidelines (1993)                           Kielman
Plan for Strengthening the Permanent Secretary's  M.S. Khan  C     MOH Bldg. Rehabilitated
Office (1993)                               Construction        _
Business         C     Telephone communication
Electronics            improved
Study of the Pharmaceutical and Medical     SGV & Co.       C      Inputted into masterplan
Supplies Sector (1994)
Establishment of Financial Accounting and   Massawe &        C     Improved project
Office Management Systems (1994)            Co.                    management
Finalization of Health Sector Reform Action  Ramses          C     Inputted into HSR Program
Plan, 1996-99 (1996)                        Kumbuya
Review of Health Sector Reforms (1996)      Randall         C      Part of HSR Project
Bovberg                development
Preparation of Health Sector Reform Project  Benson          C     Inputted into new project
(1996)                                      Obonyo                 design
Costing of Basic Health Services Package for  E. Mkusa       C     Development of CHF
Igunga District (1996)                                             prepayment and fee
schedules
Review of Community Health Fund in Igunga   Prof. P.R.       C     Monitoring to improve
(1997)                                      Hiza                   pretesting and design
Development of Indicators and Baseline Survey   Tanzania     C     Baseline information for
of CHF Pretest in Igunga (1997)            Food and                CHF setup
Nutrition
Council
(TFNC)
Qualitative Assessment of CHF (1998)        Andrea           C     Evaluation to improve
Robles                 design
CHF Baseline Survey of Six Districts (1998)  TFNC            C     Baseline information for
CHF setup
Development of CHF Guidelines (1998)        Merit Int'l      C
Development of Fee Structure; Alternative   Both by          C     Inputted into NHI design
Provider Payment Scheme for the NHI Program    Management
(1998)                                      Sciences for
Health
Five-Year Plan for Human Resources for Health   MOH-         C     Inputted into HRD Plan
(1996)                                      DANIDA
Restructuring of the Department of Training and   Management  C    Organizational reform of
Manpower Development (DTMT) (1996)          Assistance             MOH
for Health
and
Population
Design of the Capitalization Program for    Chiel            C     To be evaluated
Hospital Pharmacies (1997)                  Lidjsman
C=completed



Tanzania Health & Nutrition Project ICR                                             Page 25
Table 7B Long Term Training Sponsored Under the Project
Person                    Degree                  Year      Where    Duration    Status
S.M. Kimboka   M. Sc. Human Nutrition                 91/92       UK        12 mos.      C
J.0. Mtalo      M. Sc. Architecture                   91/92       UK        12 mos.      C
M. Mapunda    M. Sc. Health Planning                  91/92       UK        12 mos.      C
M. Kimaro       Postgraduate Diploma in Quality       91/92       UK        12 mos.      C
Assurance
E.P. Ngowi      M. A. Construction Management         92/93    Australia   18 mos.       C
0. Abdallah    Diploma in Computer Processing         92/93       U.S.      9 mos.       C
W. Yohana      M. Sc. Medical Statistics              92/93      U.K.       12 mos.      C
R. Kikuli       M. A. Health Planning and Policy      92/93      U.K.       12 mos.      C
D.              M. A. Architecture                    93/94      U.K.       12 mos.      C
Mwakasungula                                      _      _
E.              M. A. Human Resources                 94/95      U.K.       12 mos.      C
Mwakalukwa
J. Lugoi        M. A. Medical Education               94/95      U.K.       12 mos.      C
M. Magomi       Masters in Public Health              94/95      U.K.       12 mos.      C
M. Matome       M. A. Education for PHC               94/95      U.K.       12 mos.      C
P. Kasoni       Advanced Diploma in PHC               94/95      U.K.       12 mos.      C
M. Sigonda      M. Sc. Pharmaceutical Services &      94/95      U.K.       12 mos.      C
Ndomondo        Medicine Control
G. Mungure     Masters in Business Administration     95196      U.K.       12 mos.      C
N. Mnzava       M. Sc. Health Planning                95/96      U.K.       12 mos.      C
J. Sendoro      M. A. Health Planning, Policy and     95/96      U.K.       12 mos.      C
Management
S.J. Chombo    Advanced Diploma in PHC                95/96      U.K.       12 mos.      C
A. A. Janja     M. Sc. Medical Education              95/96      U.K.       12 mos.      C
H. Laay         Financial Management                  95/96      U.K.       9 mos.       C
Z. Msuya        M. Sc. Pharmaceutical Analysis        96/97      U.K.       12 mos.      C
S.T. Mosha     M. Sc. Pharmaceutical Analysis         96/97      U.K.       12 mos.      C
L. Mfalila      Health Care Management                96/97      U.K.       12 mos.      C
R. Mkumbo       M. Sc. Health Planning & Management    96/97     U.K.       12 mos.      C
G. Sangana      Masters in Public Health              97/98      U.K.       12 mos.      C
C. Feruzi       Masters in Public Health              97/98      U.K.       12 mos.      C
P.J. Mbena      Masters in Public Health              97/98    Belgium      9 mos.       C
H. Ngonyani    Masters in Public Health               97/98    Belgium      9 mos.       C
E. Mwegoha      Masters in Medical Education          97/98      U.K.       12 mos.      C
C=completed



Tanzania Health & Nutrition Project ICR                                            Page 26
Table 7C Short Term Training Sponsored Under the Project
Person                    Course                     Year          Where        Status
G. Mungure      Procurement                             Aug. 90          Italy        C
S. Manyama      Health Planning and Management        Jan.-Apr. 91       U.S.         C
R.R. Kitwenga    Nutritional Anemia                   Jan.-Apr. 91      U.K.          C
E. Manumbu      Health Care Financing                 Sep.-Dec. 91       U.S.         C
J. Goodluck     Computer Programming                  June-Dec. 91      U.K.          C
Dr. Mponezya    Health Care in Developing Countries   May-Aug. 91        U.S.         C
E.K. Ndossi     Manpower Studies                      Sep.-Dec. 91       U.K.         C
R. Kikuli       Project Management                    Sep.-Nov. 91       U.S.         C
Mrs. Mullokozi   Vitamin A Analysis                   Jan.-Apr. 92       U.S.         C
S. Paschal      Management Methods for Health          Feb.-May          U.S.         C
J. Chitalika    Programming and Data Processing       Aug.-Dec. 92       U.K.         C
L. Msele        Vegetable Production                 Aug.-Nov. 93    Netherlands      C
M.F. Kweba      Food Fortification                    Sep.-Dec. 92       U.S.         C
S.J. Maganga    Food Fortification                    Sep.-Dec. 92       U.S.         C
C.R. Temalilwa   Food Fortification                   Sep.-Dec. 92       U.S.         C
Z. Lukmanji      Epidemiology                           Sep. 92       U.K./U.S.       C
A.B. Sanga      Micronutrient Deficiency Control      Sep.-Dec. 92       U.S.         C
U.P.K. Tenende   Population Data Analysis             Mar.-July 93       U.S.         C
S.E. Ngatunga    Health Sector Reform                 Apr.-July 93       U.K.         C
A. Juma         Equipment Maintenance                 Mar.-May 93        U.K.         C
K.A. Mmuni      Managing Health Programs              June-Aug. 93       U.S.         C
E. Malibiche    Advanced Computer Studies and         June-Aug. 94    Swaziland       C
Management
C. Kitachang'wa  Advanced Computer Studies and        June-Aug. 94    Swaziland       C
Management
M. Masanja      Advanced Computer Studies and         June-Aug. 94    Swaziland       C
Management
B. Gondwe       Advanced Computer Studies and         June-Aug. 94    Swaziland       C
Management
T. Chagula      Advanced Computer Studies and         June-Aug. 94    Swaziland       C
Management
MSD Staff       Pharmaceuticals Management (Batch 1)   Apr.-May 96     Tanzania       C
MSD Staff       Pharmaceuticals Management (Batch 2)    Aug. 96        Tanzania       C
MSD Staff       Pharmaceuticals Management (Batch 3)    Aug. 96        Tanzania       C
C. Msemo        Purchasing Stock Management           Jan.-Mar. 97       U.K.         C
B. Mkusa        Industrial Training                     Jan. 98          U.K.         C
N. Musyani       Population Studies                     June 98       Swaziland       C
4 Staff of PS's    Procurement Training                   n.d.        Swaziland       C
Office
9 Staff of PS's    Financial Management                   n.d.        Swaziland       C
Office
10 Staffof PS's   General Management                      n.d.        Swaziland       C
Office
6 Staff of PS's    Advanced Computer and Office           n.d.        Swaziland       C
Office          Management
C=completed; PS=permanent secretary



Tanzania Health & Nutrition Project ICR                                            Page 27
Table 7D Workshops, Seminars and Conferences Supported by the Project
Workshop, Seminar or Conference       When           Where             No. of Persons
Participating
Demographic and Health Survey            1991/92          U.S.               1 (Musyani)
ESCACON Scientific Conference            1992/93        Mauritius                 I
International Conference on Nutrition    1992/93         Geneva,                  1
Switzerland
Population Conference                    1992/93         Senegal                 4
Health Strategy Workshop                June 1993   Washington, D.C.,            20
U.S.
Setting Tomorrow's Agenda Seminar       Sept. 1994         n.d.          2 (Mtulia, Manumbu)
International Conference on Population and   Aug. 1994  Cairo, Egypt             6
Development
ESCACON Scientific Conference           Aug. 1994       Seychelles               2
Health Seminar                          Sept. 1995         n.d.                 n.d.
Health Seminar                          Oct. 1995          n.d.          2 (P.P. Mella and R.
Mushi)
Health Seminar                          Nov. 1995          n.d.            2 (Chagula and
Mgondah)
Pharmaceuticals Management Seminar      Feb. 1996       Tanzania           n.d. (MSD Staff)
Pharnaceuticals Management Seminar      Apr. 1996       Tanzania           n.d. (MSD Staff)
Pharmaceuticals Management Seminar      May 1996        Tanzania           n.d. (MSD Staff)
Health Care Financing Seminar           Feb. 1996     Nairobi, Kenya      4 (Manumbu, Njau,
Shirima, Minja)
Innovation in Health Care Financing     Mar. 1997   Washington, D.C.,     2 (Min. Chiduo, PS
Seminar                                                   U.S.                 Mrope)
Setting Tomorrow's Agenda Seminar       Oct. 1997    Washington, D.C.,    5 (Mrope, Manumbu,
U.S.          Njau, Mwizamholya,
________________________  _ __ _Kalinga)
Health Policy Seminar                   Apr. 1998     London, U.K.       5 (Mbaruku, Kabuma,
Sekilasa, Mapunda, and
Upunda)
Health Systems Management Seminar       Mar. 1998         Israel                 5
Quality Assurance Seminar               Mar. 1998        Uganda          2 (Shija andMbuya)
Table 7E Study Tours Conducted Under the Project
Study Tour            When/Where                  Purpose              No. of Persons
Participating
National Health    November 1997: Thailand,    To learn about health  9 persons from the
Insurance         the Philippines, and Boston,    insurance           Health Insurance
U.S.A.                                              Implementation Team
Pharmaceuticals   June 1998: Denmark          Visit Unipack           Board of Trustees and
I________________   ________ ________ ________ _  ______ ______D irectors   of  M SD



Tanzania Health & Nutrition Project ICR                                           Page 28
Table 7F Rural PHC Civil Works Completed Under the Project
District     Dispensaries   Health Centers  Shallow Wells   Grain Storage   Day Care
Centers
Igunga               7              2
Iramba               8              2               3
Kasulu               9              2
Kibondo              8              3               2              7
Kilwa                10             3               8              -
Lindi Rural         12              4                                       __ __ _
Liwale               9               -                             -               2
Nachingwea           9               -             10              -               1
Nzega                5              4               2              -
Singida Rural        10             2               9              9        _
Total               87              22             34              16             3
Table 7G Rehabilitation and Equipping of District Hospitals Under the Project
Facility                             Rehabilitation and Equipping
Igunga DH      Construction of new structures which includes 6 wards, laboratory, MCH unit, dental unit,
theater, and workshop; provision of water generator and work tools
Iramba DH      Construction of new fence and watchman house; rehabilitation of all hospital wards,
mortuary, and dental units; provision of work tools
Kasulu DH      Repair of worn-out leaking water distribution system (pipes and tanks); provision of
stand-by generator; fencing; rehabilitation of all existing wards; provision of work tools
Kibondo DH    Construction of staff quarter; rehabilitation of all hospital wards, dental unit, and
mortuary; drainage system and water supply
Kilwa DH       Construction of 2 wards, MCH unit, 3 staff houses, watchman's house, 1 underground
water tank, 8 underground septic tanks; rehabilitation of 7 staff houses; provision of work
tools; provision of generator
Lindi RH       Construction of watchman's house, fence, maintenance workshop; rehabilitation of 11
wards and drainage system; provision of work tools
Liwale DH      Construction of mortuary, dental unit, theatre, and 3 staff quarters; rehabilitation of all
hospital wards; fence and water supply system
Nachingwea    Construction of maintenance workshop; fencing; septic tanks and soak pits; rehabilitation
DH             of all hospital wards, theater, dental unit, mortuary, drainage system; provision of
generator and work tools
Nzega DH       Partitioning of 8 patient wards; replacement of tiles with painted corrugated iron sheets;
new water and drainage systems; replacement of electric wires; setting up of new
maintenance workshops and provision of tools; construction of security house
Singida RH     Construction of new dental unit; rehabilitation of laboratory building; expansion of
mortuary; construction of fencing and watchmen's house; construction of rainwater
harvesting system; installation of new electric water tank; construction of 12 new septic
tanks; provision of work tools
Key: DH=district hospital; RH=regional hospital; MCH=maternal and child health



Tanzania Health & Nutrition Project ICR                                         Page 29
Table 8 Project Financing
Source              At Appraisal   % at Appraisal   Actual       % of Actual
(US$ Million)                (US$ Million)
International Development           47.60         68.00          47.37          91.50
Association
Gov't of Belgium, DANIDA, ODA,      15.00         21.43          N.A.           N.A.
SDC, and UNFPA (Note 1)
Government of Tanzania (Note 2)     7.40          10.57          4.40           8.50
Total                               70.0          100.00         51.77         100.00
Notes:
(1) The respective contributions for co-financing would have been as follows: Government of Belgium,
US$0.7 million; DANIDA, US$1.3 million; ODA now DflD, US$0.1 million; SDC, US$12.2 million; and
UNFPA, US$0.7 million. SDC went on to provide resources for parallel-financed activities under the Dar
Es Salaam Urban Health Project (formerly designated as Component III). DANIDA and ODA/DflD also
provided parallel-financed activities in pharmaceutical sector, HMIS, Cost Sharing Program.
(2) GOT contributions at appraisal included separate estimates for central government, US$3.1 million;
district governments, US$2.5 million; and beneficiaries, US$1.8 million. In the course of project
monitoring, only the central government contribution was regularly reported. At project end, this amounted
to US$4.4 million.



Tanzania Health & Nutrition Project ICR                                            Page 30
Table 9A Project Costs by Expenditure Categories, Estimated and Actual
Expenditure               Appraisal Estimates                    Actual Figures
Categories                    (US$ '000)                         (US$ '000)
GOT      IDA      Other    Total      GOT         IDA        Total
Donors
Civil Works             0.36      5.77     9.16     15.29      1.70       9.95       11.65
Equipment, Vehicles,    0.17      9.57     2.05     11.79      0.29       6.61       6.90
Materials, Supplies
Pharmaceuticals and     0.00     28.01     0.00     28.01      0.68       19.04      19.72
Medical Supplies
Consultancies           0.01      1.56     2.49      4.06      0.31       7.08       7.39
Training, Travel and    1.38      2.20     0.55      4.13      1.32       4.41       5,73
Per Diems
Matching Grant to CHF     -        -         -        -        0.10       0.22       0.30
Other Costs             1.16      0.51     0.64      2.31       -         0.07       0.07
Total                   3.08     47.62     14.89    65.59      4.40       47.37      51.77



Tanzania Health & Nutrition Project ICR                                          Page 31
Table 9B Project Costs by Project Components, Estimated And Actual
Project Components            Appraisal Estimates             Actual Figures
And Subcomponents               (US$ Million)                  (US$ Million)
GOT       IDA       Total     GOT       IDA       Total
I. Strengthening National PHN
Systems
A. Health Planning and Policy   0.61      2.03      2.64      0.70       7.66      8.36
Reforms
B. Manpower Development and     1.01      2.45      3.46      0.36      2.84       3.20
Planning
C. Provision of Pharmaceutical  0.63      30.97     31.60     0.68      21.32     22.00
and Medical Supplies and MSD
Reforms
D. Micronutrient Deficiency     0.16      1.45      1.61      0.20       1.71      1.91
Control Program
E. National Population Policy   0.10      0.00      0.10      0.15       0.15      0.30
F. Project Implementation Unit    -         -         -       0.11       1.98      2.09
Subtotal for Comp. I    2.52  36.89      39.41     2.20      35.66     37.86
II. Strengthening Rural
Primary Health Care
A. District Support for           -         -         -        1.90      6.28      8.18
Community PHC Initiatives
B. Strengthening District                                     0.20       3.04      3.24
Referral System                         _
C. Project Support Network       -          -         -       0.10      2.38       2.48
Subtotal for Comp. II   0.56   10.24     10.80      2.20      11.70     13.90
Project Preparation Facility  -      0.50      0.50       -         -          -
Grand Total   3.08     47.62      50.71     4.40      47.37     51.77
Notes: A-includes all activities related to health planning and policy reforms (A-i), health management
information system (A-2), cost sharing program (A-3), and community health funds and national health
insurance (A-4). B-includes all activities related to manpower development and planning (B-l) and the
rehabilitation of five zonal training centers (B-2). C-includes all activities related to pharmaceutical
management and the reform of the Central Medical Stores (C-1), the provision of pharmaceutical and
medical supplies (C-2), and MSD rehabilitation (C-3). Details may not add up to totals due to rounding.



Tanzania Health & Nutrition Project ICR                                            Page 32
Table 10 Status of Legal Covenants
DCA       Description of Covenant    Type  Status   Ori-   Act-           Comments
Refer                                                ginal   ual
-ence                                                Date   Date
Sec.   6 vacant positions filled in MOH    12  CD    July   Sep.  All staff is now in place.
2b,    Planning Department: Public                     1,    30,
p.21   Health Specialist,                            1993   1994
Epidemiologist, Health
Economist, Economist
Sec.   Long Term Health Financing      1      CD    Apr.  June   GOT instituted cost
3.05,  and Action Plan                                30,    30,   sharing in July 1994 and
p.6                                                  1992   1995  has expanded it according
to a phased plan. Options
for formal sector
insurance analyzed and
discussed. Pilot testing
rural prepayment as of
July 1, 1996.
Sec.   Review with IDA study of        12     CD    July   Mar.  MOH contracted SGV &
3.06,  domestic pharmaceuticals                        1,    31,   Co. to do study by end-
p.6    industry and agree on action plan              1992   1996   1994. Draft study January
1995. Impact of study
reviewed in Mar.1996.
Most study recommended
have been acted on.
Sec.   Draft Health Manpower Plan      12      C     Dec.   June   Plans submitted.
3.03,  submitted to IDA.                              31,    20,
p.5                                                  1991   1996
Sec.   Commence implementation of      12     CD    July    Oct.  Part of the plan started
3.03,  Health Manpower Plan                           I,      1,   implementation, e.g.,
p.5                                                  1992   1996  introduction of cost
sharing of medical
training, streamlining of
cadres.
Sec.   Action plan for strengthening   12      C     N.A.   Oct.  MOH has implemented an
3d, p.  Department of Manpower                                31,   acceptable plan.
13 2c,  Development and Training;                            1993
p. 21   criteria for selecting candidates
2d, p.  for external training;
22     disbursement condition for
overseas training (Category 1-F)
Sec.   Satisfactory progress in reforms   12,11   CD    June   Dec.  New MSD regulations
4a,    in pricing, financing budgeting                30,    15,   were disseminated by the
p.13   in procurement of                             1992   1997  GOT Notice No. 348 of
pharmaceuticals for Part I                                  Nov. 1, 1996.
(condition of disbursement on
Category I-E2).



Tanzania Health & Nutrition Project ICR                                           Page 33
Table 10 Status of Legal Covenants (Continued)
DCA       Description of Covenant    Type  Status   Ori-   Act-          Comments
Refe-                                               ginal   ual
rence                                               Date   Date
Sec.   Satisfactory progress in resource   11,02    C  June   Dec.  A new higher schedule for
4a,    mobilization following the Long               30,    15,   cost sharing was
p.13   Term Health Financing Plan in                 1993   1996  announced in Dec. 1996
DA 3.05 (p.6). (Condition of                                and became effective Jan.
disbursement on category 1 -E-                              1, 1997. Cabinet
3).                                                        approved a proposal for
national social insurance
in June 1996 and the
Parliament approved the
National Health Insurance
Act in Apr. 1999. The
CHF pretest was launched
in July 1996, expanded to
6 more districts in 1998,
and is being rolled out to
additional districts in
FY99.
Sec.   Satisfactory progress with new  12     C             July   A joint pharmaceutical
3b,    institutional structure and action                    1,   sector review in Feb. 1997
p.13   plan for Central Medical Stores.                     1994  confirmed substantial
Condition of disbursement for                              progress in this area.
Category l(a)(ii).                                          Some targets in the Master
Plan were outperformed.
Sec.   Tanzania food and nutrition     09     CD    June   Jan.  Completed during mid-
2e,    center protocol for external mid-             30,      1,  term review in Oct. 1994.
p.22   term evaluation of Vitamin A                  1991   1995
and iron deficiency programs
submitted to IDA.
Sec.   Tanzania food and nutrition     09     CD    Dec.   Jan.  Completed during mid-
2e.    evaluation of Vitamin A and iron              31,      1,  term review in Oct. 1994,
p.22   deficiency programs completed.                1992   1995  with reviews conducted
during regular supervision
missions.
Sec.   District Medical Officer in each   12,05    C  June         DMOs have taken this
3b,    district is responsible for                   30,           responsibility in each
p.22   supervision implementation of                 1993          district in the project.
the project in the district.
Sec.   Put officer in charge at District   12, 05    C             Currently the case in all
3c, p.  Hospital in order to relieve                               10 districts.
13;    District Medical Officer of that
4d, p.  responsibility.
23                                   _      _        _



Tanzania Health & Nutrition Project ICR                                           Page 34
Table 10 Status of Legal Covenants (Continued)
DCA       Description of Covenant    Type  Status   Ori-   Act-          Comments
Refer                                                ginal   ual
ence                                                Date   Date
Sec.   Annual District Health Plan for   12,05    C  Nov.          Waived in DCA; basic
3c,    each participating district                   30,           package only.
p.13;  submitted in accordance with                  1991
4d,    agreed DHP guidelines. IDA
p.23   approval required before funds
are released to each district.
Disbursement condition on
payments, by district, beyond the
basic package, for each year of
the project.
Sec.   Annual District Health Plan for   12,05    C    Nov.   May  A two-year plan through
3c,    each participating district                   30,    30,  June 30, 1997 was
p.13;  submitted in accordance with                  1994   1995  received in a timely
4b,    agreed DHP guidelines. IDA                                  manner.
p.23   approval required before funds
released to each district.
Disbursement condition on
payments, by district, beyond the
basic package, for each year of
the project.              _ ______X
Sec.   Account No.6 for health is    12,03,   C                    Currently the case in all
4c,    opened, with DMO first          05                          10 districts (Feb. 1993).
p.23   signatory agent. Disbursements
condition on payments to any
particular district each year.
Sec.   Agreed with IDA on revised      12     C      Dec.   Jan.  Revised PHC agreed with
2f,    PHC strategy, with PHC                        30,    30,  IDA, developed by PHC
p.22;  Secretariat.                                  1990   1992  Secretariat.
4a(I-
IV),
p.22
Sec.   Agreed with IDA on guidelines  05      C      Dec.          Proposed during the kick-
2f,    for rehabilitation of referral                30,           off workshop.
p.22;  system in the 10 selected                     1990
4a(l-  districts.
IV),
p .22_ _                                 _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _  _



Tanzania Health & Nutrition Project ICR                                           Page 35
Table 10 Status of Legal Covenants (Continued)
DCA       Description of Covenant    Type  Status   Ori-   Act-          Comments
Refe-                                               ginal   ual
rence                                               Date   Date
Sec.   Agreed with IDA on list of      05     C      Dec.          First draft provided to
2f,    criteria for evaluating                       30,           Feb. 1993 mission.
p.22   performance of the 10 selected                1990          Application undertaken
districts.                                                  over the following 6
months. Reviews and
adjustments undertaken.
Sec.   Agreed with IDA on guidelines   12,05    C    Dec.   Nov.  National District Health
2f,    for preparation of District Health            30,    30,   Planning Guidelines
p.22;  Plans.                                        1990   1998  completed. Subsequently,
4a (I-                                                             it was developed into
IV),                                                               training modules which
p.22                                                               will be implemented
through zonal training
centers.
Sec.   Agreed with IDA on protocols    09     CD    June   Jan.  Terms of reference for
4e,    for external evaluation of revised            30,    30,   external evaluation have
p.23    PHC                                          1991   1998  been developed.
Sec.   Results of external evaluation  09     NC    Dec.   June  Due to the extension of
4e,    reviewed with IDA.                            31,    30,  the credit, evaluation will
p.23                                                 1992   1999  be carried out in the first
Ihalf of 1999.
Sec.   Increase share of recurrent     11     C      June   June   Substantial increase in
4e,    budget to health sector,                      30,    30,  share of budget, verified
p.23   satisfactory to IDA.                          1991   1998  by update of PER and
SSR.
Sec.   Adopt incentives package for  12,04    C      July    Oct.  Revised incentives for
3.04,  Health Sector Staff.                           I,    31,   health workers
p.6                                                  1991   1992  implemented through
GOT circular in 1990
created many internal
problems in the health
sector, especially between
medical and nonmedical
staff. A revised policy
Iwas put in place in 1993.
Sec.   Intergovemrnent agreement with   05    C      June   June  GOT and SDC have
5,     Swiss Development Cooperation                 30,    30,   successfully completed
p.23   for Component III of the project              1991   1991  phase two and evaluation
(Urban Health)                                             has been done. SDE
agreed to fund phase three
(last phase) for another 3
years.



Tanzania Health & Nutrition Project ICR                                            Page 36
Table 10 Status of Legal Covenants (Continued)
DCA       Description of Covenant     Type  Status   Ori-   Act-          Comments
Refe-                                                ginal   ual
rence                                                Date   Date
Sec.   Joint annual review of the     05,09    C     May   Oct.  Supervision mission.
Ib, p.  project with GOT and IDA.                      1,     4,
21                                                   1991   1991
Sec.   Joint annual review of the     05,09    C     May   July   Supervision mission.
ib,    project with GOT and IDA.                       1,    30,
p.21                                                 1992   1992
Sec.   Joint annual review of the     05,09    C     May   Sep.  Supervision mission.
lb,    Project with GOT and IDA.                       1,    28,
p.21                                                  1993   1993
Sec.   Joint annual review of the     05,09    C     May   Oct.  Supervision mission.
ib,    project with GOT and IDA.                       1,     6,
p.21                                                  1994   1994
Sec.   Joint annual review of the     05,09   CD    May   June   Supervision mission.
lb,    project with GOT and IDA.                       1,    15,
p.21                                                  1995   1995
Sec.   Joint annual review of the     05,09    C     May   Apr.  Supervision mission.
lb,    project with GOT and IDA.                       1,     1,   Completed ahead of due
p.21                                                 1996   1996  date.
Sec.   Staffing of PIU for Component I    05  CD    June   Mar.  All project personnel in
2a,                                                   30,     8,   place. By Dec. 31, 1994,
p.21                                                  1990   1991  all project personnel was
on leave of absence from
civil service. They are
employed as consultants
to the project until project
closing of June 30, 1999.
Sec.   Project management for Project    05   CD    Dec.   June   A new team was put in
3a,    Support Network for Component                  31,    30,   place as of July 1, 1998.
p.22   II.                                            1990   1994  Hired as consultants up to
Dec. 31, 1998.
Sec.   Component I: PIU Audited        01     CD    Mar.  June   Minor questions from
4.Olb  Accounts.                                      31,    31,   auditor.
(1I)                                                  1992   1992
Sec.   Component I: PIU Audited        01     CD    Mar.  July   Minor questions from
4.Olb  Accounts.                                      31,    31,   auditor.
(II)                                                  1993   1993
Sec.   Component I: PIU Audited        01      C     Mar.   Mar.  Minor questions from
4.01 b  Accounts.                                     31,    31,   auditor.
(II)                                                  1994   1994
Sec.   Component I: PIU Audited        01     CD    Mar.   Mar.  Minor questions from
4.Olb  Accounts.                                      31,    31,   auditor.
(II)                                                  1995   1995
This table continues next page.



Tanzania Health & Nutrition Project ICR                                           Page 37
Table 10 Status of Legal Covenants (Continued)
DCA       Description of Covenant    Type  Status   Ori-   Act-          Comments
Refe-                                               ginal   ual
rence                                               Date   Date
Sec.   Component I: PIU Audited        01    CD    Mar.   Mar.  Minor questions from
4.Olb  Accounts.                                     31,      1,   auditor. Complied ahead
(II)                                                 1996   1996  of due date.
Sec.   Component I: PIU Audited        01     CD    Mar.   Apr.  Minor questions from
4.01 b  Accounts.                                    31,    30,   auditor.
(II)                                                 1997   1997
Sec.   Component II: PSN Audited       01     CD    Mar.   Mar.  Minor questions from
4.Olb  Accounts.                                     31,    31,   auditor.
(II)                                                 1992   1993
Sec.   Component 11: PSN Audited       01     CD    Mar.   Mar.  Minor questions from
4.01b  Accounts.                                     31,    31,   auditor.
(11)                                                 1993   1994
Sec.   Component 11: PSN Audited       01     CD    Mar.   Mar.  Minor questions from
4.Olb  Accounts.                                     31,    31,   auditor.
(II)                                                 1994   1995
Sec.   Component II: PSN Audited       01     CD    Mar.   Mar.  Minor questions from
4.Olb  Accounts.                                     31,    31,   auditor.
(II)                                                 1995   1996 1
Sec.   Component IL PSN Audited        01     CD    Mar.  June  Minor questions from
4.Olb  Accounts.                                     31,    20,   auditor.
(_l)    =                                            1996   1996
Sec.   Component II: PSN Audited       01     CD    Mar.   Apr.  Minor questions from
4.Olb  Accounts.                                     31,    30,   auditor.
(II)                                                 1997   1997
Sec.   Adequate budget for project     04     C      May   May   Counterpart funds not a
3.07,  implementation.                                1,      I,   problem.
p.6      _                                           1992   1992
Sec.   Adequate budget for project     04     C      May   May   Counterpart funds not a
3.07,  implementation                                 1,      1,   problem.
p.6                                                  1993   1993
Sec.   Adequate budget for project     04     C      May   May   Counterpart funds not a
3.07,  implementation                                 1,      1,   problem.
p.6                                                  1994   1994
Sec.   Adequate budget for project     04     C      May   May   Counterpart funds not a
3.07,  implementation                                 1,      1,   problem.
p.6                                                  1995   1995
This table continues next page.



Tanzania Health & Nutrition Project ICR                                            Page 38
Table 10 Status of Legal Covenants (Continued)
DCA       Description of Covenant     Type  Status   Ori-   Act-          Comments
Refe-                                                ginal   ual
rence                                                Date   Date
Sec.   Component I: PIU Audited        01      C     Mar.   Mar.  Reports submitted on Mar.
4.01b  Accounts.                                      31,    23,   23, 1998, ahead of due
(II)                                                 1998   1998  date. Minor questions
from auditor.
Sec.   Component I: PIU Audited        01     NC    Mar.
4.01b  Accounts.                                      31,
(II)                                                 1999
Sec.   Component II: PSN Audited       01     CD    Mar.   Apr.  Minor questions from the
4.01b  Accounts.                                      31,     6,   auditor.
(II)                                                 1998   1998
Sec.   Component Il: PSN Audited       01     NC    Mar.
4.Olb  Accounts.                                      31,
(II)                 I_1999
Sec.   Adequate budget for project     04     CD    May
3.07,  implementation.                                 1,
p.6    L____   1997
Sec.   Joint annual review of the    05,09    CD    May   July   Supervision mission
lb,    Project with GOT and IDA.                       1,    11,   carried out during June 11
p.21                                                  1997   1997  -July II, 1997.
Sec.   Joint annual review of the     05,09   CD    May    Sep.  Supervision mission
lb,    Project with GOT and IDA.                       1,     4,   carried out during Aug. 17
p.21                                                 1998   1998  - Sep. 4, 1998.
Covenant Types: I=Accounts/Audits; 2=Financial performance/revenue generation from
beneficiaries; 3=Flow and utilization of project funds; 4=Counterpart funding; 5=Management
aspects of project or executing agency; 6=Environmental covenants; 7=Involuntary resettlement;
8=Indigenous people; 9=Monitoring, review and reporting; 10=Project implementation not covered
by 1-9; 1 1=Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation; 12=Sectoral or cross-
sectoral policy/regulatoryAinstitutional action; 13-Other.
Present Status: C=covenant complied with; CD=complied after delay; CP=complied with partially;
NC=not complied with.



Tanzania Health & Nutrition Project ICR                                           Page 39
Table 11 Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement No. and Title                           Comments
OD 10.60              The Bank requires appropriate accounting policies to ensure accountability
Accounting, Financial   for all funds of the Borrower and submissions of audited fmancial statements
Reporting, and        for each fiscal year from the date agreed at negotiations.
Auditing
Accounts have been maintained for the project.
OD 13.10              The Bank requires Borrower compliance with audit reporting and details the
Borrower Compliance   scope of coverage by the audits.
with Audit Covenants
Audits were submitted for all years, though they tended to be delayed.
OD 6.30               The Bank expects the Borrower to demonstrate commitment to the project by
Local Cost Financing    making a minimum contribution to the project cost (net of taxes and duties)
and Cost Sharing
The Borrower's contribution amounted to 8.5% of total project cost, as
compared to the projected 20% at appraisal.
OD 13.30              The Bank allows, on an exceptional basis, some or all of the project savings
Use of Project Cost   to be used to finance additional project activities not included in the original
Savings               project description, provided that the implementation of the project is
satisfactory (including substantial compliance with the Agreements), the
activities proposed have very high priority, and are consistent with project
objectives, and that they have been fully appraised by Bank staff, and
financing these activities does not violate country limits on cost sharing.
Project savings from exchange rate changes and cheaper procurements were
reallocated to the different project components and subcomponents.
OD 13.30              The Bank may approve for selected disbursements covering only part of a
Extension of Closing  project to permit (aO implementation of some mutually agreed, high priority
Dates                 contracts; (b) the extension of the validity of letters of credit covered by
special commitment; or (c) provision of retention payments, when the
conditions for release (e.g., completion of performance tests or expiration of
warranty period) are met after the closing date.
The Bank allowed 4 months after the project closing date for disbursements
retention payments for a number of procurement contracts.
OD 13.55              The Borrower prepares and makes available to the Bank its own evaluation
ICR Preparation       on the project's execution and initial operation, cost and benefits, the Bank's
and Borrower's performance of their respective obligations under the loan
agreement, and the extent to which the purposes of the loan were achieved;
adopts a plan for the operational phase of the project; and assists the Bank in
ICR preparation.
The MOH and MORALG held a two-day intemal assessment workshop of
the project (the summary of the report is attached to the ICR) and participated
in the ICR preparation with the Bank team.



Tanzania Health & Nutrition Project ICR                                         Page 40
Table 12A Actual Bank Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle                             Costs
US$ '000
Preparation to Appraisal                                             246.2
Appraisal                                                             38.3
Negotiation Through Board Approval                                    19.1
Supervision                                                          1,144.5
Completion                                                _
Total                                                                1,448.1



Tanzania Health & Nutrition Project ICR                                             Page 41
Table 12B Bank Missions
Stage of    Imple-  Dev't   No.  Person-       Skills              Observations
Project Cycle  ment'n Impact  Per    days    Represented
Status         -sons
Identification    -       -     n.a.    n.a.  n.a.
3/1988
Preparation       -       -     n.a.    n.a.  n.a.
5/1988
Preappraisal      -       -     n.a.    n.a.  n.a.
7/1989
Appraisal         -       -      6      n.a.  Specialists in
Mission 10 to                                 public health,
11/1989                                      manpower
development,
pharmaceuticals,
and nutrition
Supervision       3      2       2       10   Economist,     Comp. II is rated satisfactory but
Mission 9/11-                                 public health    Comp. I shows serious weaknesses.
9/20, 1990                                    specialist     Policy reforms in the
pharmaceutical sector not
implemented. MOH reorganization
affects project stability.
Spn. Mission      3       2      1      15   Economist       Comp. I problems remain. Several
2/17-318, 1991                                               policies required for effective
project implementation delayed
since Dec. 1990. PIU head is
perceived too junior. Comp. II is on
____________  L _____                          track.
Spn. Mission      3      2       1       10   Economist      Comp. I & II progress at slow pace.
5/29-6/8, 1991                                               The mission and the planning
department develop proposal for
restructuring the PIU: move it
under the CMO and increase staff.
Mission 09/29-    3       2      4       5   Public health    Lack of progress in meeting legal
10/04 1991                                   specialist,     covenants. Mission agreed not to
economist,    recommend suspension of
manpower       reimbursements to allow the new
specialist     PIU more time to correct problems.
Spn. Mission                     1       8   Public health    Mission supports district health
1/25-2/03, 1992                              specialists     planning through a workshop in
(workshop)                                                   Singida. Several donors
participate, but workshop does not
produce expected outcomes.
Different planning methods
introduced; participants left without
a clear notion of how to choose.
This table continues next page.



Tanzania Health & Nutrition Project ICR                                           Page 42
Table 12B Bank Missions (Continued)
Stage of    Imple-  Dev't   No.  Person-      Skills             Observations
Project Cycle  ment'n Impact  Per   days    Represented
Status         -sons
Spn. Mission     3       2      2       16   Public health   PIU remains weak. New MOH
6/22-7/7, 1992                              specialist,    leadership; policy changes
economist     initiated: revised PHC strategy,
cost sharing, information system,
and pharmaceuticals masterplan.
Challenge is to implement changes
in a coordinated fashion. Comp. II
rated well.
Spn. Mission     3       2      2       13  N.A.           Little implementation progress.
9/14-9/26, 1992                                            MOH proposes reallocation of
credit. MOH/MORALG agree to
procure TA to undertake studies
required, and to strengthen PIU.
Spn. Mission     3       3      4      18  Economists,    PIU is the major bottleneck.
2/1-2/18, 1993                              nutritionist,  Mission recommends development
accountant,    of basic office procedures, annual
Young          business plans, and budgets and to
_______ _______              Professional    use contractors to complete studies.
Spn. Mission     3       3      4      17   Health specialist, Despite agreements in previous
6/21-7/7, 1993                              social sector    mission, consultant to assist PIU
specialist, family and PSN not hired. Budget and
planning       annual plans not developed.
specialist, data
management
specialist
Spn. Mission     3       3      4       6   Economist,     Management problems start to be
9/21-9/27, 1993                              financial     resolved; focus shifts to technical
management   problems including slow progress
specialist, health in Comp. I and low support for
specialist     Comp. II and III. Comp. II seen as
being too rehabilitation-oriented.
In pharmaceuticals, GOT resists
eliminating the public monopoly.
Spn. Mission     2       2      2       8   Economist,    Project performance increase
3/1-3/8, 1994                               health specialist tremendously, with consequent
good ratings for most categories.
Project management capability
being enhanced. The challenge is in
_the organization of technical inputs.
This table continues next page.



Tanzania Health & Nutrition Project ICR                                             Page 43
Table 12B Bank Missions (Continued)
Stage of    Imple-  Dev't   No.  Person-       Skills              Observations
Project Cycle  ment'n Impact  Per    days    Represented
Status         -sons
Midterm Review    2       2      5       12   Social sector    Project management problems
Mission 9/19-                                 specialist,    largely resolved but project still
10/6, 1994                                   economists    focusing too much on rehabilitation
and provision of physical inputs
instead of structural reforms to
increase efficiency. The cost
sharing program and some reforms
in the pharmaceutical sector are the
exceptions.
Spn. Mission      2       2      3       15   Economist,      Improving management should
5/28-6/10, 1995                               operations     allow project to focus on technical
specialist, WB   side to improve delivery of
intern         services.
Spn. Mission      2       2      2       10   Economist,     Project being implemented
10/12-10/19,                                 public health   satisfactorily. All major
1995                   _        _specialist                  construction works underway.
Spn. Mission      3       2      5       7   Economist,      All non-pharmaceutical
3/28-4/3, 1996                                social sector    procurements are at near contract
specialist,    stage. However, financial planning
project        continues to be a problem.
implementation  Rehabilitation of 10 district
assistant,     hospitals not likely to be completed
accountant     by June 30, 1997 as planned.
Spn. Mission      3       2      5       11   Economist,     Mission decides to extend the
4115-4/26, 1996                               social sector    project by two years to allow the
specialist,    CHF and other financing schemes
project        to kick off and provide initial
implementation  results before developing a new
assistant,     project.
accountant
Spn. Mission      3       2      4      20   Economist,      Financial management has
7/25-8/16, 1996                               social sector    improved, but counterpart funds
specialist,    and cumbersome banking
project assistant, procedures continues to cause
accountant     delays.
Spn. Mission      3       2      11    16.18 Health          Major procurements are under
2/3-2/21, 1997                                economist,    implementation. However,
financial      counterpart funds remain a
specialist,    problem. Delays in rehabilitation
operations     of MSD. Erratic GOT funding for
officer, phanna. pharmaceuticals. A Hospital Drug
specialist,    Revolving Fund is proposed.
architect,     HMIS and National Population
accountant.    Policy subcomponents remain
_problematic.
This table continues next page.



Tanzania Health & Nutrition Project ICR                                             Page 44
Table 12B Bank Missions (Continued)
Stage of    Imple-  Dev't   No.  Person-       Skills              Observations
Project Cycle  ment'n Impact  Per    days    Represented
Status         -sons
Spn. Mission      2      2       7     16.43 National Health Counterpart funds remain
6/11-7/11, 1997                               Accounts       problematic. Hospital drug
advisor,       capitalization is a challenge given
operations     limited management and technical
support assistant, capacity in-country. Low salaries
financial      of public servants and abundant
management    donor fnancing may be
specialist,    encouraging "rent-seeking"
pharmaceutical  activities. Project has improved
specialist     implementation but evaluation is
needed especially of impact.
Spn. Mission      2       2      4       17   Operations     Counterpart funds have not been a
1/12-1/30, 1998                              specialist, health problem in the FY. Progress in
economist,     HMIS and cost sharing. GOT
financial      proposes a 12 months extension to
management    utilize credit balance from savings
specialist     for reform-related activities.
Spn. Mission      2       2      7    17.86 Sr. public health Implementation is satisfactory.
8/17-9/4, 1998                                specialist,    Credit was extended from April
economist,     1998 to June 1999. Study of cost-
health         sharing in 7 hospitals shows that
economist,     25-60% of revenue is not collected.
operations     Evaluation of the impacts of the
specialist,    CHF on the poor is required.
financial
management
specialist
Last Spn.         2       2      3       15   Sr. public health Most activities on track. Project
Mission 3/15-                                specialist,     used as launch-pad for new credit.
3/25, 1999                                    economist,
health economist
ICR Mission       2       2      2       10   Health         Overall project is rated satisfactory.
9/6-9/10, 1999                                economist,     However, evaluation have focused
(ICR workshop)                                health specialist on implementation and little is
known about project impacts on the
health status of the population.
Overall for       2       2      3.7    12.8
supervision                    persons person-
period                         per spn  days
mission per spn
mission
Key for ratings: 4=highly unsatisfactory; 3=unsatisfactory; 2=satisfactory; 1=highly satisfactory



Tanzania Health & Nutrition Project ICR                             Page 45
APPENDIX A - COMPLETION MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE
ICR Mission for the Health and Nutrition Project
(Cr. 20980)
1.    A World Bank team consisting of Emmanuel Malangalila (AFTMZ), Barney
Laseko (AFTMZ), and Oscar Picazo (AFTH1) worked with Tanzania's Ministry of
Health (MOH) between September 6 and 10, 1999 to assist the MOH prepare for its
contribution towards the formulation of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) of
the Health and Nutrition (H&N) Project which was closed on June 30, 1999. The team
wishes to acknowledge the excellent cooperation provided by the MOH and the Ministry
of Regional Administration and Local Government (MRALG) for this ICR mission.
2.    The mission noted that MOH has completed most of the statistical tables required
to be annexed to the ICR including the project timetable; the inventory of studies,
training, workshops/seminars, and study tours funded under the project; and the status of
legal covenants. Bank resident mission staff are completing the financial tables (project
financing, project costs and expenditures by category and by component) and these are
expected to be completed shortly. Bank HQ staff will complete the tables pertaining to
Bank staff inputs; the listing of all the missions undertaken during project identification,
appraisal, and supervision; and the table on compliance with operational manual
statements.
3.   In conjunction with the field visit for the appraisal of the new Tanzania Health
Sector Support Project, the ICR mission also visited the H&N Project-supported PHC
Institute (one of the five government zonal training centers in Tanzania) and the Medical
Supplies Department zonal store, both in Iringa Municipality. These two facilities are
now providing the required training and medical supply services to their respective
catchment areas. The mission's visit to the Isimani health center and to the Iringa
Regional Hospital confirmed that indeed drugs are available, but this may be a function
of the financing mechanism that have been put in place in these two facilities. The
Isimani health center has established a Community Health Fund, which has allowed the
facility to have supplemental drugs in addition to the monthly drug kit. On the other
hand, the Iringa Regional Hospital has established a Drug Revolving Fund under the
hospital drug capitalization program. Some MOH officers, however, noted that facilities
without financing mechanisms still suffer from infrequent drug supplies.
4.    The mission also met with the project coordinator of the recently-ended Dar Es
Salaam Urban Health Project, funded by the Swiss Development Corporation, which was
conceived as Component 3 of the H&N Project and was implemented as parallel-
financing. The project was implemented in three phases in three urban districts between
1991 and 1999, and activities are being integrated into the regular work of the Dar Es
Salaam City Council. Evaluation of Phases I and II of the project have been completed.
From all indications, this Component appears to have been very successful in
rehabilitating and supplying health facilities, motivating health workers, introducing cost
sharing and Bamako Initiatives, and pioneering the implementation of Local Government



Tanzania Health & Nutrition Project ICR                             Page 46
Reform through the establishment of facility health boards and district health boards,
which were approved by both MOH and MRALG. Key lessons learned under this
Component will be documented and annexed to the ICR.
5.    From September 6-7, 1999 the World Bank team participated in the two-day ICR
workshop organized by the MOH and the MRALG and held at the NIC Training Center
in Mikocheni which brought together 47 program managers and staff involved in
implementing the various components and sub-components of the H&N Project. During
the ICR workshop, the mission explained the objectives of the ICR and the content of the
report, the required inputs for the completion of the report, the schedule for the
completion of these inputs, and the respective responsibilities of the MOH and project
implementing agencies as well as IDA staff. The ICR workshop provided an internal
MOH/MRALG assessment of the achievement of project objectives, achievement of
component outcomes, the sustainability of project-supported activities and initiatives,
Bank and Borrower performance under the project, and lessons learned under the project
(which are also being applied in the subsequent IDA operation). GOT will produce the
proceedings of this workshop and submit it to IDA as input into the ICR.
6.    Participants to the GOT internal assessment workshop provided the following
ratings:
(a) For Borrower/GOT performance: deficient for project preparation, satisfactory for
project implementation, satisfactory for project covenant compliance, and satisfactory
for operation. For Bank performance: satisfactory for project identification, deficient
for project preparation, deficient for project appraisal, and satisfactory for project
supervision. The explanations for these ratings are detailed in the workshop
proceedings being prepared by the MOH. The participants also noted that the H&N
Project was the first project engaged in by both the GOT and the Bank in Tanzania
and that the project was identified, prepared and negotiated under very difficult
circumstances (fiscal and foreign exchange crisis; scanty information on the sector;
and evolving policy regime from free/government provision of health services to one
that involves 'cost sharing' and privatization.)
(b) Overall, the project was rated 'satisfactory' and project outcome 'substantial' for
most project components, except for the latter period (1996-98) of the population
policy and planning subcomponent which was deemed of 'negligible' outcome. Most
project activities were rated 'likely' to be sustainable, especially those relating to
health financing, health planning and policy, MSD and pharmaceutical reforms, and
health information system. Activities rated of 'uncertain' sustainability include the
human resource development plan, maintenance for civil works, and community
mobilization under the rural PHC subcomponent.
7.    Based on the available documentation reviewed and discussions held with GOT
officers and staff involved in the project, the IDA mission concurs in general with the
GOT assessment on Bank and Borrower performance, as well as the overall project rating
of 'satisfactory'. The mission also agrees with most of the GOT's outcome ratings and
likelihood of sustainability of specific components and subcomponents of the project.
IDA will conduct a more careful review of the project's internal documents to validate
these ratings.



Tanzania Health & Nutrition Project ICR                             Page 47
8.   In addition to the MOH internal assessment, an external evaluation of the project
is slated to be conducted in October 1999 to support the ICR process. This activity will
be funded under the Project Preparation Facility (PPF). The MOH informed the mission
that an independent consulting firm will conduct the evaluation. The mission
underscored the very tight schedule of completing this activity, and the critical necessity
of getting the results and findings from this evaluation as soon as possible as these will be
used in the ICR. The external evaluation will provide independent assessment of the
project in addition to other assessments that are available, e.g.:
*  Program-specific evaluation of Component 1 activities, i.e., Cost Sharing Program
and Community Health Fund pretests. The mission also noted MOH plan to conduct
an evaluation of the Hospital Drug Capitalization Program.
*  Internal evaluation of Component 2.
*  Evaluation of Phases I and II of Component 3.
*  OED evaluation of the pharmaceutical sector.
*  DANIDA assessment of the Medical Stores Department and the pharmaceutical
sector in general.
*  Quality Assurance Group (QAG) report on the H&N Project.



Tanzania Health & Nutrition Project ICR                             Page 48
Next Steps - The following are the agreed next steps between GOT and the IDA mission:
Action                   Responsibility      I By When
Completion and submission of the     MOH                  Sept. 17, 1999
proceedings of the ICR workshop to IDA
Completion of all required ICR tables to   MOH and IDA    Sept. 24, 1999
be annexed
External evaluation of the project   To be supervised by
*  Opening of financial bids         MOH                  Sept. 15, 1999
*  Evaluation of combined financial and
technical bids                                         Sept. 22, 1999
*  MOH submission of contractors' bids
for IDA no-objection                                   Sept. 24, 1999
*  IDA response to no-objection request
* Notification of winning contractor                      Sept. 30, 1999
*  Contract negotiation                                   Oct. 1, 1999
*  Start of contractor work                               Oct. 8, 1999
*  First draft of external evaluation report              Oct. 15, 1999
*  GOT comments                                          Nov. 19, 1999
*  Final external evaluation report                       Nov. 26, 1999
Completion of first draft of ICR and  IDA                 Nov. 10, 1999
distribution to Tanzania Country Team
Tanzania Country Team review of ICR  IDA                  Nov. 22, 1999
draft
Submission of ICR draft to GOT for   Review by MOH,       Nov. 26, 1999
review                               MRALG, other
agencies
Completion of final ICR incorporating  IDA                Dec. 10, 1999
GOT comments and final IDA review
Printing and distribution of ICR     IDA                  Dec. 15, 1999



Tanzania Health & Nutrition Project ICR                             Page 49
APPENDIX B - PROCEEDINGS OF THE MOH AND MRALG INTERNAL
ASSESSMENT WORKSHOP FOR THE H&N PROJECT
A. Introduction
1.    This report summarizes the proceedings of the Internal Assessment Workshop
jointly sponsored by the MOH and MRALG to assess the end-of-project status of the
IDA-funded Health and Nutrition Project which closed on June 30, 1999. The workshop
was organized in time for the IDA mission for the preparation of the Implementation
Completion Report (ICR) of the project. The workshop was held from September 6-7,
1999 at the NIC Training Center in Mikocheni area, Dar es Salaam and was attended by
40 participants (see list below) from both ministries who were involved in the project,
representatives from the districts, selected consultants, and IDA staff who acted as
facilitators. The objectives of the workshop were to assess the achievement of project
objectives; prospects for the sustainability of project activities; Bank and Borrower
performance of their respective obligations under the credit agreement; and
Government's plan for the project's future operation.
2.    The project had 3 components managed separately by different agencies:
Component I dealing largely on policy and institutional development in health under
MOH; Component II dealing on rural PHC under MRALG; and Component III dealing
on urban PHC in Dar es Salaam, which was managed by the City Council with parallel
financing from the Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation (SDC). The H&N
Project was the first that IDA financed in Tanzania's health sector. During the 9 years
that the project was implemented, it saw 5 World Bank task managers, 7 MOH PS's and
2 MRALG PS's, 3 MOH project coordinators for Component I, and 2 MRALG project
coordinators for Component II. There was no logframe when the project was designed
but it underwent a logframe "retrofitting" exercise in 1997, which sequenced the various
project activities in a logical manner indicating goals and objectives, measurable
indicators, means of verification, and assumptions and risks.
3.   In the group sessions, participants were organized into 7 groups according to
project subcomponents as follows: (a) Control and Prevention of Micronutrient
Deficiency + Implementation of Population Policy; (b) Health Manpower Planning +
Health Planning and Policy Formulation; (c) Health Financing; (d) Drug Procurement
and Pharmaceutical Sector Reforms + Health Management Information System; (e)
Strengthening of Rural/District Primary Health Care; (f) Civil Works; and (g) Project
Management. Each group was assigned a common set of questions. The groups were
provided with the project logical framework, statistical information on project
accomplishments, and other data as source documents. On the second day, workshop
participants assessed the project objectives and Bank and Borrower performance under
the project. Participants were organized at random into 4 groups which were assigned a
common set of questions.
4.    Overall, workshop participants gave a satisfactory rating for the project. The
unsatisfactory status of the project in its first three years led to a project redesign that
dramatically improved performance to satisfactory level throughout most of its middle



Tanzania Health & Nutrition Project ICR                                      Page 50
years, and highly satisfactory in the last couple of years. Supporting this rating were the
following observations: (a) Subcomponent implementors were clear of the project
development objectives and all worked hard to achieve them. (b) Annual workplans
facilitated coordination of the many subcomponents of the complex project. (c) Project
achievements were either substantial or satisfactory because the support system and
technical assistance provided by IDA in the areas of disbursements, supervision, and the
conduct of operational and technical studies. (d) Substantial capacity building for
implementation was provided in the form of on-the-job training, formal training and
logistical support (vehicles, equipment, communication, etc.) (e) Sustainability of the
H&N Project is likely in terms of human resources, considering the number of people
trained under the project. (f) Project achievement was a result of substantial government
commitment to the project. However, the project had too many conditionalities which
affected the pace of implementation especially in the first three years.
B. Achievement of Project Development Objectives
5.    Achievement of project objectives were rated by groups as substantial, partial, or
negligible in terms of the various objectives as shown in Table B-1. Overall, the groups
rated the project's meeting its development objectives as substantial.
Table B-1: Achievement of Project Objectives
Objectives        Group 1    Group 2    Group 3    Group 4    Plenary
Macro policies         Substantial  Substantial  Substantial  Substantial  Substantial
Health sector policies   Substantial  Substantial  Substantial  Substantial  Substantial
Financial objectives    Substantial    Partial    Substantial  Substantial  Substantial
Institutional dev't      Partial    Substantial  Substantial  Substantial  Substantial
Physical objectives    Substantial  Substantial Substantial  Substantial Substantial
Poverty reduction        Partial     Partial    Not applic.    Partial     Partial
Gender issues            Partial     Partial    Not applic. Not applic.    Partial
Other social obj.      Negligible  Substantial    Partial    Negligible    Partial
Environmental obj.    Substantial    Partial    Substantial Not applic.    Partial
Public sector mgt.       Partial     Partial    Substantial  Substantial    Partial
Private sector dev't    Not applic. Not applic. Not applic.  Substantial Not applic.
Note: There was no plenary agreement on what should be rated 'partial' or 'not applicable'. In
certain cases, 'partial' meant that the objective under consideration was not central to or a direct
concern of the project, or alternatively that the project only achieved its targets partially under
that objective. In other cases, if that objective was not central to or a direct concern of the
project, then it was rated 'not applicable'. In any case, the above table summarizes what was
reported during the plenary discussion, but caution should be exercised in the interpretation of
these two ratings which were often used interchangeably.



Tanzania Health & Nutrition Project ICR                             Page 51
Source: Internal Assessment Workshop, Day 2
* Macro policies - Government health expenditures substantially increased from
6% in the 1980s to 12% in 1997/98. Various alternative health financing options
have been developed, tested and implemented (e.g., CSP, CHF, NHI).
* Sector policies - Key sector policies were developed under the project, e.g., fee
policy at government facilities, HMIS, pharmaceutical sector reform, and Human
Resource for Health Development.
* Financial objectives - Substantial achievements were achieved in financial
resource mobilization through CSP, CHF, and drug capitalization, thus reducing
the financing gap in the sector. Funds have been mobilized from various sources,
e.g., donor funds, countepart funds, and community contributions through user
fees, prepayments, and in-kind. However, in some cases, there were some delays
in GOT provision of counterpart funds.
* Institutional development - District health planning were introduced in the 10
districts under the project. DHMTs and DHBs have been established in the focus
districts. However, DHMTs are yet to fully manage PHC programs under their
jurisdictions. The MSD has been made autonomous.
* Physical objectives - Substantial achievements were achieved in the rehabilitation
of health facilities, e.g., MSD central office and zonal stores; zonal training
centers; and district hospitals, health centers and dispensaries in the 10 districts.
However, the rehabilitation plan did not cover all the requirements, e.g.,
incinerators at health centers and dispensaries. Acquisition of medical equipment,
drugs, and supplies was effected as planned, except in the case of Tender #7.
* Poverty reduction - There were no direct verifiable indicators on poverty set
during project design, although improvement of health status contributes to
poverty reduction.
D Gender issues - There were no direct verifiable indicators on gender set during
project design; the project was targeted at the entire population especially in the
focus districts.
* Other social objectives - During project implementation, social cohesion was
promoted in focus districts through CHFs, day-care centers, and shallow well
construction.
* Environmental objectives - These were not specified in the project. However,
incinerators were built in the 10 district hospitals.
* Public sector management - Examples include the autonomization of MSD, the
establishment of DHBs in the focus districts, and the implementation of district
health plans.
* Private sector development - These were not specified in the project but certain
financing schemes (CHF, health insurance) promotes private sector financing.
C. Achievement of Component Outcomes and Sustainability
6.    Project outcome was rated substantial for Micronutrients, Health Planning and
Policy, Human Resource Development, Pharmaceutical Sector Reforms, Health
Financing, and Civil Works (Table B-2). Achievements were less dramatic for Health
Information System, and negligible for the latter years of Population Policy and Planning.



Tanzania Health & Nutrition Project ICR                             Page 52
Table B-2: Assessment of Outcome and Sustainability of Project Subcomponents
Subcomponents                     Rated       Likelihood of
Outcome    Sustainability
Control and Prevention of Micronutrient Deficiency  Substantial  Likely
Implementation of Population Policy               Mixed        Note Rated
Health Planning and Policy Formulation          Substantial      Likely
Health Manpower Planning and Policy and Human
Resource Development
Health Manpower Planning and Policy          Substantial      Likely
Human Resource Development                   Substantial     Uncertain
Health Information System                       Not Rated        Likely
Health Financing                                Substantial      Likely
Drug Procurement and Pharmaceutical Sector      Substantial      Likely
Reforms
Strengthening Rural Primary Health Care
Rural PHC                                    Substantial      Mixed
District PHC                                 Substantial      Mixed
Civil Works                                     Substantial    Uncertain
Project Management                              Substantial      Likely
Source: Internal Assessment Workshop, Day 1
7.    Micronutrient Deficiency Control: Speed of implementation in this
subcomponent was due largely to the autonomy of the implementing institution that
reduced bureaucratic obstacles and provided sound financial management. The
subcomponent has established a micronutrient surveillance system, but monitoring and
evaluation need to be strengthened.
8.    Health Policy and Planning + Human Resources Development: Financial
sustainability is uncertain since the department depends on the Government budget to
implement the activities including the Five Years Plan. Although the project did train
staff for the DHO and zonal centers, still the capacity is low in terms of quality. District
training is likely to be sustained because the districts will have funds under
decentralization and will be trained at the zonal centers and elsewhere. Study on long-
term financing of the health sector has been completed through a combination of various
studies on Cost-sharing, Health insurance, CHF, Drug revolving Fund, etc. Challenge is
how to retain and sustain the capacity already built in the Planning Department.
9.    MSD and HMIS: Sustainability of HMIS as any other management information
system is dependant on the level of financing. Block grants to districts pose uncertainity
for districts to purchase drugs from MSD, What incentives could MSD provide to get
districts buy drugs from them? May be distribution of drugs to districts by MSD could be



Tanzania Health & Nutrition Project ICR                               Page 53
an incentive. Patient waiver and exemptions pose uncertainties for sustainability of the
drug revolving fund.
10.   Health Financing: Has reduced the financing gap in the health sector. Has
increased community awareness and participation in financing and management for
health. Has contributed decentralizing decision making in the health sector. Has met
community expectations for drugs. Has proven community willingness to pay provided
the system is transparent. The matching element is unlikely to be sustained without
government/donor support. There is over-expectation of benefit package and hence
tendency of over-utilization of services. Matching is not necessarily a motivation but
people are interested in the quality of services rendered.
11.   Rural PHC: Most of the project support was on the rehabilitation of
infrastructures and PHC interventions. There is pronounced community participation for
rehabilitation, but rehabilitated health facilities need to be strengthened with relevant
staff, equipment and drugs. Very specialized equipment should be acquired by selective
tendering rather than ICB to avoid getting substandard equipment.
12.   Civil Works: The project was not meant to put up new structures but in the
process of rehabilitation, it involved also putting up new structures in case of technical
necessity. Maintenance of the rehabilitated facilities will be achieved if funds will be
allocated for this purpose. Pronounced community participation experienced. The
estimate for rehabilitation of a dispensary was Tsh 10 million, for health centers was
Tshs 38 million and for the hospitals was Tshs 250 million. The quality of the
rehabilitation which also includes the community participation of the local community
was satisfactory.
13.   Project Management: The project started slowly because of difficulty
experienced by project staff regarding World Bank procurement procedures. Frequent
changes of managers (Task Managers, Project Coordinators, and Permanent Secretaries)
contributed to implementation delay. In 1994/95 and 1995/96 there was inadequate
counterpart funding which lead to problems in implementation of the project (which led
to the suggestion to integrate this capacity into SWAp). There is a need for the MOH and
the MRALG to utilize the capacity which has been built during the implementation of the
project in the future project/programs.
D. Assessment of Bank Performance
14.   Workshop participants rated Bank performance as satisfactory for project
identification, deficient for preparation, deficient for appraisal, and satisfactory for
supervision (Table B-3). This was the first IDA project in Tanzania's health sector; as
such it had very little experience in the country to go by. On hindsight, it also appears
that the IDA project identification team was unable to use IDA experiences in other
countries to advise GOT of good practices. Stakeholder consultations were scanty, and
IDA placed too many covenants and conditionalities on the project. Implementation was
extremely difficult and supervision was unsatisfactory for the project's first three years.
Frequent changes of task manager may also have contributed to delays in decision
making. As the project progressed, supervision improved and by the last two years of the



Tanzania Health & Nutrition Project ICR                                     Page 54
project, supervision was being rated highly satisfactory, with IDA providing sufficient
technical assistance for these latter years.
Table B-3: Assessment of Bank Performance
Project Stage    Group 1      Group 2       Group 3       Group 4       Plenary
Identification   Deficient    Not rated     Deficient      Highly      Satisfactory
satisfactory
Preparation      Deficient    Deficient    Not rated    Satisfactory    Deficient
Appraisal        Deficient    Not rated     Not rated    Satisfactory    Deficient
Supervision     Satisfactory   Satisfactory   Satisfactory  Highly     Satisfactory
satisfactory
Note: In some cases, groups declined to provide ratings due to their lack of institutional memory
on what transpired during the early years of the project, or their inability to reach a consensus
within the group of a quantitative rating.
Source: Internal Assessment Workshop, Day 2
E. Assessment of Borrower Performance
15.   Workshop participants rated Borrower performance as deficient for preparation,
satisfactory for implementation, satisfactory for covenant compliance, and satisfactory
for operation (Table B-4). Being the first IDA credit in the sector, GOT took some time
to learn how to implement such a project. Too many covenants put forward by IDA were
accepted by GOT without a thorough understanding of their implications. Frequent
changes of Permanent Secretaries and Project Coordinators in the two implementing
Ministries contributed to delays in decision making.
Table B-4: Assessment of Borrower Performance
Project Stage     Group 1      Group 2    Group 3    Group 4           Plenary
Preparation       Deficient    Not rated    Not rated      Highly       Deficient
Satisfactory
Implementation   Satisfactory   Satisfactory   Not rated   Satisfactory   Satisfactory
Covenant         Satisfactory   Satisfactory   Not rated   Satisfactory   Satisfactory
compliance
Operation        Satisfactory   Satisfactory   Not rated   Highly      Satisfactory
satisfactory
Note: In some cases, groups declined to provide ratings due to their lack of institutional memory
on what transpired during the early years of the project, or their inability to reach a consensus
within the group of a quantitative rating.



Tanzania Health & Nutrition Project ICR                              Page 55
Source: Internal Assessment Workshop, Day 2
16.   Despite initial difficulties, GOT commitment to the project and to the sector in
general lead to successful implementation of project activities. GOT succeeded in
mobilizing and sensitizing communities to participate in the implementation of specific
subcomponents, e.g. contribution of available local materials in facility rehabilitation,
community contributions in CHF, which created awareness and ownership.
Multisectoral involvement was also a key ingredient of successful project
implementation, especially in the latter years. Manpower development and capacity
building was achieved during the project implementation. GOT fulfilled all project
covenants. There were delays in the fulfillment of covenants in the early years since
reasonable time was needed to familiarize with IDA conditionalities. Generally, project
operations were undertaken satisfactorily. However, there is a need for addressing
further to the sustainable measures in order to arrive at the intended objective.
F. Lessons Learned
17.   The key lessons learned form this project are as follows: (a) Frequent changes in
project management as well as IDA task management jeopardizes smooth
implementation. (b) Mutual understanding between partners is a prerequisite for success
in project implementation. (c) Timely availability of resources facilitates the
implementation of planned activities. (d) Major reforms to effect and sustain policy
changes require political, legal, and administrative backing. (e) For successful project
implementation, conditionalities should be reduced to the barest minimum. (f) In the
design of any prepayment scheme, it is important to consider members' willingness and
ability to pay. (g) Issues of equity and modalities of reimbursing health facilities for the
foregone income from the granting of waivers and exemption should be addressed. (h)
Community participation is crucial to ensure the sustainability of both prepayment
schemes and rehabilitation programs. (i) ICB is not necessarily the optimum
procurement method for specialized hospital instruments and equipment, especially for a
country like Tanzania with limited pre-shipment and post-shipment inspection capability.
One ICB resulted in the procurement of substandard goods which, on hindsight, could
have been avoided if the experience and advise of the Ministry Tender Board in favor of
selective tendering procedures were considered. (j) Operating through L/C can be more
expensive and laborious than effecting direct payment against shipping documents. (k)
With good choice of local contractors at national level, quality results for rehabilitation
can be achieved.
Table B-5: List of Participants to the MOH and MORALG Internal Assessment
Workshop
Name                     Title                    Institution
W.B. Bategeki         PPO                         TFNC
S.K.M. Bituro         Health Insurance Specialist    MOH/HIIT
H.M. Gondwe           Local Government            MORALG
Commissioner



Tanzania Health & Nutrition Project ICR                               Page 56
A. Hingora            Head, PHC Secretariat       MOH
Peter A. Ilomo        Economist, CSP              MOH
Y.A. Ipuge            HDS                         MOH
S.B. Kahitwa          Project Coordinator,        MORALG/PSN
Component II
J.T. Kahwa            Project Engineer            MRALG/PSN
Adolph Kapinga         Senior Researcher          Muhimbili University College
of Health Sciences
S.L. Kibaja           Sr. Financial Mgt. Officer  MOF
Regina L. Kikuli      Head, Budget Section        MOH
S. Kimboka            Department Director         TFNC
Agnes Kinemo          Training Officer            MOH
Barney Laseko         Portfolio Mgt. Specialist   World Bank
Mussa A. Lupatu       Managing Director           Merit International, Ltd.
Emmanuel Malangalila  Public Health Specialist    World Bank
M.K.K. Mapunda         Senior Economist           MOH/HIIT
R.M. Marealle         Engineer                    MOH
Gradeline Minja       Health Economist            MOH/HIIT
E.M. Mjema            Senior Statistician         Planning Commission
A.H. Mkini            Executive Secretary         MOH
K.A. Mmuni            Consultant, CHF             MOH/CHF
Christopher Msemo     Director of Procurement     MOH
J.O. Mtalo            Architect                   MOH
Magessa Mugusi        Coordinator, DRF            MOH/DRF
J. Mutayoba           Health Secretary            MOH
S.E.L. Ndandala       PPO-PPT                     MOH
B.T. Ndawi            Director, Primary Health Care  MOH
Institute
M. Ndomondo           Registrar, Pharmacy Board    MOH
S.E. Ngatunga         Head, Health Management    MOH
Information System
F.N. Njau             Project Coordinator,        MOH/PIU
Component I
M. Nyantahe           Accountant                  MOH
Abdallah Omar          Statistician               Planning Commission
Oscar F. Picazo       Health Economist            World Bank
J.K. Senge            Project Manager             MRALG/PSN
D. Simba              TTO-HMIS                    MOH
Rogatian M. Shirima   Coordinator, CHF            MOH/CHF
I.G. Voniatis         Accountant                  MOH
A.K. Wantiko          Project Accountant          MRALG/PSN
Key: TFNC=Tanzania Food and Nutrition Council; PSN=Project Support Network



Tanzania Health & Nutrition Project ICR                                 Page 57
APPENDIX C - BORROWER'S COMMENTS ON THE ICR



THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
Telegrams: AFYA", DAR ES SALAAM                                        P.O. Box 9083,
Telephone: 20261                                                    DAR ES SALAAM
(All letters should be addrcssed to
the Principal Secretary)
In reply please quote:
Ref. No. HEU/20/lINVol.11/60                                      14 December 1999
Chiyo Kanda,
Economist,
Human Development Group I,
Africa Region.
COMMENTS ON THE DRAFT ICR IDA Cr. 2098-TA
We are in receipt of the above draft ICR report and having gone through the contents, the
government would like to submit the following comments.
1.    The report reflects a true picture of the evolution of the H&NP, its problems from inception
to the date of credit closure. The chronology of events and lessons learned gives us enough focus
and experience of undertaking similar arrangements with the World Bank, However, we would like
to rectifv some of the few factual errors reflected in the report; Paragraph 4; the performance of
Population Policy Unit should not be assessed within the health and Nutriton Project resources
only. If it is looked in the context of other resources the unit managed to develop the population
policy and implement some of the activities of the policy in the Family Planning programme.
Paragraph 25:The current Health and Nutrition Project co-ordinator for component I is the third co-
ordinator and not the fifth. Table 7A: Development of fee structure and alternative provider
payment scheme for NHI Program was undertaken in June 1999.
2.    Apart from these corrections we would like to raise the following comments. Table 10 on
STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS span from page XXX to page XXXVI - six pages of appendix
A of the Aide memoire these array of conditionalities would have surprised any body and scare off
the implementors. Why so many covenants, and whether they were at all useful is subject for
evaluation. These covenants at best helped to create the mistrust and suspicion which lingered on
during the first years of project implementation. It would be wise to avoid such blocking
conditionalities in the next programme.
3.    We take note that this draft ICR is completed before the Project is Externally Evaluated, thus
it misses an important input which would have otherwise been obtained if the Evaluation was
completed first.
4.    Para 26 of Appendix A pg. Vii, on Procurement: Specifically on Tender No. 7 of 1997/98 -
Medical Instruments, it is not true that capacity to procure was not there. The problem lies with the
rigidity of IDA adherence to the procurement Guidelines which appear to be "cast on Stone"



5.   The procurement team in understanding the speciality of these instruments,
their importance for the delivery of Health care to patients, asked IDA to approach
the procurement through shortlisting of well known manufacturers of these
instruments and sophisticated equipment but IDA refused. During the process, the
wilning bidder offered exceptionally low prices for these equipment (the prices were
obviously an outlier in any known normal distribution curve). Once again the IDA
was informed of this anomialy and the wish of the Tender Board to award the contract
to the one with more reasonable pricing indicators.
6.   This move was as it was once again blocked by IDA. These anomalies
question the robustness of the World Bank procurement guidelines and their
universal application regardless. Pre shipment and post shipment inspections,
however strong will not be able to resolve these discrepancies as is being suggested.
There is a need for the procurement process of medical instruments and technical
equipment to prequalify or short list the suppliers. The World Bank guidelines
appear to have an objective to ensuring fairness to the suppliers to the expense of
purchasers objective of quality goods and value for money spent. It is reflected that
procurement of technical assistance still leaves much to be desired, especially for
quality and cost-based selection and is recommending that in the intei-n procurement
should be through a procurement Agent. We note that statement generically
appeared in the August/September Aide memoire for HSDP appraisal mission where
procurement agent for the Ministry of Health was proposed but rejected. This is an
ICR for the concluded Health and Nutrition Project IDA Cr. 2098 TA. where as it
is reflected in Table 7A: STUDIES CONDUCTED UNDER THE PROJECT pg xxii
most of the consultants were recruited through QCBS with a no objection from IDA
we received Teclmical Assistance from IDA as required but the issue of the weakness
on the QCBS was not raised then. The weakness in reference can only be applied to
HSDP under PPF, where we have received different advices from the World Bank
and with the anticipated time constraint of the closing of PPF, it would be next to
impossible to pursue QCBS without being time barred. No comment were made on
the procurement cycle tabled with the PPF plan. These discrepancies may not be
sufficient reason of putting a procurement agent upfront, watering down the principle
of on demand basis or pull system. A procurement Agent is an expensive affair and
is not sustainable in absence of a donor to meet the costs. Under the ended Health
and Nutrition Project, we used procurement agents on demand Hifab International
for TFNC component and Comp.II, UNICEF for Drugs and IAPSO for office
supplies and computers for Comp.I. The fees involved were exorbitant and unlikely
to be sustainable. It is also in records that Hifab International failed as an agent to
assist TFNC to procure oil processing Machine (a capacity issues as well) till TFNC
solicited its own bids and handed the process by local staff. This reminds us that
procurement agents are not a panacea solution to the all procurement issues.
c CfllalJcrtnI,,mr III



7.   Para 29 of Appendix A pg. IX on late completion of civil works! It was
explained that late completion was due to poor accessibility to the project sites due
to Elnino Rains which damaged the road infrastructure and not only the rehabilitation
programme completion to be delayed but also all other activities in the area. This fact
was crossed over to the mission during the ICR workshop.
8.   Para 37 of the report Appendix A hazard that "Issues have been raised with
respect to Local Government reforms Program . ....... block grants to purchase drugs
for their facilities . ..... May authorize local authorities to purchase drugs elsewhere,
creating uncertainty in MSD's present captive market". We all know that Drugs and
Medical supplies are the most sensitive input items in the health care system. We
also know the Local Government reform Programme has checks and balances and
under HSRP - strategy 5 addresses issues of central support which include but not
limited to drugs supplies and management system. There is a system in place for
procurement to ensure qualif,v and potency of drugs.
9.   If all 114 districts were to be left alone to buy drugs elsewhere, the exercise
would be very expensive, and uneconomical as economies of scale will be lost.
Secondly the quality of drugs from the elsewhere can not be assured.
10.  On the issue of Drugs Revolving Fund and the 50% policy of recovery, it is
too early to say "........ inhibits the development of fully refinancing mechanism", The
RDF - Capitalization programme is subject to evaluation hopefully in January. It is
until then we can make firm statements on the programme. The commitment of the
government to increase its budgetary allocation to the Health Sector and other social
sectors is known. We believe that one of the areas to allocate such funds is to offset
the drugs deficit under RDF.
11.  Para 40 pg Xii - This paragraph notes that, sustainability of the health system
remains fragile and recommends serious stoclc-taking within GOT needs to occur on
the optimal size of the health system that the country and its donors - partners can
afford!! We thought the process of reforming the sectors, including MORALG,
HSR, and the changing role of the Government including the Civil Service refonns
are a direction towards that end. The per capita expenditure on the health service is
less than US$7 including out of pocket spending (Private financing) The intention
of the HSR agenda is to increase resource allocation in this sector. Since we have
PoWlPoAJPAID and HSR - proposals, we need to work within this approved frame
work if we wish to advise better methods of viewing the sector.
12.  Para 44:- Having observed the fact that the work done on the 10 districts on
rehabilitation barely scratched the surface, out of 114 districts, one would have
expected a recommendation to have activities of rehabilitation in the HSDP forth
coming incrementally to address the obvious problem. No where in this report, this
recommendation is addressed.
i -*njaucrcwrtltz; 1:1       3



13.  The MRALG stresses on necessity for involvement and support of the
Technical Coordination Team (TCT) at the Ministry level, to co-ordinate various
activities such as setting out baseline data on rehabilitation and strengthening of
health facilities needs from the respective districts.
14.  Para 45 on financing, the schemes are said to have high start up costs and
maintenance costs. Definitely the government would appreciate a recommendation
on how to reduce the costs without affecting the establishment of the programmes.
Secondly those who are concerned need to assist the programmes how to address the
cost issues, by putting forward concrete suggestions and support.
15.  Thank you for your well elaborated ICR which has very valuable observation
and recommendations which we shall take seriously during the implementation of
the next phase of our joint undertaking.
16.  We have given our comments on the areas we felt were necessary to do so, and
it is our sincere hope you will consider these comments in the finalization of this
very important report and will be taken on board during the design phase of our next
Health Sector Development Programme including the implementation phase.
I wish you Happy X-mass and New year.
Sincerely,
PERMANENT SECRETARY
c NnJatICCfCOfl,, f1CflI          4






Tanzania Health & Nutrition Project ICR                                     Page 62
APPENDIX D - OFFICIAL MAP OF TANZANIA






-        ! ~3'  UG611DA -                        z       _, _                                           1                           8 
Lake Victoria
(  RWANDA                                                                                                      K N.  I ENYA
Natro                              ARC
Ztl BURUNDIp /r<   w. y r ;,  g                            ,               ~~~~~~~~Arus<a
l 0                     t                        s.ie J .4 ." ........... %,MoSonoLake
-4N                                                                                                        Arsh            Mosh7 D'\'.'.-.   _D   
INDIAN
Tanganyika   R\h. R
OCEAN
The bounddes., colors.                                    Mbeyo
de0o,minotiono ond any
other infonoto shown
on tNis          af do  not
a:ny jodgnent on the hgol 
ttatuo  of ony write,rt,
or ony endorsement                 A     7.
nor  n-! ofI~hTAN ZANIA                                                                                                                                  Lindie
MAIN ROADS                      REGION CAPITALS                                  ,                                                                wora
RAILROADS                       NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                              ' /
RIVERS                          REGION BOUNDARIES                                 e
-      INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
70                                  0            100          2s0                                                                          1    r                                           3
OnLaMETERS                                                     3        .                    3e 'OZAMBIQUE
a.                   30'                                                                                      36                            38



