Report No. PIC1550
Project Name              Ecuador-Debt and Debt Service Reduction Loan
Region                    Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                    Debt and Debt Service Reduction
Project ID                ECPA37046
Implementing Agency       Ministry of Finance and Public Credit
Projected Board Date      December 13, 1994
Country and Sector Background
1.   For more than a decade now, Ecuador's economic performance has
been quite disappointing. Since the onset of the debt crisis in 1982,
the economy has suffered a series of adverse shocks, including several
periods of declining world oil prices that contributed to wide
fluctuations in the budget and current account deficits. Despite
attempts at stabilization and the adoption of some important
structural reforms in the 1980s, inflation rose to new plateaus,
reaching 85 percent in 1988, savings and investment rates declined to
less than 20 percent of GDP, and real per capita incomes fell by more
than 20 percent. These difficulties led the Government to curtail
expenditures, including those in the social sectors, and to stop
servicing fully its external debt obligations to commercial bank
creditors in 1987.
Ecuador's per capita GDP was estimated to be approximately US$1,300 in
1993.
2.   Ecuador's economic problems had several causes, among them the
dependency on highly variable petroleum revenues, the remnants of an
inward-looking and state dependent development strategy, and a
divisive and fragmented political structure. The discovery and
exploitation of petroleum and the expansion of sovereign lending by
the international banking community in the second half of the 1970s
financed a rapid expansion of Ecuador's public sector. The result was
the creation of a large and inefficient array of public entities and
enterprises, and a sharp increase in public employment. The public
sector grew to command a monopoly position in critical areas of the
economy, frequently providing goods and services at subsidized prices,
and often not discharging core state functions effectively. Private
sector development has also been hampered by excessive regulation,
deficient infrastructure, macroeconomic imbalances, and the
Government's monopoly position in key areas. Despite some export
diversification in the eighties, foreign exchange earnings are still
highly dependent on petroleum, bananas and shrimp, and Ecuador remains
highly vulnerable to external shocks.
3.   The development approach during the petroleum era led Ecuador to
acquire one of the highest levels of external debt in Latin America.
As of December 1994, Ecuador's total external debt was US$13.8
billion, or approximately 100 percent of GDP and 4 times the level of
annual exports. Since 1987, the country has serviced only partially
and sporadically its external debt. After Ecuador was unable to agree
on a new money package with the commercial banks in the mid-eighties,



and following declines in the price of oil in 1986 and a severe
earthquake that destroyed Ecuador's oil export pipeline, the country
began to accumulate arrears. At the end of 1994, principal arrears
had reached US$3.1 billion and interest arrears (calculated based on
the interest rate of the original contracts) were close to US$3.5
billion. Ecuador's inability to fully service its debt contributed to
an increase in perceptions of country risk that discouraged private
investment and retarded economic growth.
Recent Developments
4.   Ecuador is now in the midst of an important phase of adjustment
and reform. The current Administration of President Duran-Ballen was
elected in July 1992 on a platform to reduce inflation, modernize the
economy, promote the private sector and re-negotiate the country's
external debt. Since taking office the Government has taken important
steps to bring about macroeconomic stability and to eliminate major
distortions and subsidies. The Government also began pursuing a
program of structural reforms aimed at changing the development
strategy of the last thirty years, which relied heavily on oil
revenues and on a significant involvement of the Government in
economic affairs. The objectives of the reform program are to reduce
the size of the State and make it more efficient by restructuring and
downsizing agencies, offering incentives for early withdrawal from
public employment, privatizing many public enterprises, and
transferring to the private sector many of the responsibilities
currently under public sector purview.
5.   In the macroeconomic area, the Administration has reduced the
budget deficit to about 0.5 percent of GDP in 1994, after it had been
projected to reach 7 percent of GDP in 1992 in the absence of any
corrective measures. Inflation has declined from an annual rate of 60
percent in 1992 to 27 percent in 1994. Interest rates, which are now
liberalized, also fell in tandem with inflation. International
reserves, which were at dangerously low levels in mid-1992, have
recovered and now stand at US$1.5 billion (or six months of imports).
6.   The success of the macroeconomic program, which is being
supported by an IMF Standby agreement, resulted from a policy to
control expenditures, raise revenues, reduce costly subsidies,
liberalize the exchange rate and interest rates and restrict monetary
growth. To mitigate the impact of the measures on lower income groups
the Government maintained the subsidies for urban transportation, for
small users of electricity and for cooking gas. The Government also
created a social investment fund designed to finance small scale
projects in poorer areas of the country.
7.   Besides the stabilization measures, the current administration
has also taken several administrative measures to reform and modernize
the economy and has secured Congressional approval for important new
laws that will be the basis for further reforms. The cornerstone of
the legal program is the Modernization of the State Law, which
provides the basis for public sector restructuring, including the
reduction of personnel, the decentralization of public sector
activities, the private sector participation through concessions in
- 2 -



sectors previously reserved for the public sector, the
demonopolization of the provision of services, and the divestiture of
public enterprises.
8.   Since taking office the Government has reduced the public sector
payroll by 21,000 (more than five percent of public employment) and
has begun to contract with the private sector for the delivery of
public services. It also embarked on a program of public enterprise
divestiture and deregulation, through sale of assets and shares in a
number of small enterprises and elimination of a large number of
obsolete regulations.
9.   One of the primary goals of the Government has been to normalize
financial relations with its external creditors. After engaging in
active negotiations with its external commercial bank creditors, the
Government announced on May 1994 a preliminary agreement on an
operation to reduce Ecuador's debt and debt service. The agreement
represents an important step in Ecuador's adjustment process and
should help establish the basis for greater foreign investment and
higher economic growth in the future. The agreement covers all
eligible existing commercial bank debts (US$4.5 billion) and Past Due
Interest (of about US$3.5 billion). The proposed debt restructuring
offers creditors the option to exchange their debts for either a 45
percent discount bond paying full interest or a par bond paying below
market interest rate. Both bonds will have bullet principal payments
due in thirty years and will be backed by zero coupon US Treasury
bonds. Interest payments on both bonds would also be collateralized
for 12 months. Past Due Interest (PDI) are dealt separately and will
be exchanged at par for a new non-collateralized 20-year bond with a
10 year grace period, paying interest of libor plus 13/16th.
The Proposed Loan
10. Objectives. The objective of the operation is to assist the
Government in (i) implementing debt and debt service reduction; (ii)
normalizing relations with external creditors and improving the
economic environment for attracting investment; and (iii) improving
the continuity and sustainability of macroeconomic policies,
particularly fiscal balance.
11. Description. The proposed loan will support the implementation of
a debt agreement between the Republic of Ecuador and its commercial
bank creditors on the restructuring of about US$8 billion in public
external debt -- including US$3.5 billion in past due interest (PDI).
The Bank's support will be part of a concerted effort that would also
include contributions from the IMF, the IDB, and the Export-Import
Bank of Japan. Under the Agreement commercial banks will: (a)
exchange 58 percent of eligible debt -- excluding claims to PDI -- for
new, collateralized instruments to be issued by Ecuador at a discount
of 45 percent of face value, and exchange the remaining 42 percent of
the eligible debt for par bonds bearing interest at predetermined
below-market interest rates; (b) forgive about US$0.6 billion of
accrued PDI through recalculation of PDI at lower than contractual
rates; and (c) exchange eligible PDI claims of about US$2.8 billion
for uncollateralized Ecuadoran bonds ("PDI" and "Interest Equalization
- 3 -



(IE)" bonds bearing market interest rates following receipt of a
downpayment of US$135 million of PDI claims. In support of the
Agreement, the Bank is providing: (a) a Debt and Debt Service
Reduction Loan of US$80 million equivalent to finance principal
collateral for the par bonds; (b) a waiver of the negative pledge
restriction in the Bank's loan and guarantee agreements with Ecuador
of up to US$635 million to allow the Government to pledge collateral
for the discount and par bonds; and (c) US$50 million equivalent in
set-aside funds -- from a Structural Adjustment Loan -- to finance
principal collateral for the discount bonds.
12. Benefits: The proposed loan will help achieve a debt reduction
equivalent of about US$3.5 billion -- 43 percent of the face value of
the eligible principal debt and PDI to commercial banks. The
agreement's implementation should materially improve Ecuador's
development prospects by reducing debt service, freeing resources for
investment, regularizing the Government's relationship with the
international financial community, increasing confidence in the
sustainability of economic policies, and increasing creditworthiness.
13. Disbursements: The proposed loan will be disbursed for the
purpose of acquiring principal collateral required for the par bonds.
The Government will purchase the collateral instruments ahead of the
Closing Date of the Agreement, expected by February 1995, as soon as
the reconciliation process is completed. The full amount of the set-
aside of US$50 million from the Structural Adjustment Loan is also
expected to disburse at the same time. Nevertheless, if part of the
set-aside is not utilized for collateral purchases, it would be
disbursed against general imports pursuant to the respective loan
agreement.
14. Retroactive Financing. Retroactive financing of US$80 million
equivalent will be allowed on the basis of eligible expenditure
incurred after June 14, 1994, in view of the measures already
undertaken and the need to resolve the country's external payments
problem.
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 4 -



