RESTRICTED
Rt.i,ort No. PA - 27a
r This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
KADANA IRRIGATION PROJECT
INDIA
January 21, 1070
Agriculture Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVAIE NTS
US$ 1.00 - Rupees (Rs) 7.5
Rs 1.00 = US$ 0.13
Rs 1 million a US$ 133,333-
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES - METRIC AND
ENGLISH SYSTEM
1 hectare (ha)               '2.47 acres
1 kilometer (Ian)            - 0.62. miles
1 square kilometer (km2)     X 0.3886 square miles
1 cubic meter (mi3)            35.31 cubic feet
1 million cubic meters (Mm3) - 810.7 acre feet
1 kilogram (kg)                2.205 pounds
1 ton                        a 2,205 pounds
INITIALS AND ACRONYMS
CWPC    : Central Water and Power Commission
GOI     : Government of India
GSIDB   : Gujarat State Cooperative Land Development Bank
PWD     : Public Works Department
TCD farm:  Trial-cum-demonstration farm



INIU.A
KCADANA IRRIGAT ION P0JECT
TABLE OF CONITEXTS
SUNMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    i
I.  INTRODUCTICN . . . . . . .               . . . . . . . . . . . . .                1
II.    BACKGROUTTD   . . . . . . . . . e                                 . . .
III.   THE PRlOJECT AP,EA   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                   2
General  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    2
Climate  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    3
Soils and Tonograohy   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    3
Drainage   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    4
Farm Size and Land Tenure  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    4
Agricultural Production  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    5
Transnortation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    5
IV.    THE PROJECT  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     5
A. Prolect Description.                                                       5
B.  Prolect Works . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     6
Kadana Dam   . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . .  . . . . .                   6
Water Distribution Systems   . . . . . . . . . . . . .                   6
Drainape   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                   7
Land Levelin.                                                            7
Roads    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  8
C.  Water Sunnly, Demand and Quality   . . . . . . . . . .                    8
D.  Enrineerina Design and Construction Schedule   . . . .                    9
E.  Cost Estinates   ...  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  10
P. Finance .12
G. Procurement .13
H.  Disbursement   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    15
I.  Auditing of Accounts   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                   15
V.     ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    16
Project Coordination and Suuervision   . . . . . . . . . .    16
Civil Works . . . . . . . . . . .                                             6 . . . . . . . . . . .    1
Apricu1tural Sunport Progra'  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    18
Consolidation of Land-Holdin.s   . . . . . . . . . . . . .    18
Evaluat4on of Azricultural Progress  . . . . . . . . . . .    19
Agricultural Credit .19
Grain Storage and Agriculturai Processing  . . . . . . . .    20
Operation and Maintenance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                   20
Oneration and Maintenance Costs  . . . . . . . . . . . . .                   20
Water Charges .21
This renort was Drenared by Messrs. A. Golan, C. M. Bolt and E. M. Sicely.



Page No.
VI.   PRODUCTION, MA.RKETPS T0SPECTS AITT F A-M  I NC     OME1 ..        ...    24
P       r.ddtition                                                  24
4 Parket Prosnects . . .ttern,                                      25
Prices .                                                            25
Farmers' Income............. .. ......                              26
VII. BETEITTS AoD JUSTIFICATION.27
VIII. RECONMENDATIONS .2 .8 Quality
ANNE Ci   S
1.  Existinc IrriRaticn Works
2.  Soils ard Topo4raDhy
3.  Land Tenure
4.  Present and Projlectled Cropnirn, Pattern, Yields,
Production Costs and Returns
5.  Agriculture
6 .  Descri-otion of Project Works
7.  'Vater SuCarg, Demand and Quality
8.  Construction Schedule
9.Cost Estimates
10.  Project Organization Charts
11.  Ai7ricultural Suno;ort Prorzram
12.  Water Charges
13.  Farm Budgets
141.  Economic Rate of Return
MAAPS
1.   Kadqna Irrigation Project Location
2.   Kadana Irrigation Pro.1ect



'I  Li 4
SUMMAFfy ARD CONCL'SIC14S
i.        Agriculture plays a domiiaant role in the Thianr ez:^yv  and
gation is essential fcr the anhievezeait of htigher prodlzCti' iit,y as well as
to reduce the farmers' dependence on very uapredictable  iatsalL   Th its
l969-74 Five-Year Plan, -the Goverrnnent of India (CT'.O f.z in  m.a           on
the completion of on-going irrigeation projects.  Tne                    I r-posea Kadas  'r -
gation Project in the State of Gu-4arat i4n west cent:c a"'              =p*oL.ete a
a&jor on-going scheme to develop iriigated wric.ture j.               a ." o  t"e
MEahi Eiver. lTne project inciudes:
ta)  construct-ilon of YadanE; Dam cn the Mahi Rive-
(b) exnansion of the existin, irrigation             1t o he ri,gh>1t
bank from 1113,O00 ha to 263,000 ha;
(c)  construction of a new ir--rigation system on the left bank
to serve about 20,000 ha;
(d) construction of watercourses and field channels throughout
the project area;
(e)  renodeling and expansion of the drainage systems;
(f) land leveling of about 42,000 ha; and
(g)  upgrading of existing roads and construction of ne-w
district, village and farm-to-market roads totaling
about 3,200 km.
It would also include the construction of farmers' training facilities,
groundwater investigations, a study of water charges and a trial land con-
solidation program.
ii.       Of the US$ 110 million which the Bank Group has lent previously to
India for agriculture, about Us$ 60 million vas for sev,en irrigation proj-
ects.  One of these was the Shetrunji Project (Credit No. 13-Il of November
1961) in Gujarat State. On all seven projects, heavy emphasis was placed
on civil works construction without paying sufficient attention to the pro-
vision of timely and adeauate inputs to complenment water supplies. As a
result, serious delays occurred in agricultural development. The GOI and
the State of Gujarat now recognize the need to provide these inputs con-
currently with assured supplies of irrigation water and provision has been
made for them in the project.
iii.      Overall costs of the project from its incention in 1954 to com-
pletion by mid-1975 are estimated to be Rs 735 million (US$ 98 zillion).  Of
this, about Rs 235 million, or 32, of total pro4ect costs, was spent by the



- ii -
end of 1969. An IDA credit of us$ 35 million has been requested to assist
in financing the remaining expenditures of Rs 500 million (US$ 66.7 mnillion).
The direct foreizn exchange component of remaining exnenditures is US$ 2.5 ,
million. Over 90% of the IDA credit would therefore be used to finance /
local expenditures.  This is Justified on country economic grounds.
iv.       Of the Us$ 66.7 mi1lion eauivalent recuired after 1969 to comolete
the project, uS$ 35 million (52%) would be orovided bv the oronosed IDA
credit, which would be re-lent by the GOI to the State of GuJarat, and the
balance by the State of Gujarat. The amount recuired exceeds the State's
overall allocation for the pro.'iect by about Rs 195 million (US$ 26 million).
Therefore, assurances were obtained that allocations would be increased to
meet reauiremnent3 and that funds would be made available as needed for
efficient nroject imnlementation.
v.        The Irrigation Wing of the State's Public 'Works Department has
designed the civil works and would supervise their construction by contrac-
tors. All existing contracts have been awarded on the basis of local bid-
ding and the procedure followed in awardinv them is satisfactory.  The wrorks
were designed for construction mainly by labor-intensive methods, which has
rendered them unsuitable for international bidders usin;7 tnechanized methods.
Remaining works on the distribution system, consisting of excavation of
small, widely dispersed channels, are also unlikelv to attract international
contractors; they would be awarded on the basis of local bidding. About
US$ 3.2 million worth of ecuinrment would be renuired for the project.  Out
of this total, US$ 2.3 million worth of machinery, on which the prevailing
customs duty is 15%' or lower, would be orocured following international
competitive bidding. In addition, US$ 0.2 million of specialized tools and
equinment -would be imported.  The remainina machinery, on which the prevail-
ing customs duty exceeds 15%, would be procured locally but would not be
financed out of the credit.
vi.       Coordination is essential between the Public Works DeDartment,
responsible for the design and construction of project works; the Department
of Agriculture and Co-oneration, respcnsible for agricultural development;
and other narticinating agencies, including the Departments of Finance,
General Administration and Land Records, the office of the Develorment Com-
missioner and the Gu,arat State Land Development Bank.  To this end the
Government of GuJarat established coordination committees at the State and
project level with overall responsibility for planning and coordinating
the activities of the various agencies associated with the pro,lect. In
addition, assurances were obtained that imDrovements would be made in the
agricultural supporting services, particularly in extension, training,
research and demonstration farms.
vii.      At fll arricultural development of all project lands, the annual
incremental net value of production would be about Rs 200 million ((S. 27
million). The economic rate of return would be about 14∞o if all nast ex-
penditures are included in the analysis, or over 20%S if thev are disregarded.>
The project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$ 35 million enuivalent.
The borrower would be the Government of India.



.DAD'A 1PRIGATTIN_ PROJTFO
I.  INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Indla (GCT) he.s request-d.' en I.A c-redit; of
US$ 35 million to assist in financing the Kadana Iirigaion Projecl, in the
State of GuJarat. The project would be the ccmtllistion of arn 1l-gOifng irri-
gation scheme to develop irrigated agriculture in tlc areas on the Mahi
River.  It woould replace the existio,- variable runm-of-ri'ver irrigation sup-
plies with an assured reizulated irrigation supply'; Increase the water dis-
tribution system  from 143,0c0 ha to 283,000 ha; anem! -pro-ide  rainage, roads,
agricultural technical services and l.end leveling tbrouZ3hout the project
area.
1.02      The GOI and IDA are giving ,xreater attention to the d_velonn-.ent
and finnncinc of high-priority projects In the agricultbura  sector.  During
1968, a number of irrigation pro1ects potentially suitable for IDA support
were presented to the Association for its consider?ation.  These projects,
located in central and southern India, were revie-wed in January and Feb.r-
ary L969 by Messrs. G. F. Darnell and A. Golan (TBF3D); P. Fagerberg,
H. Pranich snd 1W. X. Rangeley (consultants);, and D. E. Campbell (FAO/IBRD
Cooperative Programme). The Kadana Irrigation Project is the first of
this group to be presented to the Executive Directors.  Tro further projects
were appraised in October-Nover,ber and technical preparation of the remain-
ing projects is currently in progress at the State level with the assistance
of the F'AO/IBRD Cooperative Programme.
1.03      This report is based on technical feasibility studies prepared
by two departments of the State of Gujarat - the Irrigazion Wing of the
F-blic Works Department (P14D) and the Department of Agriculture and Co-op-
eration (hereinafter referred to as the Department of Agriculture). The
project was appraised in May 1969 by M!essrs. A. Golan, C. M. Bolt, E. M.
Sicely and D. E. Bunger (consultant). A separate m±ssion consisting of
Messrs. M. W. Dickerson, N. Karcher and M. Masse visited the area in August
1969 to review the road program.  This report was prepared by Messrs. Golan,
Bolt and Sicely.
II. BACKGROUND
2.01      India's population of 543 million is expanding at the rate of
2.5/O per annum. Gross national product (GNP), which was US$ 39.1 billion
at 1967/68 market prices, has been inereasing at arn average of 3.5% per
year during the last 10 years. Hovever, agriculture, though generating
nearly half of the GNP, providing emrloyment for about 70% of the labor
force and accounting for over half of export earning3, grew at only 3%, per
year during the same period.



- 2 -
2.02     Tro accelerate agricultural development, efforts have been made
since 1965 to introduce new technology, increase the availability of the
necessary inputs and Brovide economic incentives to encourage farmers to
use these inputs. The response has been striking. The new fertilizer-
responsive food-grain varieties have already contributed to a record food-
grain harvest of over 95 million tons in 1967/68.  Despite bad monsoon
conditions in 1968/69, the first official estimate of the crop is 94 mil-
lion tons.
2.03      While the major gain so far has been only in wheat, problems en-
countered with some of the high-yielding varieties of rice and other cer-
eals seem to be nearing solution.  The prospect of further increases in
cereal yields holds promise for India to reach self-sufficiency in food
in the 1970's.  To achieve this, however, will require that continued empha-
sis be placed on adaptive research and Plant breeding; that prices be
maintained at a level high enough to encourage use of modern farming prac-
tices; that an adequate supply of improved seed, fertilizers and pesticides
be provided; and that more agricultural credit be made available for their
purchase.  Grain storage and marketing facilities must also be improved.
Finally, more Indian farmers must be provided with an assured and timely
water supply.
2.04      About a quarter of the 160 million ha of land cropped in India
each year is irrigated, but or.ly 60% of this area has reliable water sup-
plies.  The remaining areas depend on unpredictable rainfall.  Despite sub-
stantial investments in irrigation Drojects during the past 20 years, less
than half of the irrigation potential of these projects is being realized.
The main reasons for this are that scarce funds have been spread over a
large number of projects, limited water supplies have been dispersed over
too large an area and, in many cases, inadequate provision has been made
for construction of field channels. To correct the situation, major empha-
sis under the 1969-74 Five-Year Plan has been placed on completion of
projects already started.  Furthermore, all com.plementary inputs are to be
provided concurrently -with the irrigation system.  The Kadana Irrigation
ProJect reflects this approach.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
General
3.01      The project is located along the banks of the Mahi River in the
State of Gujarat in west central India. the Mahi, one of four major rivers
in Gujarat, rises in the Vindhya hills in the State of Madhya Pradesh. It
flows through the State of Rajasthan, traverses the middle of Gujarat from
northeast to southwest and discharges into the Gulf of Cambay, some 580 kam
from its source.  Its total drainage area is about 32,3090 kmin', of which
approximately 45% is within Gujarat. Mean annual precipitation over the
drainage area is 790 mm. Upstream of Gujarat, the river is largely undeve-
loped.



3.02     Pt7fe prof.iet 7e2A inClude about 253,090 ha 3f net i-rJ.,; nec>e iszd
in t'7wo non-oncnti;z .u.us, eeas.  One is the 263,000 ha Mh± FIght Cank area,
located iL  Kai; s ,,irict and cxten:ing westwazd 4rom the ex -D A- 'vnakborl
divTersion veir on t:ee 25s.i dowr to the Gulf of Cambay.  The othrz ,s the
20,000 h- *-mi Left Benik  area, located irxmediately below the Kadand Den in
Panchmahals District (see maps).
3.03      The project was aterted in 195L as a run-of-river scheme. ;. ile
the major works related to this phase of the project were completed in
1959, pzccress oni the di.7tritution 3y,-eteem ha's been slo,", largely because
of inadequate funding.  Works completed to date include the  mn--kbori weir,
a lined m-ain canal and a distribution system capable of -servwna about 143,000
he in the R'ig,zht Bark srea.  Te area actually being irrigated, halmn;ever, is
only about  '0,000 ha, primazrily because of t'ne delay in constr-iztion or
watercourses and field ch,annels  nZd the lack of ear assured -waTter supply
roni stora. e.  The w -orks and present construction stetus are described in
Annex 1.
Cl imate
Tlf*ere are three main seascns in the project area.  Ihe monsoon
season (Xharif) occurs from mid-Juzre until mid-Octobere ,vhen an average of
825 mm of rain falls, temperatures decline to about 35 C, hC midity rises to
9:5.D and evaporation is of the order of 790 mm.  The fair-weather (rabi)
season e+,,tends from mid-Cctober throlugh February, when about )O rim of rain
falls, temperatures are moderate and evaporation is of the order of 880 mm.
The hot-weather season lasts from 0March until mid-Jure, when rainfall is
only 15 mm, temperatures reach 44∞C and evaporation totals about 960 mm.
The monsoon rainfall has been less than 500 mm in 1O% of the 80 years of
re cord.
SZoils and Topograrh-y
3.05      The soils of the Right Bank area, which account for about 93% of
total project lands, were surveyed by the PWD and adequate land classifica-
tion, and soil maps were prepared.  Those of the Left Bank area were also
surveyed but, while the suitability or the land for irrigation was estab-
lished, information is incomplete for final design of the irrigation sys-
tem. Additional survey work now being done in the area will be completed
by mid-1970.
3.06      The Right Bank area occupies part of an alluvial plain laid down
by the IMl-ui end Sabarmati Rivers.  Its soils are intermixed sands and clavs,
of medi= texture ard good permeability in the northeast and becoming pro-
gressively fitner towa-rds the southwest, where they are predominantly clay
loans and clays, mostly of medium to slow permeability.  They overlie deep,
pervious alluvium. In the Left Bank area, the soils. -which are underlain
by very pervious fractured rock, range from sand,y loams at the higher ele-
vations to cla-y loams and clays in the valley bottoms. Both the Right and
Left Ean: soils are generally inherently fertile and shoMld be ve -ir produc-
tive under irrigatIon.



- 4..
3.07      The topography of the project area is generally suitable for ir-
rigation development. The Right Bank area slopes from the northeast to the
southwest, with an average gradient of about 60 cm per km. Land-leveling
requirements would be low for the satisfactory establishment of field crops,
including rice. In the Left Bank area, the topography is more uneven, with
valleys of undulating surface punctuated by rock outcrops. Land leveling
in the form of contoured bench terraces would be needed there for optimum
land and water utilization. Details of soils and topography are given in
Annex 2.
Drainage
3.08      Natural surface and vertical drainage is adequate at present in
the lighter soils that cover about 70,000 ha in the northeast of the Right
Bank area. The groundwater underlying the area is fresh and the water
table, at a depth of about 10 m, does not affect crop production adversely.
However, a drainage system would have to be installed when perennial irri-
gation is introduced. In the lower part of the Right Bank area, the heavier
clay soils (100,000 ha) have only moderate to poor internal drainage. They
are underlain by groundwater that becomes both increasingly saline and
shallower tow-ards the southwest, with adverse effects on cl-op production.
Main drainage, by improved natural channels, is adequate at present but
would have to be remodeled to prevent salinization under perennial irri-
gation. Farm drains would have to be deep and well maintained and would
need to be intensified in about 25% of the area. The saline-alkaline clay
soils in about 20,000 ha of the southwestern part of the Right Bank area
are underlain at moderate depth by saline groundwater, are inadequately
drained and need to be reclaimed by intensive drainage works and leaching
with irrigation water.  It would take about 4 years of reclamation for the
worst-affected soils to reach their full production potential. In the Left
Bank area, surface drainage is adequate and no diffic-ulties are foreseen.
Farm Size and Land Tenure
3.09      The project area is densely farmed by about 176,000 cultivators.
Over 70% of the land is in holdings larger than 2 ha. Holdings smaller
than 1 ha number about 75,000 but occupy only 11.5, of the land area. While
returns from such holdings b-ould be low, this would not seriously affect
the project's overall viability because of the small area involved. Frag-
mentation of land-holdings is cormon and it is Government policy to effect
consolidation wherever possible. Further details are given in Annex 3 and
paragraph 5.12.
3.10      The Government of Gujarat and its predecessors, the Governments
of the States of Bombay and Saurashtra, through a series of land reform
acts passed between 1948 and 1963, have abolished traditional tenancy sys-
tems and transferred ownership of land to its cultivators. As from the end
of 1968, ovner-occupancy is the only land tenure system recognized by the
law.



LAricual Product' .:r
3...      Agri'.>;u.:c in the proJ1ct area is evolvir fro            !
raLr'fed d-ltivation th-at retains cron varietics and crcppi~lr -ih,      q.is
e;iaoted to an erratic rainfall to high-production irrigated agr. ielture
eX.p.Loy-inz i2tnroved -varieties and a fLulil  ackae of inputs.  Thefgzmers
are industrPous end prog2essive. Culti .eticn is done almos, entirely 'by
bullocks though a few tractors are usee on the lgrz;er holdirgn.  1The Der&art-
'ment of Agriculture provLces sup:nort to farmers through its e;:tension uerv-
ice, seed multirlication fa:mms, research fearmsr and a t,il1u1-deCnstratin
TCD) :farm in the project, area s.nd through other research facilities else-
where in the State.  'WlthIe the ..eve. of acceptance oF m.any inroed a,gricul-
-i,ural -oractices is goo 1, L't is limikted at present by lack of as5s.1ed Lrri-
gation sun-lies.  Furthermore, roor water =anageinent in t:^e .fIeld is
hampering the full utilizati!n of, such supplies as sre  i7l'Iable-
3.'2       Princi-pal cultivation is in the kharif sE-rin d.ng predc-.i-
nantly fooe crops - bairi (pearl m.llet,1 rice, and mlzed crops of cerea-ls
and pulses together with smal1 acreages of lowar (sorghum) , maize and
groundnuts.  Ah ouat 10k of the kharif crop is irrigated.  There is a limited
cultivation of' crops during the rabi season (mainly wheat mid mulses),
Tb:out 30? being under irrigation, and yields are low,  Cotton and tobacca
(about a quarter of' which are irrigated) are grown as 83-morth crops, scwn
in kharif and maturing in the rali season.  The total area cropped, in-
cluding all seasons, is about 286,000 ha, at a cropping intensity of l00'".
Details of present cropping patterns, yields and returns are shown on page
1 of Annex 4.  Agricuiture is described in more detail in Annex 5.
Transr,ort ati on
_.13       The New Delhi-Bombay national hiirhway crossez the project area.
t   so connects two major consumption centers in Gujarat - Ahmedabad anld
Baroda located on either side ol the project area (Map 1).  Tle nartional
railway r5ns parallel with this road.  The prolect area thus has good trans-
port connections with the rest of the State End other parts of India.  Within
the project area, however, the existing road system will not be adequate to
accormiodate the expected ircrease in agricuLtural produCtion.
IV.  THE PROJECT
.'!,  Pro J  ct 'escriPtior.
4.01       The project proposed for IDA fineancing would comnplete an on-going
scheme to develop irrigated agriculture in t-wo areas on the MLahi River.
Works included in the proiect are summarized below and described in detail
in Annex 6. They would consist of:
(a)  a dan on ths Mahni River at Kadena creating a useful storage
of  1,3300 M



- 6 -
(b)  about 1,200 km of distributary and minor canals, and the
lining of about 12 km of branches, to expand the area
irrigated on the right bank of the river from 143,000 ha
to 263,000 ha;
(c)  a new irrigation system to serve about 20,000 ha on the
left bank of the river;
(d) construction of watercourses and field channels throughout
the project area;
(e)  remodeling of the surface drainage system on about 100,000
ha;
if)  field drainage systems to reclaim and improve about
37,000 ha;
(g)  land leveling of about 42,000 ha; and
(h)  upgrading of existing roads and the construction of new
district and village roads, totaling about 1,100 km, and
farm-to-market roads of an estimated length of 2,100 km.
The project would also include:  the establishment of new, and improvenent
of existing, trial-cum-demonstration farms; procurerent of vehicles and
construction of farmers' training facilities for the agricultural extension
services; an investigation of the groundwater potential in the area; col-
lection and evaluation of agricultural data and a study of water charges;
and a trial land consolidation program.
B. Project Works
4.02      Kadana Dam.  The dam site is located near Kadana, in a gorge cut
by the Mlahi River through a low range of hills in Panchmahals District in
Gujarat, just below the border with Rajasthan (Map 1). I'he dam would be a
composite earth-fill and masonry structure rising 58 m above stream-bed,
with a crest length of about 1,400 m.  The useful capecity of the reservoir
would be 1,300 Mm out of a gross storage of 1,700 !,dm ; deposition of silt
would not begin to affect the live storage for about 80 years (Annex 7).
The flood discharge capacity would be 33,000 m /sec through 19 control
gates on the spillway crest.  The earthen embankment would be 825 m long
adjoinirg the masonry dam of about 575 T in length, including a transition
section and spillway. Over a million m of permeable material and clay
core would be placed in the embankment, while more than 750,000 m  of stone
would be laid in the das.  A curtain of cement grout would be injected 40 m
into the rock to prevent seepage and uplift beneath the dam foundations.
Minimum provisions for a future hydro-electric plant would be incornorated
in the masonry section of the dam.
4.03      Water Distribution Systems.  Works to be undertaken in the Right
Bank area include the construction of distributary and minor canals of a
total length of about 1,200 km and lining of about 12 km of existing branch



-7-
canals.  The constrlucticn of irrigation outlets to t  r;w.r*es            also in-
cluded  in théese worh,-.  Li the  Beat Lank area, a distribu:tion sy      WOeU-
be conctrivite6 to serve .bout 2C(,000 ka located a alhcrt'  d-r.Rlt.e   .tcreem
of the d.anL.  It wdcv.1  be supplied by a 10 m-/sec nain canal tas - rs o:Vf
directly f'rom Kadana L      Lii . iniLng would be renuired for ebout 1%;
ld-kv. length of the  eanal.  Much of the Left Bnzk service area  ao ;iduilat-
ing topograp:phy on which a contour irrigation layout would be oprolridel..
4.04      Ofteni in the rast permanent irrigatioU outlt-s Pa-d _-.R,t8r:!OUX3eO
hiave been installed in Indian irr4gation -rooects lonv aute: cozoletio:a of
the minor canals, thereby unnecesGarily deferring irrigation  hit.
Also, outlets have frequent1v bee.- located so t.hat t-hey sei:n  t.o l.arge an
area for efficient water distribution.  To provide for better d5.stributifon
and to achieve early benefits from the project, sanporary pis.pe o`tlets,
serving areas no larmer then 20 ha for paddy cultivation or id, with few
excentions, 40 ha for other crops, woald. be constructed befcze each minor
canal is corm-iissioned and turned over t, the operatinFg 3ectinn.  Within
2 years af`er the commissi 0oni:ng of the mainor canal.s, the te=porary out.tlet3
would be converted into perrnanent corncrete outlets.  The fi:;al locations
of outlets wouldt tbe deterianed jointly by the Irrigation Wing, the Dep:a-.t-
ment of Agriculture and the farmiers.  Assurances to this effect were ob-
tained during negotiations.
1,.05     Although farriers in Gujarat generally prefer to Let the Govern-
ment handle the construction of watercourses and field channels, arrangements
for obtaining credit to repay the Government are time-consuming a-nd curber-
some. Consequently, there are often long delays after the water becozmes
available at the outlet before it is used. To alleviate this situation, the
Goverhnment recently amended the law under -which it carries out such works.
Under the revised law, there is no longer any need for farmers to apply
individually for credit to pay for the works. instead, the Government
would carry out the construction of field channels as part of the project
works and later transfer the farmers' liability to the Gujarat State
Cooperative Land Development Bank (GSLDB).  The GSLDB would reimburse the
Government for its exDenditures and collect the cost directly from the
farmers under its regular terms for such works (currently 8 to 10 years
at 8-3/4' interest).  The PWD would design the leyout of the watercourses
and field channels, which would be needed in about 90C  of the project area.
Construction would be undertaken by the Soil Conservation branch of the
Department of Agriculture, using small-scale labor contractors or the
farmiers' own labor.
,.o;~6     Drainage.  Before perennial irrigation supplies from Fadiana Dam
inevitably cause a rise in the water table, the sarface drainage system.
would be remodeled in about 100,000 ha of the central part of the Right
Bank area.  In the southwestern part of the area, about 37,G00 ba would be
reclaimed or improved by intensive field drainaoe, with open channels to
be laid out at spacings of 60-150 m and with buried tile drains i-n some
low-lying areas.
4.0'7     Land Leveling.  About 42,000 he in the Eight Bank area would re-
quire land leveling, mainlv on paddy-producing land!;.  ThIe work, for Which



farmers could obtain credit from the GSLDB, would be done at farmers' request
by the Department of Agriculture's Soil Conservation branch. The branch
has proposed that tractors equipped with bulldozers should be used to carry
out the work. Tne Association considers that part of the leveling could be
done more cheaply by scrapers. An agreerent was reached during negotiations
regarding the desired mix of bulldozers and scrapers for the work at hand.
Assurances were also obtained during negotiations that the branch would pur-
chase land-leveling equipment satisfactory to the Association. In the Left
Bank area land leveling would be undertaken as part of the project works in
conjunction w+ith the contour irrigation system.
4.08      Roads.  Roads to be constructed under the project would include
only those which are essential to heandle the expected increase in agricul-
tural production. The road program would consist of:
(a)  construction and improvement of about 1,100 kn of district
and village roads;
(b) construction of about 1,700 km of farm roads; and
(c)  construction of 400 Im of farm-to-mill roads in the
sugarcane-troducing area.
4.09      The all-weather district roads would have a formation width of
6 n and, for the most part, a single-lane bituminized surface. Somewhat
lower standards would be adoDted for the 5-m-wide village roads, which would
be surfaced with kanker (a local granular material). Farm roads would be
constructed on raised tracks within the fields and also surfaced with kanker.
Upon completion of the program, the project area will have a road grid of
1.6 km, which would be adequate to serve the needs of the farmers.
C. Water Supply, Demand and Quality
4.10      The Mahi River has been gauged near the diversion weir at
Wanakbori for over 20 years and at the Kadana Dam site for 6 years; rain-
fall data are available for about 75 years.  These records have been used
to estinate the reliability of project water suppli.9s. About 96% of the
annual run-off from the catchment area of 25,000 km-- above the dam occurs
during the monsoon season. The mean monsoon runoff is about 7,400 .Mm3,
followed in the post-monsoon period by a mean flow of about 300 Mm3. There
is a 15% probability that the monsoon and post-monsoon in-flow would be
less than 2,700 4m3 and 100 Mm3, respectively.  The cropping pattern and
irrigation intensities assumed for the project would give rise to an irri-
gation demand of about 1,450 Mm3 in kharif and 970 Mm3 in the rabi and hot-
weather seasons, or 2,420 Mm3 annually (Annex 7).  There is only a 15' risk
that the reservoir would fail to meet the full irrigation demand and a 10%
risk that the supply would be inadequate at 90' of full demand. These are
acceptable risks for irrigation projects.
4.11      Data on the salt content of the river water indicate that its
quality is satisfactory for continuous irrigation.



4212      'i1-e Coverrm-enlts of GuJarat and  aljasptha  hrev  reacheI    eent
concernin  wvater righnts a-d future de!elop .ent of tho Mhit ..i'er, .ri .ar-
ticular retc'zinz tu rsleases firo. the pro-osed Ba3vare ,-i (Map i.
Future upstze~.v' storage vouuld oermit better rexulation rf tbr,: --Iver flows
and furth'er xpeansion of the rea_i-cro7nTed area on the pro,ject.
4.13      Croundwaater is being used intensively from nrirate1y-c-wned shallow
wells and tubewells in the eastern half of the Right Bink ares.  Some local
over-nDuing of' the squifer is 8aLready evident. Re.charge to the asquifer
would increase sufficiently, once perennial supplies bec=ne ;evsilable -fom
Kadana Reservoir, to per.it further limited groun-avra:er develo;e.ment. Trhi#
would prcvide additional watecr for enlarging the aref! Under cart'o  if ra:bi
as well as valuable surnlewentary s;:nuilies in periods of shortage if itz
use were carefully regalamed a:nd contrclled.  Some prelim-inar  studies of
the groundwater potent-ial in the arer, have been c2ar.ried out to date btlt
further investigations are nece:.sar,f, par;,ticularly with re-gard to eitifi.-
cial recLa.-rze of the aquifer, the intogrstien of ground',;er into the nrc,--
ect water supply and observation of the water tgable .nnd its effect on
drainage rzesuirements. A state-wide protrrn, for grouravater investigation
is recomze-ded ., the Agricultural Credit Project recently' appraised by
the Association.  In the pro,ject area, the Irrigation Wirg proposes to set
Upa sn investigation tear for the purpose, in collaboration with the Depart-
ment of Agriculture and the Gec1o0ical Survey of india. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that such a tean would be set un and the ne-
cessary investigations started, under teris of reference satisfactory to
the Association, within 6 months after the sign Ing of the credit areement.
D.   ngireerinz Design and Construction Schedule
4.14      The entire Kadana project, including the dam, its ancilary works,
staff housing and access roads, was designed by qualified and competent
3taff of the Centre1 Design Organization of the Irrigation and Road Wings
of the PWD in Ahmedabad.  A1though the height of Kadsna Dam was limited so
as not to submerge a religious shrine in Rajasthan, the design wCould permit
raising the crest should objections be withdraen at a later date.  With the
exception of the Right Bank abutment, full investigations and designs have
been completed.  The composite earth-fill and masonry dam design is techni-
cally sound and economical.
4.15      Extensions to the Right Bank canal system would be designed accord-
ing to well-tried and acceptable standards by the Irrigation divisions about
1 year prior to their construction, and would be based on detailed surveys
carried out by the Survey of India and the divisilonal staf   TEe contour
irrigation layout for the Left Benk area, however, would have to be designed
and supervised during construction by a specially appointed t eam of trained
engineers and agriculturalists, since the Irrigation Wing has insuf.ficient
experience in this field at present (para. 5.05).  Design and general loca-
tior. of the district and villwae roads was undertaken. by the PWD.  The align-
wient of the farm roads and some village roads wi11 be agreed on site after
consultation with the panchayats (local administrative councils .  The pro-
posed design standards, which are established by the Indian Roads Congress,
are generally satisfactory.



- 10 -
4.16      Construction of the Right Bank area distribution system is already
about 60% complete, while the Left Bank area has not yet been started.
About 15% of the dam was built by the end of 1969, and the FWD estimates
that it could be completed in 1972. The construction schedule shown in
Annex 8 is based on the more realistic assumption that the reservoir would
be commissioned in 1974. In both the Right and Left Bank areas, the irri-
gation distribution systems and outlets would also be completed in 1974.
Watercourses, field channels and land leveling would be finished in 1975
and the construction of permanent outlets in 1976.
E. Cost Estimates
4.17      Overall costs of the project (Annex 9) from its inception in 1954
to completion by mid-1975 are estimated to be Es 735 million (US$ 98 million).
Out of this total, about Rs 235 million, or 32% of total project costs, was
spent by the end of 1969. The balance of Rs 500 million (US$ 66.7 million)
represents the cost of remaining works to be implemented under the project.
Cost estimates of the remaining works are summarized below:



- 1l-I
Rs Million Zcuivalent   US' M!il1ion F.ual'ést
1 nT F II                 Local  Fco4j~n  Totael   Locsl  i or- ..zn  7<ctsl
1. Kadana Lam:
Louipaent                   -i.5    5.2      9.7     0.6      O 7     1.3
Construction              99.3       -      99.3    13.2             1 13.2
Land acauisition          35.0      _       35.0     4.7      _       4-7
Sub-total            138.8      5.2   144.      18,      O 0.7 -  9.
2.  Water Distribution
Systems:
Canals                    75.0       -      75.o l0 1∞               10.0
Watercourses              50.0       -_    50.0      6.6 
Sub-total            125.0       -    125.0      .6 i     _      16.6
3.  Drainare Systems             30.0      -      30.0     4.,       -       4.0
4. Foad Improvements:
Construction              48.0       -      48.o     6.4       -      6.4
Land acquisition           7.0       -       7.0     0.9      _       0.9
Sub-total             55.0       -     55.0      7.3      -       7.3
5. Land Leveling:
Eauipment                   -      10.5    10.5       -       1.24    1.4
Construction              37.5       -      37.5     5.0       -      5.0
Sub-total             37.5    10.5    48.o       5.0     1.4      6.4
6.  Agriciltural Supporting
Services                     4.6      -       4.6     0.6       -      o.6
7.  Groundwater Investiwations
and Agricultural Studies   2.1        -       2.1     0.3       -      0.3
8. Administration and
Engineering                34.0       -      34.0     4.6       -      4.6 /
9.  Contingencies                54.3      3.0    57.3      7.3     0.4      7.7
Total                481.3    18.7   500,0    64.2        2.5    66.7
4.18      Cost estimates for Kadana Dam are based cn unit rates and prices
obtained under contracts already awarded, or on current contract rates for
similar work being carried out in Gujarat. Estimates for the Right Bank
canal distribution and drainage works are based on actual costs incurred
recently for this type of work in the project area. Appropriate adJustm.ents
are included for the more costly contour irrigation system proposed for the
Left Bank area.  The road improvement costs are based on similar works being
carried out by the PWD. Estimates for watercourses, field channels and
land leveling have been based on costs already incurred in executing -Jork



- 12 -
in the project area and elsewhere in the State.  Allolwnces have been in-
cluded for acquisition of land, administration and engineering costs and
contingencies.  The latter vary from l0i in the case of the dam (for which
the main contract is already let) to 25$ where only preliminary estimates
are available, as for the Left Bank irrigation area.
4.19      The costs include a direct foreign exchanee elerent estimated at
US$ 2.5 million (Es 18.7 million equivalent), or 4f'. of rerraininr costs, for
construction and land-leveling machinerv and imnorted equipnment for the
da-m (Annex 9).
F. Finance
4.20      Financinrg for the project would be Drovided from the IDA credit
and from the development budget of the State of GuIarat.  The financing
plan proposed for the project would be as follows:
Hs Mlillion             US$ Million
Enuivalent             F.auivalent
IDA Credit:
Foreign exchange, 100'V of
requirements                           18.7                    2.5
Local ex-enditures, anDroximnately
50% of requirements                  243.8                   32.5
Sub-total                     262.5                   _5.0
Gularat State: l/
Local expenditures, aDproximately
50Z`e of requirements                 237.5                   31.7
Total                         500.0                     .
1/   Including loans to farmers for land leveling fror the GSLIB.
4.21      The proposed IDA credit would contribute US$ 35 million towards
meetinw the presently estimated remaining costs of the nroject of 1JSt rAt.7
million.  It would be eauivalent to 52% of the expenditures needed to complete
the project, including all direct foreign exchange costs, and about 5Q. of
estimated local expenditures. The Association's share of the total financing
would be large enough to bring about the necessary imnrovements in orwanizaticn,
funding and execution of the project.  Financing of local expenditures is
jlustified on country economic grounds.



'.urin4    . te  *-7'')4 x71-ve-Yeer tPlan, th.e ∂K               na e,-ced to finance
____2tAt  o?,. f ",- -,ratIs cevelonrmer t nian throuh loanos of' ur tr 30 veers  bear-
in- . g __?  interest, and -throuixh ,7:-ants. 'he &DJ 'c I o.t I  n. would be
a.locate; 'Son   -ar`>us nraroects. includinr tho iadaHa I-     ' 'Eoa   Oezt
at the e4-scretion of  Sne State qovernment.  Assurances were O            .ie  9irizig
ne!cctiati-ns that the  -;T, would re-lend the nroceeds o∞ t.;^- I.'      : crdt to
~'nL.ar.a. Las --art of it. ge!neral contribut4iCn to the St:ate'7     0, D_En,
4 ..-      j nJer <.u.'arat 's draft i-e-v-Year Levelonmont Plan, al'ocati ons for
the rrc iect a.ount to only Es 240 rrillion.  Exciudir.r- the cost of land level-
itsr. winich would be finpn-.ced throur-h loans from the (GFLD3, the difference
t)tween t'e amount allocated and the rrojected renuirepents fo-r the inroject
is est]rnated to be aboult Ps l')5 million (US.;, 26 milllior)j.  -!-.is difference
is mace ut- of three s:e-nrate elemnents.  FIrst, Fhe f'an all.oacation eall7s
short of IDA's cost estimates for nro.jeot works includerl in the r.En by
ablout 's iO m.illion.  .Second, a much smaller road nrcpran  i?a, nGrooOed under
the Plan than is considered recessarv br IDA:. the differe--!e bot'aeea these
two estir.a.tes amounts to about ?s 43 million.  Third, the.re -s no) nrovision
in the `_lAn at nresent for the constructio;n of watercourses, the estaiblishment
o+' surortnr nagricultural services or the execution or investigntions.  These
items, with an estimated cost of Rs 72 million, are considered by !DA to be
essentini to tne success of the nrolect and hlave therefore been includedl in
the cost estimates.
L.34       To ensure timelv and adecuate financinr for the nroject, the GOT
and the b-vernnent of Gu.arat jointl1  apreed durinri  nerotiations that
arranrements wouid be made, subject to le7islative annrove.1, in the annual
dfevel enment n1ans and annual bud7etary allocations of Guiarat for the oro-
vtston of funds reouired for the i4-nle-lentation of thO r,ro1ect alone the
lines described in this rerort and in accordance with the exroenditure
schedule rresente-1 in rararrarh 4.3C.  It was also ag reed that GOI and the
.overnment oP' iularat would review annually with the Association the crr-
r.ose;d construction schedule for the next fiscal year, alonF, with the
financia' renuirements and ororosals to meet this schedule tnd that the
Association would be informed annually as to the nrorosed allocations be-
fore thev are finallv settled.  To facilitate these annual reviews, it
was arreed that a detailed construction schedule for the entire nroject
would he nrerared bv the PWD and submitted to IDA by June 3C, 1970.
G. Procurement
4 .5       nAll existin. contracts hrve been awarded on the basis of local
biddinr and th,e methods followed in awarding them are sati'sf'actory.  Civil
works on the Tro.ject have been desirned for low-cost, labor-intensive con-
struction. aenera%lv unattractive to international bi&ders using canital-
intensive construction methods. Similarly, the remairing work on the canal
distribution srstems, conslstinr mainly of small contracts for excavation
of minor channels disnersed over a larae area, and the road rrorrar. are not
likelv tn attr-ct international contractors and would therefore be a-warded
on the basis of local biddinr.



- 14 -
4.26      The intention to call for bids f'or the main  .adana Dam contract
was advertised throughout the Indian press in 1267/(2 and nreliminary in-
formation was reouested by over 40 Indian firms, includin.? 3 with f.'orerein
affiliations.  Although an invitation to bid was advertised nationally and
documents were issued to 14 firms, only three bids were received.  Th e noor
response was due in nart to low profit marxins exrerienced by contractors
on irrigation works in comnarison with those obtained In the industrial
sector. The lack of interest mav also have been due to the unfavorable
terms of PWD contracts, under which, for instance, the PTWD has the right to
order reductions in construction cuantities without unit price ad,justment.
After evaluation bv the PWD, the contract vas awarded in Decerber 14o1 to
the lowest bidder (Mandali Limited - a labor coonerative). whose bli of
Rs 87.3 million (US$ 11.6 million) was 45 over the TrI) estimate.  .leven
lesser contracts for sections of the work unon the dam were also awarded
including the main groutina contract, which has been awarded to an Austro-
Indian concern, Rodio Hazaret & Cc. Remaining exnenditures on contracts
awarded bv the end of 1969 would amount to about Ps 7`2 million (U1.0; lO.L
million), or aunroximatelv 15,, of total remaining exnenditures on the nrol-
ect (Annex 9).
4.27      Exrenditures on contracts yet to be awarded on the oroJect are
estimated to be US$ 31.5 million.  In addition, about DV-   r.5 million of
works would be done on force account by the 77D and the Denartment o`
Agriculture.  Outstandinc exnenditures also include the purchase of ,.
3.2 million worth of machinery for construction and land levelinz and
various tools and ecuinment.  Out of this total, US'  2___million worth
of machinerv, on which the nrevailinc customs dutv is l5,-W; or lower, would 
be Drocured following international comoetitive biddinp Procedures. A I
t53 Preference would be zranted to local sunnliers in the evaluation of
esuinment sunply contracts.  Tn additionr, about UCD 20,'3! worth of
specialized tools and ecuinment which are not suitable for international
comnetitive biddine would be purchased from abroad under the credit. ';e-
maining machinery recuirements amounting to US-'; O.Y million, on which the
nrevailinA customs dutyr exceeds 15,,, would be procuredi froTr local suPnniers
but would not be eligible for financing under the credit. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that such machinery would be Procured bv
Gu,1arat promptly as required for efficient pro,'ect imnlementation and -n
accordance with the normal procurement nrocedures of' l-ujarat.
4.28      Bid documents for contracts to be issued for international tender-
ina would be pre-ared b-v the annrorriate Denartments under the sunervLsion
of the pro.ject coordinator (nara. 5.01) and would be submitted to IDA for
anproval before the,! are issued.  On previous similar I1hA-∞inanced -ro-
,lects in India, Drocurement of equirment was sub,1ect to delays because `'Oi
failed to issue necessary imnort licenses Drompntlyr, often for the reason
that items to be procured were submitted to lengthv and reneated examinnations
to determine if thev could be obtained in India.  vor this rro.lect, L-reement
was reached during ner-otiations on a detailed list of goods tn be s 4bn:tte-.
to international comnetitive biddin7.  Assurances were alsc obtained thp.t
there would be no further clearance rrocedure and that necessary inrort licen-
ses would be issued promptly.



H. Disbixrsement
4.29      The nropo_ed credit would be disbursed on a percentage bAsis, pre-
sently estimated to be 58Z, against certified expenditures incurred after
LDecember 31, 1969 in carrying out civil works on the croject (iteni 1_4 of
the cost estimates table in pararaph 4.17).  Adjustrents would be made ir.
the disbursement percentage as necessary throughbout the life of the project
to ensure that withdrawals from the credit may continue pro rata with re-
maining expenditures on civil works and also to enable disbursement of the
ftll amount of the credit. Disbursemrents would also be made for the CIF
cost of equipment procured from abroad.
1.30     The expenditure schedule, including disbursement of the proposed
IDA credit, would be approximately as follows:
Dec. 31, 1969
to
Fiscal  Years  Mar. 31,_1970 1970/71 1971/72 1972/73 l1973/7L 1924/75  Total
Ö                  US$ Million Equivalent - -
IDA Credit           0.8         h.9      8.3    10.5      7.5      3.0    35.0
GuJarat State 1/    0.7          4.4      7.4     9.5      6.8      2.9    31.7
Total           1.5         9.3    15.7    20.0    14.3        5.9    66.7
Ö - - -    - - - -Rs Million Equivalent 
11.3       69.7   117.7   150.0   107.1    44.2   500.0
1/   Including loans to farmers for lend leveling from the GSLDB.
I. Auditing of Accounts
4.31      The PWD and the Department of Agriculture maintain separate accoints
for the project works for which they are resronsible, and these are subject
to an annual audit by the office of the Accountant General of the State of
GuiJarat.  The present auditing arrangements are satisfactory.  Assurances
were obtained during negotiations that copies of the annual project audits
would be sent to the Association within 6 months after the closing of the
fiscal year.



- 16 -
V. ORGANIZATION LAD MAITAGEMHIT
Project Coordination and Sunervision
5.01      A number of denartments of the Government of Gu,arat would be
concerned with the implementation of the project. Two - the Irrigation
Wing of the PWD and the Department of Agriculture - would play major roles.
Others involved would include the Roads Wing of the PWD, the Departments of
Finance, Revenue, General Administration (develon)ment planning) and Land
Records (consolidation of land-holdings) and the office of the Development
Commissioner (administering the local government system). The GSLDB would
also be closely concerned because it would be financing land-leveling work
and the construction of field channels. To ensure efficient and timely
implementation of all aspects of the project, close coordination of the
activities of the various agencies would be essential. Such coordination
would be accomplished through a State-level coordination committee on which
the Secretaries and heads of the Departments and agencies resDonsible for
the project are represented. The committee would be presided over by the
Additional Chief Secretary of the Government of Gujarat and would be
responsible for the Dreparation and coordination of the annual plan of
operation for the various aspects of the project. It would also exercise
overall budgetary control over the project. Coordination of day-to-day
activities on the project would be accomnlished through a Droject coordi-
nation comnittee headed by a full-time senior zovernment officer acting
as project coordinator. The project coordinator would also be the secre-
tary of the State-level committee. Members of the projlect committee would
be the senior officers of the PIWD and the Decartment of Agriculture respon-
sible for the project at the field level and the District Officers concerned
with agricultural development.
5.02      The GOI coordinates the collection of information on irrigation
projects it intends to invite IDA to finance through a snecial central
coordinating committee, comnrising renresentatives of the Union Ministries
of Irrigation, Agriculture and Finance, under the chairmanship of the
Central Water and Power Commission (CWPC). However, the committee does
not at present maintain a continuous association with rrojects durina their
implementation. Such an association should be established, not only to
coordinate pro.ect programs, such as water management investigations, with
those conducted by the GOT, but also to nrovide a charnel through which
the technical exnertise of the GOI in agriculture and engineering could
flow to a project as needed.  Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that the duties of the snecial central coordinating committee would be
extended to cover project activities during the implementation stages as
well. The GOI also agreed to apDoint sufficient number of full-time staff
to assist the committee in carrying out its activities.
Civil Works
5.03      The Irrigation Wing of the PWD has been responsible for imDle-
mentation of all ma.or irrigation works in the State.  The construction and
operation of the Kadana project, including the dam, irrigation canals and
minor works, a-re at present under the control of the Superintending Engineer,



- 17 
5naroda Circle,  To strengthen suzerv`sion durir.  construction,   e vern-a
ment >,rozosins to azoi-.-  an additional superinitending enpdnee.r -;; b, respon-
sible for e rr 'er';s on Xadara Dan and i- the  e t Barj ,. '           .  It
would be a :odv ticn of efectiveness that zb:-s ap  jatmte id bina de.
The S-uperinten-'ing Lrz.n eer, _aroda Circle e  wou-d t.hen be r-'pa i a euly
for develoiuernt of the F.ir ht Barnk caral irr'ration and draina4e s       .
Upon coliiletfion of -onstruction, he would ass.une responsilbilit>  for f ._'
overation and maintenance activitles on the pro'lect, Kh uding sd;na 1a.
5.04      The Kadana Dam is bein, constructed under Thv'D.s siiey^'isou by
contractors using marua  labcor.  Tihe method of construction Is acc ;aptable
anad the quality of work is satisfactor,y art present. CQuality control is
being exercised by a comparatively junior officer reportinitg to th- enggneer
in charge of constructior, .  As the damn rises, hovzever, and th. z quality of
work done by over 10 ,CCC laborers will have to be checked. .     rc arrange-
ments will be inadequa4te.  Sunervisior of quaility wil- have to be Jone by
an independent, senior officer in a rosition to ensure that sustandard
uer.k is re.':ected.  It would be a con.,tion cf effecti4-eness of the cre 4
that such an apxpointment had been made.
5.05      The PWD, whlieh has a large staff of well-qualified engineers, has
successf'ully conpleted the early development of the project and several
ozher large-scale projects elsewhere in Cujarat, including the IDA-financed
Shetrunji Project (Credit Ilo. 13-IN).  However, neither the PlWD, nor the Soil
Conservation branch of the Department of Agriculture has had experience in
the design and construction of the type of contour irrigation system util-
izing bench terraces that would be constructed in the Left Bank area.  The
Government has informed IDA of its proposals for aopointment of competent
and experienced engineer4ng and agricultural staff to act as a design end
construction team in collaboration with land settlemient staff (para. 4.15).
It would be a condition of effectiveness of the credit that a satisfactory
teamr had been appointed.
5.06      All the project roads would be constructed by local contractors,
using labor-intensive methods.  Contracts would be let by the district pan-
chayats in accordarice with the PFW-'s rules and regulations.  The work would
be supervised by executive engineers who have been seconded to the panchayats
- but who remain under the technical direction of the PFWD. Each executive
engineer has a staff of technical assistants, and this staff would be in-
creased to exercise control over the works.
5.07      The organization proposed for the construction arnd operation
phases of the proj,ect is shown in Annex 10.  After the appointments dis-
cussed above were made, the PUD  would be able tc design and sunervise al.l
works satisfactorily.
5.08      The Soil Conservation brench of the Department of Agriculture
would construct the watercourses and field channels and carry out the land
leveling.  However, since its performance, especially in land leveling on
the Shetrunji Project, hes not been entirely satisfactory, the branch need-
ed strengthening.  To this end the Government of Gujarat appointed a cua-
lified engineer to head the Soil Conservaticn branch and a senior engineer



- 18 -
under him to take overall resnonsibility for the work done by the branch in
the project area. Assurances were also obtained that the Government of
Gujarat would, within 6 months after the signing of the credit agreement,
appoint sufficient professional staff and sunnorting field staff to form a
satisfactor,y divisional organization to carry out the land development
works in the project area.
.4gricultural Sunnort Program
5.09      The Department of Agriculture would provide technical services to
farmers in the project area.  The Denartment has an extensive organization
throughout the State which conducts agricultural research, education and
training; carries out on-farm development work; and nrovides extension serv-
ices. It already has a large staff engaged in these activities within the
project area.  Its organization chart is shown in Annex 10.
5.10      The Department proposes to appoint a senior officer of the rank
of Joint Director of Agriculture, to take overall resDonsibility for the
agricultural develoDment of the project, and an assistant to him, a Deputy
Registrar of Cooperative Societies, to take charge of marketing and credit.
It would be a condition of ef'fectiveness of the credit that the Government
had made these appointments.
5.11      In most of its fields of responsibility, the Denartment of Agri-
culture is supplyinz a degree of sunoort to farmers which is satisfactory
for rainfed production at the level of develonment that has been reached at
the present time.  Hcwever, a number of deficiencies in the technical serv-
ices will need to be remedied to provide adequately for the higher intensity
of farming under the project. In particular, water utilization on the farm
needs to be improved; this will irnvclve agricultural research, training and
extension ser-vices in ar. aspect of agricultural develorment that has re-
ceived little attention in India in the past.  New trial-cum-demonstration
(TCD) farms will be needed to supplement the work being done on the one
existing farm, whose facilities also will have to be imnroved.  A suggested
program for agricultural research, training, the establishment and improve-
ment of TCD farms and the improvement of the apricultural extension service
is given in Annex 11.  During ne-otiations the Government of Gujarat accent-
ed the suggested progran as settin, forth the minimum requirements for an
effective agricultural Program in the project area.  It also undertook to
present to the Association by March 15, 1970, detailed nronosals for the
program and to proceed with its implementation within 6 months of signing
the credit agreement.
Consolidation of Land-Holdings
5.12      A further increase in project benefits above and beyond those
projected in this report could be realized if holdings in the area were to
be consolidated. However, it would be difficult to administer such a pro-
gram in the Right Bank area because of its size and the advanced stage of
agricultural develonment. These difficulties are not as serious in the Left



Bank area, a relatively small homogeneous unit. Furthermore, the intro-
duction of contcur irrigation dictated by the topography of the area ren-
ders a consolidation program here more urgent than in the Right Bank area.
Although failure to undertake land consolidation In -the Left Bank area
would lead to only a marginal decline in overall projec-t benefits, it would
result in lower returns to the farmers in the area. In view of this, the
Government of C-ujarat has agreed that land consolidation be attempted in
the Left Bank area. The consolidation program would require a well-coordinated
cempaign by lard settlement, agricultural and irrigation officers in associa-
tion with the panchayats (Annex 3). Assurances were obtainel during nego-
tiaticns that, within 6 months after the signing of the credit agreement,
the State government would launch a trial land consolidation programn, ini-
tially in six villages adjacent to the TCD farms to be established in the
area, and later, if feasible, expanding as soon as possible into the whole
Left Bank area.
Lvnluatlon of Agricultural Progress
5.13      In the past the Association has found it difficult to evaluate
the progress of agricultural development in the projects it has financed in
India.  Data on agricultural production are normally collected by adminis-
trative areas; therefore, production from, project areas, which hardly ever
coincide w,ith administrative boundaries, is rarely distinguishable in the
records. Though this handicap could be overcome by making special collec-
tions of data or sample studies in project areas, it has not yet been found
possible to arrange for such work to be done in gny IDA-financed protects.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Government of GuJarat
would arrange for the State's Bureau. of Economic Statistics and other suita-
ble organizations to carry out economic survevs of the development of the
project area, to establish economic "bench-mnarks" at the initiation of the
jro4ect, to keep dev-elopment under review, to identitfy constraints, to
p2repare the repor's on agricultural development reouired by the Association
and to grepare economic evaluations of the project as necessary.
agiricultural Credit
5.1L      Most of the larger landowners in the area, who cultivate over 40%
of project lands, have traditionally depended on their o-n resources and
remittances from relatives abroad to finance their on-farm investments and
input requirements. They are exoected to continue to rely on these sources
in the future, though they would also have access to banks, which are expand-
ing their agricultural lending rapidly. Gujarat has an efficient, well-
financed and active network of credit cooperatives, consisting of primary
societies at the village level, District Co-operative Banks at the district
level and ar Apex Co-operative Bank at the State level. All villages in
the project area are served by primary credit societies. About 132,000
small-holders in the area are expected to rely on the credit cooperatives
for their production loans.  The estimated credit requirements of these
farmers upon completion of the project would be about Rs 100 million annu-
ally, and the credit cooperatives should have no difficulty in meeting this
demand.



- 20 -
Grain Storage and Agricultural Processing
5.15      At full agricultural development, 7 years after the introduction
of regulated water supply, production of food-grains is projected to reach
700,000 tons annually. Some 300,000 tons are expected to be consumed on
the farms and the balance would be sold in the markets. Storage capacity
(at present more than adequate at 250,000 tons) would have to be increased.
Most of the increase would be provided by private merchants, who own more
than 75% of present capacity, and the remainder by marketing and processing
cooperatives. Since the full storage requirement would not arise until
1982 and present capacity would be adequate for most of the intervening
years, the project would not provide for additional storage. Similarly,
crop processing, over 70% of which is now done by private industry, is
expected to be provided for adequately through expansion of existing inter-
ests, including cooperatives, in step with the development of demand over
the next 12 years.
Operation and Maintenance
5.16      Depending upon the available flow in the river, irrigation sup-
plies are at present distributed to the various parts of the canal system
so that certain distributary canals run full while others are closed.  Un-
gated irrigation outlets on each minor canal discharge a constant supply to
the watercourses while the corresponding distributary is flowing.  Farmers
take their supplies in turn until each has received his authorized appli-
cation.  To ensure efficient and equitable allocation of available water
supplies, the operating schedules for distributary canals would be esta-
blished annually by the Deputy Engineer in charge of the reservoir and
headworks sub-division, reporting directly to the project Sunerintending
Engineer. The schedules would be based on information reFarding water
requirements provided through the project Special Canal Advisory Committee
and the Department of Agriculture.
5.17      The canal regulating staff is at present responsible for canal
maintenance in addition to its operational duties. This has been satisfac-
tory with a flow season lasting only about 5 months. When irrigation sup-
plies are introduced during the rabi season, however, the canal closure
time available for maintenance will be reduced, and canal regulating staff
will be largely employed throughout much of the year on operational duties.
Additional maintenance staff would therefore be introduced at sub-section
level, as shown in Annex 10.
Oneration and Maintenance Costs
5.18      Operation and maintenance cost estimates for the distribution
system have been based on the actual expenditures experienced to date on
the project. Maintenance work on the distribution system would continue to
be carried out by manual labor, which would be appropriate since the main
and branch canals would be mostly lined. The watercourses and field chan-
nels would be maintained by the farmers and their maintenance costs are in-
cluded in the farm production costs. The silt content of the irrigation
water would be slight and desilting work in the distribution systems would



- 21 -
be correspondingly limited.  Estimates of the cost of maintenance and oper-
atior of the Kadana Dam. and reservoir were based on expelnditures incurred
oin similar works elsewhere in India.  Appropriate adjustments were made to
reflect the improved level of operation and maintenance of drains assumed
for the project. The estimates include the cost of wages and salaries,
contracted work and contingencies (155).  These costs would be incurred by
the operating divisions of the Irrigation Wing of the PWD.
2.19       Maintenance of the district roads is the responsibility of the
?WD. Although the funds allocated for this purpose are lovw, they would be
adequate.  The villaae and farm roads would be maintained by the panchayats
and financed out of nroceeds from the water charges.  Assurar-ces vere obtained
during negotiations that a maintenance programn for these roads would be Dre-
pared and executed by the panchayats under the general guidance of the PWD
and that adequate funds would be made available to thee. for the required
maintenance work.
5 - '1~f~  Upon completion of the irrigation system, annual maintenance
c;css, excluding watercourses and field channels, are expected to be about
Rs 5.7 million, or Es 20 per ha. The annual cost of maintaining the farm
and village road system within the project area would be abou-t Rs 0.9 mil-
lion, or Rs 3 per ha.
W1ater Charges
5.21       Construction and maintenance of irrigation projects in India is
a responsibility of the state governments, -which also exercise the right to
impose and collect water charges fron the cultivators.  Water charges in
Gujarat are composed of three separate imposts (Annex 12).  1wo of these
are uniform throughout the State and subject to periodic ad-ustment.  The
latest revision in 1906  resulted in an increase of more thar, 20%, -which
placed the rates among the highes-t in India.  The third charge, a better-
ment levy, is the principal means by which the Government recovers the
capital cost of the project, and its level varies from project to project.
The Kadana prolect level has yet to be determined. In addit-ion to the water
charges, farmers pay an annual land tax and a "local fund cess.'1  Aside from
the above charges, large holders in the area would also be subject to an
agricultural property tax.  Under Finance Act 14 of 1969, =mending the
Wealth-Tax Act of 1957, ownership of agricultural land exceeding Rs 150,000
in value would be incluided in the evaluation of private assets for tax pur-
poses. starting in 1970.  As a result of the Kadana pro,ect, land values in
the area would increase substantially. Tfhis in turn would result in about
1l  of the land owners in the area, accounting for 10% of the land, being
taxed under the agriculTural land property provisions of the new law.  The
resulting incremental collections are expected to be about Es 2.0 million per
annum from the proJect area.
5.22       At present once a farmer's application for irrigation is approved,
payment of the water charges becomes compulsory even -though, in the absence
of an assured water supply, timely and adequate deliveries are never assured.



- 22 -
Under the circumstances it is not surprising that farmers are reluctant to
apply for an irrigation supply for their entire kharif food-grain crops,
which normally require only one or two irrigations compared with five to
seven irrigations for similar crops during rabi. However, after completion
of the Kadana Dam, when an assured water supply would be available to the
entire area during kharif, this constraint on kharif irrigation would be
removed. With returns on improved irrigation food-grains being from two
to four times as much as those from traditional local varieties under rain-
fed conditions, farmers would have a strong incentive to irrigate the max-
irum possible area during kharif. The shift anticipated from rainfed to
irrigated kharif food-grain production could be accelerated by revising the
method of applying water charges so that a farmer producing these crops
during kharif would be obliged to pay the prevailing water charge whether
he chose to irrigate his crop or not. The best arrangement through which
to accomplish this change and at the same time simplifr the procedure for
collecting water charges would be reviewed as part of a water charges study
discussed in paragraph 5.25.
5.23      Total direct investments in the project from its inception (ex-
cluding the cost of land leveling and field channels, wvhich would be financed
as direct loans to farmers, and the cost of roads) would amount to about
Es 515 million (US$ 68.7 million). Annual operating and maintenance costs
for the irrigation and farm and village road systems would reach about Ps 6.6
million after completion of the project.
5.24      Annual collections from the project area presently amount to about
Rs 4.0 million. Based on the existing level of charges, annual collections
would increase, following completion of the project, to Es 21.3 million or
about Rs 75 per ha if the designed cropping pattern is followed. This would
represent an increase in annual collections of about Rs 17.3 million. 'The
additional collections would provide an annual surplus over operation and
maintenance costs of Rs 10.7 million and would be sufficient to recover over
80% of the monies invested in the project without interest. Should it be
decided to recover the investment at the GOI lending rate to the State of
5-3/4% interest, a betterment levy would have to be imposed at full agri-
cultural development.  Such a levy would, however, impose an additional
charge of about Rs 95 per ha, thus more than doubling total annual charges,
as shown in the table below.



- 23 -
Rs                                           Rs
Operating Costs            Million              Revenue                 Million
Irrigation                 5.7    Irrigation Water Charge              11.9
Irrigation Cess                      1.8
Farm and Village Roads   0.9
Total                  6.6        Sub-total Irrigation Charges   13.7
Amortization at 5-3/4%              Land Tax                               3.5
Local Fund Cess                       4.1
(Annual installments
over 28 years)        44.6        Suib-total Other Taxes             7.6
Total Collections from Charges
at Present Levels                   21.3
Betterment Lerv                     29.9
Total       51.2                      Total              51.2
5.25      The above charges, excluding the betterment levy, would be equal
to about 13,r of the mean incremental cash income to be earned by farmers in
the project area (para. 6.08). With income in the area expected to nearly
triple, farmers should be able to make such payiments without losing incentive.
However, pro4ect charges might prove to be too high for the small holdings,
which account for about ll  of the project area.  The repayment capacity of
these farms, as well as the level of betterment levy which the other farm
units could pay in addition to the proposed charges, would have to be
established on the basis of further detailed investigations. Assurances
were obtained during negotiations that the Government of Gularat would:
(a)  ensure that annual collections from the project
area would be at least Rs 20 million within 4 years
of the completion of the civil works;
(b)  make arrangements satisfactory to IDA to begin, within 6
months after the signing of the credit agreement, a study
to review the current water charges levied in the project
area and, within 3 years, make recoymendations on the
appropriate future level of such charges that would relate
the recovery rate to the size of holdings and the farmer's
incentives and capacity to pay;
(c)  discuss with IDA the recommAendations and the action it
would propose to take to implement them; and
(d)  undertake periodic reviews of the water charges at inter-
vals not exceeding 5 years.



- 24 -
VI.  PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS AND FAR&4 INCOME
Production
6.01      The provision of irrigation and drainage and the use of comple-
mentary inputs would result in a greater intensity of production through a
major change from rainfed to irrigated production in the kharif season and
increases of lesser magnitude in irrigated cropping in the other seasons.
The availability of more residual soil moisture following kharif irrigation
would also permit a large increase in non-irrigated rabi cropping. There
would be relatively little change in the croos to be grown but overall crop-
ping intensity would be increased greatly, as shown in Annex 4 and summarized
below:
Crooned Area                  Production
Cron                 Present   Future       Present   Future   Increment
('000 ha                    ('000 ton)
nharif
Irrigated
Food-grains               18       180          29        493        464
Other                      -        10           -         22         22
Rainfed
Food-grains             185         -          165         -        -165
Other                      4        -             4        -          -4
Rabi
Irrigated
Food-grains               15        58          15        145        130
Other                      -        13           -        146        146
Non-irrigated
Food-grains                9        90           7         60         53
Other                      -        10           -         25         25
Other seasons
Irrigated
Food-grains                -        15           -         32         32
Commercial crops           8        37           9         66         57
Sugarcane                  -         3           -        270        270
Other                      -         5           -         23         23
Non-irrigated
Commercial crops          46        28          40         30        -10
Total                        285        449
Cropping Intensity (%)       100        158



- 25 -
o.02      Projections for future production assmnie increases in yields to
levels which are conservative in relation to the use of assured irrigation,
imr.proved varieties and other inputs, the cost of which is reflected in in-
creased production costs. Yield increases for the main crops in ton/ha are
projected to be as follows: paddy (coarse), from 1.7 to 3.0; bajri, from
1.6 to 2.0; wheat, from 1.1 to 2.5; and tobacco, from 1.2 to 1.5. It is
expected that it would take 7 years after the completion of construction
of the irrigation works to attain the levels of production projected. De-
tails of present and future crop areas, yields, production costs and prices
uae given in Ainex 4.
6.03      Seeds, fertilizers end agricultural chemicals vould be availab'le
in adequate quantities from existing sources of supply.
Market Prospects
3o       Demand projections for the various crops have been taken into
account in drawing up the cropping pattern.  At present Gujarat has an an-
.u&L food-grain deficit of about 2 million tons.  With population expanding
ra.pidly and per capita income rising, derand for food-grains in the State
is expected to reach so0me 7.5 million tons annually by 1981 as compared with
the average 1962-68 annual production of 2.4 million tons. Given the present
food-grain deficit, scent rainfall throughout most of the State, a limited
potential for irrigation development and a strong tradition o-f producing
casn crops, it is doubtful whether the State could supply its o-wn food-grain
requirements in the near future.  On the other hand, the GO  expects that
India as a whole would reach self-sufficiency in fcod-Lrains by the m.id-
1970's.  Should these expectations materialize and should they be accon-
uanied by relaxation, if not outright abolition, of zonal restrictions on
the movement of food-grains, produicers in the project area would have to
compete with producers elsewhere in India (para. 6.07)
6.o5      Although India exports annually about US$ 20 million of raw cotton
and over US$ 80 million of cotton fabrics, it produces only small quantities
of long-staple cotton.  Annual raw cotton imports, many of which are ac-
counted for by the long-staple varieties, amount to about US$ 100 million
annually.  Farmers in the proJect area already produce long-staple cotton,
and the introduction of irrigation would further encourage its cultivation.
kluch of the increased cotton production would therefore contribute to a
reduction in long-staple imports and would find a ready market in the
textile centers of Bombay and Ahmedabad.
6.o6      Tobacco uroduction on the project is mainly bidi (Burley), a type
which supplies acout 25% of India's tobacco consumption.  Taking into account
copulation growth end increased income, total tobacco consum.ption in India
during the 1970's is expected to increase annually by about 4h. Bidi to-
bacco is expected to maintain its present share of the market.
Prices
6.07      The present national food zones policy - under which agricultural
prices reflect, not the interaction of supply and demand in the country as



- 26 -
a whole, but merely that within a state - is largely responsible for the
prevailing high prices for agricultural produce, esnecially food-grains in
Gujarat. In order to evaluate the comnetitive position of the Droject in
food-grain production, it was assumed that prevailing urice differences for
food-grains between the states, arising out of present marketinz restrictions,
would disappear by the mid-1970's and, furthermore, that prices in India
would, in general, correspond with projected food-grain prices on the world
market. Based on these assumptions, it appears that the project would be
competitive, while still assuring adeauate returns to farmers, in the pro-
duction of paddy, coarse grains and pulses. Wheat production in the area
is less promising. Due to unfavorable climatic conditions, expected yields
are low, while fertilizer inputs and thus total production costs are high.
Wheat was nevertheless included in the cropning pattern to reflect present
price incentives to farmers and the expected buoyant demand in Gujarat.
However, should farmers find wheat production to be unremunerative, they
could shift production to coarse grains, vegetables and 8-month crops
(especially cotton of the long-staple variety), all of which would be more
profitable than wheat at projected world market prices.
Farmers' Income
6.08      Farm prices at full agricultural development, 7 years after
completion of all project works, are projected on the basis of expected
1975 world market prices valued at the current exchange rate.  Using these
prices, cash income 1/ in the project area would vary between Rs 230 and Rs
1,200 per ha, depending on the farm size, and averaging about Rs 900 per ha
for the project area as a whole.  By comparison, the average present income
based on prevailing prices is only Rs 350 per ha. Sample farm budgets
representative of five typical farm sizes in the area are Dresented in
Annex 13 and summarized below:
(5) as
Farm Size                Cash Income                                  Percentage
in Hectares      Present   Future   Increment   Project Charges         of (4)
(1)             (2)     (T3)         (4)             (5)               6
- - - - - - - - - - - - - -  Rs                    - -     %
0.5              -        115        115              35               30
1.5             230       760        530              85               16
3.0             610     3,410      2,800             215                8
6.o          3,760      7,200      3,440             420               12
16.0         11,200    19,800    11,200             1,200               11
Project Average
(million      100.0      260.0      160.0            21.3               13
1/   Cash income is equal to gross value of production less family subsis-
tence allowance and production costs in which management and family
labor contributions are costed at zero and before payment of project
charges. The incomes shown are also before land taxes for holdings
exceeding Rs 150,000 in value (para. 5.21).



- 27 -
D.09      The above -ta'ole shows that the impact of nroject chalrges would
vary greatly, dependinz on the farm size and the crorping patt-rn to be
ad.onted.  Despite the high level of these charges, exnected benefits to
farmers should provide them with adeauate incentives to wxticipate in
the project.  For smaller holdings, the high level of c1hl-arges could act
as a disincentive to the use of irrigation water.  It -woild therefore be
necessary to investigate in detail the repayment capacity cf these farmers
(para. 5.25).
VII.  BENEFITS A-20D JUSTIFICATION
7.01      Completion of the Kadana I;rriwation Project -wonuld resle.t in three
-or Ie benefits.  First, there would be an exnansion [and stabilLzation of
annrual agricultural production in an area that presentlv depends cn an er-
'abic rainfall.  This would bring about a subst ant± al increase ir. :anrm in-
comes.  Second, the project would enable India to realize the fuLll benefits
irnom past investments in irrigation facilities in Kadana area, at present
limited by the absence of an assured water sunrly.  ;Finally, the project
,ould contribute to India's effort to attain self-suffi Liencc  in foodstuffs
and improve the balance of payments position by reduclng import needs.  As-
suming all the increased production of cereals and loug.-staple cotton from
the ares to be import substitution, gross forei,n exchange savrings fron
the -oroject at full development, based on projected ,rorld market prices and
t,he current exchange rate, would be about US$ 30 million annually.
7.02      Uncertainty over the continuation of the food zones Dolic,y (para.
6.07) complicates the calculation of' project benefits.  Four different rrice
.'evels for food-grains have therefore been used in -the ecoromic rate-of-
return calculation, as shown in Annex i4.  The highest price level assumes
a conitinuation of present price levels for -wheat, rice, 7 ba%J,r.` , jo-,rar and
aai-ze; the lowest level reflects farm gate prices based upon expected world
market prices in 1975 on the hypothesis that, 'oy that time, India would
have attained self-sufficiency in food-grains and state foca zones -wuld be
eliminated or, at leas-t, significantly relaxed.  The lowest farm gate prices
are employed in the table of projected net returns given in Annex 4, page 2.
7.03       The chanjeover from the present cropping pattern to that  ro ,jected
in this renort and the increase in yields and production costs are likely
to occur aradually over a 7-year period following completion of all project
works.  increased production costs reflect mainly a higher rate of farm nn-
nuts.  With an abundant labor sunnly in the area and in the S-tate as a whole,
annual family labor contributions -were excludec from the far-m production
costs.  Since family labor in the area is already receiving  uhat mounts to
a subsistence waze, fuller utilization under the project of the available
family labor would result in very little additional economic cost.
7.04       At full agricultural development ofP all projecz. lands, the arnual
gross value of production, at projected world market prices, is estimated to
increase from the present level of Rs 180 million to Rs 565 million. After



- 28 -
making allowances for increases in production costs, the annual incremental
net value of production at full development would be approximately Rs 200
million. When -these benefits and all project costs, including those in-
curred to date, are discounted over the 40-year life of the project, the
economic rate of return would be about 14%. Alternatively, if present price
levels should continue, the annual incremental net value of production at
full development would be approximately Rs 400 million and the economic rate
of return would reach 22%. For details, see Annex 14. If nast investments
were disregarded (i.e., treated as sunk costs), and using the same assumD-
tions on incremental net value of production as described above, the rate
of return would fall within the range of 20% to 31%.  This high rate of
return illustrates the benefits to be obtained from the comnletion of
on-going irrigation projects.
VIII. RECOtME1DATIONS
8.01      During credit negotiations, agreement was reached, among others,
on the following principal points:-
(a)  GOI's continuous association with the technical aspects
of the project throughout the implementation stages
(para. 5.02); and
(b)  the collection of at least Rs 20 million annually of
water charges from the project area commencing within
4 years of the completion of the civil works (para. 5.25).
8.02      A condition of effectiveness of the credit is that the execution
and delivery of the Pro3ect Agreement on behalf of Gu,jarat have been duly
authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action, and that
Gujarat shall have appointed nersonnel with qualifications acceptable to
the Association to several posts in the project (paras. 5.03, 5.04, 5.05
and 5.10).
8.03      The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA cre-
dit of US$ 35 million.
January 21, 1970



ANi   1
I N D I A
KADA2NA IRRIGATION PROJECT
aisting irric:ation Works
1.        The project at present depends on run-of-river supplies without storage
of excess flows.  Irrigation supplies are diverted at Wanakbori weir (see maps),
which was completed in 1958.  The weir has a total length of 790 m and a flood
capacity of 32,000 m3/sec. The maxinum flood recorded to date is 30,000 m3/sec,
while the minimum flow is as little as 2 m3/sec.
2.        The main canal, taking off from the Right Bank of the river at Wanakbori,
has a capacity of 20O m3/sec, with a bed -width of 16.5 m and a water depth of 5.2 m.
It is 7L kIn long from the weir into the Right Bank area and linad throughout -with
brick tiles.  It was completed in 1959 and has operated satisfactorily for 10 years.
3.        Construction of about 210 km of branch canals and 1,680 km of distributary
and minor canals has been completed in the Right Bank area.  These canals could be
expanded under the project to 237 lmn and 2,960 kin, respectively. The rate of
irrigation development to date has been as follows:
Fiscal        Total             Potential
Year      Accumulated          Seasonally           Area         Area IgTigated
Ending    Canal Commnands     Irrigable Area       Actually           Actual
MIarch      Com.pleted           Copleted          Irrizated        Potential
(ha)                (ha)              (a)
1959          8,100                6,100              -                -
1962         59,000               142,600           6,300             15
1965         93,800               63,300           18,700             29
1968        131,_500              88,200           40,000             45
1969 1/     1L3,000               93,500           51,500             58
1/  Figures for 1969 are estimated.
14.       The area brought under comir.nd by canal constraction has increased by
about 12,000-15,000 ha annually over the last 10 years.  The annual increase in
area actually irrigated, however, has varied from nil to 11,500 ha, with an average
of only 5,600 ha/yr. During the last 3 years, the rate of irrigated area development
at field level has shown a steady increase of 7,300 ha/yr. The time lag between
the completion of canals and the full development of the present irrigation potential
in the area commanded has been about 7 years.
5.        The preliminary works for Kadana Dam, covering access roads, staff
housing and site investigations, have been completed. Work on the dam (described
in Annex 6) started in 19,68. Expenditures on the dam, and the works completed cn
the Mahi Right Bank area up to the beginniing of 1970, are estimated to be Rs 235
million (US$ 31.4 million).  Details are presented 4i Annex 9, Table 1.






ANNEX 2
Page i
I N D I A
KADAN  IRRIGATION PROJMT
Soils and ToneoVany
1.       The topography of the Right Bank area is of generally low relief.
There are a nunmber of low, isolated hills and ridges in the northeastern
and central parts, but near the Gulf of Cambay the area becomes virtually
flat with a low drainage gradient. The land slopes-from the northeast to
the southwest at an average gradient of about 60 cm  per km.  The Left
Bank area has a rougher relief, consisting of moderately rolling valleys,
whose undulating surface is punctuated by upthrust rock outcrops formng
hills and ridges in an unneven pattern.  It becomes flatter towards the
west.
2.       Soil surveys of the Right Bank area (316,000 ha gross) have
been completed by the  WiD. Avezage sampling was 4 auger holes per square
mdle, 8 feet in depth, samples taken at 2-foot intervals or change in
profile. All samples were analyzed in the laboratory by United States
Bureau of Reclamation (USBR) methods for pH, CaCO3, salinity, exchange-
able sodium if pH is greatar than 8.5, conductivity, permeability and
field capacity. Irrigability classification was dettrbaed at the
same time, using a system broadly along UTBR lines. The field plot
was carried out on 8-inch-to-l-nile cadastral sheets (Survey of India)
and the irrigability classification plotted on a 1/2-inch-to-l-indle
scale for report purposes. The whole area is also covered by 4-inch-
to-l-rdle cadastral sheets with 2-foot contours, as well as by stereo
air photography.
3.       About 25,000 ha on the Left Bank -;ere covered by a reconnais-
sance survey in 1958 at a density of 1 auger hole per square mile.
The survey was plotted to a scale of 1 inch to I rnle to give a broad
irrigability classification. A more detailed survey is now in progress
using 8-inch-to-l-mrile Survey of Indlia maps with a contour interval of
2 feet as base maps. The present sampling and laboratory analysis
techniques are satisfactory.  The RtD soil survey section is competent
to do the work, which is expectad to be completed within 6 months.
4.       The Right Baank area is underlain by deep alluvimm, varying
in thickness from about2.75m in the northeast to more than 50 m in the
southwest. At the upper end, the soils are sandy loa-Ms, silty loa;rs
and sandy clay loams of very rapid to moderate  permeability.  In the
western third of the area, in the vicinity of the Gulf of Cambay,
clay loams and clays occur. These have been classified as Classes III,
IV and IVb. Of moderate to very slow permeability,, they cover about
88,000 ha, comprising about 28% of the area of vhe project.  About
45% of these soils (h1,000 ha), representing some 13% of the total
area of the project, are either saline or alkaline or both and would
have to be reclaimed before ther could attain their full production
potential. The F0D has considerable experience in reclamation of
saline and alkaline soils; and they are being assisted by a ccnsultant
experienced in this field.  They are competent to undertake the work
satisfactorily.



AINYEX 2
Page 2
5.       The Left Bank soils are mainly sandy loams at higher levels
and adjacent to the rocky knolls and finer-textured clay loams and
clays in the valley bottoms. They are of generally shallow depth (zero
to 2.5 m, with 50% over 1.2 m) overlying schists, ouartzites and
phyllites. No salinity or alkalinity problems have been found in
these soils and they are unlikely to develop, provided seepage from the
irrigation canals is kept within acceptable limits.
6.       The soil classification of the Right Bank area is as follows:
Class           Ha                     % of Gross Area Sxrveyed
Ia        135,286                                3 .4
lb         45,365                               14.5
II          43,219                               13.8
III          26,947                                8.9
IVa         42,510                               13.7
IVb         18,219                                5.7
Total (gross)   311,546                              100.0
Classes Ia and lb are suitable for intensive irrigation without restric-
tion, and Class II has moderate restrictions due to slow internal drainage
and Slat topography. Class III is suitable for seasonal cropping, Class
IVa has restricted internal drainage and some salinity but is potentially
productive after drainage, while Class IVb is saline-alkaline, needs
drainage and reclamation and will require careful management and a relatively
long development period before reaching full production.



NNIEX 3
Page 1
I N D I A
KADANA IRRIGATION PROJEECT
Land Tenure
1.        The Government of Gujarat and its predecessors, the Governments
of the States of Bombay and Saurashtra, through a series of land reform
acts passed between 191X8 and 1963, have abolished traditional tenancy
systems and transferred ownership of land to its cultivators. As from
the end of 1968, owner-occupancy is the only land tenure system recognized
by the law.
2.        There are about 176,000 land-holdings in the project area.
Distribution by size is as follows:
Size of Holdings         % of Total Holdings                  % of Total Area
(ha)         Kaira Pan.chmahals  htire Project  Kaira Pancmiahals Dntire Project
Up to l         43.2       30.1          62.5        11.3       6.0          11.5
1-2           33.6      32.5           33.4        26.8      19.5         18.3
2-4           14.5      24.2          15.2        26.6       33.3         27.1
6-8            6.8      11.3            7.0       21.1       30.6         21.8
8 and over          1.9        1.9           1.9        114.2     10.6          21.3
100.0     100.0         103.0       100.0      lCO.0        1OO.0
Holdings are generally larger in Panchmahals than in Kaira.  In both cases,
however, most of the land is in holdings larger than 2 ha - over 60c  of the
landl area in Kaira and nearly 75% in Panchrahals.  Only 11% of the land in
Kaira and 6'% in Panchmahals is in holdings smaller than 1 ha.  Nevertheless,
the numioer of owners of holdings smaller than 1 ha is large - 71,500 in
Kaira (43,@ of total owners) and 3,LOO in Panchmahals (30% of total).
3.        Fragmentation of small land-holdings is prohibited under the Bombay
Prevention of Fragmentation and Consolidation of Holdings Act, 1968, under
which a farmier may not subdivide his land into units smaller than half an
acre (0.2 ha) of irrigated land or 2 acres (0.8 ha) of non-irrigated land.
Consolidation of Land-Holdings
6.        It is normal for a farmer's total holding of land to be fragmented
into a number of discrete parcels, which may be widely separated bv land
belonging to others.  'ihile accurate data upon the degree of such fragmenta-
tion are available for orly a few areas, a Government conittee in 1965-66
foundl from the statistics of land registration that the average number of
clots per land-holder was 3.2 in Kaira District and 2.1 in Panchmahals. The
amount of de facto fragmentation, however, is usually greater than that shown



AIMNa 3
Page 2
by the statistics, since the lsgal limitation of the minimum size of
land-holding inhibits registration of subdivision that may actually take
place as a result of inheritance.  -When irrigation is introduced into an
area and the legal minimum size is reduced from 2 acres (0.8 ha) to half
an acre (0.2 ha),holdings hitherto illegal can be registered.  The actual
degree of fragmentation is then shown in the statistics. This can be
expected in the Kadana project. Furthermore, assuming that the smallest
land-holdings are unitary and that some unification has taken place al-
ready in the largest holdings, those of medium size, which make up most
of the land area, can be expected to have a high degree of fragmentation.
In-summary, the degree of fragmentation in the project area is likely to
be much greater than that shown in the land registration statistics.  This
conclusion was confirmed in the field where it was disclosed that the
owner of a 2-ha holding may often possess six or more separate parcels.
Field officers of the Department of Agriculture agreed that this is the
normal pattern in the area.
5.        Fragmentation of this kind constrains agricultural development
in an irrigation project. It may not always be entirely disadvantageous
under rainfed conditions but, where irrigation is available, any possible
advantages are outweighed by the disadvantages.  Wherever possible, there-
fore, fragmented holdings should be consolidated in irrigation projects.
The introduction of irrigation can provide, along with the stimulus to set
off an agricultural revolution, the incentive to undertake major changes
in land tenure. In Gujarat, however, this can be done only with the agree-
ment of the farmers. The Government has the power, under the Bombay Preven-
tion of Fragmentation and Consolidation of Holdings Act, 1948, to prenare
consolidation schemes to combine fragmented holdings into compact, unitary
ones. This has been done successfully in Uttar Pradesh. In Gujarat, how-
ever, attempts to introduce land consolidation - confined hitherto to
relatively backhward areas without irrigation - have not so far been successful.
6.        In Kaira District the relatively advanced agriculture presents a
more favorable aspect to the possibility of consolidation. However, the
very degree of development has introduced strong vested interests opposing
change, as for example, the piped water systems distributing tubewell water
between neighboring land-holdings. Furthermore, the size of the Right Bank
irrigation command in the district (263,000 ha) makes it impossible to
undertake consolidation on this scale except over a period of many years.
The Government considers, therefore, that it is not practicable to attempt
to introduce consolidation in this area at present. It proposes to leave
the problem for the time being to the play of economic forces, which may be
expected eventually to bring about the unification of holdings to permit
mechanization. However, at the same time, it appreciates the desirability
of demonstrating land consolidation in a suitable area nearby on a scale
large enough to be effective as an agent of more rapid change in the District
and also, in due course, in the State at large. The Left Bank area in
Panchmahals could be such a demonstration area. Consolidation would be



AKTRUM 3
Page 3
particularly desirable there because the contour terracing system to be
adopted would unavoidably fragment existing holdings even morethan at present
The vested interests associated with development are not established so
strongly there, yet the people are progressive and adaptable. There
appears to be a reasonable prospect that consolidation could be carried
out successfully, given full support by Government services and adequate
preliminary field work to convince the farmers of its advantages.






I N D I A                                               ANNYX 4
KADUA  IRRI'ATION P.OJECT
Present Cropping Pattern, Yields, Production Costs rnd Returns at Current Prices
Gross Value                                         Net Returns
Crop                        Cropped       Yield          Price           of          Production       Net Value of       from  Pro-ect
Area                                   Production        Costs ±         Production            Area
(haT)  (Ttonha ) (    *T/             - --    -   V . R a) - - -   - -                         ilion
Xnarif 'irrigated)
Paddy (coarse)                            600         1.7         0.95           1,615             325             1,290                 0.8
Bajri                                   8,900         1.6         0.70           1,200             390               ol8                 7.2
Mixed ^rops and other                  8,300          1.7         0.50            850             310               510                 4.2
Sub-total         17,800                                                                                           12.2
_ha_if (-ainfedl
Paddy (coarse)                         39,000         1.0         0.95             950             325               625                24.4
Sa3ri                                  52,300         0.8         0.70             560             390               170                 8.9
dcwar                                   2,300         0.8         0.60             480             380               100                 0.2
Faize                                   2,900         0.8          0.70            560             390               170                 0.5
3roundnuts                              4,400         0.8         1.20             960             420               540 2$L
Mixed crcps and other                  se,Soo          0.9         0.50            450             340               110                 9.7
Sub-total         189,100                                                                                           16.1
Total, Khar'f                           207,200                                                                                           58.3
Raoi (irri g Ated)
Wheat                                   9,700         1.1         0.95           1,045             6co               445                 4.3
Potatoes                                  3X0        1o.0         0.25           2,5co           1,025             1,L75                 0.4
Pulses                                  5,300         0.8          0.75            600             355               215                 1.3
Sub-total         15,300                                                                                            6.o
Rab- (non-irrigated)
Wheat                                   9,300         0.7         0.95             665             535               130                 1.2
Total, Pti                               24, 600                                                                                           7.2
3ight-monrth (irriFated)
Tobac-o                                 7,500         1.2         1.50          1,800              8i0               960                 7.2
SigWo-mcnth (non-irriga ed)
Tobacco                                24,600         0.9         1.60           1,410             840               600                14.8
Cotton                                 21,700         o.8         1.50           1,2CC             630               570                12.4
Sub-total         46,300                                                                                           27. 2
Total, Eight nonta                       53,800                                                                                           34.4
Total                                   285,600 .                                                                                         99.9
1/  Excluding taxes, water charges and family labor contribution.
2/  Cropping intensity:  100%  total cropped area, 285,600 ha; net cultivated area, 283,000 ha).



Pa-ge 2
UDANA IRRIOATION PROJECT
Projected Cropping Pattern, Tielda, Production Coste and Returns at Projected 1975 World Market Prices 1"
Gross Value                                          Net Returns
Crop                        Cropped       Yield          Pric/.~'         of          Production      Sst Value of       from Project
Area                                   Production        Costs 1/         Production            Area
77T          (ton/ha)        7    )     - - - - - - -          (as/ha) - -   - - - - -       (Rs millions)
Eharif (irrigated)
Paddy (coarse)                         32,000          3.0         0.54          1,620             640               s80                 31.4
(fine)                          50,000          4.0         0.59           2,360            7Lo             1,620                 81.0
3aj,ri (hybrid)                        60,ooo          2.0         0.45            900             730               170                 IC.2
Jowar (hybrid)                         12,C00          2.0         O.U1            820             730                90                  1.1
(fodder)                         4,000          3.5         0.07             245            210                35                  0.1
Maize (hybrid)                         14,000          2.4         o.45          1,080             870               210                  2.9
Groundnuts                              6,ooo          1.25        1.20          1,500             560               9140                 5.6
Pulses                                  2,000          0.8         0.75            600             120               LB0                  1.0
Mixad crops                            10,000          1.8         0.50            900             67o               230                  2.3
Total. Eharif                           190,000                                                                                           135.6
Raci. (irrigated)
Wheat                                  58,000          2.5         o.49          1,225           1,000               225                 13.1
Potatoes                                8,o0o        12.0          0.25          3,000           1,525            1,475                 11.3
Vegetables                              5,ooo        10.0          0.25          2,500           1,410            1,090                   5.5
Sub-total         71,000                                                                                            30.L
.Rabi (non-irigatedj
Jowar (co-ron)                         30,000          o.8         o.bl            328             328
(fodder)                        l0,CO          2.5         0.07            175             175                                     -
Pulses                                 60,00o          o.6         0.75             450            120               330                 19.8
Sub-total        100,000                                                                                            19.8
Total, Haoi                             171,000                                                                                            5'.2
3 ght-month (irrigated)
Tobacco                                17,000          1.5         1.50          2,250          1,480               770                 13.1
Cotton (medium-loig staple)            20,             2.0         1.60          3,200           1,020            2,180                 43.6
Sub-total         37,000                                                                                            56.7
Eigh-t-mcnth (non-irrigated)
Tobacco                                16,ODO         1.1          1.60          1,760          1,190               570                   9.1
Cotton                                 12.000          1.0         1.20          1,200             810              390                   4.7
Sub-total         28,000                                                                                            13.8
Tctal, Eigh-month                        65,ooo                                                                                            70.5
Hot-weather (irrigated)
Bajri (hybrid)                         15,000          2.1         o.45            915            730               215                 3.2
Jowar (fodder)                          5,000)         4.5         0.07            315             210              105                   0.5
Sub-total         20,000                                                                                             3.7
Perennial (irrigated)
Sugarcane                               3,000         90.0         0.037         3,330           2,970               36c                  1.1
Total                                  h4149,000 4/                                                                                     261.1
1/ Area, yields and production costs attained 7 years after the introduction of regulated water supply.
2/  Farm-gate prices for food-grains, medium-long staple cotton and sugarcane based upon expected world market prices in 1975.
3/ Excluding taxes, water charges and family labor contribution.
14/ Cropping intensity:  158% (total cropped area, 1449,000 ha; net cultivated area, 283,0co ha).



ANNEX 5
Page 1
I N D I A
KADANA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Agriculture
General
1.        Kaira District, in which 93% of the area irrigated under the project
is located, has a more highly developed agriculture than any other of C-ujarat's
18 districts. Its farmers are industrious, progressive and commercially oriented.
Though tractors are slowly being introduced, land-holdings are generally too
small and scattered to have favored rapid mechanization up to the present time.
Agriculture, therefore, remains very much a peasant economy, depending upon
bullock power and family labor, supplemented by hired labor at peak periods.
However, cropping practices are relatively advanced, the Introduction of gravity
irrigation from 1∞60 onwards over almost half the project area having given an
impetus to change. Irrigation from wells and tubeweLls 's not uncomrmon, and
in many places there is even a well-established trade between neighbors in
irrigation water. The owner of a tubewell will, for example, deliver water sur-
plus to his o-wn needs to his neighbors' fields through a piped system.  Hybrid
seeds, including new varieties both bred and multiplied by the Department of
Agriculture at its establishments within the District, are used widely, together
with the fertilizers and agricultural chemicals needed to assure optimum yields.
A small-holder dairy industry flourishes in the project area, supplying milk to
a central cooperative dairy that produces butter, ghee, cheese, dried milk and
casein products and sends fresh milk to markets as far away as New Delhi.  Agri-
cultural processing industries of various kinds are firmly established, often
being run by cooperatives.
2.        In general, Panchmahals District is less advanced.  However, the farmers
of the Lunawada and Santrampur talukas, whose holdings will be irrigated by the
project, are mostly of the same energetic and adaptable caste (Patels) as the
cultivators of the Kaira District and so have a high potential for development.
In the past their farming progress has been more restricted by insufficient
rainfall than has that of the better-favored Kaira District. Nevertheless, they
are already using improved crop varieties and other inputs, and, once irrigation
water is available, they will undoubtedly be quick to take advantage of it.
Future Crooping Pattern (Annex 4, page 2)
3.        The regulated irrigation supply to be provided under the project would
be used primarily to ensure the production of kharif crops. Although some of
these crops are already served by the present irrigation system, most are still
largely rainfed and, therefore, subject to the uncertainties of an erratic rain-
fall. After the needs of the kharif crop have been satisfied, the remaining
irrigation supplies would be used for rabi crops and, to a small extent, hot-
weather crops, together with a small acreage of perennials. The irrigation demand
and field applications for the cropping pattern are given in Annex 7.  A system
of rotation of allocations of water to rabi and hot-weather crops would be
employed that would confine irrigation in these seasons to Class I and Class II



AlNEX 5
Page 2
soils (those suitable for intensive production under irrigation). Under this
system, the supply of water would be rotated year by year round the total
acreage of such soils. Since Class I and II soils all occur in the upper half
of the command, the proposed rotation would not involve unacceptably large
conveyance losses.
4.        There would not be any major change, therefore, in the overall pattern
of seasonal production. Kharif would continue to be the predominant crop season,
though the proportion of rabi and hot-weather crops to kharif crops would in-
crease, not only because of the increased allocations of irrigation supplies to
them, but also because of a greater availability of residual moisture in the
soil in the rabi season after irrigation of all kharif crops. This would permit
non-irrigated rabi follow-on crops such as pulses to be grown with a greater
chance of success. The greatest impact of irrigation would be upon the yields
of the kharif crops, since it would permit high-yielding varieties to be grown
at full levels of fertilizer input, with certainty that water shortages would
not prevent the achievement of their full production potential.
Field TWater Management
5.        The system of field irrigation in common use by farmers is ponding
of level, bunded beds. Irrigation water is fed from one bed to another, either
by an in-field channel or by bed-to-bed inundation. The beds are formed in
different sizes according to topography and soils. This method of utilizing
irrigation water is usually inefficient, wasteful of water and labor and not
sufficiently flexible to'provide adequately for the varying irrigation require-
ments of different crops and soils.
6.        Systems employing graded border strips, furrows, corrugations or
combinatiormof these layouts, as are commonly used in modern irrigation projects
in other countries, are likely to be better suited to the conditions. At present,
however, there is little experience with these system.s, either on the farms or
in the Department of Agriculture, which is employing traditional methods on its
demonstration farms. It would undoubtedly be a difficult task to bring about
change in this field, where the present practices are sanctified by long usage.
However, the benefits of adopting better systems are likely to be substantial,
in terms of savings of irrigation water, avoidance of drainage problems and
improvements in crop yields. A high priority should be given to training
project staff and farmers in use of improved methods and to their demonstration
in the field and on the trial farms.
Kharif Crops
7.        Bajri (Pearl Millet).  The most important crop in the project area
in terms of acreage is bajri, grown both under irrigation and under rainfed
conditions on a wide range of soil types. Mixed with coarse rice and cooked
as a "hot-pot," it forms the staple diet of most rural people. Local varieties,
low-yielding but very drought-resistant, form the bulk of the production at
present. However, hybrid varieties that respond well to fertilizers, notably
Hybrid 115, evolved at Gujarat's Jamnagar Agricultural Research Station, are
replacing the local varieties rapidly, especially where irrigation is available.



Page 3
8.        Pad.  Paddy is grown widely in the project area on a numiber of
different soil types, both as a drilled rainfed crop and as one transplanted
under irrigation.  Local varieties are low-yielding and mainly of the coarse
quality that the cultivators prefer to eat.  Varieties of medium and fine
quality, bred at the State's research stations, are gaining acceutance because
of their fertilizer response and higher yields.  The variety recommended at
present for the project area is the locally-bred Sukhvel 20, which, though
maturing in only 110 days, is suited to irrigation because of its response to
fertilizers. However, assured regulated irrigation supplies would encourage
the adoption of longer duration, higher yielding varieties. With the marked
increase in yields likely as a result of irrigation, the new varieties and
higher levels of inputs, a swing away from coarse varieties to fine varieties
has been projected.
9.        Jowar   orghum).  Both local and hybrid varieties of jowar are cul-
tivated for grain production, and local varieties of strong vegetative growth
are also grown for fodder. Though well adapted to the wide range of climate
and soil conditions of the area, it is not popular locally as a foodstuff.
10.       Maize.  Hybrid maiza, relatively new in the area, has not yet been
very successful, despite its apparently high potential.  Yields are low and
characterized by poor fertilization of the cob. Irrigation, including good
water management at the time of pollination, is expected to improve production
and lead to increased planting of the crop.
11.       Groundnuts.  Although groundnuts have given disappointilng results to
date, the crop is gro-n on over 4,COO ha, and experimentation is being carried
out at the Department of Agriculture's trial,farms. A modest increase to 6,000
ha is expected lmnder the project.
12.       Pulses.  Pulse crops, mainl.y "1gramn" (Cilcer arietinum) are conmonlyS
planted in admixture with cereals, although a sziall acreage is gro-n as a pure
stand.  It is assuned that it would continue to feature in the cropping pattern.
13.       Mixed Crops.  Bajri, jowar and other cereals, mixed with pulses, are
a major crop in the area, representing about 45% of the total kharif cultivation.
It is popular because cultivators like to snread the risk of complete crop
failure under traditional conditions of uncertain rainfall and uncontrolled
insect and other crop hazards. Irrigation, together with the educational effect
of crop husbandry and extension advice and the availability of crop protection
services, is expected to bring about a rapid change.  It is assumed that the
acreage under mixed crops would fall from the present 97,COC ha to 10,000 ha at
full agricultural development.
ELbi CropS
1i.       Wheat.  Grown both as a rainfed and as an irrigated crop, wheat makes
up about 80S of the total rabi cultivaticn.  Yields are poor (averaging 1.1 ton/
ha) because climatic conditions are marginal for present varieties.  However,
assuling a continuation of the present favorable price structure, at least in the
near future, the crop is likely to continue to dominate rabi production.



ANNEX 5
Page  4
15.       Potatoes.  While this is not now a major crop, its cultivation is
likely to expand rapidly under irrigation since it is well suited to the climate
and the lighter soils.
16.       Vegetables.  Conditions are suitable for growing a wide range of
vegetables under irrigation, and production is likely to be limited only by
market considerations.
17.       Jowar.  As a rabi crop, jowar is subject to thie same considerations
described for kharif iowar.
18.       Pulses.  Sown in the stubble after a. rice crop is harvested, these
edible legume crops (mainly "1gram") grow on the residual moisture remaining in
the heavy soils. The expansion of irrigated paddy cultivation under the project
would increase the amount of land containing residual moisture sufficient to
mature a crop. An increase of rabi non-irrigatedpulses to a total of 60,000 ha
is envisaged.
Eight-month Crops
19.       Tobacco.  Kaira District grows about 70% of the tobacco produced in
GuJarat (about 13 of the all-India production). The bidi variety (Burley type),
grown under rainfed conditionE or under irrigation, is used to make the local
cigarette. The crop is harvested leaf by leaf and air-dried. The stalk is
sold for nicotine extraction. This old-established crop is expected to retain
its present importance.
20.       Cotton.  The two types of cotton grown now are the rainfed variety,
"Digvijay," with a staple length of 7/8 in to 15/16 in, and "Gujarat 67," with
a staple length of 1-1/8 in to 1-3/16 in, grown under irrigation. Recent local
research work has produced a new hybrid, promising in trials. The crop is well
suited to the local ecological conditions but, since it iF subject to attack by
a wide variety of insect pests, its development will depend upon successful
plant protection measures. The extension services are carrying out advisory work
and spraying crops for farmiers. The yield estimates (2 tons/ha seed cotton for
irrigated long-staple .Sai 1 tGn/ha seed cotton for Digvijay) are conserva-
tive and adequately take into account present production problems.
Perennial Crops
21.       Sugarcane.  A limited acreage (3,000 ha) of sugarcane is projected for
production of one crop per planting in a 12-month growing cycle. The area would
be concentrated in the Petlad taluka, serving one sugar mill that is under
construction.



AtNNX 6
Page 1
I N D I A
KADAIA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Description of Project Wvorks
1.   Kadana Dam
Purpose: To firm up and increase irrigation supplies to Mahi
River area. The structure would achieve this
satisfactorily.
Dimensions:
Length
Earth-fill section         825 m
Masonry
Transition section        75 m
Power section (future
plant installation)       78 m
Spillway section         366 m
Right abutment section   55 m
1,399 m
Maximum height froa deepest foundation to road level
Earth-fill section          33 m
Masonry section             58 m
The composite type of design of the dam is appropriate for the
location, and the design standards incorporated are suitably conservative
and safe.
Sluices:
Low level, 2 number, 1.5 m x 2.7 m  120 m3/sec
High level, 2 number, 1.5 m x 2.7 m 63 m3/sec
Total sluice discharge capacity       366 m3/sec
The sluice discharge capacity would be sufficient to meet the
maximum irrigation requirements.
Spi-luway:
Crest length (clear)                         295 m
Radial gates, 1o number, 15.5 m wide x l4 m wide
Design capacity                      33,000 m3/sec
Design flood head over crest                l1  m



ANNEX 6
Page 2
The spillway discharge caplcity safely exceeds the maximum
probable flood estimate of 30,000 m /sec.
Quantities in dam:
Excavation                       910,000 m3 @ Rs 14 per m 3
Earth-fill                     1,160,000 m3 @ Rs5.4 per m3
Masonry                          770,000 m3 @ Rs 68 per i3
Concrete                         110,000 m3 @ RslO7 per m
Steel in crest gates           3,000 tons
Work force:                         10,000-12,000 laborers
Construction period:                1969-1972 (?WD estimate)
1969-197L  (IDA estimate)
The contractor's ability to quarry and transport stone at a rate
sufficient to complete in 3 years is questionable; 5 years would be a
safe estimated construction time, allowing for flood delays.
Reservoir:
Storage capacity
Gross                       1,700 Mr3
Live                       1,300  im3
Full reservoir level             128 m above sea level
Draw down (maximum)              13.5 m
Area of submergence              17,200 ha
Population to be resettled: 1/
Gujarat                          10,850
Rajasthan                         6,860
Agricultural land affected:
Gujarat                           4i,900 ha
Rajasthan                         5,600 ha
Special features:
Supply of 125,000 tons of cement by bulk handling process
to silos on site.
Substitution of 20% of cement requirements by pozzolana
from kiln near site.
Provision for future power plant installation at the dam,
with capacity of 24,500 kW.
1/  Some of the families from the reservoir area in Gujarat would be
settled in the Left Bank area.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
Pressure-grouted seepage cut-off curtain injected into
the rock below the dam foundations to a depth of 40 m.
2.   Left Bank Area
Gross commanded area at full development   21,000 ha
Net irrigable area at full development       20,000 ha
Canal system:
Main canal capacity                     10 m3/sec
Full supply level at head               116 m above sea level
Design of the canal system would be prepared from detailed surveys
made by the Survey of India. The layout would be based on contour irriga-
tion methods adapted from experience gained elsewhere in India or abroad.
3.   Right Bank Area
Gross commanded area at full development           316,000 ha
Nat irrigable area at full development              263,000 ha
Net irrigable area provided with canals to date  1h3,000 ha
Wanakbori weir (completed):
Cost                                          Rs 22.8 M
Length of overflow section                    670 m
Length of remainder                           120 m
Total length                                  790 mn
Canal system
Cost to date                                  Rs 180.7 M
Main canal (completed)
Length                                    74 km (lined)
Capacity                                 200  mr3/sec
Branch canals
Completed                                210 km (88%)
Incomplete                                27 Ion
Total length                             237 km (partly
lined)
Distributary and minor canals
Completed                              1,680 km
Incomplete                             1,280 km
Total length                           2,        (unlined)



AlNEX 6
Page  4
Area covered by canals                    103,000 ha
Area remaining to be developed            120,000 ha
263,000
Area served by storage tanks 1/            9o000'ha
Capacity of tanks (full development)           63 Mm3
b. Drainage
Over 300 km of main surface drains would require remodeling in about 100,000 ha
of the central part of the Right Bank area, to increase the capacity of the drainage
system and to prevent soils salinization following the introduction of perennial
irrigation.
Open-channel field drainage would be installed in the southwestern part of
the Right Bank for the reclamation or improvement of the following areas of salinized
soils:
Class IVb soils to be reclaimed            16,000 ha
Class IVa soils to be improved             13)000 ha
Class III soils to be improved              8,000 ha
37,000 ha 2/
Depth of open drains:  0.60 m to 0.70 m
Spacing:               60 m to 150 m, to be determined
experimentally
1/ Tanks are minor reservoirs constructed adjacent to canals in the irrigated
area for storage of excess flows during the monsoon season. Supplies are
released later when required.
2/ Area includes about 1,600 ha of low-lying lands in which covered tile drainage
would be provided.
5. Roads
The following program of road construction and improvement would be
included in the project:
Major district roads                          156 km
ßOther district roads                          521 km
LVillage roads                                 403 km
Sub-total                    1   ∞
Farm roads                                  1,700 km
Sugarcane extraction roads                    400 km
Sub-total                   2,100 km
Total                        3,180 km
The choice of the district roads segnents within the program waa based
mainly on the likely increase in village-to-market traffic resulting from the increase
in marketed produce. The construction of the farm roads completes a 1.6-km grid of
roads of all categories within the project area. The choice of the grid size is based
on the estimated sensitivity of agricultural production within the area to improvements
in field - and farm-to-village transport conditions.



ANNEX 7
Page 1
KADANA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Water Demand, Supply and Quality
Water Demand
Data used in assessment of irrigation water demand:
1. Effective Rainfall Contribution to Crop Water Requirements in Project Area'..._
75%
Reliable                   Effective-Rainfall
Month             Rainfall    Rice       Other Crons      Rice     Other Crops
(mm)      - - -     %     - - -      - - - - 1 )_ __ 
Jan. - Apr.                           -             -
May                         8        90            90            -
June                      97         75            75           70            70
July                     252         65            50          165           125
August                   183         65            45          120            85
September                 84         75            75           65            65
Oct. - Dec.                -          -             -            -
2.   Farm Irrigation and Conveyance Efficiencies
1/
Farm Irrigation       Conveyanci      Conveyance
Month                       Efficiency            Losses        Efficiency
January                              70                    25             75
February                             70                    25             75
March                                70                    30             70
April                                70                    35             65
May                                  70                    35             65
June                                 70                    30             70
July                                 65                    30             70
August                               65                    30             70
September                            70                    30             70
October                              75                    25             75
November                             75                    25             75
December                             75                    25             75
1/ Conveyance losses are approximately as follows:
Improved watercourses                            10 75
Distributary canals                                5 - 10
Main and branch canals (lined) and
river reaches                                    10
Total      25 - 35



ANNEX 7
Page 2
3.   Field Irrigation Requirements for Proposed Cropping Pattern
(Derived by IDA Staff)
Field Application
Crop            Jan  Feb  Mar  A-r  May  Jun  Jul  Aug  Sep  Oct  Nov  Dee
- - - -_                          MT                                      
Kharif
Coarse paddy           -    -    -    -    -  150  100  200  200    -    -    -
Fine paddy             -    -    -    -    -  150  100  200  200  200    -    -
Bajri  (hybrid)        -    -    -    -    -    -   75  150  100    -    -    -
Jowar  (hybrid)        -    -    -    -    -    -    -   75  150   75    -    -
Jowar  (fodder)        -    -    -    -    -    -    -   75  150    -    -    -
Maize  (hybrid)        -    -    -    -    -  100    -   75  150    -    -    -
Groundnuts             -    -    -    -    -  100    -   75  150    -    -    -
Pulses                 -    -    -    -    -    -    -   75  150    -    -    -
Mixed                   -    -    -    -    -    -    -   75  150    -    -    -
Rabi
Wheat                150    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -  150  150
Potatoes             150  150    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -  150  150
Vegetables            75    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -  150  150
Eight-month
Tobacco                -    -    -    -    -    -    -   75  100  150  150  150
Cotton               150    -    -    -    -   50    -   75  lO  150  150  150
Perennial
Sugarcane            100  150  200  200  200  200   75  150  150  150  150  100
Hot-weather
Bajri   (hybrid)    100  150  150  200  100    -    -    -    -    -               -
Jowar  (fodder)      100  150  150  200    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -



ANNEX 7
Pagen
L.   Irrigation Demand from Reservoir for Proposed Cropping Pattern
(Derived by IDA Staff)
Area                      Irrigation Demand
Crop               h       Jan   Feb   Mar   Anr   May   Jun   Jul          gSt    0ov   Dec
Kharif
Coarse paddy    32,000    -        -      -     -      -   70.0   47.1  92.5  92.5  -         -
Fine paddy       50,000    -       -      -     -      -  109.0   73.5 1..3 1)4.3  67.2  -          -
Ba.4ri (hybrid)  60,000    -       -      -     -      -      -    65.4 130.8  86.1   -       -      -
JowTar (hybrid)  12,000    -       -      -     -      -      -     -    13.3  26.6  13.3  -        -
Jowar (fodder)    4,000    -       -      -     -      -      -     -      4.4   8.9  -       -     -
Maize (hybrid)  14,000    -               -     _      -   20.6    -    15.1  30.8  -         -      -
Groundnuts        6,0oo     -      -      -    8.8    -                    6.7  13.3  -       -      -
Pulses            2,000    -       -      -     -      -      -     -      2.2   4.4  -       -     -
Mixed            10,000    -       -      -     -      -      -     -    11.1  22.2  -        -      -
Rabi
Theat            58,ooo 117.8    -                                         -      -    -    117.8 117.8
Potatoes          8,ooo  16.3  16.3          -         -     -      -      -     -    -       16.3  16.3
Vegetables        5,000   5.1    -        --                                      -    -      10.1  10.1
Eight-month
Tobacco          17,000          -    -     -                       -    18.5  24.7  3L.5  34.6  314.6
Cotton           20,000  40.7    -        -     -      -   11.7    -    21.8  29.0  41.1  40.7  10.7
Perennial
Sugarcane         3,000   4.1   6.0   8.6   8.6   8.6   8.6    3.3   6.5   6.5   7.0   6.0   1.1
Hot-weather
Ba4ri (hybrid)  15,000  20.1  30.3  32.7  17.1  21.7    -           -      -      -    -      -      -
Jowar (fodder)   5,000   6.6  10.1  10.9  15.7   -            -     -      -      -    -      -     -
Post-monsoon season:   210.7  62.7  52.2  71.4  30.3  93.7    -            _     -    _    225.5 223.6
Monsoon season:            -      -      -     -      -   138.0 189.3 167.5 489.6 163.1    -          -
Total seasonal irrigation demands (rounded):-
Monsoon:-  1,150 ,4n3                Post-monsoon:-  970 Mm3               Annual:-  2,420 Mm3



ANNEX 7
Page .
Water SupPly
Data used in assessment of water availability:
5.  Mahi River Catchment
River length                                                   580 hn2
Total area                                                  31,600 hn2
Kadana Dam catchment area                                   25,000 kn
6. River Gauging Record
Pali gauge, 86 km below Kadana            22 years,         1905-1927
Kadana gauge                                7 years,        1959-1966
7. Rainfall Record
haingauge recordings, catchment area                        1891-1969
Weighted mean overall monsoon rainfall in catchment:
maximim                                                     1,290 mm, 196L
average                                                       760 mm
minimum                                                       268 mm., 1899
8. Run-off Probability at Kadana
(based on 75-year rainfall record and 7-year rainfall/run-off correlation)
Estimated maximum annual run-off                             21,000 Mm3(19144)
Mean annual run-off                                            7,700 Mm3
75%-probability run-off                                       L,1400 Nm3
85%-probability run-off                                       2,800 Im3
Estimated minimum annual run-off                                5140 M3 (1899)
9. Seasonal Run-off
Proportion of total annual run-off (from 7-year correlation):
Monsoon, 96%
Post-monsoon, 34%
Estimated 85%-probability monsoon run-off                     2,700 mm
Estimated 85%-probability post-monsoon run-off                  100 Mm3
Annual total           2 800 Mm3
Estimated 75%-probability monsoon run-off                     14,200 Mm3
Estimated 75%-probability post-monsoon run-off                  200 Mm3
Annual total           4,4o00 m
Maximum flood recorded at Kadana                             22,000 m.3/sec(August
3     1968)
Minirlum flow recorded at <Hanakbori weir                        1.lJ m /sec



ANNEX 7
Page 5
10. Reservoir Volumes
With full reservoir level of RL 127.5 m (419 ft) above sea level:
Gross storage capacity                                        1,700 Nn 3
Live storage capacity                                         1,300 Mm3
11. River Flow Utilization
(a) Utilization target adopted by Irrigation Wding, P4D, Gujarat:
Utilization, monsoon period                                           3
(with 85%-probability run-off)                                1,080 Mm
Utilization, post-monsoon period                                      3
(with 85%-probability run-off)                                  930 Mm
Average annual lake evaporation loss                            240 iim3
Gross annual target utilization                          2,250 Mm3
(b) Utilization projected by IDA:
Average monsoon season irrigation demand                      1,45o Mm3) see
Average post-monsoon season irrigation demand                   970 Mm3) para s
Average aumoal lake evaporation loss                            240 1r
Average gross annual utilization                              2,660 Nm3
(Conpared with seasonal run-off, para. 9)                             3
85%-probability annual total                                  23800 M
75%-probability annual total                                  L,L00 Mm )
Irrigation utilization at 85%-probability run-off,               95%
Irrigation utilization at 75%-probability run-off,               60%
The reservoir volume which would be provided and the river flows to
be impounded would be adequate to sustain the irrigation supply reauired for
the project area under the proposed cropping pattern in at least 85 years
out of 100.



ANNEX 7
Page6
12.  Main Canal Caoacity, Right Bank
Maximum anticipated demand per month                         h90 Mm3(Sept)
Mean maximum daily discharge                                 16.3   3
Maximum anticipated flow                                     190 m/sec
Main canal capacity provided                                 200 m3/sec
dater Quality
13. 'Water Analysis
Tests to date indicate that soluble salts in the Mahi R.iver water
range between 668 and 8h0 parts per million. pH values of between 7.5 and
8.0 have been recorded. These are satisfactory levels for prolonged irri-
gation use. Groundwater samples from the Right Bank area have indicated
soluble salts, ranging from 400 to 1,600 parts per million; some leaching
applications with river water would be required annually in such instances.
1. Silt Load
Silt load measurements were taken in the Mahi River during the
1968 monsoon season. The results indicate that the annual loss of reservoir
storage w3uld be of the order of 5 Inr, compared with a dead storage volume
of boo Mm . Even without upstream storage developments, this would indicate
that encroachment on live storage in Kadana Reservoir would not be likely to
occur for about 80 years, and would not adversely affect the project.



INDIA: KADANA IRRIGATION PROJECT
CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE
CALENDAR YEAR___
199                 197197                                       1972                   1973 =                 1974                    975_
WORK   ITEM                                                                  -19971O                     _____                    -_ _____                                      __        __
MONSOON    MONSOON               ~~~MONSOON                  ...OO             MONSOON                MONSOON               MONSOON
KADANA DAM AND RESERVOIRI-    _______
EARTH EMBANKMENTS........
MASONRY DAM
CONTROL GATES                                                                                                                              w:MOSN
RESETTLEMENT
IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE SYSTEMS
RIGH-T 1MANK 
DESIGN AND LAND ACQUISITION 
DRANCII CANALS5 LINING                                                                                IIIIIII
OUTLETS. WATENCOON5E. AND FIELD CIIANNEI.S                    01111911
FIELD DRAINS
LEFT BANKS
DESIGN AND LAND ACQUISITION
MAIN CANAL
OUTt ETS,WATERCOUNSE5 AND FIELD CHANNELS
LAND) LEVELING
EQUIPMENT PROCUREMENT
LFVELING                                                                                                                                                                           nsiuo
ROADS                                                                                                                                                                                                           >
q~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
DISTRICT, VILLtAGE AND FARM ROADS                                                                                                                                                                          >
NOTE: Monsoon - mid-June to mid-October                                                                                                                                                      IERD - 4593(R)






ANN  9
E N D I A
XAI2A1A IRIOLTI0N ?FOZCT
cost Bgtimates
For Works Carried Out to lad-1969, from 1970 to Completion a, and for Co.molete Pro,,ect
Rs (illion Euivalent                          us$ tillion Bo,uivalent
19514  1970                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~19514  1970,
througi          to           Total           through          to           Total
1969       Completion 2:                      1969       Coivpletion 2!
1. Kadana Dam:
Constraction                     35.o         109.0          144.0              4.6           14.5          19.1
Reservoir land a-quisition        2.0           35.0           37.0             0.3            4.7            5.0
Sub-total                  37.0         144.0          181.0              4.9           19.2          24.1
2. 'Water Distribution Systems:
Wanakbori diversion weir         23.0            -             23.0             3.1            -              3.1
Right Bank canals               1144.0          61.0         205.0             19.2            8.1           27.3
Left Bank canals                  -             14.0          14.0              -              1.9            1.9
Watercourses                      6.0           50.0           56.o             0.8            6.6            7.L.
Sub-total                 173.0         125.0          298.0             23.1          16.6           39.7
3. Drainage Systems:
Right Bank drainage               0.3           28.0           28.3             -              3.7            3.7
Left Bank drainage                -              2.0            2.0             -               .3             .3
Sub-total                   0.3          30.0           30.3              -              4.0           I4.0
4. aoad Improvements:
Construction                      -             48.0          48.0              -              6J1           6.14
Land acquisition                  _              7.0            7.0             -              0.9            C.9
Sub-total                   -            $5.0           5-.0              -                            7.3
5. Land Leveling: 2/
Equipcmnt                         2.0           11.0          13.0              0.3            1.5            1.8
Construction                      0.1           37.0          37.1              -              L.9            4.9
Sub-total                   2.1           48.0          50.1              0.3            6.14          6.7
6. Agricultural Supporting Senricest
Damonstration and training        0.5            2.3           2.8              0.1            0.3           0.Ls
Extension aervice vehicles        0.1            2.3           2.L4             -              0.3           0.3
Sub-total                   o.6           4.6            5.2              0.1            o.6           0.7
7. Investigations:
Groundwater investigations        -              1.5           1.5              -              0.2            0.2
Agricultural studies                             o 0.6         o.6              -              0.1            0.1
Sub-total                   -             2.1            2.1              -             0.3            0.3
8. Administration and
Engineering                       20,0           34.0           54.C             2.7            14.6           7.3
9.  Gontingencies 2/                    2.0           57.3           59.3             0.3            7-7            8.0
Totals                    235.0         5t0.0          735.0             31.4           66.7          98.1
1/ For further details, see Table 2 of this annex.
2/ Credit for land leveling would be provided for farmers through the Gujarat State Land Development Bank.
3/ Contingency allowances vary from 10% to 25%, depending on state of contract or information.



I N D Ir A                                             ANN3X 9
Table 2
X&DA&J  IRRIGArON PP£JPvT
Cost Ietimates for Remaining Works, 1970 to Completion
Rs Million Equivalent              US$ Million Equivalent
LOca _Voreign           lbtal      Local      Foreign       Total
1. Xadana Dam:
Fquipment for construction
Main contractor                                       0.3         0.4         0.7        -           0.1          0.1
De,artment                                           4.2          4.8         9.0        0.6         C.6         1.2
Construction                                           99.3          -         99.3       13.2           _         13.2
Land acquisition                                       35.0          -         35.0        4.7          _           4.7
Sub-total, Kadaaa Dam                              138.8          5.2       144.0       18.5         0.7        19.2
2. Water Distribution Systems:
Main canals and branches, distribution system,
storage tanks and buildings
Right Bank area                                     61.O           -         61.0        8.0                    8.0
Left Bank area                                       11.0          -         14.0        1.9          -          1.9
,Waterccurses
.Right Rank rectification                             3            -          3.D        0.4          -          C.4
Right Bank                                          43.0           -         43.0        5.8          -           5.8
Left Bank                                             4.0          -          4.0        0.5          -          0.5
Sub-total, Water Distribution Systems              125.0           -        125.0       16.6          _          6.6
3. Drainage Systems:
Field drainage, Right Bank                             15.7          -         15.7        2.1          -           2.1
Tile drainage, Right Bank                               4.8          -          4.8        0.6           -          0.6
Main drainage, Right Bank                               7.5          -          7.5        1.0           -          1.0
Main drainage, Left Bank                                2.0          -          2.0        0.3           -          0.3
Sub-total, Drainage Systems                         30.0           -         30.0        4.0          -          4.0
4. Road Lmprovements:
aL ,    lor District roads                                     10.7           -         10.7        1.4          -          1.4
Other District roads                                   20.8          -         20.8        2.5          -           2.
tL. 1ilage roads                                              7.1           _          7.1        0.9          -            .9
_4~  -Fans roads                                               9.4          -          9.4        1.3          -           e3
Land acquisition               -                        7.0          _          7.0        0.9          -           0 9
Sab-total, Road Improvements                        55.0           -         55.0        7.3          -          1.3
5. Land Levelings
oO.uipsmnt                                              -          10.5        10.5        -           1.4          1.4
Construction 1/                                        37.5          -         37.5        5.0          -           5.0
Sub-total, Land Leveling                            37.5        10.5         48.o        5,0         1.!         6.4
6. Agricultural Supporting Services:
Demonstration and training facilities
TCD farm, Kaira                                      0.60          -          0.60       -            -          -
T3D farm, Thasra, ir.provearents                     0.10          -          0.10       -            -          -
2 TCD farms, Panchmahals                             1.43          -          1.43       -            -          -
Irrigation Training Center, Thasra                   0.23          -          0.23       -            -          -
Extension service vehicles                           2._0          -          2.30       -            -          -
Sub-total, Agricultaral Supoorting Services           4.6          -          4.6        0.6          -          0.6
7. Investigations:
Groundwater investigations                              1.5          -          1.5        0.2          -           0.2
Agricultural studies                                    0.6          -          O.6        0.1          -           0.31
Sub-total Investigaticns                              2.1          -          2.1        0.3          -          0.3
8. Administration mad Engineering:
Kadana Dam                                            10.0           -         10.0        1.4          -          1.4
Right Rank irrigation                                  17.5          -         17.5        2.4           -          2.4
Left Bank irrigation                                    2.5          -          2.5        0.3           -          0.3
Roads                                                   l4.a         -          4.0        0-5         _            C.5
Suo-total, Administration and Engineering           34.0           -         34.0        4.6          _          4.6
9.  Contingencies: ./                                        54.3         3.0        57.3         7.3         O.-         7.7
Total Remaining Cost of ?roJect                    481.3        18.7       500.0       64.2          2.5        66.7
1/ Credit would be provided for farmers through the Gu4arat State Land Development Bank.
2/ 10% to 25% of remaining work, depending on status of contract or information.



£LNMX 9
Table 3
I N D I A
KADANA IRRIGAQTION PROJECT
Pachinery and Ecnuipment Reauirements
Item                                          Quantity        Cost
A. Machinery to be procured following international                                       UST
competitive bidding
250 HP diesel crawler tractor with attachments                           1             51,000
50 HP wheel tractor                                                      3              6,000
380 HP crawler tractor with attachments                                  2            215,000
250 HP crawler tractor with attachnments                                 4            215,000
90-100 HP crawler tractor with angle dczer equipment                    50            850,000
D-7 class tractor or equivalent with hydraulic dozing
equipment and earth towed scrapers of 12-16 yd.                       10            550,ooo
Sub-total                                                    1,890,000
B.  Specialized tools and Equipment to be imported
Scientific and drawing equipment                                         -             10,000
Photographic and sound equipment                                         -              5,000
Equipment for geohydrological and petrological laboratories              -             50,000
Equipment for soil survey laboratories                                   -             50,000
instruments built into dam                                               -            L5,ooo
Sub-total                                                      160,000
Sub-total A & B                                              2,050,000
Contingencies                                                  4501000
Total A & B                                                  2,500,000
C. Equipment to be procured locally
25-ton capacity ten-wheeler trailer truck                                1             27,000
Wagon Drill 4'"-size drifter with feed motor, portable
3-wheel trolley and accessories                                        2             13,000
Grout pump pneumatically operated 15 U.S.G.P.M.
at pressure up to 200 P.S.I.G.                                         2              5,000
Crane truck mounted mobile 10 tons capacity, 30 ft boom,
diesel engine driven with accessories                                  1             33,000
'heel-type loader 2 cu yds capacity front and side
loading, with accessories                                              3            140,000
Pneumatic-typed roller 100 tons capacity                                 1              7,000
Vibrating roller, towed type with independent diesel
engine, 30 tons effective capacity                                     2             20,000
Wheel-type tractor 80EP for towing vibrating rollers                     2             20,000
Mobile truck-mounted crane 30 tons capacity, 50 ft boom
length, diesel engine driven, with accessories                         1             80,000
Yobile workshops and equipment                                           2             70,000
Visual aid vans                                                          6             15,000
General purpose vehicles                                                30            100,000
Sub-total                                                      600,000
Contingencies                                                  100,000
Total C                                                        700 000
Grand Total A & B & C                                        3,200,000
1/  Including 15' spare parts.  CIF prices for all items under A and B.



ANNEX 9
Table 4
IADANA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Estimated Rcmaining Ekpenditures Under Contracts'Placed Before January 1, 1970
Contract                                       Contract Price          stilmated Expenditure            Estimated expendiue
to January 1, 1970              Remaining to C,.omplti.on
Afer Januay       a, Y7
Rs                       Rs                       ie
1. Kadana Dam
Excavation and refilling of cut-off trench (by contractor)             651,51,8                  600,000                   50,000
Excavation and refilling of cut-off trench (by departmental
forces)                725,739                   726,003
Supply and erection cf two steel cement silos                           222,208                  222,208
Partial constructioxn of spillway section masonry blocks             2,227,239                 2,227,239
Drilling and grouting below cut-off trench
Chainage, 3200 to 4356                                    213,900
95,000                 300,000
Chainage, 1765 to 3200                                    180,972
Drilling and grouting below masonry dam (grout curtain)               2,720,081                  720,000                2,000,000
Construction of masonry dam, earth-fill dam and ancillary works;   87,311,21B
15,300,000              73,000,000
Approved rate adjustrents on outstanding contracts                      974,666               _____7,00
Sub-total, Kadana Dam contract&'/                   95,227,571                19,890,450               75,350,000          10.05
2. Right Bank Area
Extension of branch canals, Nadiad Division                            616,ooo                   313,000                  313,000
Construction of canal escape channel works on
main canal, Thaara Division                                        564,000                  282,000                  282,000
Extension of Petlad branch canal, Anand Division                        468,00c                  234,000                  234,ooo
Construction of distributary and min,or canals:
-     Thaara Division                                            81,000                     o0,000                 41,000
Nadiad Division                                        1,555,000                   778,000                  777,000
Anand Division                                         1,650.ooo                   825,000                  825,000
Sub-total, Right Bank area                           1,,91,,ooo                2,472,000                2,472,000           0-35
Total Eadana Dam and Mahi Right Bank ares          100,171,571                22,362,,50               77,822,000          10.4
on-going contracts
/ Preliminary works, buildings and access roads, valued at approximately
Rs 15.3 M, carried out by departmental forces and not included in
contract expenditure,



ANEX 9
Table 5
Page 1
I N D I A
KADANA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Estimated Expenditures Under Contracts Remaining to be Placed
After January 1, 1970
Estimated Amount
Rs M        US$ M
equivalent
1. Kadana Dam
General:
Bridge over spillway                       0.9
Fabrication and erection of radial
crest gates                             15.6
Permanent instruments for masonry dam      0.8
Dam internal drainage pumps and fans       0.7
Dam lighting                               0.2
Fabrication and erection of irrigation
sluices and embedded parts               0.4
Fabrication and erection of construc-
tion sluices and embedded parts          0.1
Permanent stop logs for crest gates
and sluices                              1.-2
Embedded parts for crest gates
and sluices                              0.9
Grouting treatment of right abutment       0.5
Roadway on Right Bank                      0.3
180-ton gantry crane for crest gates       0.9
Downstream protection works                0.5
Architectural treatment                    o.5
Storage warehouse at railhead              0.1
Miscellaneous                              0.4
Right Bank saddle dam                      0.4
Direct canal (Left Bank) outlet gates      0.2
Embedded parts for power penstock
gates                                    0.4
Penstock stop-logs and cover               0.2
Sub-total, Contracts                  25.5           3.4
Departmental Force Account Work
Buildings, site roads, maintenance
during construction                      8.9          1.2
Sub-total, Kadana Dam                 34.4           4.6



ANNEX 9
Table 5
Page 2
Estimated Amount
Rs M        US$ M
equivalent
2. Water Distribution Systems
Mahi Right Bank Area:
Lining of Nadiad branch canal              19.5
Construction of branch, distri-
butary and minor canal
extensions and associated works          25.3
Structures                                  4.5
Buildings                                   6.8
Storage tank extensions                     2.7
Wlatercourses                              46.o
Mahi Left Bank Area:
Distribution system                        17.7
Sub-total, Water Distribution
System 1/                        122.5          16.4
3. Drainage Systems
Sub-surface drainage systems                4.8
Open channel field drainage systems        15.8
Remodeling of main drainage system          9._
Sub-total, Drainage                    30.0           4.0
4. Roads
District roads                             31.5
Village and farm roads                     16.5
Sub-total, Roads                       48.0           6.4
5. Land Leveling
Land-leveling equipment 2/                 11.0
Land leveling                              37.0            -
Sub-total, Land Leveling               48.0           6.4
1/ Rs 2.L7 M remaining wor]k under on-going Right Bank area canal contracts
not included (see Table  ).
2/ See Table 3.



ANNEX 9
Table 5
Page 3
Estimated Amount
Rs M        US$ M
equivalent
6. Agricultural Supporting Services
Building construction                      1.2
Equipment supply                           0.1
Irrigation facilities construction         1.0
Supply of vehicles:
Visual aid vans 1/                       0.3
General purpose vehicles 1/             1.0
Motorcycles                                1.0
Sub-total, Agricultural
Supporting Services                  b.6           0.6
7. Investigations
Construction of observation wells          0.2
Supply of general purpose vehicles         0.2
Sub-total, Investigations              0.       
Totals                               287.9          38.
1/  See Table 3.






INDIA; KADANA IRRIGATION PROJECT
PROJECT ENGINEERING ORGANIZATION
SECRETARY, NWD
R(ADS WING                                                                                                    IRRIGATICW WING
CHIEF ENGINEER - HoaDS                                       C}IIEF ENGINEER - IRRIGATICE PROJECTS                                                  CPIEF ENGINEER - IR-IGATION
-   -  -I-                                 _ _ __-                                    -I-                                     - _                                           I              -_
C O N S T R U C T I O N                                              C O N S T r u C T I O N                                                           C O N S T R U C T I O N
Reeds Suporintending Engineer                                          Sujperintending Engineer                                                     Irrigation Superiatling !e4iaeer
Baroda Circle                                                  Kadanm Dam, & Reservoir                                                             Mared"  (or Mahi) Ciral.
Panchayats Reads Division               Dan Construction         Quality Control           Kadana Colony           Reservoir Rehabilitation           Water Distribution Systems
Executive Engilneer                     Division               Sub-Division         (Staff Facilities)                 Division                           and Drainage
Division                                                  Coestr-ucti a Diviai oas
~~~~~~~~~I                                          I                      I                             I                              I   -_I
Executive Engineer    Snr. Deputy Engineer       Executive Engineer            Executive Engineer               3-5 Executive Ergineers
7 Deputy Engineers       Research Officers       3 Deputy Engineers             Deputy Engineers               Deputy Engineers - Canals,
Welfare Officer                 Outlets, Main anxd Field
Drainage
MAINTENANCE                                                   OpEMATIGN AND MAINTENANCE
I   1I                                                       I                            I                              I                             I
Panchayat Reads       PWD Roads                      Diviaion 1                    Division 2                    Division 3                    Division 0                    Reservoir and
Maintenance        Kiinte-ance                     (70,000 ha)                   (70,000 ha)                   (70,000 ha)                   (70,000 ha)                     Hleadworks
Diii si ons        Divisions                                                                                                                                              Sub-Divieion
Executive Engineer           Executive Engineer            Executive Engineer             Executive Engineer               Deputy Engl.neer
4I  ub-Diesliuna              It Sub-Dvis0rosS)            N           na                 h Sub-Divisions
(17,500 hi ea)                (17,500 ha ea                (17,50017hsaioa)               (17,500 ha ea)
4 Deputy Englneers            4 Deputy Engineers           4 Deputy Engineers             4 Deputy Engineers
I III                                        41-                             1~_           1F11   1
16 Sections                   16 Sections                  16 Sections                    16 Sections
(Is,500 1ha ea)               (4,500 ha ea)                (4s,00 ha ea)                  (4,500 ha ea)
Maintenance               Operating
Svb-Sections                  Sub-Sections
z
-0



INDIA: KADANA IRRIGATION PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE AND CO-OPERATION, GUJARAT
|   sEcRETAr.Y FOR AGRICULTURE ANE CO-OPERACION                                                      A
ANIMAL HUSBANDRY                     DIRECTOR OF FISHERIES                DIRECIOR OF AGRICULTURE                  ClOlEF COCiSERVATOR                   REGISTRAV OF
ANIMAL HUSBANDRY                                                                                              F IGRESL                             DOOPKAI SOtiCIETIE OSfi
TI                   -[ :I I  N I EEL     N  PROGRAMI ---                 T
TION AND  RESWCti      ~~                    ~         ~          LTAUAS                                             grcolre  ssenir  ficr
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Arfoo E_eso Officers .                                                                          Z
EUAtNGADRSE6I                                                 EXTENI SON                 REGULATORY SE-RVICES|SOLCOSRVTO
_  COLLEGE  COLLLEGES
r
q  SCFIOOLS  1        [    FRESEARCHF 
_.| ~    ~ ~ F
IADII AND [AAP GHh District P-choynts
A loickoSTRA-rlONS  is  | sub-division ofOOq on                lSmiclieTAICTS disiultuArkulEteur    Officers
i_____ __   TII|wth Tu   P 4kc 33yts
l                                                |                 |      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Agriculturul Extension Officers   ∞Z7
_L    rgo  wsR^sAN   ol                                                                                  Vit-LAGCS    |       or Vi l lrg- Level Work.,s   F 
AND CERTIFICATION  l                                           l                 |       w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~iih Villoge Pon.hr.y.ts_
A  trJl.k.  is az sub-division  oFrn odminstsr.tivr  clistrict.



ANNEX 11
Page   1
I N D I A
KADANA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Agricultural Sunport Program
1.        In order to provide farmers with the assistance and support needed
to accelerate the transition to modern irrigated agriculture, the Department
of Agriculture would make improvements in its agricultural research, extension,
training and demonstration services, as outlined below. The Government's
detailed proposals for executing these inprovements would be sent to the
Association for review prior to implementation.
Agricultural Research
2.        Little basic research work is being done in the project area.  Most
of the project's requirements for new crop varieties and other agronomic in-
fornation would be provided by research stations elsewhere in the State, the
services of whose staffs would be available to the project as needed. Among
the most important are a station for irrigated crops at Junagadh, a cotton and
jowar station at Surat, a bajri station at Jamnagar and the State's central
rice research station at Navagam, near Kaira, immediately outside the project
area.
3.        Despite the range and diversity of agricultural studies that are being
performed, there is a deficiency in research in water use and soil management
under irrigated conditions. Without this, optinum utilization of irrigation water
cannot be achieved. The Government would ensure that research in applied water
management is undertaken within the project area at one or more sites that are
properly representative of its soils and climate and that are provided with
adequate irrigation facilities.  The objectives of the research would be:
(a) to determine the consumptive use of irrigation water
by the crops that would be grown under the project;
(b) to evolve methods of field management of irrigation water to
make optimum use of water and soil resources;
(c)  to study interrelationships of irrigation with other farm
practices in relation to soil properties and crop nutrient
requirements; and
(d)  to determine field drainage requireaents consistent with
maintenance of salt balance in the soil.
Such research would be done by a team of experienced scientists, including a
soil physicist, an agricultural or irrigation engineer and an irrigation agrono-
mist. The Government's detailed proposals would cover the siting and timinng
of estab'ishment as well as the work program for the research station(s).



ANNEX 11
Page 2
Extension Services
4j.       Extension work is carried out by the Department of Agriculture in
conjunction with the general administrative services of the local government
structure at district, taluka and village level.  The extension staff, though
responsible through a line organization to its own department, is attached
to the respective local government panchayats (councils). A District Agri-
cultural Officer has specialists on his staff to deal with the particular
cropping problems of his district. At taluka level there are graduate agricul-
tural extension officers, while at village level there is one village-level
worker (VLW) per group of about 10 villages.
The staffing pattern at district and taluka level is intensified
in some districts in which special attention is given to agricultural production
under special Intensive Agriculturl District Programs (IADP) or Intensive
Agricultural Area Programs (IAAP). The two programs are differentiated by
the degree to which the normal extension staff is supplemented.
6.        Kaira District, being an IAAP District, has four additional specialists.
The Department also has other special extension programs - for maize, bidi
and cigarette tobacco, cotton and potatoes - under which an additional six
specialist officers are working in Kaira District.
7.        Panchmahals District is not specially designated as an agricultural
development area; therefore, its extension staff is not supplemented by
specialists, except for those engaged in work on a hybrid maize scheme. In
order to provide adequate support for the degree of agricultural development
foreseen under the project, extension services in the Left Bank area would
be intensified to a level equal to that provided for the rest of the project
area.
8.        Farmers' needs for advice on the cultural requirements of individual
crops grown under rainfed conditions are provided for adequately by the present
system. However, the extension service is not capable at present of assisting
farmers to use irrigation water more efficiently. This is a serious deficiency
considering that it is necessary for a farmer to provide for the irrigation
requirements of different soils, topography and crops.  The Government has
agreed to meet the need by appointing an adequate number of specialist water
management extension officers to act as advisers to the extension service and
to the cultivators on irrigation utilization, including field layouts, irrigation
methods and irrigation intervals for different crops. These officers would also
participate in training extension staff in water management (para. 12).
9.        The quality of extension advice available at the village level is
of vital importance in bringing about agricultural development. The VLW, who
is intended to be the farmer's day-to-day adviser, has limited agricultural
training, which, in turn, limits has capacity to fulfill the role assigned to
him. The Government agrees that it would be appropriate at the present stage
of evolution of Gujarat's extension service to substitute graduate agriculture
extension officers for VIWs in areas of high agricultural potential, including
the project area.



ANNEX 11
Page 3
10.       It is essential that agricultural extension workers should travel
frequently througbout the are for which they have responsibility.  At present
however, extension officers in Gujarat are not provided with any means of
doing so. To ensure an adequate level of support to the cultivators in the
project area, the Government would introduce a system under which motorcycles
or other motor vehicles would be made available to all the project's extension
staff for use in the work. Suitable arrangements would also be made for operation
and maintenance of the vehicles.
Training
11.       The Department of Agriculture intends to supplement its present
training facilities by establishing a training school at Thasra, associated
with its trial-cum-demonstration (TCD) farm there, to provide in-service
training for its extension staff and the staff of other government departments
concerned with development in the project area. The school would play a
vital role in raising the standards of the extension service.
12.       Neither government officers nor farmers are now trained in water
management practices, and, consequently, there is little knowledge of how to
use irrigation water efficiently.  To overcome this, a high priority would
be given to a program in which all professional research, extension and soil
conservation staff employed in the project area would receive instruction, in
water management.  The program, to be agreed upon by the Government and the
Association, would be broad enough to provide training at different levels,
appropriate to the needs. Such training would commence within 2 years of the
signing of the credit. Provision would also be made for in-service refresher
courses to be given from time to tome. Training in water management would be
included also in the curricula of schools and colleges-teaching agriculture in
the project area.
Trial-cum-Demonstration Farms
13.       There is one 20-ha TCD farm in the project area at present, at
Thasra on the lighter soils. The farm receives irrigation water supplies
from the Mahi gravity system. Although situated in an area where groundwater
is available to supplement canal supplies and in which progressive farmers
are commonly using supplementary supplies from tubewells to diversify and
optimize their production, the farm has no supplementary supplies. Until these
are provided, it cannot fulfill its trial and demonstration role adequately;
nor be an effective training ground. The Government would therefore install
supplementary irrigation facilities and expand its trial and demonstration
programs to utilize the new facilities fully for seasonal and perennial crops.
1l.       The Department of Agriculture would establish a new 20-ha TCD farm
in the Right Bank area, at a site to be chosen on the heavier soils, and two
new ones in the Left Bank area.
15.       The new 20-ha TCD farm in the Right Bank area would be established on
soils representative of the heavier clay loams or clays that make up about
30@ of the area. It would include a proportion of saline-alkaline soils on



ANNEX 11
Page 4
which the reclamation process to be adopted elsewhere on such soils can be
demonstrated. Canal irrigation supplies would be supplemented by a tubewell
to provide the flexibility necessary for trials and demonstrations of a full
range of crops and cropping practices.
16.       The two TCD farms in the Left Bank area would be of about 20 ha
each, one in Santrampur Taluka and one in Lunawada Taluka. They would have
the specific objective of determining, through trials, the techniques applicable
to contour irrigation farming on bench terraces and then demonstrating then on
integrated farm-size units representative of farm holdings in the area after
land consolidation. The farms would play a leading role in the proposed land
consolidation propaganda campaign to persuade the farmers of the advantages
of land consolidation in combination with contour irrigation. They would be
established and operating effectively as early as possible in order to takce full
advantage of the time available for demonstration before the Left Bank canals
are completed in 1973 and leveling and watercourse construction for the bench
terrace system are begun.
17.       Irrigation water would be provided for the farms from sources other
than the canal system to enable them to enter into operation before the canals
are constructed. Possible sources of supply include direct pumping from the
Mahi River, shallow wells, tubewells, tanks or reservoirs created by dams in
valley bottoms. Farm locations would be selected on the basis of availability
of water supplies as well as on soil, topographical and land fragmentation
considerations. They would also be readily accessible by road to fulfill
their demonstration function satisfactorily and be close to villages suitable
for the proposed pilot land consolidation exercise.
18.       Design and supervision of construction of these farms would be done by
a team composed of engineers and agriculturalists experienced in bench-terrace
contour irrigation under conditions of shallow soils and uneven topography.  On
completion of the farms, the team would design and supervise the construction of
the contour irrigation system for the remainder of the Left Bank area.
19.       The Left Bank TCDs would be established within 1 year of the
signing of the proposed credit to meet the requirement that their demonstration
function commence at the earliest possible time. The Right Bank TCD would be
established not later than 2 years after the signing of the credit.



ANNEX 12
Page 1
I N D I A
KADANA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Water Charges
1.        Agricultural development in India is the responsibility of the
state governments, who also exercise the right to impose and collect water
charges from the cultivators. In the State of Gujarat, water charges are
levied under the Bombay Irrigation Act of 1879, and subsequent amendments
thereto. Rates are adjusted periodically. The latest revision, done in
April 1968, increased rates more than 20%, which placed them among the
highest in India. It is intended that these rates will remain in effect
for 3 years, i.e., until April 1971, when they will be reviewed again.
Three separate charges make up the water rates:
(a) irrigation water charge - the level of this charge depends on
the crop grown and the season of the year (a breakdown of the
rates by crop is presented in the attached table);
(b) irrigation cess - this is a charge levied on all lands served
by gravity irrigation at a flat rate of Rs 6.2 per ha per annum; and
(c) betterment levy - the levy varies from project to project in the State
and is the principal means by which the capital cost of the project
is recovered. The Government has not yet decided the amount to
be charged in the Kadana project.
2.        In addition to the above charges, farmers pay an annual land tax
averaging Rs 12.4 per ha on all agricultural lands and a "local fund cess"1
equivalent to 20% of the irrigation water charge, plus 50% of the land tax.
The local fund cess is channeled to the taluka and village authorities
(panchayats), who use the money for the maintenance of roads, provision of
domestic water supplies and other public services.



ANNEX 12
Page 2
Prevailing Levels of Irrigation Water Charges
Projected                   Estimated
Area Under     Water       Total Annual
Irrigation    Charges       Collection
(ha)        (Rs/ha)      (Rs millions)
Kharif Season
Paddy, coarse                              32,000        44.5           1.424
Paddy, fine                                50,000        61.7           3.085
Groundnuts                                  6,000         -               -
All others                               102,000          -               -
Sub-total                             190,000          -             4.509
Rabi Season
Wheat and vegetables                       71,000        44.5           3.159
Eight-month, Perennial and Hot-weather
Tobacco (bidi)                            17,000         b9.4           0.840
Cotton                                    20,000         69.2           1.384
Sugarcane                                   3,000       370.5           1.111
Bajri and jowar                            20,000        4.5            0.890
Sub-total                              60,000          -4225
Grand Total                           321,000          -            11.893



ANNEX 13
Page   i
I N D I A
KADANA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Farm Budget for Typical 0.5-ha Farm at Full Development
Cropped            Total           Income From
Area           Production     Sale of Producel/
(a)J              'kg)              (RS)
Kharif
Paddy (coarse)                 0.2                600              110
Bajri                        0.3                600               105
Rabi
7Aheat                       0.2                500               125
Pulses                       0.2                120                -
Total                  0.9                                 3b0
Incom  and Expenditures
(Rs)
Income from sale of produce                          340
Cash costs of production_./
Cash income                                     115
Water charges and other existing taxes                35
Net farm income                                       80
1/ After deduction of family subsistence allowance (a. family comprising
6 persons with a per capita daily requirement of 16 oz cereals and
3 oz pulses) and 10% of production for seed, waste, etc.
2/ Includes cash outlays for hired labor additional to family labor; eost of
fertilizers, chemicals and seed replacement and cost of land preparation
and other qultivation.



ANNEX 13
Page   z
I N D I A
KADANA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Farm Budget for Typical 1.5-ha Farm at Full Development
Cropped           Total           Income from
Area          Production      Sale of Produce2/
(ha)             (kg)              (Rs)
Kharif
Paddy (coarse)                0.4              1,200             300
Bajri                         0.8              1,600              500
Other                         0.2                -
Rabi
Weat                          0.5              1,250             450
Jowar.?                       0.3                360              50
Pulses                        o.h                2h0              hoj
Total                    2.6                              1,3140
Income and Expenditures
(Rs)
Income from sale of produce                      1,340
Cash costs of production3/                          580
Cash income                                   760
Water charges and other existing taxes               85
Net farm income                                     675
1/ After deduction of family subsistence allowance (a family comprising
6 persons with a per capita dalily requirement of 16 oz cereals and
3 oz pulses) and 10% of production for seed, waste, etc.
2/  Yields and prices averaged for grain and fodder production.
3/  Includes cash outlays for hired labor additional to family labor; cost of
fertilizers, chemicals and seed replacement and cost of land preparation.



ANNEX 13
Page   3
I N D I A
KADANA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Farm Buget forTypical-3.0-ha Farm at Full Development
Cropped             Total          Income from  1/
Area           Production      Sale of Produce-
M7iy             tkg)              Z(Rs)
Kharif
Paddy (coarse)                 0.2                600                -
Paddy (fine)                   0.6              2,400            1,200
Bajri                         0.5               1,000               340
Other                         0.5                                   500
Rabi
Wheat                          0.7              1,750               560
Jowari/                       0.11                480               150
Pulses                        0.6                 360               100
Other                          0.2                -                 560
Eight-month and
Hot-weather
TobaccoJ/                     0.4                 520               830
Cotton_7                      0.4                 640               730
Bajri                          0.2                420               170
Total                     4.7                                5,1240
Income and axpenditures
L=                         ~~~~~~~~~(Rs)
Income from sale of produe                         5,140
Cash costs of production                           1.730
Cash income                                    3,L10
Water charges and other existing taxes                215
Net farm income                                     3,195
1/  After deduction of family subsistence allowance (a family comprising
6 persons with a per capita daily requirement of 16 oz cereals and
3 oz pulses) and 10% of production for seed, waste, etc.
2/  Yields and prices averaged for grain and fodder production.
3/  Yields and prices averaged for irrigated and non-irrigated production.
4/  Includes cash outlays for hired labor additional to family labor; cost of
fertilizers, chemicals and seed replacement and c'ost of land preparation.



ANNEX 13
INDIg
I N D I A
KADANA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Farm Budget for Typical 6.0-ha Farm at Full DeveloEnent
Cropped             Total          Income from
Area          Production      Sale of ProduceY
(ha)               (kg)             (Rs)
Kharif
Paddy (fine)                   2.0              8,000             3,700
Other                          2.0                -               2,000
Rabi
Wheat2/                         1.0             2,500                900
Jowar_-                        1.0              1,200               200
Pulses                         1.0                600               270
Other                          0.5                                1,4oo
Eight-month and
Hot-weather
Tobacco2/                      o.6                780             1,250
Cotton2/                       o.6                960             1,350
Bajri                          0.3                630               130
Total                       9.0                               11,200
Income and Expenditures
(Rs)
Income fran sale of prodpce                       11,200
Cash costs of productionr/                           000
Cash income                                   7,200
Water charges and other existing taxes               420
Net farm income                                    6,780
1/ After deduction of family subsistence allowance (a family comprising
6 persons with a per capita daily requirement of 16 oz cereals and
3 oz pulses) and 10% of production for seed, waste, etc.
2/  Yields and prices averaged for grain and fodder production.
3/ Yields and prices averaged for irrigated and non-irrigated production.
id  Includes cash outlays for hired labor additional to family labor; cost of
fertilizers, chemicals and seed replacement and cost of land preparation.



ANNEX 13
Page 5
I NDIA
KADANA IRRIGAT ION PROJECT
Farm Budget for Typical 16.0-ha Farm at Full Develooment
Cropped               Total          Income from
Area            Production       Sale of Produce-'_
(ha)               tEg)               (Rs)
Kharif
Paddy (fine)                   h.0                16,000              7,700
Other                          2.7                   -                2,700
Rabi
JowarY/                        2.5                 3,000                800
Pulses                         2.0                 1,200                7O0
Other                          1.0                   -                2,800
Eight-month and
Hot-weather
Tobacco)/                      4.0                 5,200              8,hOo
CottonL7                       3.8                 6,100              8,500
Ba.jri                         3.2                 6,700              3o000
Total                      23.2                                  34,600
Income and Expenditures
Income from sale of prodice                       -34,600
Cash costs of production.                          13 600
Cash income
Water charges and other existing taxes              1,200
Net farm income                                    19,800
1/  After deduction of family subsistence allowance (a family comprising
6 persons with a per capita daily requirement of 16 oz cereals and
3 oz pulses) and 10% of production for seed, waste, etc.
2/  Yields and prices averaged for grain and fodder production.
3/  Yields and prices averaged for irrigated and non-irrigated production.
i/  Includes cash outlays for hired labor additional to family labor; cost of
fertilizers, chemicals and seed replacement and cost of land preparation.






ANNE lb
Page 1
I N D I A
KAD2A IRRIGATION PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return
1.        Overall food shortages, recurrent droughts and uncertainty associated
with food imports from abroad have led the GOI to create food zones. Under these
zones, free movement of agricultural products between the states is curtailed.
With every state striving to attain self-sufficiency in foodstuffs, they
frequently encourage the production of crops in their own territory which could
be produced more economically elsewhere. This leaves little opportunity for
regional specialization in food production. As a result, there is a wide
divergency in agricultural prices, with the prevailing prices in each state
reflecting mainly the interaction of supply and demand within the state and not
in the country as a whole.
2.        Uncertainty over the continuation of the food zones policy makes it
difficult to calculate project benefits. The recurrence of years with reduced
monsoon rainfall, leading to a significant decline in food-grains production,
would probably strengthen the State government's intention to continue present
policies, in which case the prevailing high food-grain prices would not be
lowered in the foreseeable future. If, however, the expected increase in
agricultural production were to materialize in the years ahead, the present
food zones arrangement might be relaxed significantly and price differences
between the states would tend to be smaller. In the extreme case that India
would attain self-sufficiency in food-grains between the time the project is
completed and the time it will have reached full development (1975-1982), the
removal of food zones would tend to equalize prices between states as well as
to bring them in line with world market prices.
3.        In view of these uncertainties, different rates of return from the
project to the economy have been calculated.  Four calculations have been
made, each based on one of the following assurptions:
(a) that present prices for food-grains in Gujarat (wheat, rice,
bajri, jowar and maize) would not be lowered from their present
levels;
(b)  that relaxation of the food zones policy would result in a
lowering of present food-grain prices by 10%;
(c) that relaxation of the food zone policy would result in a
lowering of present food-grain prices by 20%; and
(d) that farm-gate prices for food-grains in Gujarat would equal
expected world market prices CIF Bombay. No allowance was made for
in-land transportation and handling charges between Bombay and the
project area in connecting the CIF prices to farm-gate prices.
This is based on the assumption that such charges would about
equal the cost of marketing of produce from the project area.



ANNEX 14
Page 2
The assumed world market prices for 1975 are those projected by the Trade
Policies and Export Projections Division of IBRD's Economics Department. They
are as follows:
Projected World Market
Price per Ton for 1975
(US$ CIF Bombay)
Wheat                           65
Coarse rice                    110
Fine rice                      120
Bajri                           60
Jowar                           55
Maize                           60
The introduction of long staple cotton, which would serve as a substitute for
present cotton imports, was valued at the expected world market price of
US$ 0.29 per lb in all four calculations. All future prices in the project
area thus calculated have been converted into rupees at the present exchange
rate of US$ 1.00 = Rs 7.50.
14.       Demand projections for the various crops and present production patterns
in the are were taken into account in the project cropping pattern. On the
assumption of lower price levels, wheat and some coarse grains would yield low
net returns to farmers in comparison with other crops. Should farmers adjust
production plans in response to price differentials, higher returns could be
realized. The changeover from the present cropping pattern to that projected
was assumed to occur gradually over a 7-year period after completion of the
project. Yield and production cost increases were phased over the 7-year period.
All family labor contributions were excluded from the production costs.
5.        Although past expenditures, from the inception of the project to the
end of 1969, amount to Rs 235 million, the effect on agricultural production
has presumably been negligible, as the main works regulating water supply in
the project area were not yet constructed. Past expenditures have, therefore,
been included in the cost stream, whereas incremental benefits were computed
against present production levels. The economic rate of return, using the
four different assumptions on food-grain price levels discussed in paragraph 3,
would range from 14% to 22%. The project cost and incremental net benefit
streams used in calculating these rates are shown in the following table:



ANNEX lb
Page 3
Incremental Net Value of Produiction
Under Four Assumptions 1/
Project
Year      Costs        (1)       (2)        (3)       (4)
........ .* *  Rs YIllions       . .   .. ..     .
1       2146.3        -         -          -         -
2        69.7        -          -         -          -
3       117.7         -         -         -          -
4       150.0        -          -          -         -
5       107.1         -         -          -         -
6        144.2      79.8       70.7      60.1        0.1
7         6.6      159.6      140.4     119.8       80.2
8                  23914    210.1       180.2      120.3
9                  279.3      245.0     210.5      140.0
10                  319.2      279.9     240.8      160.7
11                   359.1     314.8     270.0      180.3
12                  399.0      349.6     300.2      200.6
v                J/  
40         6.6      399.0      349.6     300.2      200.6
Rate of Return:        22%       20%        19%       14%
1/  See paragraph 3 for discussion of Assumptions (1), (2), (3) and (14).
NOTE: Project costs from the seventh year onwards represent annual
operation and maintenance costs.






INDIA
KADANA IRRIGATION PROJECT LOCATION AP 1
I                   ' 0  .-         ToAg4,, \\trc,, roeshope  e    LEGEND
tm          | -           S tate boundaries
IN D IA                                                                               District boundaries
Area                              -                                                    Main roads
of n'ap                                                          1
. g   X  .  t        <       ß  ,CW/          |             ,  IIIg~~~~~~~-.--------  Railways
:\  (:   )   BonswrosR   /   z                 Project irrigation
areas
I '.kit.           a A i A s    H'   
.,.,. ~ ~~~ ~                             *i .__                  __  __   __  __   __i
Geliak                      . .....                P  R  A
KADANA          ,..t
RESERVOIR   --J
'  V (  - /  t   \ tKodorc OamSite
)>?        wr    aMAHI~~~ .AT N C HtAH A LS2a
Uri, ~ ~        ~       ~        I
G(U~~ A I R
BANK AREA                       BAAD  DAfC    
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(
A~O
10                        ;, 'C  2wod 30  4n  5o  6
_____________________________                                           ~~~~~~~~~SURAT
KILOMETERS                                         GULF    O
-~~~~~ ~CAMB4A Y
OCTO  ER 1                                                                                           155D - 25'40R






.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C Ai .L  :    
N~~~~~~
'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-l                                             .............
a                   M      o
4                                     II~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
o~~~~~~~~~~~~
I     >~~~~~~~I
=K.                      '                                                    1               '.  !   o
4~~~ ~~ ..                         .



