CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 176 IN
Project Agreement
(Kadana Irrigation Project)
BETWEEN
THE STATE OF GUJARAT
ANM
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED FEBRUARY 9, 1970


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 176 IN
Project Agreement
(Kadana Irrigation Project)
BETWEEN
THE STATE OF GUJARAT
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED FEBRUARY 9, 1970


﻿AGREEMENT, dated February 9, 1970, between THE
STATE OF GUJARAT, acting by its Governor (hereinafter
called Gujarat) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIA-
TION (hereinafter called the Association).
WI IEREAS by an agreement of even date herewith between
India, acting by its President (hereinafter called the Bor-
rower) and the Association, which agreement, the Sched-
ules thereto and the General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements of the Association dated
January 31, 1969, made applicable thereto are hereinafter
called the Development Credit Agreement, the Associa-
tion 'as agreed to lend to the Borrower an amount in
various currencies equivalent to thirty-five million dollars
($35,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that
Gujarat agree to undertake certain obligations to the Asso-
ciation as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS Gujarat, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the
Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations herein-
after set forth;
Now, THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as
f ollows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
SECTION 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless
the context shall otherwise require, the several terms de-
fined in the Development Credit Agreement shall have the
respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿4
ARTICLE II
Particular Covenants
SECTION 2.01. (a) Gujarat shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
sound administrative, agricultural, engineering and finan-
cial practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
(b) Without limitation or restriction upon any of the
obligations of Gujarat set forth in paragraph (a) of this
Section, Gujarat shall, in addition to the equipment listed
in the Exhibit to Schedule 3 to the Development Credit
Agreement, procure the equipment listed in Schedule 4 to
the Development Credit Agreement promptly as required
for the efficient carrying out of the Project and in accord-
ance with the normal procurement procedures of Gujarat.
(c) Upon request from time to time by the Association,
Gujarat shall promptly furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association, the plans, specifications and work schedules
for the Project and any material modifications subsequently
made therein, in such detail as the Association shall request.
(d) In the carrying out of Parts B, C and D of the
Project, Gujarat shall, within two years of the commission-
ing of each minor canal, construct permanent irrigation
outlets from the respective minor canal serving areas no
larger than:
(i) 20 hectares for rice cultivation; and
(ii) 40 hectares for the cultivation of other crops (except
that up to 10% of such outlets may serve areas no
larger than 50 hectares).
The locations of such permanent outlets shall be determined
jointly by the Irrigation Wing of the Public Works Depart-
ment of Gujarat, the Department of Agriculture of Gujarat
and the farmers whose farms will be served by such outlets.


﻿5
SECTION 2.02. Gujarat shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, to dis-
close the use thereof in the Project, to record the progress
of the Project (including the cost thereof), to show the
results achieved by the Project and to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices
the operations and financial condition with respect to the
Project of the agency or agencies responsible for the carry-
ing out of the Project or any part thereof; shall enable the
Association's representatives to inspect the Project, such
goods and any relevant records and documents; and shall
furnish or cause to be furnished to the Association all such
information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit,
the Project, such goods and services, and the operations
and financial condition with respect to the Project of the
agency or agencies responsible for the carrying out of the
Project or any part thereof.
SECTION 2.03. (a) Gujarat and the Association shall co-
operate fully to assure that the purposes of the Credit
will be accomplished. To that end, Gujarat and the Asso-
eiation shall from time to time exchange views through their
representatives with regard to matters relating to the pur-
poses of the Credit and to the performancp by Gujarat of
its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(b) Gujarat shall promptly inform the Association of
any condition which interferes with, or threatens to inter-
fere with, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit
or the performance by Gujarat of its obligations under the
Project Agreement.
SECTION 2.04. Gujarat shall (i) cause all works, facili-
ties and roads included in the Project to be operated, main-
tained and repaired in accordance with sound engineering
practices and standards, (ii) cause all works, facilities and


﻿6
roads not included in the Project but necessary to the
proper and efficient operation thereof to be operated, main-
tained and repaired in accordance with such practices and
standards, and (iii) provide, or cause to be provided,
promptly as needed, all funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
SECTION 2.05. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, Gujarat shall transmit to the Association statements
of the separate accounts maintained for the Project by the
Irrigation Wing and the Roads Wing of the Public Works
Department of Gujarat and by the Department of Agricul-
ture of Gujarat, such statements to be audited by the office
of the Accountant General of Gujarat, as soon as such
audited statements are available and not later than six
months after the close of the financial year to which they
apply.
SECTION 2.06. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, Gujarat shall establish, and maintain in effect, within
the Irrigation Wing of its Public Works Department:
(i) an organization having a structure, purposes and
staff satisfactory to the Association for the opera-
tion and maintenance of the canal system included
in the Project; and
(ii) a team of engineers and agricultural officers with
qualifications acceptable to the Association to super-
vise the construction of the contour irrigation sys-
tem included in Part C of the Project.
SECTION 2.07. (a) Gujarat shall at all times provide, or
cause to be provided, agricultural extension, demonstration,
training and other technical services (including veterinary
and research services) satisfactory to the Association in
the Project area, and shall cause such services to be made
available to farmers in the Project area through an ade-
quate staff of officers trained in the techniques appropriate
to the Project area.


﻿7
(b) Gujarat shall make arrangements for the provision
of agricultural credit to farmers in the Project area in
order to enable such farmers to achieve full, prompt and
productive utilization of their land and of the water and
other facilities provided by the Project.
SECTION 2.08. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, Gujarat shall, within 6 months from the date of this
Agreement:
(i) establish a study team, adopt terms of reference
satisfactory to the Association, and begin to implement
the study of groundwater potential referred to in Part
H(i) of the Project;
(ii) establish a divisional organization within the Depart-
ment of Agriculture of Gujarat having a structure, pur-
poses and staff satisfactory to the Association to carry
out the land development works referred to in Parts D and
E of the Project;
(iii) adopt and begin to implement an agricultural pro-
gram in the Project area satisfactory to the Association
and employ adequate staff for such implementation; and
(iv) adopt and begin to implement a program to con-
solidate land holdings in the Mahi Left Bank area.
SECTION 2.09. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, Gujarat shall:
(i) establish and maintain water charges, cesses and
land taxes applicable to farms in the Project area such
that, not later than four years after the completion of
Part B (i) and (ii) of the Project, the aggregate of such
water charges collected from farms in the Project area
shall be not less than Rs 20,000,000 in the currency of the
Borrower annually;
(ii) initiate the study of water charges in the Project
area referred to in Part H(ii) of the Projeot under terms
of reference satisfactory to the Association within 6 months


﻿8
from the date of this Agreement and shall complete and
submit to the Association such study within 3 years and
6 months after the date of this Agreement;
(iii) discuss with the Association the recommendations
of such study and the action proposed for the implementa-
tion of such recommendations; and
(iv) undertake periodic reviews of water charges in the
Project area at intervals not exceeding 5 years.
ARTICLE III
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 3.01. This Agreement shall come into force
and effect on the Effective Date. If the Development Credit
Agreement terminates pursuant to Section 6.03 thereof,
this Agreement and all obligations of the parties hereunder
shall terminate.
SECTION 3.02. This Agreement and all obligations of
Gujarat and of the Association hereunder shall terminate
on (i) the date on which the Development Credit Agree-
ment shall terminate or (ii) December 31, 1995, whichever
shall be earlier.
ARTICLE IV
Miscellaneous Provisions
SECTION 4.01. Any notice, demand or request required
or permitted to be given or made under this Agreement and
any agreement between the parties contemplated by this
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall
be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall
be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable or radio-
gram to the party to which it is required or permitted to
be given or made at its address hereinafter specified, or
at such other address as such party shall have designated


﻿9
by notice to the party giving such notice or making such
demand or request. The addresses so specified are:
For Gujarat:
Secretary, Public Works Department
Sachivalaya
Ahmedabad, Gujarat
India
Alternative address for cables:
Worksee
Ahmedabad
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Alternative address for cables:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
SECTION 4.02. Any action required or permitted to be
taken, and any documents required or permitted to be exe-
cuted, under this Agreement on behalf of Gujarat may be
taken or executed by the Secretary, Public Works Depart-
ment or such other person or persons as he shall designate
in writing.
SECTION 4.03. Gujarat shall furnish to the Association
sufficient evidence of the authority of the person or persons
who will, on behalf of Gujarat, take any action or execute
any documents required or permitted to be taken or exe-
cuted by Gujarat pursuant to any of the provisions of this
Agreement and the authenticated specimen signature of
each such person.


﻿10
SECTION 4.04. This Agreement may be executed in sev-
eral counterparts, each of which shall be an original and
all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
THE STATE OF GUJARAT
By /s/ ALI YAVAR JUNG
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssoCIATIoN
By /s/ J. BURKE KNAPP
Vice President


