Docun
The Wo:
FOR OFFICIA
Report No. 9791-CHA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
BEIJING ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT
OCTOBER 16, 1991
Environment, Human Resources and
Urban Development Operations Division
Country Department III
Absa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVAITS
(as of July 1991)
Currency Name   -   Renminbi (RMB)
Currency Unit   =   Yuan (Y)      =    100 Fen
Y1.00    =   $0.19
$1.00    =   Y5.28
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 millimeter (mm)   =   0.039 inches
1 meter (m)   =   3.28 feet
1 square meter (mi2)   =   10.76 square feet
1 cubic meter (mi3)   =   35.3 cubic feet
1 kilometer (km)   =   0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)   =   10,000 square meters   =   15 mu
1 kilogram (Kg)   =   2.204 pounds
I megawatt (MW)   =   1,000,000 watts
1 gigajoule (GJ)   =   1 billion (109) joules
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACREONYMS
BDHC    Beijing District Heating Company     CTBC      China National Technical Import
BEPC      Beijing Environmental Protection             and Export Corporation Beijing
Committee                                    Company
BEPO      Beijing Environmental Project      DH        District heating
Office                            EPB        Environmental Protection Bureau
BESB      Beijing Environmental Sanitation   GOC       Government of China
Bureau                            HOB        Heat-only Boiler
BIHWMC Beijing Industrial Hazardous Waste    ICB       International Competitive Bidding
Management Center                 IRR        Internal Rate of Return
BM        Beijing Municipality               ITC       International Tendering Company
BMEAB   Beijing Municipal Engineering        kwh       Kilowatt Hour
Administration Bureau             LCB        Local Competitive Bidding
BMEAD   Beijing Municipal Engineering        MOF       Ministry of Finance
Administration Division           NEPA       National Environmental Protection
BMECC   Beijing Municipal Engineering                  Agency
Consulting Corporation            SAA        State Audit Administration
BMEPB   Beijing Municipal Environmental      SO2       Sulfur Dioxide
Protection Bureau                 SOE        Statement of Expenditure
BMPC      Beijing Municipal Planning         TSP       Total Suspended Particulates
Commission
BMPG      Beijing Municipal People's
Government
BSC       Beijing Sewerage Company
CHP       Cogeneration heat and power
CIB       China Investment Bank
CN'TIC    China National Technical Import
and Export Corporation



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CHINA
BEIJING ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT
LOAN/CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrowe-r:     People's Republic of China.
BnefIiciSay:   Beijing Municipality
Amount:        IBRD Loan       US$45 million
IDA Credit     SDR60.1 million (US$80 million equivalent).
Terms:         IBRD Loan       20 years, including five years of grace, at
standard variable interest rate.
IDA Credit     Standard, with 35 years maturity.
Onlgndinz      From the Government of China to Beijing Municipality (BM):
Terms:         15 years, including five years of grace, at a fixed
interest rate of 4.2 percent per annum; BM will bear all
foreign excchange risk, except those that are borne by the
entities to whom it onlends.
From BM to the Beijing District Heating Company (BDHC): for
15 years, including five years of grace, at a variable rate
equal to the Bank rate, plus a spread of 1.5 percent p.a.,
with BDHC bearing the US dollar/ RMB yuan foreign exchange
risk.
From BM to the industrial enterprises: for ten years,
including three years of grace, at a variable rate equal to
the Bank rate, plus a spread of 1.5 percent p.a., with the
entities bearing all foreign exchange risk, or a spread of
2.0 percent p.a. with the entities bearing the US dollar/
RMB Yuan foreign exchange risk.
Proiect        The project objective is to assist Beijing Municipality to
DescriRtion:   plan cost-effective strategies for a comprehensive
environmental protection program, strengthen the policy and
institutional framework required, and support priority
investments needed to start the process. The project would
address pollution problems associated with air and water
quality, and the disposal of domestic and industrial solid
wastes. The physical works would include: (a) the
construction of sewer networks to prevent pollution of
groundwater and the city's waterways; (b) the construction
of a pressurized hot water piping system for district
heating to alleviate air pollution from the burning of coal
at domestic residences; (c) renovation of a number of
highly polluting industries, and, in some cases, relocation
of these industries from the inner city area; and (d)
construction of a sanitary landfill and procurement of
equipment for municipal solid waste disposal. Technical
assistance will be included for studies to develop cost
effective plans which consider collectively the
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
environmental goals and resource needs between the various
economic and service sectors in order to arrive at an
optimal solution that can be sustained by the municipality.
Technical assistance will also be provided to develop the
policy and institutional framework for hazardous waste
management, to survey hazardous waste generation, and to
design appropriate measures for hazardous waste disposal.
A new institution will be set up for better management of
the rapidly expanding wastewater system of the city. A
training component will be included to help improve the
environmental management capability of key staff of the
Environmental Protection Bureau and institutions providing
urban environmental services.
Benefits:       The project would support development and implementation of
cost effective long term environmental protection
strategies and plans, which by optimizing the use of the
funds available would increase the size and effectiveness
of the environmental program. The project would bring
about health benefits from reduction of water-borne
diseases, respiratory ailments and cancer, and reduce
corrosive damage to buildings and municipal water
facilities caused by pollution. Constrained supplies of
natural resources and raw materials will be used more
efficiently thereby improving economic conditions. The
project would also significantly strengthen the capability
of key institutions of the city, as well as improve crucial
coordination among them, in carrying out environmental
planning and pollution control work. With the help from
this project Beijing will be better able to assist other
municipalities on environmental protection work, an area in
which the city is already a leader.
Risks:          There are risks of delay in implementation with a project
that has multiple components involving several different
municipal entities (none of whom were previously familiar
with Bank procedures and requirements). However, the
establishment of a strong project management unit and its
effective management during project preparation, indicate
that these risks are manageable. Much work, beyond that of
the present proposed project, would still be required
before the long term goals of environmental improvement can
be reached. A firm commitment by BM to work towards the
steady achievement of these goals will be needed. With the
help of a comprehensive environmental plan, concrete
strategies and action plans to be developed in the project,
and proposed measures to strengthen the environmental
management capabilities of BM, efforts to continue
environmental protection work at a high pace, can, however,
be expectei to be sustained.



- iii -
Estimated CJsts :                      Local        Forei&n        Total
----- - (US$ million) --------
Wastewater                         12.1          13.2          25.3
Solid Waste                         4.7           1.9           6.6
District Heating                   21.8          43.3          65.1
Industrial Pollution              43.5           36.4          79.9
Hazardous Waste                     1.5           0.1           1.6
Environm2ntal Studies               0.2           1.8           2,0
(Instruments)
Project Management                  0.8           0.7           1.5
(Equipment)
Tech. Assistance                    8.8           5.0          13.8
and Training
Land Acquisition                  48.6            0.0          48.6
Base Cost (1990)                  142.0         102.4         244.4
Physical Contingencv               14.2          10.2          24.4
Price_ContinaqD&X                  16.5          13.4          29.9
Total Project Cost A/             172.7         126.0         298.7
In-tres, duri Ig Construction       0.0           5.8           5.8
Total Finarncing Reguired         122.7         131,8         30455
Financing Plan                         Local        Foreign        Total
----- (US$ million) -
IBRD/IDA                           0.6         124.4        125.0
Japan Grant Facility               0.0           1.6           1.6
Beijing Mun. Govt.               118.4           5.8         124.2
Enterprises                       53.7           0.0          53.7
Total                       172.7         131.8         2G4.5
a/   Project-financed goods are exempt from import duties and taxes.



- iv -
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank/IDA FY        1992      1993       1994      1995       1996      1997
-(US$ million) ------------------
Annual             13.0      31.0       34.1      32.2       11.0       3.7
Cumulative         13.0      i4.0       78.1     110.3      121.3     125.0
Economic Rate        Wastewater        -  16 percent for South Urban Sewer
of Return:                                Interceptor; 39 percent for Sewer
Interceptors in No. 3 Water Plant
area.
District Heating -  11 percent.
Composite IRR    -  13 percent.



v -
CHINA
BEIJING ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT
Table of Contents
LOAN/CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY .......  ..  ..  .  ..  ..    ..           i
I.    THE ENVIRONMENTAL SECTOR  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
Environmental Conditions in China   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
Sector Organizations    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
Sectoral Issues and Problems    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Past Experience under Previous Operations   . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Bank Role and Sector Lending Strategy   . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
II.   PROJECT BACKGROUND                                                   4
Project  Location   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    4
Environmental Situation in Beijing    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Air Pollution               ..S
Water Pollution..                                                    7
Industrial Pollution.                              .                 9
Municipal Solid Waste..                                              9
III.  ENVIRONMENTAL APPROACHES AND STRATEGIES   . . . . . . . . . . .  11
China's Approach to Environmental Protection    . . . . . I .       11
Pervasive Pollution            ..11
Pollution by Large Industrial and Commercial Operations   . . . . 12
Environmental Planning and Management   . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Industrial Hazardous Waste Management   . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
China in February 1991. Project team members included Mr. John W. Huang (Task
Manager, Senior Sanitary Engineer), Mr. Yves Albouy (Principal Energy
Economist), Mr. Roger Batstone (Industrial Specialist), Mr. Roger Heath
(Principal Chemical Engineer), Mrs. Adrienne Nassau (Senior Financial
Analyst), Mrs. Elaine Sun (Financial Analyst), Mr. Walter Spofford
(Environmental Economist, Consultant), Mr. Anders Dyrelund (District Heating
Engineer, Consultant), Mr. Zhang Zhun (Sanitary Engineer, Consultant) and Mr.
Wang Yanxiang (Industrial Specialist, Consultant). Assistance was also
provided from Mr. Mohammad Ashraf (Senior Procurement Specialist) and Mr.
Liang Ziqian (Operations Officer) of the China Resident Mission. The peer
reviewers were Mr. Alfonso Zavala (Water and Sanitation Adviser, INUWS), Mr.
Carlo Rietveld (Principal Urban/Water Supply Engineer, ASTIN), Mr. Andrew
Hamer (Principal Sector Economist, AS3EH) and Mr. Nick Anderson (Senior
Project Officer, AS3EH). The Division Chief is Mr. Zafer Ecevit (AS3EH). The
Department Director is Mr. Shahid Javed Burki (AS3DR).



- vi -
IV.   THE PROPOSED PROJECT  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  14
Project Objectives    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Rationale for Bank/IDA Involvement    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Project Description   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Project-related Studies   ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 17
Arrangements for Implementing the
Industrial Pollution Control Component    . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Project Cost Estimates    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
Project Financing   ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 20
Project Preparation   ....  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 21
Prcject Management    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
Procurement   .....  .  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .   . 22
Disbursement    ................................................ 24
Land Acquisition and Resettlement   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
Staff Training and Development    ....  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 26
Monitoring Criteria   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
V.    THE  BENEFICIARIES  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  26
Beijing Municipality    ......  .  .  ..  .  .  ..  .  .  ..  .  .   . 26
Organization for Environmental Management   . . . . . . . . . . . 27
Beijing Municipalty's Commissions   ....  .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 27
The Beijing Municipal Finance Bureau    ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 28
Beijing District Heating Company    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
Wastewater Management Organization    .............. 28
Environmental Sanitation Organization .29
VI.   FINANCIAL CONSIDERATIONS                                           29
Financial Management    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
Taxation .30
Accounting .30
Audit .32
Municipal Finance .33
Finances of Sewerage Services .33
Future Financial Performance of BSC   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
Finances of the Beijing District Heating Company    . . . . . . . 34
Future Finances of BDHC .36
Financial Analysis of Industrial Pollution Control Subprojects    37
VII. ECONOMIC. SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL CONSIDERATIONS .38
Project Justification .38
Project Benefits                                                   38
Wastewater Component                                               39
District Heating (DH) Component .39
Industrial Pollution Component                                     41
Composite IRR .41
Project  Risks  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  41
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS    . . . . . . . . . . . . 42



- vii -
TABLES
4.]  Estimated Project Cost    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
4.2    Financing  Plan  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  20
4.3  Procurement Arrangements    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
6.1  Revenue and Operating Expense of BDHC (1988-90)   . . . . . . . . 35
6.2  Key Financial and Operating Indicators for BDHC   . . . . . . . . 37
1 Organization for Environmental Protectiona in China    . . . . . . 45
2  Selected Environmental Laws, Regulations and Standards in Force   46
3 Detailed Project Description    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
4  Environmental Master Plan Studies
Draft Terms of Reference    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54
5  Industrial Hazardous Waste Management Studies
Draft Terms of Reference    . I . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
6 Appraisal Procedure and Criteria for Industrial Subprojects   . .66
7 Project Cost Estimates    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 67
8 Project Office Organization   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73
9    Contract  Packaging  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  75
10  Disbursement Schedule   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77
11  Land Acicuisition and Resettlement Program   . . . . . . . . . . . 78
12    Training  Program  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  79
13  Project Implementation Schedule   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
14  Environmental Improvement Monitors    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
15  Organization of Beijing Municipality    . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
16  Beijing Environumental Protection Organization   . . . . . . . . . 84
17  Beijing Sewerage Company    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 85
18  Beijing Sewerage Company - Financial Projec.ions    . . . . . . . 87
19  Beijing District Heating Company - Financial Projections    . . . 92
20  Economic Analysis of Wastewater Component   . . . . . . . . . . 98
21  Economic Analysis of District Heating Component   . . . . . . . 100
22  Selected Documents and Data available in Project File   . . . . 108
MAPS
IBRD 23048    Land Use
IBRD 23049    Wastewater Project Component
IBRD 23050    District Heating Component



CHINA
BEIJING ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT
I. THE ENVIRONMENTAL SECTOR
Environmental Conditions in China
1.1       Growing urban populations and industrialization are causing
wide-spread air, water and soil pollution in China as elsewhere, and
environmental problems have become the highest priority issues in Chinese
cities. Due to a past industrial location policy, many large industries
are placed close to urban residential areas which are also rapidly
expanding. Gaseous effluents, untreated or improperly treated liquid
effluents, and unwanted refuse from industries and domestic premises,
industrial hazardous and toxic wastes, and high noise levels from congested
traffic, factories and commercial complexes, are significantly polluting
the environment and affecting the health of urban residents.
1.2       Water pollution from urban and industrial wastewater discharges
poses the most severe problem and the one that directly affects human
health. Many important water resources, which are already scarce in most
regions, are already seriously threatened. Few countries are so dependent
on coal as China, with annual consumption now approaching one billion tons.
The burning of bituminous coal is causing serious atmospheric pollution
from airborne particulate and sulfur dioxide emissions in the inner city
and industrial areas. Domestic garbage and industrial solid waste often
pile up uncovered in random heaps around large cities, as a result of poor
past, and in many cases even present, solid waste disposal practice.
During the past ten years, however, China has initiated a wide array of
environmental protection policies and programs, and has established compre-
hensive pollution control guidelines.
Sector Organizations
1.3       Annex 1 gives a chert showing the organization for environmental
protection in China. In general, environmental protection in an
administrative region (province, municipality, urban district, county) is
the responsibility of the government of that region, carried out by the
environmental protection bureau or office (EPB) of that government. There
is, however, a professional guidance link from the EPB at the next higher
administrative level. At the national level, the National Environmental
Protection Agency (NEPA), established in 1979, is under the State Council,
and is responsible for: (a) determining national environmental policies for
air, water, soil, wastes, noise, etc.; (b) designing national environmental
regulations and standards; and (c) providing guidance to the provinces on
environmental matters. EPBs at the provincial level (including the three
province-level municipalities of Beijing, -'-nghai and Tianjin) are
responsible for enforcing state environmental laws, regulations and
standards; drafting and enforcing local laws, regulations and standards
which, for local reasons, are more specific than the national standards;
and drafting annual, medium term and long term environmental plans. They
also oversee the work of the municipal (in the case of provincial EPBs),
urban district and the county EPBs which are organized under the local
governments at the various respective levels. The municipal, urban



district and county EPBs are the basic units respcnsible for ensuring
compliance with environmental regulations and standards within their
respective jurisdictions. They also collect pollution charges, except for
enterprises owned by the provincial or central governments, in which case
the pollution charges are administered and used by the provincial EPB.
1.4       Several Central Government ministries are concerned with water
quality and water pollution control, and they support NEPA in carrying out
its environmental protection work. The Ministry of Water Conservancy is
the central organization responsible for determining policies on the
allocation and management of surface water resources in the country. Its
policies are implemented through river basin commissions, provincial water
conservancy departments and water conservancy bureaus at vari'us local
government levels. The Ministry of Geology and Minerals and the
corresponding local government departments and bureaus are responsible for
allocation and management of groundwater. The Ministry of Construction is
responsible for urban and regional planning and infrastructure development
planning at the national level. It provides guidance to the provinces and
the three centrally controlled municipalities on preparation of plans for
land use and infrastructure development, including urban water supply and
sewerage. It also makes recommendations on technical standards and
criteria. The Ministry of Public Health is responsible for providing
guidance to local public health bureaus on drinking water quality
requirements and the testing of community drinking water supplies.
Sectoral Issues and Problems
1.5       China has enacted a comprehensive set of environmental laws and
regulations, and has established numerous environmental standards. The
most important are an environmental protection law passed in 1979 and
updated in 1989; a water pollution control law passed in 1984; an air
pollution control law passed in 1987; and national standards for air
quality, water quality, wastewater discharges and environmental noise in
urban areas (see Annex 2).
1.6       With a strong emphasis on economic development in the past two
decades, many cities and enterprises in China were allowed to grow without
giving due regard to pollution control. Environmental conditions have
therefore deteriorated in most cities. Ln recent years the Central
Government and local authorities have taken greater initiatives to improve
the environment, and to enforce important regulations. These include a
strict requirement for an environmental impact assessment on new projects
with potential environmental problems, and for a review of the adequacy of
environmental protection measures at project planning, design and
construction stages. While China has taken a major step in the right
direction for the control of new pollution, much improvement is still
needed in enforcing these requirements.
1.7       For existing polluters, problems arise when the cost of cleanup
is high.  Since the local authorities are often the owners of the polluting
enterprises, they may be reluctant to jeopardize the enterprises' financial
viability through expensive cleanup measures. Thus, financing constraints
are a major problem in forcing the pace of pollution abatement.



- 3 -
1.8       Current industrial cleanup measures include mostly end-of-pipe
treatment, a term that covers treatment rather than reduction of the
pollutant (gas, liquid, or solid). Insufficient consideration is given to
more efficiert and economical methods for reducing pollution through
recycling, process modification, and the use of less polluting inputs.
Often whea it is realized that technological change is the preferred
solution, lack of financial resources, especially the forei,,n exchange, is
generally a barrier. In many cases when highly polluting factories are
relocated (a process which is tantamount to closing an existing factory and
constructing a new one) the same industrial process is used in order to
take advantage of old, existing equipment, with a note that technological
changes would be made when funds become available. Additional end-of-pipe
treatment facilities are then constructed to meet effluent standards in the
new location that are barely adequate.
1.9       A system that charges for pollution and that imposes penalties
for exceeding set pollution limits has been introduced to deter pollution.
About 80 percent of the funds derived from these charges are used for
pollution abatement measures or facilities. The Central Government has
prescribed a range of unit charges (based on concentration) for each type
of pollution; within this range the local governments who execute the
environmental regulations are given discretion to set charges. However,
often the charges are too low even at the top of the charging range. They
therefore do not deter pollution, because polluters often find it cheaper
to pay to pollute rather than take more costly abatement measures. In
addition, although the amount collected through the pollution charge is
significant, it is much smaller than the amount needed to assist polluters
to clean up. Thus, unless further measures can be found to finance
pollution abatement efforts, environmental improvement is likely to be
slow.
Past Experience unde- Previous Operations
1.10      The Bank Group is involved in a number of projects in China's
urban and water supply sectors which deal to a certain extent with
environmrental pollution control. Three of these projects are now being
implemented. These are:
(a) The Shanghai Sewerage Project (Credit 1779-CHA, SDR78.9 million,
1987; Loan 2794-CHA, $45 million, 1987) to finance a link and
intercepting sewer system to collect, transport and treat
wastewater for disposal in the estuary of the Changjiang;
studies on management and organization, sewerage tariff, river
basin management, and sewer system rehabilitation; and staff
training. Project completion is expected by December 1993.
(b) The Medium-sized Cities Development Project (Credit 2201-CHA;
Loan 3286-CHA) to provide assistance to various urban subsectors
in three medium-sized cities -- Changzhou, Shashi and Luoyang.
The project is under implementation.
(c) The Liaoning Urban Infrastructure Project (Credit 2219-0-CHA) to
provide assistance to improve the water supply in three cities
and urban transport in one city, and to strengthen environmental



- 4 -
pollution control in the province. The project is under
implementation,
1.11      Sectoi work carried out by the Bank includes: (a) the Shanghai
Sector Memoran6Lz. (Urban), Report No. 4227-CHA, December 1982; (b) a Bank
economic report, China -- Long-term Development Issues and Options, Report
No. 5206- CHA, May 22, 1985, which includes a chapter on spatial and urban
issues; (c) an urban sector survey in Liaoning Province in 1985 in
cooperation with the United Nations Development Program (UNDP) and the
Australian International Development Assistance Bureau (AIDAB); (d) an
urban sector study in Zhejiang Province, China --Zhejiang: Challenges of
Rapid Urbanization, Report No. 6612-CHA, August 3, 1987; and (d) an urban
transport sector study for China based on a desk study of available data
(in draft). All these studies have touched on environmental issues in
China. In addition, an environmental strategy study for China is currently
being finalized for publication in grey cover this Fall. The study
identifies major environmental issues and their underlying causes, assesses
China's policies and institutional capabilities for addressing them,
recommends areas for improvement, and proposes a multi-year program of
environmental assistance.
Bank Role and Sector Lending Strategy
1.12      The Bank's role in the environmental sector in China would be to
assist the Government to: (a) develop appropriate strategies for improving
and maintaining the quality of the environment; these would seek to
optimize total benefits, including those from opportunities to improve the
efficiency of industrial production and the use of natural resources; (b)
plan and prioritize needs for environmental improvement, and identify and
prepare plans for the most cost-effective projects; (c) provide project
funding and attract other sources of external financing; (d) help
strengthen institutions responsible for enforcing environmental protection
regulations, as well as those that operate community systems for
environmental pollution abatement; and (e) promote sound financial and cost
recovery policies to sustain healthy operation of the urban services
required for reducing environmental pollution. Because of the magnitude of
the problem, the Bank's work on the environment in China is receiving much
attention and support from the international community. In many instances,
the Bank is well positioned to direct this attention and support to high-
priority areas.
II. PROJECT BACKGROUND
Project Location
2.1       The project area is that of the Beijing Municipality (BM).  (See
Map IBRD 23048). The municipality has a total land area of 16,807 sq. km.,
with a total resident population of about 10.3 million and a mobile
population (visitors, travelling merchants, temporary labor force, etc.) of
nearly one million people. About six million live in the urban districts.
The municipality has a temperate continental climate with an average air
temperature of 11.7 degrees Centigrade and an average annual precipitation
of 626 mm. Main rivers include the Yongding, the Chaobai, and the Wenyu



- 5 -
rivers, all of which have been impounded upstream for Beijing's water
supply. Development planning for Beijing is intended to maintain the
special characteristics unique to its status as the nation's capital.
These include wide avenues and low building heights to enhance the grandeur
of its numerous monuments, and architectural styles that complement the
richness of its traditional culture.
Environmental Situation in Beijing
2.2       Environmental protection work in Beijing was instituted as early
as 1970, and a municipal environmental protection office was set up in
1974, which was reorganized as the Beijing Municipal Environmental
Protection Bureau (BMEPB) in 1979. BMEPB has a mandate to establish a
comprehensive set of local environmental regulations, enforce regulatory
control, coordinate efforts on integrated waste treatment, increase public
environmental awareness, and operate an environmental management system and
an environmental monitoring network (see organization details in para.
5.3). As a result of these efforts, environmental conditions have not
deteriorated as seriously in Beijing as other parts of China during a
period of rapid economic expansion and urban construction. For example,
while annual coal consumption in 1990 increased by over seven million tons
above 1981 levels, dust and suspended particles in the atmosphere, as well
as the number of smog days, have on an average declined modestly since 1981
due to measures taken.
2.3       Effective protection work in the upper watersheds of the major
reservoirs has successfully curbed pollution of the city's drinking water
supply. The recycling rate of industrial wastewater has reached 70
percent, greatly reducing wastewater flows. About 40 percent of industrial
wastewater discharges undergo some form of treatment. Enforcement of
environmental regulations has significantly reduced the amount of toxic
substances (notably cyanide, mercury, cadmium, arsenic and chromium) in
industrial wastewater. Over 300 factories and workshops have been closed
or relocated since 1981 in order to reduce environmental pollution
(including noise pollution). Nevertheless, the city still suffers from
serious air, water, and solid waste pollution, and much work and investment
are needed to reverse the present adverse environmental situation.
Air Pollution
2.4       The main source of Beijing's air pollution problems is the use
of low-grade, unprocessed coal for space heating, hot water (tea) boilers,
and cooking. About 20 million tons1 are burnt each year. It is estimated
that there are about 20,000 coal-burning boilers, and the number increases
by about 1,100 per year. Apart from the problem of poor fuel quality, the
burners of these boilers are inefficient and gaseous effluents are emitted
at low altitudes. In addition, an estimated 1.4 million households are
still using coal-burning stoves to keep warm in winter.
Thirty percent by industry, 27 percent for coking, 23 percent
for residential use, 14 percent for electrical power generation,
and six percent for other purposes.



- 6 -
2.5       The other potential air pollution problem in Beijing is
photochemical smog. This is caused primarily by vehicular emissions and
could occur throughout the year, being more serious from May to August when
vehicular traffic peaks. However, selective measurements of ozone levels
in Beijing have not shown any serious sign of photochemical smog up to the
present.
2.6       Although Beijing enacted regulations in 1987 for air pollution
control, implementation of these regulations has been slow in the absence
of cleaner fuels. During the heating period (November 15 to March 15),
ambient concentrations of sulfur dioxide (SO2) and total suspended
particulates (TSP) in the atmosphere exceed Class II air quality standards
(see Annex 2, page 4). Coal burning contributes 93 percent and 76 percent
respectively to these contaminant levels. From 1950 to 1988, the number of
smog days in Beijing, which are also directly linked to coal burning, has
grown from 60 to 180 a year. The problem of smog is aggravated by frequent
air inversions, and dust storms during April and May.
2.7       Beijing has drafted plans to address its air pollution problems.
These would be refined in the proposed environmental management plan
studies to be completed under the Beijing Environmental Project. The
tentative plans propose to resolve the air pollution problem through the
development and use of cleaner fuels and more efficient energy generation.
Under consideration are the use of town gas (natural, coal and coke gas),
cogeneration of heat and power, the use of large more efficient boilers for
district heating, and briquetting to improve coal quality.
2.8       Regulatory measures, such as requirements for more efficient
building insulation to reduce energy use, are also contemplated. In this
regard BM has developed standards for energy conservation in building
construction (Standard DBJO1-4-88 published in 1988). A proclamation by
the municipal government on the implementation of these standards within
the municipality was declared on September 18, 1990. During negotiations
understandings were reached on the measures to be taken by BM for the
enforcement of the energy conservation standards for building construction.
2.9       Beijing's gasification plan includes the development of town gas
to increase the present gas production capacity of 1.8 million m3 per day
to 3.1 million m3 per day in 1995, with a further increase of 1.2 million
m3 per day by 2000, reaching a total gas production of 4.3 million m3 per
day in 2000. About 90 percent of Beijing's households are already using
town gas or bottled gas for domestic cooking, and, with the planned
investments, the major part of the needs for commercial preparation of food
and tea would also be met.
2.10      Beijing's district heating plan includes the development of
cogeneration heat/power (CHP) sources and large heat supply boilers, and
the expansion of the existing network of district heating pipelines to
deliver space heat and hot water to residential, industrial and commercial
consumers. At present the city has five heat sources, which include three
CHP plants (one of which, Shijingshan, is about to be put on line), a steam
production plant, a heat supply plant. These together supply about 3.5
million tons of steam per year to industries, and space heating and hot
water to residential buildings with a floor area of about 17 million m2



-7-
(not including Shijingshan). The Shijingshan source, in combination with
heat-only boilers for peak loads, will supply another 18 million m 2 of
floor area when used to full capacity. There are also about 200 km of hot
water pipes and 450 heat transfer stations in the district heating network.
Various district heating development schemes have also been planned2,
which, upon realization will allow Beijing to provide district heating to
about 65 million m2 of building floor space (of which 40 million m2 is from
CHP) in 1995, accounting for about 40 percent of its total building floor
area, and 100 million m2 (of which 60 million M2 is from CHP) in 2000,
accounting for 51 percent of the projected building floor area in that
year.
2.11      Building floor space not served by district heating (about 50
percent by year 2000) would continue to be heated by individual coal-
burning building boilers or coal stoves in housing units. For these
consumers, Beijing plans to improve the quality of coal supply by
briquetting to allow more complete combustion and by including additives in
the briquettes to suppress emission of pollutants.  By 1995 Beijing plans
to construct coal briquetting facilities with a total production capacity
of 2 million tons per year.
Water Pollution
2.12      Beijing faces rapidly increasing water demand, but it has
practically no remaining surface and groundwater resources that can be
readily explnited. Industrial, agricultural and urban users at present
conbume 4 billion m3/ year, which is supportable in years of average
rainfall. However, during drought years (about one of every five years),
there is an estimated shortfall of at least 600 million m 3.  If present
water use patterns are allowed to continue, planners estimate a deficit of
1.4 billion m3/year by the year 2000, even under conditions of normal
rainfall. Conservation as well as recycling and reuse have therefore
become major water management tools. New water pricing policies are also
envisioned as a way to promote conservation.
2.13      Water scarcity makes it essential to preserve the quality of
Beijing's water resources. During the past decade major surface water
resources which lie upstream of the city have been successfully protected
from pollution. However, surface and groundwater resources within the
boundaries and downstream of the city are threatened by the large volume of
wastewater effluents discharged by the city's water users.
2.14      It is estimated that currently about 2.0 million m 3 of wastewater
are produced daily in Beijing's urban districts, about half of which comes
from industrial sources. The city has 1,900 km of sewers, three wastewater
treatment plants and a number of drainage pumping stations. Based on
2    System expansion for three CHP plants (one existing and two
new), improvement of the system for three existing CHP plants,
modification of an existing power generation plant to heat/power
cogeneration, and the construction of large heat-only boilers to
operate with the cogeneration CHP plants, or in separate
district heating areas.



modest estimates of population growth and a strict program to curb
industrial water use, wastewater flows from the city are projected to
increase to about 2.4 million m3 per day in 2000, and 3.1 million m3 per
day in 2010. Although some industries treat their wastewater discharges,
this treatment is usually inadequate. Less than eight percent of the
municipal wastewater receives primary treatment and less than two percent
receives secondary treatment prior to discharge into the rivers. A survey
in 1988 found that 50 percent of the 1,400 km of main waterways in the
Beijing area suffer from varying degrees of pollution. The most serious
violations of pollutant standards are levels of biochemical oxygen demand3
and amounts of phenol, followed by oil and fluorides.
2.15      Many relatively new parts of the city, particularly the southern
areas, have been rapidly built up without an adequate sewerage system.
Untreated wastewater from these areas is discharged into combined sewers
(carrying rainwater and wastewater) which drain into open waterways (rivers
and canals) that run through inhabited areas. Inadequate wastewater
removal is also seriously threatening the quality of groundwater in several
important aquifers located in urban districts.
2.16      The sewers in the old city (within the second ring road) are
mostly combined sewers, the bulk of which is very old; some date to the
Qing dynasty (1644-1911). The construction of a separate sewer system
would require huge investments to simultaneously reconstruct roads and
buildings. For the time being, Beijing proposes to retain the combined
sewer system in old city areas and to construct interceptors (with an
unavoidable reduction in the efficiency of wastewater collection) to carry
wastewater to proposed treatment plant locations.
2.17      The physical plan for Beijing's urban sewerage system, developed
around 1987, divided the city into 15 separate drainage areas, each with a
separate sewerage system and sewage treatment plant. Based on this plan,
various works have been completed or under construction4.  With completion
of the Gaobedian treatment works in 1995, it is estimated that about 22
percent of the wastewater of the city will receive adequate treatment. The
Beijing urban sewerage plan will be refined in the proposed master plan
studies. Important areas still to be considered include appropriate
wastewater treatment levels; policies and strategies for industrial
wastewater pretreatment; the suitability of the layout of sewerage works in
3    This is a widely used parameter of organic pollution in
wastewater and surface water, and involves the measurement of
the dissolved oxygen used by micro-organisms in the biochemical
oxidation of organic matter.
4    A secondary wastewater treatment plant (Bei Xiao He) with a
capacity of 40,000 m3 per day has recently been completed and put
into service. The first stages of two wastewater treatment
plants (Gaobeidian and Fangzhuang) with a combined capacity of
540,000 m3 per day, and 26 trunk sanitary sewers, at a capital
cost of about Yl.3 billion, are now under construction.
External assistance from the Japanese International Cooperation
Agency (JICA) has been made available for the Gaobeidian plant.



- 9 -
facilitating reuse of treated sewage; and policies, incentives and health
considerations in the reuse of wastewater.
Industrial Pollution
2.18      There are some 5,700 industrial enterprise;; (excluding township
and village enterprises) in Beijing, employing 1.7 million people and
generating a gross output value of Y41.8 billion in 1988. Industrial
enterprises produce about 1.0 million m3/day of wastewater, contributing
approximately 45 percent of the volume and 60 percent of the total water
pollution load. In addition they produce 24 percent of the soot and dust
emissions of the city, and 4 million tons of industrial solid wastes each
year, of which 267,000 tons are toxic and hazardous matters.
2.19      Approximately 49 percent of the industrial enterprises, which
produce 70 percent of the gross output value, are located in the urban
districts, which have an area of about 4.5 percent of the total land area
of the municipality.  This high concentration of industry in the urban
areas of Beijing has also resulted in land use conflicts and inefficiencies
in industrial production. To resolve this problem, Beijing has found it
necessary to close certain highly polluting industries (including those
with high noise levels), such as electroplating, heat treatment, and
casting and forging; and to move more than 300 polluting factories and
workshops to new locations in outer urban areas and counties. An
additional 110 factories have been identified for relocation during the
Eight and Ninth five-year plan periods (1991 to 2000).
2.20      At present end-of-pipe treatment appears to be one of the main
strategies for water pollution control in Beijing industrial enterprises.
By 1988 a total of 692 wastewater treatment plants (mainly pretreatment
facilities, with some primary and secondary treatment facilities) had been
installed in factories in Beijing (accounting for about 40 percent of the
enterprises). A few factories which have modified their processes instead,
have reduced pollution and improved production efficiency. Even when
factories are relocated, old, less efficient processes are used until
additional funds for process modification become available.
2.21      Previous audits identified large quantities (267,000 tons/year)
of toxic and harmful residues (referred to as "hazardous wastes") produced
by a wide range of industrial enterprises in Beijing; the quantities are
growing at about three percent per year. To date, about 138,000 tons/year
are reused. The remainder is haphazardly discharged and disposed of,
directly or indirectly, to the environment. Such practices have
contributed to serious land, water and air pollution problems. In
addition, some 8,000 capacitors containing polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB),
a very toxic substance, were removed from service in 1981-1989 and are
stored in caves in the Beijing county of Yan Qing. There is a potential
for the PCB in capacitors to eventually leak out of the caves and thereby
contaminating the nearby environment.
Municipal Solid Waste
2.22      The eight urban districts (the city districts) of Beijing, with
a population of about 5.4 million people, generate about 3.4 million tons



- 10 -
of urban refuse per year (1989). Another 3.7 million people generate 1.6
million tons per year from the remaining ten rural counties, making a total
of about 5 million tons of refuse per year from the entire municipality.
Beijing Municipality estimates that the amount of urban refuse from the
city districts will increase to 4.3 million tons per year in 2000, and
reach 4.5 million tons per year in 2010.
2.23      The present composition of urban refuse is 10 percent
combustible material (plastics, paper, textile), 35 percent compostible
material (food, vegetation), and 55 percent nonbiodegradable material
(ashes, bricks, tiles, metals). As living standards improve, the
percentage of combustible material will increase (planners expect
combustible material to double to 20 percent by 2010). About 600,000 tons
per year of selected waste material (400,000 tons from industries, and
200,000 tons from domestic refuse) are purchased for recycling by the
Beijing Materials Waste Corporation. The types of recyclable waste
collected per year include: steel (60 percent), paper (20 percent), other
metals (2 percent), plastic (1 percent), rubber (2 percent) and glass (5
percent).
2.24      Major efforts to improve solid waste management in Beijing
started in 1986. A plan for solid waste management has been adopted and
implementation is under way. This plan, as well as the regulatory measures
required to enforce proper disposal of the city's solid waste, will be
expanded and refined in the proposed environmental master plan studies.
The plan emphasizes controlled land disposal in order to minimize
encroachment on agricultural land and environmental pollution. Beijing
also intends to experiment with pilot test plants for composting and
incineration, probably using refuse from a limited number of residential
and commercial areas where the content of nondecomposable refuse is low
(from 6 percent to 28 percent). In mixed districts (which include
industrial complexes), where nondecomposable refuse could reach 60 percent,
landfill would be a better solution.
2.25      The recommendations contained in the refuse plan have already
produced improvements. In general, the current refuse collection system is
effective and efficient. Local private collectors obtain recyclable
material from some 162 small transfer stations, which bulk the wastes
before transport for disposal. About 310 ha of rural land, with suitable
hydrogeological conditions for landfill use and are sufficiently distant
from centers of habitation, were acquired for large landfill sites5. In
addition, three new large transfer stations will be built for these urban
districts. For the remaining eight counties, which at present generate
about 370,000 tons of refuse per year, smaller landfill sites are proposed,
with a total land requirement of about 60 ha.
2.26      The city plans to clean up the numerous small dumps around the
periphery of the city which were used to dispose of urban refuse in the
past. These include about 5,190 piles (reported in an aerial survey) of
5    Asuwei (72 ha) in the north of the city, Beishenshu (35 ha) in
the southeast, Dahuichang (27 ha) west-southwest of the city,
and Anding (35 ha) and Lixian (82 ha) both south of the city.



- 11 -
domestic refuse, mixed waste, unused farm fertilizer, and industrial waste.
The clean-up process for domestic refuse includes screening out any
remaining undecomposed foreign matter for landfill disposal and
transporting the remaining compost to nearby farms for agricultural use.
The freed land would be put to productive use.
III. ENVIRONMENTAL APPROACHES AND STRATEGIES
China's Approach to Environmental Protection
3.1       China has the "polluter pays" policy, and environmental laws,
regulations and standards (see para. 1.5) have been formulated with this
policy in mind. When strictly followed, this approach can be effective in:
(a) preventing potential polluters from polluting, and (b) helping the
cleanup of many small pollution cases where the actions needed are
relatively minor and corrective actions are not too costly. However, in
the case of large existing polluting facilities, involving high costs for
correction, inflexible enforcement of environmental regulations can lead to
serious financial difficulties and possible closure of many operations
which may be socially and commercially valuable. Under such conditions the
Government (Central or local), which is often the owner of the polluting
enterprise, has stepped in to provide needed technical and, often,
financial assistance.
3.2       For assistance to be justified, the government has to ensure
that: (a) there is a minimum loss of economic efficiency in the use of
resources, and (b) a genuine need for such assistance is clearly
established. To set the necessary conditions for determining this need,
the government has stepped up enforcement of its environmental regulations.
The punitive actions taken for non-compliance of environmental regulations
have provided the initial incentive for many polluting operatior-s to clean
up. Operations requiring government assistance would therefore be limited
to:
(a)  Pervasive pollution (where individual polluters cannot be
clearly identified, are too numerous, or it is not economic to
deal with them effectively on an individual basis); and
(b)  Point pollution by large industrial and commercial oRerations
Pervasive Pollution
3.3       This category includes the pollution caused by entire classes of
polluters in a community, whose individual polluting act may have little
damaging effect, but whose combined pollution has serious environmental
consequences for the community or for communities in the vicinity. Typical
examples of such polluters include individuals or small groups of
individuals that: (a) discharge wastewater from households; (b) cause the
emission of smoke and other air pollutants from burning coal in homes; and
(c) dispose of household refuse. Since it is not practical or economic to
correct the acts of each individual polluter, solutions must have a
community basis. These solutions have high costs both in terms of the



- 12 -
initial investments required, and the management and operation of the
systems created.
3.4       Beijing Municipality is aware that the success of communal
solutions will require the cooperative efforts of community members, not
only to share in the costs, but also to abide by the rules which would
enable the community systems to run efficiently and achieve the desired
environmental objectives. To help achieve this, it plans to conduct
studies to devise measures needed to ensure that: (a) there is adequate
consideration of how actions directed toward a particular class of
polluters will affect other classes; (b) investment decisions are sound;
(c) the appropriate laws, regulations, standards, codes and other legal
instruments tailored to achieving environmental goals are present to guide
public behavior and practice; and (d) suitable policing, planning and
operating institutions are in place to execute the laws, regulations,
standards, codes, etc., and to manage, maintain, operate and make required
expansions to the created systems. A full discussion of the planning
studies required for Beijing Municipality is in paras. 3.8 to 3.10.
Pollution by Large Industrial-and Commercial Operations
3.5       This category consists of large identifiable polluters for whom
pollution abatement at source would be more economic than participation in
a communal solution.6 As stricter regulations on discharge standards are
put into force, many established enterprises using outdated technology
would find it difficult to comply without major investments to restructure
their production processes or to build pollution abatement facilities.
Some solutions have pointed to closing down the polluting enterprises, and
many closures have in fact already taken place. However, forced closures
of key enterprises are not without economic and social costs. For this
reason, in the case of Beijing, the municipality is working closely with
many polluting enterprises to identify alternatives to closure, where such
alternatives exist.
3.6       The approach used to arrive at a decision on the right pollution
abatement measures for an enterprise would be based on the comparing of
alternatives to achieve established measurable environmental targets which
are known to be generally acceptable. These targets would include the
standards for industrial effluents and gaseous emissions adopted by the
country and the municipality. Alternatives would include: (a) installation
of devices to treat or remove pollutants; (b) technical transformation,
which could involve modification of processes, use of less polluting
inputs, improvement of factory management, etc.; (c) full or partial
closure; (d) relocation to an area where less stringent standards are
applied; and (e) a combination of two or more of the above options.
3.7       The analysis of alternatives would use economic inputs and
economic prices to ensure that decisions are not influenced by market
distortions. A further analysis would be done to ascertain whether the
6    Pollution abatement for some of these polluters may not be
complete for economic reasons, and some residual pollution may
be more effectively treated in the community systems.



^ 13 -
enterprise would remain financially viable after making the necessary
investments and on resuming full production. For some ecanomically
feasible operations which are marginal financially, the municipality may
have to provide some assistance to enable the enterprise to generate
adequate financial benefits to ensure sustainability. Measures to do this
could include: (a) decontrolling of product prices, (b) abolishing or
reducing the quotas for products to be sold at government-administered
prices, or (c) providing an appropriate financial grant to the enterprise.
Annex 3 contains the recommeaded procedures for conducting the above
analysis to appraise the proposals.
EnvironMental Planning and Management
3.8       Beijing Municipality is aware that good environmental planning
and a sound institution for environmental management are key to effective
protection of the environment in the municipality. While the Beijing
Municipal Environmental Protection Bureau (BMEPB) has developed a plan for
environmental work and has set environmental targets to be reached by the
year 2000, this plan has the following inadequacies:
(a) the planning horizon is too short; a minimum horizon of 20 years
is considered necessary to ensure that effective long-term
measures to protect critical environmental resources for basic
human needs are included;
(b) the plan has not fully capitalized on the potential synergy of
the activities among the various economic sectors to combine
waste generation with beneficial reuse;
(c)  it has also not fully examined the cross-sectoral environmental
impact of activities among the various economic sectors;
(d) alternative strategies have not been sufficiently analyzed to
ensure that environmental targets will be achieved at least
cost; and
(e) the financial requirements of the investments have not been
adequately studied to ensure that they are affordable.
3.9       On the institutional side BM faces various constraints.  The
more serious are seen to be:
(a) the weakness of cooperation among different economic sectors,
resulting in the compartmentalization of some sector plans
without sufficient regard given to environmental considerations
in other sectors;
(b) insufficient authority for BMEPB to fully coordinate
environmental activities among the economic sectors; and
(c) the lack of good guidelines and working codes to implement
environmental regulations.



- 14 -
3.10      Beijing Municipality plans to carry out appropriate studies to
further develop the environmental plans and strategies which would also
address the issues mentioned above. Funds for international consultants
(about US$1.6 million) to assist in the conducting of these studies have
been secured from t' Japan Grant Facility.
Industrial Hazardous Waste Management
3.11      The problems of disposal of hazardous waste7 are beginning to
surface in China. A general law for the classification, handling,
transporting, and final disposal (including recovery for reuse) of
hazardous waste has been drafted in China, and is expected to be
promulgated in 1991.
3.12      The municipality has recently established under the Beijing
Economic Commission a new department called the Beijing Industrial
Hazardous Waste Management Center (BIHWMC), with responsibility for: (a)
proposing and enforcing required regulations; (b) monitoring hazardous
waste generation; (c) reviewing industrial proposals for adequacy or
hazardous waste reuse, recycling and treatment; (d) planning hazardous
waste management activities; and (e) overseeing communal facilities for
hazardous waste treatment. It is envisaged that the approach for final
disposal of hazardous wastes will be either: (f) disposal at the generation
site by the enterprise, or (g) collection and disposal at a communal
facility, depending on which is more economic. The general procedures for
municipality support could follow those outlined in paras. 3.5 to 3.7
above. The project will provide technical assistance for the conducting of
a study to address remaining issues, and to propose measures to facilitate
hazardous waste management operations.
IV. THE PROPOSED PROJECT
Proiect Objectives
4.1       The objectives of the project are to assist BM to improve its
environmental planning and management capabilities, and to plan and carry
out specific pollution abatement efforts for improving environmental
conditions in the municipality, consistent with the approaches and
strategies outlined in Chapter III. The project would strengthen the
policy and institutional framework required, and support initial
investments needed to start the process. Project activities are designed
to demonstrate: (a) cost-effective interventions in the areas of water,
air, hazardous waste and solid waste pollution; (b) improved investment
planning; (c) more effective measures for regulatory control; (d) basic
requirements for the efficient operation and maintenance of communal
7    This term is generally used to describe residual matter, either
generated by industrial processes or used during the processes,
which is no longer suitable for use, is difficult and costly to
treat, and which would cause serious environmental degradation
and/or health effects if disposed of wantonly.



- 15 -
facilities for pollution control and abatement, and (e) methods to recover
costs from the users of these facilities for sustained operation. The
project would also lead to the future implementation of a comprehensive
environmental protection program with strong focuses on policy and
institutional reform.
Rationale for Bank/IDA Involvement
4.2       China has requested the help of the international community in
finding solutions to its environmental problems. The World Bank is in a
strong position to provide this assistance, given its involvement in
environmental issues in previous projects in the country. Beijing
Municipality, which will be the beneficiary of this project, has already
established a strong institution for environmental protection with good
implementation capability. It is highly committed to resolving its
environmental problems and has agreed to develop a long-term plan and to
implement an extensive program of investments and institutional
improvements to achieve this purpose. It has therefore the institutional
prerequisites and the dedication to carry out a successful environmental
program. New technology, particularly for the industrial pollution
abatement, will be required, and this will need to be imported with the
Bank's assistance. Beijing Municipality has played an important role for
the past decade in providing NEPA with technical support for developing
environmental policies and testing pollution control techniques for the
country, and this role is expected to continue. The experience gained from
this project will allow Beijing to become an important learning ground for
many other cities in China which are encountering similar problems.
Bank/IDA assistance will ensure that these goals can be achieved in the
best possible way.
Project DescriRtion
4.3       The project will assist BM through several technical and
training components to improve the capability of various municipal bureaus
and agenc4es to develop and implement long term environmental strategies.
Environmental studies would be conducted to produce recommendations for an
optimum program of investments which could give significant improvement to
the environmental at least cost, and one which BM can afford. They would
also propose measures to strengthen the institutional arrangements for
environmental management in BM, as well as to identify and correct
institutional constraints and coordination among agencies in order to more
effectively implement environment management plans and strategies. A
hazardous waste management study would also be conducted to assess
requirements, propose institutional and regulatory needs for the newly
established Beijing Industrial Hazardous Waste Management Center, and to
develop plans for appropriate disposal of hazardous wastes. Support will
also be provided for staff training, and for management of the project.
4.4       The project will also support priority physical works for
pollution abatement intended to initiate a program of investments needed
for environmental improvement in BM. For water pollution abatement the
project would construct sewer systems to: (a) collect wastewater now
polluting the southern urban areas of the city with a population of about
2.44 million people, to be transported to a proposed Gaobeidian wastewater



- 16 -
treatment plant (now under construction); and (b) remove wastewater from
urban districts at the location of the No. 3 water plant, in order to
protect the quality of the groundwater which is used for the city's
drinking water supply to about one million people. An autonomous sewerage
company will be established to enable BM to better manage its liquid
wastes. For solid waste, a sanitary landfill will be constructed which is
capable of treating 2,000 tons of refuse per day over a period of about 10
years for about 20 percent of ths, city's population.  To address air
pollution problems the project would construct a district heating system to
provide piped heat for space heating and hot water supply from the
Shijingshan Cogeneration Heat/Power plant to about 18.5 million M2 of
residential property for about 800,000 people in the western part of the
city, to reduce air pollution from coal burning in the city. The project
would also provide a credit line to finance the direct foreign exchange
costs of measures to deal with solid, liquid, and gaseous pollutants
discharged by polluting enterprises, and the safe disposal of hazardous
wastes generated by the enterprises, in order to assist selected industrial
enterprises to comply with the environmental regulations promulgated by the
Central Government and BM. Support will also be provided to assist BM in
developing its institutions and facilities for hazardous waste management
and disposal.
4.5       A detailed project description is given in Annex 3.  A suiimmary
of the project works is given below:
(a) Wastewater ComRonent: (US$44.2 million). Construction of about
8 km of reinforced concrete box culverts (3.8 m x 2.5 m and twin
3.8 m x 2.5 m) Construction of 35 km of circular sewers (300 mm
to 3,000 mm diameter). Procurement of equipment for cleaning
river courses and maintaining sewers; and procurement of
instruments for a monitoring system.
(b) Solid Waste Component: (US$8.0 million). Construction of a
sanitary landfill site with an area of about 72 ha.
(c) District Heating Component: (US$124.6 million). Construction of
32 km of heat transmission pipeline (500 mm to 1,100 mm
diameter), a 348 MW oil-fired peak heat plant; two booster
pumping stations; procurement of equipment to convert fixed
speed pumps to variable speed pumps and to treat and store
makeup water; and procurement and installation of a computer
monitoring and control system for the district heating system.
(d)  Industrial Pollution Control Component: (US$ 98.6 million).  A
credit line of US$45 million to assist selected industrial
enterprises to carry out works for pollution abatement in order
to comply with environmental regulations.
(e)  Hazardous Waste Management Component: (US$1.9 million).  BM will
carry out the following work: (1) constructior. of a building to
provide office and laboratory space for the newly established
Beijing Industrial Hazardous Waste Management Center; and (2)
construction at Fashang of a new interim safe storage facility
for highly hazardous waste with a capacity of 650 tons per year



- 17 -
for 5 years. Procurement of laboratory sampling and analysis
equipment.
(f) Project Support Technical Assistance: (US$10.7 million).
Advising on detailed design, preparation of procurement
documents, project management and construction supervision.
(g)  Capacity-Building Technical Assistance: (US$3.3 million).
Training staff engaged in environmental protection and planning,
environmental research, environmental monitoring, hazardous
waste management, wastewater operations, solid waste operations,
district heating operations, and project implementation.
(h) Policy Development Technical Assistance: (US$7.4 million). (L)
Studies to develop a long-term integrated environmental master
plan to propose least-cost strategies (physical, financial,
legal and institutional) for air quality, water quality and
solid waste management, including procurement of necessary
laboratory sampling and analytical equipment, and to resolve
institutional problems of compartmentalized planning among
different sectors on environmental matters (see para. 4.6 for
further details); and (2) a study to assess hazardous waste
management needs, propose institutional and regulatory
requirements for the effective operation of the newly formed
Hazardous Waste Management Center, and to develop plans for
appropriate disposal of hazardous wastes (see para. 4.7 for
further details).
Prolect-rglated Studies
4.6       The proposed terms of reference for studies to develop an
integrated environmental management plan for Beijing (see para. 3.10) are
given in Annex 4. The studies are expected to produce the following
outputs: (a) an integrated environmental management plan for air quality,
water quality and urban refuse management, to year 2015; (b) modified urban
and sector development masterplans consistent with the integrated
environmental management plan; (c) a detailed investment program for
environmental management and pollution control; (d) proposed regulations
and incentives to ensure efficient implementation of environmental
protection measures; (e) technical guidelines, work codes and
administrative procedures to implement, monitor, and enforce the plan; (f)
a compliance system and schedule for pollution control; and (g) measures to
strengthen BMEPB as an environmental planning, monitoring, and enforcement
institution, and to allow it to assume stronger responsibilities at all
stages of sector planning. It is envisaged that these studies would
provide a model which can be used by other cities in China. During
negotiations assurances were obtained from BM that these studies would be
conducted with the assistance of experienced consultants under terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank/IDA. thev would be completed by December
31. 1994: the findings would be reviewed with the Bank/IDA: and the
recommendations of the studies. agreeable to the Bank/IDA. would be
imglemented.



- 18 -
4.7       A study for hazardous waste management (para. 3.12) has been
proposed in the project to assist BIHWMC to: (a) survey hazardous waste
generation and current hazardous waste disposal practices 'n Beijing; (b)
draft hazardous waste management regulations; (c) plan optimal solutions
for hazardous waste disposal; (d) identify communal hazardous waste
disposal methods and the location of disposal sites; and (e) study the
organization and management setup, and cost recovery mechanism required for
sustained operation of communal facilities. Annex 5 contains the draft
terms of reference for this study.  During negotiations assurances were
obtained from BM that the study would be conducted with the assistance of
experienced consultants under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank/IDA. the studv would be comDleted by December 31. 1993. the findings
of the study would be reviewed with the Bank/IDA, and the recommendations
of the study. agreeable to the Bank/IDA, would be implemented.
Arranzements for Implementing the Industrial Pollution Control Component
4.8       To provide an opportunity for developing the capability to
appraise environmental projects in BM, Bank/IDA financing for this
component would be provided for specific subprojects to be prepared and
appraised by the Beijing Municipal Planning Commission (BMPC). The
subprojects to be considered under this component were selected by BMPC
working with BMEPB and other regulatory bodies, and the list was reviewed
during appraisal (subproject list in page 2 of Annex 3). Three of these
subprojects (BOC Vinyl Acetate, Beijing Steel Drums and Beijing Heavy
Machinery Company) have been appraised by the Bank/IDA to demonstrate the
appraisal process needed and the criteria to be used.
4.9       The BMPC will be responsible for the approval of the remaining
subprojects. Preparation wol.k on the subprojects will be carried out by
the individual enterprises, and funds from the project can be made
available for any needed foreign consultant services. Prepared subprojects
will be appraised by the Chiri Investment Bank Beijing Branch (CIB
Beijing), which BM has engaged as a financial agent. CIB Beijing will
conduct the financial and ecoc -mic analyses for the subprojects, and
coordinate the technical appraibal, which will be carried out by the
Beijing Municipal Engineering CLnsulting Corporation (BMECC), also engaged
by BM for the work. Upon compli-ion of appraisal, CIB Beijing will report
its findings to BMPC for final approval of the subproject. The appraisal
reports for these subprojects will then be sent to the Bank by BMPC
(through the Beijing Environmental Project Office) for approval before
disbursement is made. In addition, CIB Beijing will also administer the
disbursement and collection of funds for the subprojects, review the
contract packages for the various industrial subprojects, and determine the
methods of procurement required. In this capacity CIB Beijing will bear no
financial risks. Annex 6 contains the appraisal criteria which have been
agreed upon with BM.  The signing of the contracts satisfactory to the
Bank/IDA by BM with CIB and BMECC for the provision of the necessary
services would be a condition of disbursement for this component.



- 19 -
XLqJ&   Cost Estimates
4.1C      Project cost estimates are based on engineering designs prepared
by Beijing officials with the help of local consultants8. The unit prices
were derived through a recinciliation of data from the following sources:
(a) quotations obtained from manufacturers and suppliers, (b) prices of
goods and works from recent contracts in China, and (c) construction costs
according to prices published by the Government, adjusted for inflation.
Goods imported for the project with loan and credit proceeds are exempt
from import duties and taxes.  A physical contingency of 10 percent has
been added to the base costs. Local price contingencies assume price
increases of 10 percent in 1991, 8 percent in 1992, and 5 percent
thereafter; foreign price contingencies used are 9 percent in 1991, 1.1
percent in 1992, and 2.95 percent thereafter.
4.11      The estimated cost of the project is US$298.7 million (Yl,687.5
million), with a foreign exchange component of US$126.0 million (42
percent). The total foreign exchange financing required is US$131.8
million.  About US$1.6 million of this will be provided from the Japanese
Grant Facility for the environmental studies (para. 3.10). The Grant,
which will be administered by the Bank under the Beijing Environmental
Project, has already been approved by the Japanese Government. A detailed
breakdown of the estimated cost of the proposed project is in Annex 7, and
is summarized in Table 4.1 below.
8    Beijing Environmental Protection Science and Research Institute,
Beijing Municipal Engineering Design Institute, Beijing
Municipal Engineering Consulting Corporation, Beijing Gas and
Heating Design Institute, and Beijing Institute of Nuclear
Engineering.



- 20 -
Table 4.1: ESTIMATED PROJECT COST
(US$ million)
Component                Local    Foreign       Total     Percentage
Wastewater                12.1       13.2       25.3           8.5
Solid Waste                4.7        1.9        6.6           2.2
District Heating          21.8       43.3       65.1          21.8
Industrial Pollution      43.5       36.4       79.9          26.7
Hazardous Waste            1.5        0.1        1.6           0.5
Environmental Studies      0.2        1.8        2.0           0.7
(for instruments)
Project Management         0.8        0.7        1.5           0.5
(for equipment)
Tech. Assistance           8.8        5.0       13.8           4.6
and Training
Land Acquisition          48.6        0.0       48.6          16.3
Base Cost (1990) g/      142.0      102.4      244.4          81.8
Physical Contingency      14.2       10.2       24.4           8.2
Price Contingency         16.5       13.4       29.9          10.0
Total Cost               172.7      126.0      298.7         100.0
Interest during            0.0        5.8        5.8
Construction
Total Financing          172.7      131.8      304.5
required
a/   Project is exempt from taxes and duties.
Project Financing
4.12      Table 4.2 summarizes the financing plan for the project.
Table 4.2: FINANCING PLAN
(US$ million)
Source              Local    Foreign      Total      Percentage
IDA/IBRD                  0.6      124.4      125.0          41.1
Japan Grant Facility      0.0        1.6        1.6           0.5
Beijing Mun. Govt.      118.4        5.8      124.2          40.8
Enterprises              53.7        0.0       53.7          17.6
Total              172.7       131.8      304.5        100.0
4.13      The IBRD loan/IDA credit would be made to the People's Republic
of China (GOC). The IBRD loan of US$45 million equivalent would be for a
20-year term, including a 5-year grace on standard Bank terms. The IDA



- 21 -
credit of US$80 million equivalent would be for a 35-year term, including a
10-year grace period. During negotiations assurances were obtained from
COC that the proceeds of the IBRD loan/IDA credit would be onlent to BM on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank/IDA. The terms and
conditions of onlending woul.d be for a 15-year period. including 5 years of
g-race. at a fixed interest rate of 4.2 Percent p.a.. and a commitment
charge of 0.25 percent R.a., Beijing Municipality would bear all foreign
exchange risk. exceRt those that are borne by the enterprises to whom it
onlends.
4.14      Onlending to operating entities would be consistent with the
j           Bank/IDA operations in the respective sectors.  During negotiations
assurances were obtained from Beijing Municipality that it would onlend the
parts of the proceeds from the loan/credit for the district heating and
industrial pollution control works in the following manner: (a) to BDHC for
15 years. including five years of grace. at a variable rate egual to the
Bank rate plus a spread of 1.5 percent p.a.. with BDHC bearing the US
dollar/ RMB Yuan foreign exchange risk: and (b) to the industrial entities
for 10 years. including three years of grace. at a variable rate egual to
the Bank rate Rlus a spread of 1.5 Rercent p.a.. with the industrial
enterprise bearing all foreign exchange risk, or a sRread of 2.0 percent
with the industrial enterprises bearing the US dollar/ RMB Yuan foreign
exchange risk. Execution of the subsidiary loan agreement between BM and
BDHC. satisfactory to the Bank/IDA. would be a condition of disbursement
for the district heating component.
4.15      ARRroval of the Loan and the Development Credit Agreements by
the State Council would be a condition for loan/credit effectiveness.
Proiect Preparation
4.16      In order to comprehensively address environmental issues in
Beijing, the project would provide support to the sectors managing the
environment, as well as those that contribute to environmental pollution.
Accordingly a number of sector bureaus of the municipality have to be
involved in the project. The project was prepared by Chinese teams in each
of the participating bureaus, with the help of local design institutes9
engaged to carry out feasibility studies and preliminary and detailed
designs. Consultants have also been engaged with funds from the World Bank
Technical Cooperation Credit (TCC) to assist in: (a) developing the terms
of reference for the proposed environmental master plan study, (b)
preparing the proposals for hazardous waste management, and (c) evaluating
proposals for some of the industrial subprojects.
4.17      Detailed engineering for all components of the project, with the
exception of the industrial component, which is to be carried out on a
sector credit line basis, is almost completed. Consultants satisfactory to
9    Beijing Environmental Protection Science and Research Institute,
Beijing Municipal Engineering Design and Research Institute,
Beijing Municipal Engineering Consulting Corporation, Beijing
Gas and Heating Engineering Design Institute, and Beijing
Institute of Nuclear Engineering.



- 22 -
the Bank/IDA are being engaged to expedite completion of detailed design,
and preparation of bid documents, and for project management and
construction supervision. One contract for the construction of five
kilometers of district heating pipeline has already been awarded, under
advanced contracting and retroactive financing provisions (para. 4.25).
For the industrial component, three subprojects have been appraised by the
Bank/IDA to provide guidance on appraisal methods to be used. Procurement
of equipment under these subprojects would commence shortly.
4.18      During project preparation, various measures to improve the
operating efficiency of the district heating system and for heat
conservation were discussed. These include better systems control,
metering of heat supplied, the use of a two string heating system, and
building insulation. Measures will be taken by BM to enforce energy
conservation standards for building construction (para. 2.8).
Project Management
4.19      To implement the project and ensure cooperation and coordination
among the various city agencies concerned, BM has set up the Beijing
Environmental Project Office (BEPO). This office now has a staff of 33
persons seconded from various concerned commissions and bureaus of BM, of
whom 26 are working full time. Additional staff will be added as required
when the work load increases. To deal with policy matters related to the
project and to supervise the activities of BEPO, a Leading Group has also
been established, and is chaired by the Standing Vice Mayor of Beijing.
Subproject offices with staff from the various participating sector bureaus
have also been established for each project component, and will be
responsible for the implementation of the component. These subproject
offices would be working under the direction of BEPO. Annex 8 contains the
organization charts for project management. During negotiations assurances
were obtained from BM that it would maintain BEPO with functions and
responsibilities satisfactory to the BankZIDA.
Procurement
4.20      Procurement procedures and arrangements satisfactory to the
Bank/Association have been agreed upon with BM project officials. All
procurement activities would be organized through the China National
Technical Import and Export Corporation Beijing Company (CTBC), guided by
the International Tendering Company (ITC) of the China National Technical
Import and Export Corporation (CNTIC). The ITC is one of several
procurement agencies in China with experience in international competitive
bidding (ICB) work on World Bank projects.
4.21      For all project components except the industrial pollution
component, civil works contracts costing more than US$3.0 million, and
equipment contracts costing more than US$200,000 will be subject to
Bank/IDA prior review. For the industrial pollution component where only
equipment contracts would be financed, all contracts by ICB (exceeding US$2
million) will be subject to Bank/IDA prior review. The percentage of the
loan/credit amounts that will be subject to prior review is estimated to be
80 percent. The model bidding documents agreed between the Bank and GOC
will be used for all project procurement. Annex 9 lists the contract



- 23 -
packages and the method of procurement, and Table 4.3 summarizes the
procurement categories and the expected procurement methods.
Table 4.3: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ million, including contingencies)
Project Component              ICB      LCB     OTHER    NBF      TOTAL
Civil Works
Wastewater              17.4      6.7                        24.1
(7.1)    (2.8)                      (9.9)
Solid Waste                       5.5                         5.5
(2.2)                      (2.2)
District Heating        33.4      8.2                        41.6
(13.1)    (3.4)                     (16.5)
Industrial Pollution                                53.9     53.9
Hazardous Waste                                      1.5      1.5
Equipment and Materials
Wastewater               6.3                                  6.3
(5.3)                               (5.3)
Solid Waste              2.1               0.1                2.2
(2.1)             (0.1)             (2.2)
District Heating        37.6                0.6              38.2
(36.0)             (0.6)            (36.6)
Industrial Pollution   20.0               24.9               44.9
(20.0)            (24.9)            (44.9)
Hazardous Waste                             0.1               0.1
(0.1)             (0.1)
Environmental Study                         2.1               2.1
(1.8)             (1.8)
Project Management                          1.9               1.9
(0.9)             (0.9)
Others
Land Acquisition                          59.4               59.4
(0.0)             (0.0)
Technical Assistance &                     17.0              17.0
Training                             (4.6)              (4.6)
TOTAL                  116.8     20.4    106.1      55.4    298.7
(83.6)    (8.4)   (33.0)           (125.0)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are amounts to be financed by the
Bank/Association.
Other procurement methods include international shopping for
industrial pollution component, local shopping for instruments
and small equipment for solid waste, hazardous waste and
environmental study components, direct purchase of proprietary
equipment for district heating component, consultant services
under technical assistance and training.
NBF - Non Bank financed.



- 24 -
4. 22   -Civil Works.  Civil works components have been grouped together to
the maximum extent possible to enable more of the works to be awarded
through ICB. Three contracts with an estimated value of US$51 million will
be awarded to prequalified contractors under ICB procedures consistent with
the Bank/Association's guidelines. Qualifying domestic contractors will
receive a preference in bid evaluation of 7.5 percent. Contracts under
US$10 million each amounting to US$21 million will be contracted through
LCB procedures that are acceptable to the Bank/Association. Interested
foreign bidders would be allowed to bid on these LCB contracts.
4.23    Equipment and Materials.  Equipment and materials in six contract
packages, exceeding US$200,000 each, totaling US$45 million, would be
procured under ICB procedures. Qualifying domestic suppliers would receive
a preference in bid evaluation of 15 percent or customs duties and import
taxes, whichever is less. In addition, packages for small meters,
instruments and other miscellaneous equipment, under US$200,000 each,
totaling about US$4 million would be obtained through local shopping. One
contract for a variable speed controller in the District Heating component,
required to modify heat production facilities at the Shijingshan Power
Plant, will be procured through direct purchasing in order to match with
existing equipment. Equipment for the industrial pollution component in
contracts exceeding US$2 million each will be procured under ICB. The
remaining contracts would be procured by international shopping consisting
of the comparison of quotations from at least three qualified suppliers
from not fewer than three eligible countries in accordance with CIB
practice.
4.24    Technical Assistance.  Consultants retained under the project will
be recruited according to the Bank/Association's "Guidelines on the Use of
Consultants by the World Bank and its Borrowers." Local consultants and
counterpart staff will be engaged by or assigned from the local government
departments to work along with foreign consultants on detailed design,
preparation of bid documents, construction supervision, and project-related
studies. Consulting firms will be invited to submit proposals for the
construction supervision work and project-related studies. At negotiations
an understanding was obtained from GOC and BM that a proiect-specific
waiver of any taxes on Bank/IDA funded consultants will be given.
4.25    Advance Procurement.  Advance contracting, in accordance with the
the Bank's procurement guidelines, will be carried out for the following
works:
(a)   Construction of 5 km of district heating pipeline in Fushi Road
with an estimated cost of US$8 million.
(b)   Engagement of consultants to advise on detailed design and
preparation of bid documents.
Disbursement
4.26    The proposed IBRD loan of $45 million and IDA credit of
$80 million equivalent would be disbursed over a period of 5.5 years as
follows:



- 25 -
1.    Civil Works       $28.5 million    42 percent of expenditures
2.    Materials and    $47.0 million    100 percent of foreign
Equipment                        expenditures and 100 percent of
local expenditures (ex-factory)
and 75 percent of local
expenditures for other items
procured locally
3.    Technical          $4.6 million    100 percent of expenditures
assistance and
Training
4.    SubloF-'s         $44.9 million    100 percent of amounts disbursed
undet subloans
4.27    A Special Account in US dollars with an authorized allocation of
US$7.6 million, based on four months' average disbursements, would be
established. It would be replenished monthly or whenever the Special
Account is drawn down to 50 percent of its initial deposit value.
Disbursements for training and civil works carried out by force account,
contracts for civil works, and goods and services valued at less than
$200,000 would be made on the basis of statements of expenditures (SOEs) to
be certified by BM. Documents supporting the SOEs would be retained by the
BM and made available for inspection by Bank/IDA supervision missions. All
other disbursements will be made against fully documented expenditures.
Retroactive financing of up to US$12.5 million for expenditures after March
1, 1991 covering the work listed in para. 4.25 is recommended.
4.28    The disbursement schedule (Annex 10) of 5.5 years agrees with the
standard disbursement schedule for China. Project completion is estimated
to be December 31, 1996, and the IBRD loan/IDA credit closing date would be
June 30, 1997.
Land Acquisition and Resettlement
4.29    Comprehensive surveys carried out by BM have identified the land
to be acquired for the project works. Most of the land acquisition would
be for the wastewater and district heating pipe networks. These consist
of: (a) about 75 ha for the wastewater works, of which about 67 ha would be
acquired temporarily and returned for agricultural use after the sewers are
completed; and (b) about 53 ha for the district heating pipe works. The
total number of people to bo resettled is estimated to be about 6,480,
consisting of about 1,870 households. The BM has land acquisition and
resettlement regulations which outline the procedures and compensations
required. Compensation, amounting to about $60 million, has been included
in the project cost estimates.
4.30    The municipality anticipates no difficulty in carrying out land
acquisition and resettlement, and previous experience on these actions has
been good. It has a team responsible for land acquisition and
resettlement, and preparation work in this area is now well advanced. The
land for the sanitary landfill site for the solid waste component has
already been acquired. The resettlement plan and the schedule prepared by



- 26 -
BM (Annex 11) are satisfactory to the Bank/Association. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained from BM that it would carry out
resettlement of persons affected by the project in a manner and according
to a schedule (in Annex 11) which is satisfactory to the Bank/IDA. An
understanding on the various steps to be taken for resettlement was
reached.
Staff Training and DeveloRment
4.31    Training programs have been proposed by BEPO.  These include
overseas training visits by key environmental management, wastewater
management, solid waste management, district heat management and hazardous
waste management staff. Training courses on these subjects would also be
conducted by consultants engaged to assist in the environmental master plan
studies and the hazardous waste management study. In addition, equipment
and material required to strengthen the in-house training capability for
technical staff of BMEPB, BMEAD, BESB, and BIHWMC will be procured.
Annex 12 contains the training proposals (but does not include those
provided under the studies, which are already included in the terms of
reference of those studies). Assurances were obtained from BM during
neegotiations that training would be carried out in accordance with a
program (in Annex 12) agreed with the BankZIDA.
Monitoring Criteria
4.32    Annex 13 shows the proposed project implementation schedule.
Financial monitoring indicators for the Beijing District Heating Company
and the future Beijing Sewerage Company are at the end of the financial
projections for those companies in Annexes 18 and 19. Annex 14 contains
proposed monitors for environmental improvement. Reports on progress of
the project and on the operations of BDHC and BSC (after establishment)
would be prepared by BEPO and sent to the Bank/Association quarterly
starting June 1, 1992. The last quarterly report of the year should also
include a report on environmental achievements. A project completion
report reviewing the planned objectives and the achievements of the
project, including costs and benefits derived, and the performance and
contribution of all parties associated with project execution,
environmental monitoring, pollution control and system operation would be
prepared by BEPO and submitted to the Bank/Association within six months
following the closing date of the Bank loan/IDA credit.
V. THE BENEFICIARIES
Beijing Municipality
5.1     The beneficiaries of the project are the people of BM.  Beijing is
one of the three municipalities in China which are directly under the
Central Government, and has the status of a province (the other two are
Shanghai and Tianjin). Administratively, the municipality is divided into
eight urban districts (four in the city center and four in the near
suburbs), two rural districts and eight rural counties. The organ of state
power in BM is the Beijing Municipal People's Congress and its Standing
Committee, composed of elected representatives from the municipality. The



- 27 -
chief functions of the Beijing Municipal People's Congress are to: (a)
ensure upholding of the Constitution, statutes and administrative laws and
regulations; (b) approve economic plans, budgets and municipal accounts;
(c) make major decisions concerning political, economic and social matters;
and (d) appoint the mayor and various senior officials of the municipality.
5.2     The Beijing Municipal People's Government (BMPG) is the executive
body of the Beijing Municipal People's Congress. It is also directed by
the State Council at the national level. The BMPG is headed by a mayor,
who is assisted by seven vice mayors and a secretary-general. Providing
support to the mayor and his vice mayors in municipal management are a
general office, a research office, five sector offices and ten commissions.
At the municipality level, 35 functional bureaus carry out all planning,
finance and administration work of the municipality. Annex 15 contains an
organization chart. The main BM agencies connected with the project are
described below.
Organization for Environmental Management
5.3     The Beijing Environmental Protection Committee (BEPC) was
established in 1985 with responsibilities to guide, organize and coordinate
all activities involving or affecting the environment in BM. The BEPC is
chaired by a standing vice mayor and supported by five vice-chairmen and 26
members who are representatives from various offices, commissions and
bureaus concerned with the environment. The executive body of the BEPC is
the Beijing Municipal Environmental Protection Bureau (BMEPB), which was in
fact established earlier in 1979 to consolidate environmental protection
work carried out at that time by several units. The BMEPB also receives
guidance from the National Environmental Protection Agency (NEPA). BMEPB
has departments dealing with: (a) personnel and administration; (b)
pollution control; (c) planning, public affairs and pollution charges; and
(d) laws and public education. In addition, BMEPB supervises an
environmental monitoring center, an environmental research center and an
environmental protection technical training center. It also provides
guidance to environmental protection bureaus and offices at the county,
urban neighborhood, township and town levels. Annex 16 shows a detailed
organization chart.
Beijing Municipality's Commissions
5.4     The Beijing Municipal Economic Commission is responsible for all
industrial production in BM. Its support is needed in coordinating and
providing the incentives to industrial enterprises to carry out pollution
abatement work. The Beijing Municipal Planning Commission is responsible
for developing BM's investment plans in the various sectors, including
environmental protection. The Capital City Planning and Construction
Commission is responsible for physical planning in the municipality, and
includes the planning of environmental protection facilities. The Beijing
Municipal Administration Commission oversees the work of various bureaus,
such as BMEPB, the Public Utility Bureau, the Municipal Engineering
Administration Bureau, the Environmental Sanitation Bureau and the Parks
and Forestry Bureau, which provide services to preserve the environment in
the municipality. The Beijing Urban and Rural Construction Commission is
responsible for planning and organizing the implementation of major



- 28 -
projects, and developing the construction capability of the municipality.
The Beijing Science and Technology Commission provides guidance on all
scientific and technological research work, including that for
environmental protection. The Beijing Foreign Economic Relations and Trade
Commission is responsible for the administration of all activities relating
to foreign trade and use of foreign funds. The Beijing Municipal
Agriculture and Forestry Office is responsible for the administration of
agricultural production, and is therefore concerned with environmental
protection for township and village enterprises and the rural ecology.
The Beijing Municipal Finance Bureau
5.5     The responsibilities of the Beijing Municipal Finance Bureau
include: (a) planning the scope of activities for the collection of
financial revenues and financial expenditures of the municipality; (b)
preparation of the municipal budget; and (c) determination of suitable
financial strategies to be implemented by the local governments under the
municipality's jurisdiction. Its functions include the administration of
the municipal budget, taxation, enterprise finance, finance for capital
construction, finances for scientific and education services and other
financial resources. It will be the municipal agency responsible for
administering the onlent proceeds of the Bank loan/IDA credit.
Beijing District Heating Company
5.6     The Beijing District Heating Company (BDHC), which will be the
beneficiary for the district heating project component, was inaugurated in
1958 with the completion of the Beijing No. 1 cogenerating heat/power
plant. It is a financially dutonomous entity regulated under the Beijing
Public Utility Bureau, which also oversees water supply, coal gas, natural
gas, and liquefied petroleum gas services. The BDHC's responsibilities
include supplying and distributing heat from cogeneration heat/power plants
and large heat production plants, dispatching heat load, maintaining the
heating pipe network, and providing customer service to district heating
users. It has a total staff of about 3,000, of which 340 are
professionals. The work of the company is carried out by 21 offices.
Wastewater Management Organization
5.7     Wastewater works in Beijing are at present managed by the Beijing
Municipal Engineering Administration Division (BMEAD), a division of the
Beijing Municipal Engineering Administration Bureau (BMEAB), which will be
responsible for the implementation of the wastewater component in the
project. The BMEAD is also responsible for stormwater disposal and the
maintenance of roads and bridges of the city. It has a total staff of
4,170, composed of 483 engineering and technical staff, 147 administrative
staff, and 3,540 production and other workers.
5.8     Recognizing that better wastewater management is essential to
protecting and improving its environment, BM has decided to reorganize its
human resources to carry out this work more effectively. The Municipal
Government Research Office conducted a study of organizational options, and
recommended the establishment of a sewerage company modeled on the sewerage
company established in Shanghai (as part of Credit 1779-CHA and Loan 2794-



- 29 -
CHA). This recommendation has been approved. The sewerage company would
be responsible for the management of all wastewater facilities (sewers,
wastewater pumping stations and treatment plants). It would operate on a
financially self-sufficient basis, raising its own revenues to cover its
costs. The proposed company would remain under the leadership of BMEAB.
The bulk of its staff would be transferred from BMEAD. Some managerial
staff familiar with enterprise management, and additional operational staff
required for the planned system expansions, will have to be recruited. A
steering committee will be appointed by BM to plan and help establish the
new organization. Annex 17 contains a schedule showing the timing and
details of the various steps required and a tentatively proposed
organization chart.
Environmental Sanitation Organization
5.9     The Beijing Environmental Sanitation Bureau (BESB), which will be
responsible for the solid waste component of the project, is responsible
for maintaining cleanliness in the city. As such, it proposes and enforces
regulations for preservation of city cleanliness; plans, operates and
maintains environmental sanitation facilities; waters streets and removes
snow; stores and manages radioactive wastes; removes and disposes of
domestic refuse and night soil; and operates public latrines. It
supervises and provides guidance to environmental sanitation bureaus at the
city district and county levels. The entire organization has a staff of
17,500 persons, of which 150 are in BESB headquarters; about 10,000 in the
18 city district and county environmental sanitation bureaus; 1,400 in city
cleanliness inspection; 4,300 in the transportation of refuse and night
soil, watering of streets and snow removal; 1,200 in repair and
modification of environmental sanitation vehicles; and about 450 are in
training and research work.
VI. FINANCIAL CONSIDERATIONS
Financial Management
6.1     The entities participating in the project include departments of
BM, utilities operating as public enterprises, and industrial enterprises
which are financially autonomous. Two entities (sewerage and hazardous
waste management) will be reorganized to operate as public utilities on an
enterprise accounting basis.
6.2     Up to 1978, enterprises in China used to have little financial
autonomy; the Government made all financial decisions and provided funding
for all major investments. Enterprises remitted most of their internally
generated funds to the Government and in turn received annual budget
allocations. In addition, the government controlled production, pricing
and marketing of products, and provided inputs at pre-determined prices.
Consequently, enterprises had little incentive and scope for maximizing
revenues and minimizing costs. Changes brought about by economic reforms
in the country have given enterprises greater management autonomy in a more
competitive business environment. Among the more important changes are:
(a) operating enterprises are required to finance new investments by self-
generated funds and interest-bearing loans; (b) the amount ear enterprise



- 30 -
is required to transmit to the Government from its profits (similar to and
in lieu of payment of dividends) is guided by specific rules; (c) although
the Government still exercises control on the allocation of enterprise
earnings for various earmarked uses, enterprises can use most of those
earmarked amounts without further approval; and (d) most of the production
and prices are free of government control, and enterprises have to purchase
most of their inputs at market prices. These changes in enterprise
management and financial practices make it possible and necessary for
enterprises to engage in longer term financial planning.
6.3     The reform process is not yet complete, and the Government retains
some controls over enterprises through taxation, indicative pricing, and
allocation of funds generally for large-sized projects. However, with
ongoing reforms gGvernment controls are expected to be further relaxed in
the future.
Taxation
6.4     All of the participating entities pay a variety of taxes on
revenues, expenditures, investments and net income. These taxes provide
revenues to BM and the Central Government. They also influence an entity
in making business, expenditure and investment decisions; and prevent it
from deriving windfall profits through the prevailing system of Government-
administered prices. Tax exemptions are given at the discretion of BM.
Some taxes (e.g. the transport and energy tax, and city construction tax)
are earmarked for specific uses. The BDHC pays a 12.06 percent public
utility (sales) tax based on revenues, but it is exempt from income taxes.
6.5     The taxation system for industrial enterprises is complex.  In
theory the basic income tax rate for enterprises is 55 percent of pretax
income after deduction of debt servicing (principal amortization and
interest) on bank loans. In practice, however, tax concessions are often
granted to entities to influence sector policies or to support a specific
industry. These have resulted in tax rates which differ significantly
among sectors and even within a sector.
6.6     In a recent attempt to generate greater production incentives
among enterprises, the Government has embarked on a contracting system for
comprehensive tax/dividend packages for about 60-70 percent of all medium
and large state-owned industrial enterprises. The contracts, which usually
cover a period of three to five years, bind participating enterprises to
deliver a tax/dividend quota. Quota setting is usually by negotiation.
Also, few penalties have been imposed for nonfulfillment of the quota.
Accounting
6.7     Different accounting systems are used by enterprises (autonomous
units), construction units (which execute investment projects) and local
government departments, in accordance with regulations prescribed by the
Ministry of Finance (MOF). In 1979, an accounting reform established
systems which are similar to international accounting practices. All
systems are based on double-entry bookkeeping and historical cost
valuation; and distinctions are made between capital and operating revenues
and expenditures. The basic reporting periods are based on the Gregorian



- 31 -
calendar, and the fiscal year is January I-December 31. Accrual basis
accounting is used by enterprise and construction units, while governmental
units are on a cash basis,
6.8     The regular government department accounts reflect expenditures
incurred against budget allocations by BM. Accounting is handled in a
decentralized manner through transfers to subunits from which actual
expenditures are made and recorded. Accounts are kept at all levels, and
each subunit reflects in its accounts the budget allocation it receives
from the unit above.
6.9     ProJect accounts will be maintained by the project offices (para.
4.19) in accordance with the Government State Construction Unit Accounting
System. This system is used to record works in construction and financial
resources expended in order to determine the fixed assets End liabilities
incurred upon completion of the projects. The construction accounting
system sets out detailed accounting definitions for capital works, cash
control, receivables, payables, and specific rules for capitalizing and
expensing of various items. It also identifies a number of basic monthly
and annual reporting formats, including funds flow statements and balance
sheets. The system is comprehensive, and is adequate for the proposed
project. Construction accounts are not consolidated with the operating
accounts of either the government departments or the enterprises, even when
government departments or enterprises manage the construction and will
assume responsibility for the fixed asset upon completion.
6.10    The enterprise accounting system was designed to give the
Government some indirect financial control of the enterprises. For
example, the system requires the setting up of various special funds
accounts, which contain amounts set aside for specific purposes
(renovation, major repairs, and staff welfare and bonuses). Allocations to
some of the special funds (e.g., renovation) are made from cash surpluses
associated with a portion1o of the depreciation expenses. Other special
funds (e.g., staff bonuses) are financed through net income or allocations
from Government. Although the Government must approve the funding rules
for the special fund accounts (such as the percentage of fixed assets used
for allocations to special funds), enterprises are free to spend from these
special funds without specific approval for individual expenditures. For
better plar.  - and utilization of these funds, some adjustment in the
system will 'e necessary in order to: (a) permit the transfer of funds
among various funds accounts to better reflect needs; and (b) reconcile the
inconsistency between the sources of these funds (which are based mostly on
historically valued fixed assets) and expenditures from them (which reflect
current prices).
6.11    Unlike generally accepted international accounting practice, the
Chinese accounting system does not have an account for "allowance for bad
debts". This tends to overstate net income and accounts receivable until
the bad debts are confirmed and are written off. Foreign exchange balances
10 About 70 percent of the cash under depreciation can be used for
special funds or loan repayments, while the remainder is supposed
to be remitted to the Government.



- 32 -
are in Renminbi equivalent valued at the time of the transaction. Also,
enterprises do not prepare a funds flow statement, and it is difficult to
reconstruct historical relationships between balance sheets and profit and
loss statements. For the purposes of clarity, the financial analyses for
this report have restated certain accounts to comply with Western
accounting practices, and funds flows statements have been prepared.
Audit
6.12    Prior to 1982, entities in China were not subject to comprehensive
audit. When a new constitution for China was proposed and ratified by the
People's Congress in September 1983, the State Audit Administration (SAA)
was established with responsibilities for directing audit work in China.
The SAA has the status of a Central Government ministry, reporting directly
to the State Council. Audit bureaus, which are supervised by SAA, have
been established in each province and large municipality to carry out
auditing work in these territories. The current prevailing audit
regulations and standards were prepared by MOF following international
auditing practices, and promulgated by the State Council on October 21,
1988.
6.13    As with other Bank/Association-financed projects in China, the
Foreign Funds Utilization Bureau of SAA will have overall responsibility
for auditing accounts concerning the project. This arrangement is
satisfactory. However, mainly due to the special features of Chinese
accounting, an agreement was reached with SAA that for most
Bank/Association financed projects, there would be improved disclosure of
accounting policies and supplementary financial information in order to
provide an adequate illustration of the financial performance and status of
project/entities.
6.14    The actual auditing work will be conducted by the Beijing
Municipal Audit Bureau under SAA's supervision (to be confirmed during
negotiations). During negotiations assurances were obtained from BM that
the following annual audits would be submitted to the Bank/IDA within six
months after the end of the financial year: (a) audit of the Droject
account maintained by BM. (b) audit of the special account. (c) audit of
statements of expenditure. and (d) audit of the financial statements of
BDHC and of the new sewer entity. when it is established. It was clarified
during negotiations that the first audit reRort of the Beijing Sewerage
Company would be submitted to the Bank/IDA for review not later than six
months after the end of the first fiscal year following the establishment
of the company. In addition. assurances were obtained for an audit of the
latest financial statements of each industrial enterprise RarticiRating in
the project. to be submitted to the Bank/IDA not later than three years
after subproject approval.
Municipal Finance
6.15    Beijing Municipality should have no difficulty in: (a) providing
counterpart financing for the investments in a timely manner; (b) repaying
the loan; and (c) providing operating and maintenance funds. Financial
projections show that project-related financial outlays financed out of the
municipal capital budget will average 9.4 percent of BM's planned capital



- 33 -
outlays during the implementation period.   The autonomous agencies which
are benefitting from project components (e.g., BDHC, BSC, industries) will
repay most debt service associated with the loan, though BM itself would
have sufficient funds to cover such debt service if necessary.
6.16    Except for solid waste disposal, which is operated by a municipal
government department, operation and maintenance of all project facilities
would be carried out and funded by the utilities and enterprises that own
the project components. The impact of operations and maintenance resulting
from the project on the Beijing municipal government's finances would be
minuscule. Bank missions would monitor BM's financial position on a yearly
basis as part of their regular supervision activities.
Finances of Sewerage Services
6.17    Past and Present Financial Position.   Accounting for sewerage
services is at present consolidated with bridges and roads under BMEAD,
which operates under the government budgetary system. Therefore financial
analyses of sewerage services are approximate. User charges for sewerage
services have been imposed since 1986. Such charges are computed from a
sewerage tariff applied to 80 percent of estimated water use, regardless of
whether the consumer actually has sewerage service. Domestic consumers are
exempt. The sewerage tariff is presently YO.12/m3, and is the same as the
water tariff.
6.18    Collections of most sewerage charges are handled by the Beiiing
Municipal Waterworks Company, and remitted to BMEAD. The BMEAD itself
handles collection of sewerage charges due from customers who are not
connected to the water supply system. It is not well organized for this
function, and collections are poor (60 percent collection efficiency). The
agency has little incentive to improve collections, because it must turn
over all collected funds to BM, and its budgetary allocations for
expenditures are not related to its revenues. Expenditures for operations
and maintenance of sewerage services by BMEAD have risen by about 50
percent since 1988, mainly due to wage increases and price adjustments for
electricity and materials. The income statement for 1988-90 shows a
positive net income. This is not very meaningful, because depreciation was
taken only on fixed assets for electrical and mechanical plant. If
depreciation of sewers were added (this will be done from 1991), sewerage
services would show financial losses.
6.19    Financial Objectives and Management for Sewerage Services.  The
municipality plans to establish a financially self-supporting autonomous
company, the Beijing Sewerage Company (BSC), to manage sewerage services in
Beijing (para. 5.9). The BSC would be given direct control of all
financial resources it derives from the sewerage system, the main part of
which is from the sewerage charges it collects. The expected revenues
should allow BSC to cover its operating expenses and debt service without
the need for operating subsidies. Depending on the level and coverage of
these fees, BSC may also be able to cover a portion of its capital
expenditures from internally generated funds. The BSC would receive the
assets of Beijing's sewerage system and some of the liabilities (including
the loan for the project) associated with the construction works. &t
negotiations. BM gave assurance that it would establish an autonomous sewer



- 34 -
comnany with financial and operating policies acceptable to the Bank/IDA by
December 31. 1993: and that it would conclude a Transfer and Operation
Agreement with this company (BSC) satisfactory to the Bank/IDA not later
than June 30. 1993.
6.20    Balance Sheet and Fixed Assets.  For the purpose of making
financial projections, BMEAD has prepared statements of the financial
position of the sewerage system from 1988-90 and financial projections from
1991-2000 (see Annex 18). It has also prepared an estimated balance sheet
for sewerage services using estimated replacement value and accumulated
depreciation of recorded fixed assets as of the end of 1990. The estimates
are reasonable and carefully done. BMEAD should, however, complete a new
valuation of fixed assets based on physical inspection, for the purpose of
preparing an opening balance sheet for the new sewerage company.
Future Financial Performance of BSC
6.21    The BMEAD, with support from BMEAB, would build the project works
and, upon completion, transfer them to BSC. For continuity, the financial
projections for BSC (Annex 18) have included BMEAD's finances (for
sewerage), as well as the project financing and investment. The future
financial position of BSC depends heavily on several decisions which BM has
yet to consider. These include: (a) the level of future tariffs, (b) the
amount of free service to be provided, and (c) the level of taxation. The
financial projections assume a tripling of sewerage tariffs in 1993, an
elimination of most free service, and a major increase in collection
efficiency. They also assume that taxation would be limited to the nominal
amounts now remitted by BMEAD to BM. Provided these conditions are met,
BSC should be able to cover its operating costs, debt service and
contribute funds (13 percent in 1993) toward additional investments. It is
recommended that a formal study of sewerage charges be included as a part
of the organizational planning study for BSC (see Annex 17). Sewerage
charges to be set should: (a) provide adequate revenues to BSC; (b) be
affordable by the various classes of consumers; and (c) cause more
conscientious discharge of wastewater as well as water pollution loads.
Finances of the Beiiing District Heating Company
6.22    Charges to Consumers.  The BDHC was reorganized in August 1990 as
a public enterprise, and operates as an autonomous public utility under the
supervision of the Public Utility Bureau of BM. It obtains revenues
through the sale of heat and hot water to residential, commercial and
public buildings and steam to industrial customers. In 1990 nearly 70
percent of its revenues were derived through sales of heat and hot water.
Heat for space heating is generally charged on the basis of square meters
of space heated. The tariffs for large hotels and public buildings are
higher than those for ordinary domestic consumers, and offices. All tariff
increases have to be approved by BM. There have been two tariff increases
in the past three years: the last increase at the end of 1990 raised the
tariff by about 25 percent. In addition, new consumers also defray a
portion of the capital cost of the system through: (a) an upfront fee
(heating source expansion charge) intended to cover cost of required
primary system expansion, and (b) the construction (and operation) of the



- 35 -
secondary and tertiary systems (the piping system from the heat exchangers
of the DH company to the buildings).
6.23    Past and Present Financial Position.  Though BDHC's financial
situation is weak, it manages to operate and maintain its facilities
without operating subsidies from the Government. In 1990, its working
ratio was 103 percent11, and net income was negative. The major factors
influencing its financial position are: (a) rising operating costs,
especially for purchase of steam; and (b) increasing accounts receivable.
The recent price increases to consumers have permitted BDHC to cover most
(though not all) of the cost increases of its inputs.  Its major operating
cost (55 percent of cash operating expense in 1990) is for the purchase of
steam, which increased by 45 percent (overall) between 1988 and 1990.  The
cost per unit of heat supplied increased by 41 percent in the same period.
Prices of all other inputs also increased dramatically, and the 1990 heat
tariff increase came too late in the year to forestall a cash operating
loss. The heating charges paid by the consumer are not small (on the
average, it costs more than Y500 per year to heat an apartment of 50 m2),
and BDHC has experienced increasing problems in making collections. As of
the end of 1990, BDHC was holding about 4.7 months of sales revenue in
gross accounts receivable.   BDHC has received all of its funds for capital
investment through equity contributions from the Government and consumers,
and it has no debt. Table 6.1 below shows revenues and operating expenses
(not including depreciation and losses on receivables) for 1988-90.
Table 6.1: REVENUE AND OPERATING EXPENSE OF BDHC (1988-90)
(Y thousand)
1988       1989        1990
Heat Sales                                78,912    108,048     119,623
Steam Sales                               50,820    51,820       53,390
OPERATING REVENUE                        129,732    159,868     173,013
Personnel                                  6,192      6,568       9,944
Purchase of Steam                         77,349    85,818      112,461
Electricity                                1,752        743       1,295
Materials                                 13,115     15,645      25,279
Taxes                                     10,558     14,512      20,762
Other                                      1,796      2,013       3,149
OPERATING EXPENSE SUBTOTAL               110,762    125,299     172,890
OP. REV. LESS EXPENSE SUBTOTAL            18,970    34,569          123
6.24      Price of Purchased Steam.  The municipality and BDHC recognize
the importance of setting an economically efficient price for the heat
The figure assumes an allowance for noncollection of revenue.
Chinese accounting systems do not recognize such an allowance;
however, accounts have been restated in this report in order to
present a fairer picture of the financial situation of BDHC.



- 36 -
(steam) at the Shijingshan CHP station as well as the other cogeneration
plants, to be used for the computation of the price of heat to be charged
to its consumers (see para. 7.9).
Future Finances of BDHC
6.25      Financial Obiectives and Risks.  The most important objectives
for BDHC are to: (a) continue to meet its cash operating costs through its
cash revenues, (b) continue to receive contributions from consumers for
system expansion, (c) improve the operating efficiency of the heating
system, (d) provide incentives for consumers to conserve heat, (e) adhere
to its expansion schedule for connections, and (f) improve its revenue
collections. Measures taken to improve operating efficiency and for heat
conservation (para. 4.18) should permit the amount of energy needed to heat
each square meter of space to decline over time. Worker efficiency
measured in terms of space heated per employee of BDHC would similarly
improve, thus decreasing the cost of heating per customer. The BDHC also
intends to experiment with a new charging system for heat12. Use of this
charging method would require the installation of special meters at the
building level and a two string heating system. A pricing study should be
completed before a large-scale shift is made to this new pricing method.
Financial and operating monitors for BDHC are given in Annex 19.
6.26      There are two financial risks with regard to the district
heating component: (a) the rate at which consumers connect, and (b) tariff
collection efficiency. The meeting of financial, economic and
environmental objectives will require both existing and new buildings to be
connected to the district heating supply in a timely fashion. Owners and
residents of existing buildings may resist making these connections in
order to avoid the significant connection expenditures and the somewhat
higher annual heating costs associated with district heating. The BDHC has
already experienced problems with collection of tariffs and other fees. As
residential consumers of district heating do not pay directly for the heat
supplied13, consumers' willingness to pay cannot therefore be tested.
However, BDHC does not have to face the administrative complexities of
collecting relatively small amounts from large numbers of consumers. This
may change in the future, if reforms in the housing sector cause a shift in
responsibility for payment of heating charges from the large enterprises
that own and operate much of Beijing's housing stock to the occupants
themselves, when collection problems would be expected to increase.
12   A two-part charge comprising a demand charge which is related to
the amount of space to be heated, and an energy charge for the
amount of heat used which is based on the variable costs of
supplying heat.
13   The district heating bill of residential housing units is paid
for, as part of his work benefits, by the resident's employer
unit, which owns most of the buildings. Payment is made
directly by the employer units to BDHC.



- 37 -
6.27      In order to meet the goals described above, during negotiations,
assurances were obtained from Beijing MuniciRalitv that, under the
subsidiary loan agreement. BDHC would be reguired to:
(a)  generate. commencing January 1. 1993. sufficient revenues to
cover operating costs and maintenance (including maintenance.
staff bonuses and welfare payments Raid from special funds).
working capital increases, and debt service: and
(b)  commencing January 1. 1995. ensure that the sum of its internal
cash generation and the contributions from consumers. less
oRerating costs and maintenance, increases in working capital
and debt service. would cover at least 20 percent of the average
caRital expenditures made in a three year period (the year
preceding the reference year. the reference year itself, and the
year after the reference year).
Assurances were also obtained from BM that it would take all actions to
ensure that consumer connections to the district heating system are made in
accordance with a schedule agreed with the Bank/IDA.
6.28      Future Financial Position.  The BDHC has plans to increase
tariffs in 1993 to cover expected cost increases in its operations.
Financial projections (Annex 19) show that with an additional tariff
increase equal to the inflation rate in 1992, it should have little
difficulty in meeting the goals described above, so long as diligence is
maintained in collecting charges and system expansion takes place as
scheduled. Some key financial and operating indicators are shown in Table
6.2.
Table 6.2: KEY FINANCIAL AND OPERATING INDICATORS FOR BDHC
MONITORING INDICATORS         1991     1992     1993     1994      1995     1996
(Thousands unless indicated)
Actual production (PJ/yr)      11.6     12.4      14.0     16.7     18.5     21.0
Space heated (000s m2)      17,100    21,600    25,100    28,100    34,100    40,100
Service coverage, heat       21%       26%      29%      31%       36%      41%
Space heated/employee           4.8      5.3      5.2       5.3      5.5      6.0
Oper. revenue (Y current)  216,062   252,623   346,651   381,471   503,101   597,460
Oper. expense (Y current)  205,363   242,128   290,147   343,622   404,644   503,549
Intern. cash gen. (Y current)  4,270  2,629    44,814    24,767    80,510    73,121
Consumer contrib. (Y current)  118,503    13,300    76,300   102,013   115,433    95,963
Cap. expend. (Y mill. const.)  403      177      209      196       179      139
Working ratio                  98.0%    99.0%     87.1%    93.5%    84.0%     87.8%
Debt senrice coverage ratio   NA        NA       NA       NA       NA          1.63
Contrib. to average investment  52%     4%      47%      47%       80%      58%
Months' net sales receivables   3.9      3.7      3.1       3.2      2.8      2.8
Financial Analysis of Industrial Pollution Control SubDrojects
6.29      The financial analysis of industrial pollution control
subprojects would focus on the long-term financial health of enterprises
applying for subloans under the project. The key issue in this assessment



- 38 -
would be whether the enterprise development goals, product marketing
strategies, investment requirements, and financing capabilities are in
balance. More specifically, the enterprise's current and future
performance in terms of prof'tability, liquidity, debt/equity structure,
and debt servicing capability should be assessed. Given the existing price
distortions and relatively small debt incurred by most enterprises under
the ownership of BM, the projected debt service coverage ratio appears to
be the most effective indicator in evaluating the financial viability of an
enterprise after completion of a pollution control subproject and when
reaching full production capacity. A debt service coverage ratio of 1.4
times appears to be adequate in providing a relatively comfortable cushion
for an enterprise to meet its financial obligations. The three subprojects
that Bank staff have already appraised meet the above financial criteria
and therefore are considered financially viable.
VII. ECONOMIC. SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL CONSIDERATION
Project Justification
7.1       The Justification of this project is based on the following: (a)
the project would yield a visible reduction in pollution thus protecting
the environment in Beijing and the health of its people; (b) BM is intent
on improving the environment, has established the organizational framework
for environmental management, and is willing to divert resources for
environmental improvement; (c) the project would help BM to develop a long-
term plan that would achieve appropriate environmental targets in the most
cost-effective way; (d) the investments in the project would finance
physical elements that are already known to be essential in this plan; (e)
these elements have been analyzed, found to be technically feasible, and
are the least cost alternatives for achieving the purposes intended; and
(f) the project would support important institutional measures to introduce
economic efficiency in environmental planning, strengthen coordination of
environmental activities among sector plans, and improve planning and
operation of urban sectors associated with pollution abatement, which are
needed to achieve the long term environmental goals. Some project elements
also produce quantifiable economic benefits, and for these a limited
benefit-cost analysis has been made. It is not possible to conduct a
comprehensive benefit cost analysis for a single environmental project,
since any measurable environmental improvement can only be realized through
substantial additional investments and successful regulatory efforts by the
environmental agencies. Also, most of these benefits are in the form of
improved health and personal well-being, and cannot be quantified
precisely.
Proiect Benefits
7.2       The project would support development and implementation of cost
effective long term environmental protection strategies and plans, which by
optimizing the use of the funds available would increase the effectiveness
nf the environmental program. It would bring about health benefits from
reduction of water-borne diseases, rerpiratory ailments and cancer, and
reduce corrosive damage to buildings and municipal water facilities caused
by pollution. Natural resources and raw materials will be used more



- 39 -
efficiently thereby improving economic conditions. The project would also
significantly strengthen the capability of key institutions of the city, as
well as improve crucial coordination among them, in carrying out
environmental planning and pollution control work. With the help from this
project Beijing will be better able to assist other municipalities on
environmental protection work.
Wastewater Component
7.3       An attempt has been made to quantify the economic benefits of
this component, which includes two identifiably separate sections:
(a) Sewerage works in the south urban area to intercept wastewater
currently discharging into the South Moat, which is used both as
an aqueduct and rainwater channel. The benefits resulting from
improved water quality in South Moat include: (1) preservation
of a water source for an industrial water supply plant; (2) a
reduction of losses in electricity generation and in maintenance
cost of cooling system of the No. 1 Thermal Power Generating
Station which uses the moat water for cooling; (3) improved land
value along South Moat; and (4) improved recreational value of
parks watered by the South Moat. The economic internal rate of
return (IRR) of this investment is estimated to be 16 percent.
A sensitivity analysis shows the IRR to be slightly greater than
10 percent with a 20 percent increase in costs and a 20 percent
reduction in benefits.
(b) Sewerage works in the northwest area of the city, which lies in
the watershed of the aquifer used by the No. 3 Water Plant for
Beijing's water supply. Benefits include: (1) increased
productivity as a result of better health of about 1 million
people using the water (using a very conservative estimate of
one half of one day of lost production per year); and (2) an
increase in land value of the area served by the sewer. The IRR
of this investment is estimated to be 39 percent. With assumed
cost increases of 20 percent and benefit reductions of 20
percent, the IRR is 28 percent.
Annex 20 shows details of the analysis.
District Heating (DH) Component
7.4       The DH system to be built under the project would serve 18.5
million m2 of floor space. It would greatly improve air quality and
alleviate solid waste disposal problems (through reduction of ashes from
burning coal) in and around the Sanlihe district (30 sq. km) in the most
cost effective way by substituting for some 350 boiler houses with 1370
small boilers. The supply of heat from the CHP plant at Shijingshan allows
air quality standards to be met by a wide margin and thus helps to
compensate for higher emissions rates in other areas where thousands of
boilers remain. Air pollutant emission will be reduced not only in the
city but also to the environment as a whole, as the total consumption of
coal for heating will decrease (the incremental consumption of raw coal



- 40 -
attributable to heat production is 35 kg/GJ with CHP, versus 65 kg/GJ with
large heat only boilers (HOBs), and 95 kg/GJ with dispersed HOBs).
7.5       The production of CHP heat, however, reduces the potential of
the plant to produce power, which is critical during the winter electric
peak load period. Also, CHP heat has high transmission costs. CHP for
space heating is therefore not economical, if either power shortages are
severe or the capacity utilization of heat transmission mains is small. In
such event district HOBs using washed coal could offer a less costly
alternative, although this alternative cannot effectively address problems
of atmospheric emissions, fuel transport, coal ash disposal, and
proliferation of chimney stacks within the confines of the city.
7.6       Because the North China grid is rapidly expanding and power
shortages will be largely resolved in 1992, the least cost route to
pollution abatement in northwest Beijing will be a mix of the above
solutions: CHP for the base heating load, and district HOBs as a complement
for peak heat during the coldest days. In the project, the share of HOBs
has been optimized at 40 to 50 percent of the maximum load supplying 15 to
20 percent of the total heat energy. To further enhance the plant mix
performance, half of the HOB capacity will be oil-fired, and the remainder
will be coal-fired and equipped with pollution abatement devices.
Investments including the substations and the secondary network (but
excluding building installations) will approach Y2 billion at end-1990
prices. They would be incurred over the period 1992-99 according to the
sequence detailed in Annex 21. With a 10 percent discount rate, the
economic cost of heat supply to the buildings is Y40/GJ or Y21.6/m2/year.
A district HOB alternative using washed coal would cost 10 to 20 percent
more and SOX (sulfur oxides) emissions would still not meet the class 2
ambient air quality standard (Annex 1) applicable to residential areas.
7.7       An internal rate of return (IRR) for the DH investments under
the project has been estimated by taking as proxy benefit the cost of the
most likely alternative that heat consumers would have to use in the
absence of the project to reduce air pollution. This would be an
alternative based on small boilers and five district HOBs all using washed
coal. The resulting IRR is 12.6 percent before shadow pricing, and 10.7
percent at economic prices. This estimate is conservative, for while it
has included most economic benefits such as the reduction in energy
consumption (250,000 tons of oil equivalent/year) and land use (20 ha), the
greater environmental benefits provided by the project have not been taken
into account.
7.8       A baseline alternative resembling the present situation where
small boilers burning raw coal are used is found to have the same economic
cost as the DH component, but SOX and TSP concentrations would be 250
percent and 56 percent higher, and ash and clinker generation would
increase by 170,000 tons/year.
7.9       An important condition required to ensure efficient resource use
for the DH/CHP solution is to price CHP heat on the basis of its true cost
to the economy, i.e. the marginal cost of fuel used in producing the heat,
and the power foregone which has to be replaced through the construction of
a new power plant. During negotiations. understanding was reached with



- 41 -
with Beijing Municipality_on a pricing formula for heat supnlv at
Shijingshan which would take into account: (a) an annuity for the heat
extraction system: (b) a demand charge to compensate for Rower capacity
derating: and (c) an energy charge to cover fuel derating, The price
calculated from the above formula would be used as the cost of steam
purchased from Shijingshan, for the pur ose of comruting the price of heat
to be charged to consumers.
7.10      Details on the economic analysis of the DH component and its
alternatives are given in Annex 21.
Industrial Pollution Component
7.11      The subprojects covered under this component include both
industrial pollution and hazardous waste disposal and address serious cases
that have been identified by BMEPB as among the problem industries to be
dealt with under their industrial pollution plan and warranting priority
action. In some instances the polluters have a significant effect on wide
areas of Beijing (the Beijing Organic Chemical Vinyl Acetate Project
appraised by the Bank is a case in point), whilst other smaller polluters
generate severe local problems. In addition to the undoubted value of the
investments under the component, the application of the appraisal methods
and criteria by the BM and system of review, both within the BM and outside
(CIB and the Local Consultants) builds a strong institutional capability to
analyze and implement sound industrial pollution projects. In addition,
the focus of the appraisal criteria in encouraging technical transformation
to minimize the production of pollutants, is valuable in countering the
tendency in China of adopting the generally less cost effective approach of
end of pipe treatment.
Composite IRR
7.12      The composite IRR for the wastewater and district heating
components, comprising about 60 percent of total project cost, is estimated
to be 12.6 percent. Benefit/cost evaluation for the industrial component,
comprising another 33 percent of the total project cost, will be carried
out during subproject appraisal by CIB Beijing under credit line
arrangements (paras. 4.8 and 4.9).
Project Risks
7.13      There are risks of implementation delays with a project that has
multiple components involving several different municipal entities, none of
whom was previously familiar with Bank procedures and requirements.
However, the establishment of a strong project management unit and its
effective functionintg during project preparation, indicate that these risks
are manageable. Much work, beyond that of the present proposed project,
would still be required before the long term goals of environmental
improvement can be reached. A firm commitment by BM to work toward the
steady achievement of these goals will be needed. With the help of a
comprehensive environmental plan, concrete strategies, and action plans to
be developed in the project, and proposed measures to strengthen the
environmental management capabilities of BM, efforts to continue



- 42 -
environmental protection work at a rapid high pace, can, however, be
expected to be sustained.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.1       During negotiations assurances were obtained from GOC that the
proceeds of the IBRD loan/IDA credit would be onlent to BM on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank/IDA, including onlending for a 15-year
period, including 5 years of grace, at a fixed interest rate of 4.2 percent
p.a., and a commitment charge of 0.25 percent p.a.. Beijing Municipality
would bear all foreign exchange risk, except those that are borne by the
enterprises to whom it onlends. (para. 4.13).
8.2       Assurances were also obtained from Beijing Municipality on the
following:
(a) The studies to develop an integrated environmental management
plan and environmental strategies will be conducted with the
assistance of experienced consultants under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank/IDA, they would be completed by
December 31, 1994; the findings would be reviewed with the
Bank/IDA; and the recommendations of the studies, acceptable to
the Bank/IDA, would be implemented (para. 4.6).
(b) A study for hazardous waste management will be conducted with
the assistance of experienced consultants under terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank/IDA, the study would be
completed by December 31, 1993, the findings of the study would
be reviewed with the Bank/IDA, and the recommendations of the
study, acceptable to the Bank/IDA, would be implemented
(para. 4.7).
(c) Onlend the parts of the proceeds from the loan/credit for the
district heating and industrial pollution control works in the
following manner: (1) to BDHC for 15 years, including five years
of grace, at a variable rate equal to the Bank rate plus a
spread of 1.5 percent p.a., with BDHC bearing the US dollar/ RMB
Yuan foreign exchange risk; and (2) to the industrial entities
for 10 years, including three years of grace, at a variable rate
equal to the Bank rate plus a spread of 1.5 percent p.a., with
the industrial enterprise bearing all foreign exchange risk, or
a spread of 2.0 percent p.a., with the industrial enterprises
bearing the US dollar/ RMB Yuan risk (para. 4.14).
(d) It would maintain BEPO with functions and responsibilities
satisfactory to the Bank/IDA (para. 4.19).
(e) It would carry out resettlement of persons affected by the
project in a manner and according to a schedule which is
satisfactory to the Bank/IDA (para. 4.30).
(f) Training would be carried out in accordance with a program
agreed with the Bank/IDA (para. 4.31).



- 43 -
(g) The following annual audits would be submitted to the Bank/IDA
within sli months after the end of the financial year: (1) audit
of the project account maintained by BM, (2) a 'it of the
special account, (3) audit of statements of expenditure, and (4)
audit of the financial statements of BDHC and of the new sewer
entity, when it is established. An audit of the latest
financial statements of each industrial enterprise participating
in the project, would also be submitted to the Bank/IDA not
later than three years after subproject approval (para. 6.14).
(h) It would establish an autonomous sewer company with financial
and operating policies acceptable to the Bank/IDA by December
31, 1993; and conclude a Transfer and Operation Agreement with
this company (BSC) satisfactory to the Bank/IDA not later than
June 30, 1993 (para. 6.19).
(i)  Under the subsidiary loan agreement, BDHC would be requirea to:
(1) commencing January 1, 1993, generate sufficient revenues to
cover operating costs and maintenance (including maintenance,
staff bonuses and welfare payments paid from special funds),
working capital increases, and debt service; and (2) commencing
January 1, 1995, ensure that the sum of its internal cash
generation and the contributions from consumers, less operating
costs and maintenance, increases in working capital and debt
service, would cover at least 20 percent of the average capital
expenditures made in a three year period (the year preceding the
reference year, the reference year itself, and the year after
the reference year) (para. 6.27).
(j) It would take all actions to ensure that consumer connections to
the district heating system are made in accordance with a
schedule agreed with the Bank/IDA (para. 6.27).
8.3       Understanding on the following was also reached with Beijing
Municipality on the following:
(a) Measures to be taken by BM for the enforcement of the energy
conservation standards for building construction (para. 2.8).
(b) Details of the various steps to be taken for resettlement of
persons affected by the project (para. 4.30).
(c) A pricing formula for the cost of bulk heat supply at
Shijingshan, for the purpose of estimating charges to be levied
on consumers reflecting separately the fixed and variable costs
of heat supply at Shijingshan (para. 7.9).
8.4       Understanding was also reached with GOC and BM that a project-
specific waiver of any taxes on Bank/IDA funded consultants will be given
(para. 4.24).



- 44 -
8.5       The following would be conditions for disbursement:
(a) Signing of the contracts satisfactory to the Bank/IDA by BM with
CIB and BMECC for the provision of the necessary services for
the industrial pollution control component (para. 4.9).
(b) Execution of the subsidiary loan agreement between BM and BDHC,
satisfactory to the Bank/Association, for the district heating
component (para. 4.14).
8.6       Approval of the Loan and the Development Credit Agreements by
the State Council would be a conditions for loan/credit effectiveness
(para. 4.15).
8.7       With the above assurances and understandings, the proposed
project would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$45 million equivalent for a
period of 20 years, including five years of grace, at variable interest
rate, and an IDA credit of US$80 million equivalent at standard terms with
35 years maturity, to the People's Republic of China.



- 45 -
Annex I
CHINA
BEIJING ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT
Organization for Environmental Protection in China
People's
Republic
of
China
| State    l
|Beijing, Shang-           Prvnca                  Naioa                   Ministries,|
hai & Tianjin            & Autonomous            Environmental             State
Municipal                Regional                Protection             Commissions,
Governments              Govenuments              Agency               Administration
Provincial
Environmental
Protection
Bureaus
MunicipalI
GovernmentsI
Similar                                       Municipal
Arrangement                                     Environmental
as under                                       Protection
Municipal                                          Bureaus
Governments
Ur banl
District !k 
CountyI
GovemmrentsI
_  _                ~~~~~Urban
DZistrict &
county
: PBs
Urbaa
Neighborhood,N I
TowT, Town-TI
SPhovtsfl
Neighborhood,
Town, Town-
ship BP t)ffices



- 46 -
Annex 2
Page 1
CHINA
BEIJING ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT
Selected Environmental Laws. Regulations and Standards in Force
1. ENVIRONMENTAL (GENERAL)                         17.    Beijing Municipality Standard for Energy
Conservation in Design of Civil Structures (for
National                                             Residential  Housing  with   Heating),
Implementation Details for Beijing Area,
1.   The Environmental Protection Law of the People's      DBJ01-4-88,  (for  test  implementation),
Republic of China, first version approved on         published on April 1, 1988.
September 13, 1979; recent version enacted on    18.    Beijing  Municipality  Announcement  on
December 26, 1989.                                   Observation  of  "Standard  for  Energy
2.   Environmental Protection Administrative Rules for     Conservation in Design of Civil Structures (for
Construction Projects, published on March 26,        Residential  Housing  with   Heating),
1986.                                                Implementation Details for Beijing Area",
3.   Regulations on Environmental Requirements for         published on September 18, 1990.
Design of Construction Projects, published March
20, 1987.                                    II. WATER
4.   Regulations for Environmental Protection in
Planning of Construction Projects, published on  National
March 20, 1987.
5.   Regulations on Administration of Enmronmental    19.    The Water Pollution Control Law of the
Impact Statements for Construction Projects,         People's Republic of China, enacted on May
published on June 5, 1986.                           11, 1984.
6.   Regulations on Preservation of Water and Soil,   20.    The Water Law of the People's Republic of
published by State Council on June 30, 1982.         China, effective July 1, 1988.
7.   Regulations for Urban Planning, published by the    21.    Temporary Provisions on Water Pollution
State Council on January 5, 1984.                    Discharge Permit, promulgated by NEPA on
8.   Temporary Regulations on Collection of Pollution      March 20,1988.
Charges, published on February 5, 1982 by the    22.    National Regulations on "Outdoor Wastewater
State Council.                                       Design  Codes0  concerning  discharge  of
9.   Regulations on Administration of Environmental       Industrial Wastewater into  City  Sewers,
Monitoring Work in China, approved July 21,          approved in September, 1974.
1983.                                        23.     Regulations on Prevention and Control of
10.  Regulations on Administration of Environmental       Pollution of Potable Water Source Protected
Protection Standards, published on October 11,       Areas, promulgated by NEPA, MOPH, MOC
1983.                                                and MGMR on July 12, 1989.
11.  National Standard for Energy Conservation in    24.    Environmental Quality Standard for Surface
Design of Civil Structures, JGJ 26-86, published by  Water, GB 3838-88, published on April 5,
Ministry of Construction on March 3, 1986.           1988.
25.    National Drinking Water Standard, GB 5749-
Beiiine Municipalitv                                 85, published on August 16, 1985.
26.    National Irrigation  Water Standard  for
12.  Beijing Municipality Implementing Details for        Agriculture, GB 5084-85, published on April
Environmental Administration of Construction         25, 1985.
Projects, published on February 22, 1988.    27.    National Standard for Fishery Water Quality,
13.  Beijing Municipality Temporary Regulations for       TJ 35-79, published in March 1979.
Urban Construction and Planning, published on    28.  National Standard for Seawater Quality, GB
February 10, 1984.                                   3097-82, effective August 1, 1982.
14.  Beijing Municipality Temporary Regulations for    29.  National Integrated Wastewater Discharge
Environmental Protection Administration for          Standard, GB 8978-88, published on April 5,
Enterprises in Townships, Towns, and Urban           1988.
Neighborhoods, published on June 13, 1986.   30.     National Temporary Standards for Discharge of
15.  Beijing Municipality Regulations on Protection of    Hospital Wastewater, GBJ 48-83, published
Cultural Artifacts, published on November 10,        January 12, 1983.
1981.
16.  Beijing Municipality Rules for Implementing
Temporary Regulations on Collection of Charges
by the State Council, published on May 13, 1982.



- 47 -
Annex 2
Page 2
Beijing Municipality                         45.     National Method for Measuring Noise from
Motorized Vehicles, GB 1497-79, published
31.  Beijing Municipality - Implementation rules for       July 1, 1979.
"the Water Pollution Control Law of the People's   46.  National Standard on Health Considerations for
Republic of China, enacted on May 11, 1984".         Noise in Industries and Enterprises (draft for
32.  Beijing Municipality Temporary Administrative         temporary implementation), published August
Rules for Water Source Protection at Miyun           31, 1979.
Reservoir, Huairou Reservoir and Beijing Miyun    47.    The Environemtnal Noise Control Regulation
Water Transmission, published on July 3, 1985.       of the People's Republic of China, enacted on
33.  Administrative Rules for Water Source Protection      December 1, 1989.
at Guanting Reservoir, Huairou Reservoir and
Beijing Miyun Water Transmission, published by  Beiiing Munici2alitv
the People's Governments of Beijing Municipality,
Hebei Province and Shanxi Province on December    48.    Beijing Municipality Temporary Administrative
11, 1984.                                            Rules for Environmental Noise, published on
34.  Beijing Municipality Administrative Rules for         March 8, 1984.
Groundwater Source Protection at Water Supply
Plants, published by the People's Governments of    V. INDUSTRY AND ENTERPRISE
Beijing Municipality on June 10, 1986.
35.  Beijing Municipality Temporary Regulations on  National
Collection of Charges for Sewerage Services,
enacted June 16, 1986.                       49.    Temporary Regulations on an Environmental
36.  Beijing Municipality Temporary Standards for          Protection Review System for Industries and
Discharge  of Water  Pollution  Substances,          Enterprises, published on June 30, 1985.
published on October 15, 1985.               50.     National Standards on Health Considerations in
the Design of Industries and Enterprises, TL
Ill. AMBIENT AIR                                           36-79, published September 30, 1979.
51.    National Standard for Protection against
National                                             Radiation, GBJ 8-74, published on April 27,
1974.
37.  The Air Pollution Control Law of the People's   52.   Regulations on Prevention of Environmental
Republic of China, enacted on June 1, 1988.          Pollution by Ship Wrecking, enacted on May
38.  National Standard for Ambient Air Environmental       1988.
Quality, GB 3095-82, published April 6, 1982.
39.  National Standard for Smoke and Dust Emission  Beiiing Municimality
from Boilers, GB 3841-83, published April 1,1984.
40.  National Standard for Emissions from Motorized    53.  Beijing Municipality Temporary Regulations on
Vehicles, GB 3842-83, published April 1, 1984.       Use of Cooling Towers, enacted on December
1, 1987.
Beiiing Municipality
VI. OTHERS
41.  Beijing Municipality - Implementation rules for
"the Air Pollution Control Law of the People's  National
Republic of China, enacted on June 1, 1988".
42.  Beijing Municipality Temporary Standards for    54.    National Standard on Use of Chemicals in
Emission of Waste Gases, published on March 8,       Agriculture, GB4285-84, published May 18,
1984.                                                1984.
55.    Marine Environmental Protection Law of the
IV. ENVIRONMENTAL NOISE                                    People's Republic of China, enacted on August
23, 1982.
National
BeiiinR
43.  National Standard for Environmental Noise in
Urban Areas, GB 3096-82, published on April 6,    56.    Beijing Municipality Temporary Regulations
1982.                                                Administration of Urban Appearance and
44.  National Standard for Permissible Noise Levels        Environmental Sanitation, published on April
from Motorized Vehicles, GB 1495-79, published       26, 1982.
July 1, 1979.



- 48 -
Annex 2
Page 3
Environmental Quality Standard for Surface Water
Chinese Standard GB 3838-88 (replacing GB 3838-83)
No.            Constituent           Class I         Class a         Class         |  Class IV           Class V
All water bodies must not contain the following matters from non-natural sources:
a. All precipitable maters which can result in obnoxious precipitationa.
Basic          b. Floating matter, such as debris, floating residues, oil or other unsightly matters.
Requirements      c. Produce obnoxious color, odor, taste or turbidity.
d. Harmful, poisonous or has adverse biological reaction to human, animal and vegitation.
c. Can cause growth of unpleasant aquatic bio-matters.
Ambient water temperature changes from man-made causes should be limited to:
I       Water temperature     Average maximum temperature rise in summer period < I
degrees C         Average maximum temperature drop in winter period < 2
2     pH                                            6.5- 8.5                                          6-9
3     Sulphate (S04) <                 250              250              250              250                250
4      Chlorides (Cl) <                250              250              250              2S0                250
5     Soluble iron <                   0.3              0.3              0.5              0.5                1.0
6     Total manganese <                0.1              0.1              0.1              0.5                1.0
7      Total copper <                 0.01              1.0              1.0              1.0                1.0
_ ____________________                        (fish  0.01)     (fisb 0.01)
8     Total zinc <                    0.05              1.0              1.0              2.0                2.0
(fish0.1)       (fish O.1)
9     Nitrate (as N) <                  10               10               20               20                 25
10     Nitrite(asN) <                  0.06              0.1             0.15              1.0                1.0
11     Free ammonia <                  0.02             0.02             0.02             0.02               0.02
12 -   Kieldahl N <                     0.5              0.5              1.0              2.0                2.0
'3     Total phosphorus                0.02      0.1 (Iake.       0.1 (lake,               0.2                0.2
(as P)  <                               res. 0.025)       res, 0.05)
14     Pcrmanganateindex <                2                4                6                8                 10
is     Dissolved oxygen>            90% sat.               6                5               3                  2
16     COD <                             1s               15               15               20                25
17     BOD5 <                             3                3               4                6                  10
18     Fluoride (aB E) <                1.0              1.0              1.0              1.5                1.5
19     Selenium (quad) <               0.01             0.01             0.01             0.02               0.02
20     Total arsenic <                 0.05             0.05             0.05              0.1                0.1
21     Total mercury <              0.00005          0.00005           0.0001           0.0001             0.0001
22     Total cadmium <                0.001            0.005            0.005            0.005               0.01
23     Chromium (hex) <                0.01             0.05             0.05             0.05                0.1
24     Totallad <                      0.01             0.05             0.05             0.05                0.1
25     Total cyanide <                0.005             0.05              0.2              0.2                0.2
(fish 0.005)    (fish 0.005)
26      Volatile phenol <             0.002            0.002            0.005             0.01               0.01
27      Petroleum <                    0.05             0.05             0.05              0.5                1.0
28      Anionic Surfactant c            0.2              0.2              0.2              0.3                0.3
29     Total colifonn (No/L) <                                          10000        _,_
30      Benzene (ug/L) <             0.0025           0.0025           0.0025
Class Description
I  Mainly used for water source, national natural protection areas.
II  Mainly suitable as source in first class protection area for community drinking water
supply, precious fish protected area, spawning ground for fish and shrimps.
II  Mainly suitable as source in second class protection area for commaunity
drtiking water supply, fishery protection area and public swimming area.
IV Mainly suitable for typical industrial water supply, and recreation where there
in no human bodily contact with the water.
V Mainly suitable for agricultural water supply, and typical water areas for tourism.
Note: Where a water regime is suitable for a number of potential uses, classification wiU be according to
Its highest use. Where there is class difference between seasons, seasonal classification can be used.



- 49 -
Annex 2
Page 4
CHINA
BEIJING ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT
Air Environmental Quality Standard
Chinese Standard GB 3095-85
Air environmental quality is divided into three classes as follows:
Class I       Required for the protection of natural ecology and human health from
harmful effects under long term exposure.
Class 11      Required for the protection of human health and animal and vegetation
in urban and rural areas against harmful conditions that can arise
under long and short term exposure.
Class III     Required for the protection of human communities against acute or
chronic toxic illnesses, and for normal growth of animal and vegetation
life (except for those with allergic conditions).
The limiting values of the air pollutants for the three standards
are listed in the table below.
Strength Limit mg/standard m3
Pollutant               Sampling Tine              Class I        Class II       Class III
Total Suspended            Daily Average*              0.15           0.30           0.50
Solids                  Any Incident**              0.30           1.00            1.50
Dust                       Daily Average               0.05           0.15           0.25
Any Incident                0.15           0.50           0.70
Sulphur Dioxide            Yearly Average***           0.02           0.06           0.10
Daily Average               0.05           0.15           0.25
Any Incident                0.15           0.50           0.70
Nitrous Oxides             Daily Average               0.05           0.10           0.15
Any Incident                0.10           0.15           0.30
Carbon Monoxide            Daily Average               4.00           4.00           6.00
Any Incident               10.00           10.00          20.00
Light Chemistry            One Hour Average            0.12           0.16           0.20
Oxidation Reagent
1(0 3)_                       _  _   _  _   _   _  _  _   _  _    _ _  _  _   _  _   _  _    _
Notes
*           "Daily average' refers to the limit which must not be exceeded by the average of
the samples taken in a day.
**          'Any Incident' refers to the limit which must not be exceeded by any sample taken.
'Yearly Average' refers to the limit which must not be exceeded by the average in a
year of the 'daily averages' measured.
T.S.P.        Total suspended solids refer to particulates which are smaller than 100 microns.
Dust          Dust refers to particulates which are smaller than 10 microns. This item is a
reference standard only.
Ozone         Light Chemistry Oxidation Reagent (03), one hour average value should not be
exceeded once in a month.



Annex 3
Page 1
CHINA
BEIJING ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT
Detailed Project Description
Wastewater Component                                    (d) Procurement of heavy equipment for rivercourse
cleaning and sewer maintenance.
1.    Existing sewers in fhe southern area of the old   (e) Procurement of instrumentation for monitoring
city, which has a population of about 700,000, are old      system.
and carry both  rainwater and wastewater.   The         (f) Establishment of a sewerage company on an
reconstruction of these into a separate sewer system will   enterprise basis, with management, staffing
require heavy investment and possible simultaneous          andfinancial objectives agreeable to the Bank.
reconstruction of roads and buildings. For the time         Proposals for the company would be reviewed by
being, it is proposed that the combined system  be          the Bank.
retained.  Intercepting sewers constructed under the    (g) Technical assistance for detailed design of the
project will collect the dry weather wastewater flow, and   major sewer systems in the project component.
transport it for treatment at the Gaobeidian sewage     (h) Conduct a training program which would cover
treatment plant, which is currently under construction      both overseas training for managers and senior
with a secondary treatment capacity of 500,000 m3/day in    technical and financial personnel, and in-house
the first phase. When the mixed wastewater/stormwater       training for operators engaged in sewerage
flow exceeds the capacity of the interceptor, it will       operations, including strengthening the in-house
overflow and discharge into the city's open waterways, but  training center with programs for training trainers
as this is now diluted, no nuisance will be caused. Some    and acquiring modern training materials and
pollution problems will still be experienced during the     training equipment.
early part of a storm, when overflow could occur before
sufficient rainwater dilution, but this problem  is    Solid Waste Component
minimized through appropriate design.
4.    Beijing Municipality has developed a master plan
2.    The watershed area of the aquifer tapped by the    for the management of municipal solid waste which
60 wells of the No. 3 water plant has an area of over 120    proposes disposal by the following methods: (a) about 75
sq. km. of which about 60 sq. km. provide groundwater    percent by landfil, for which 5 sites have been identified
directly to the plant, which is used for Beijing's water    with a total land requirement of about 250 ha; (b) about
supply to about one million people. Currently parts of    7 percent by incineration (these include hospital and
the land area above the aquifer have been built up.    other wastes which could be contaminated by contagious
Wastewater from  these developments is discharged    diseases); and (c) the remaining 18 percent by different
without appropriate treatment into local ditches and    reclamation  methods, including composting.   The
watercourses,  and  percolates  into  the  aquifer    priorities in executing the various parts of the plan have
contaminating the water source.  The project will    been extensively studied and discussed, with consideration
construct a system of sewers to transport the wastewater    given to opportunities for waste minimization, waste
from these built-up areas for appropriate disposal. A  recycle, recovery, and reuse, and the size of the impact of
program for houses in these areas to connect to the    the investments in resolving the critical problems of waste
system will be established and will be strictly enforced. A  management and disposal in Beijing. The conclusions
study will be carried out for areas over the watershed  point to landfill as the most effective way to reduce solid
which are outside the built-up areas to identify existing    waste pollution in the near term.  Accordingly the
and future sources of pollution, and to plan for their   following project components have been proposed:
control.  Enforcement of environmental regulations
goveming the protection of groundwater sources, which    5.    The proposed work in this component ties in with
currently exists, will be strengthened.              the master plan and would consist of
3.    The proposed work would consist of:               (a) Construction of a sanitary landfill site for the
disposal of domestic refuse, over an area of about
(a) Construction of about 8 km. of reinforced            72 ha, to treat 2,000 tons of refuse per day over
concrete box culverts (3.8m x 2.5m and twin 3.8m     a period of about 10 years
x 2.5m)                                          (b) Technical assistance for detailed design.
(b) Construction of about 0.5 km of twin 2.15m dia.  (c) A training program which would cover overseas
and 3.Om dia. sewers.                                visits by managers and planners of the Beijing
(c) Construction of about 34 km of 300mm  to             Environmental Sanitation Administration Bureau
1550mm dia. sewers.                                  to study solid waste management methods, and
in-house training of operators.



- 51 -                                                 Annex 3
Page 2
District Heating Component                                with the environmental regulations promulgated by the
Municipality and the Central Government. The credit
6.     This project component aims to alleviate air    line would finance the direct foreign exchange costs of
pollution by reducing coal burning in individual building  measures to deal with solid, liquid, and gaseous pollutants
boilers in residential areas located in the western part of  discharged by these enterprises, the safe disposal of
the city, through a proposed district heating system, with  hazardous wastes generated by the enterprises, and the
the heat source from the existing Shijingshan heat and    meeting  of transboundary  odor and  noise  levels
power cogeneration plant. Because of the steep trade-off    appropriate to the location of the enterprises. Three
in  power generation  with  heat production  in  a        subprojects with an estimated total foreign exchange
cogeneration plant during peak supply periods, and the    requirement of US$13.9 million, have been appraised by
coincidence of peak heat demand and peak electrical    the Bank for the purpose of demonstrating required
demand, the heat supply from the Shijingshan plant will    appraisal method and criteria: BOC  Vinyl Acetate,
be used to serve the base heat load only. Peak heat       Beijing Steel Drums, and the hazardous waste coal tar
loads will be met from heat-only boilers which will be    subproject with the Beijing Heavy Machinery Company.
constructed near the demand centers and integrated with   The results show these subprojects to be acceptable for
the cogeneration heating pipe systern. It is estimated that    financing by the Bank.
these boilers would meet about 40 percent of the peak
load, and about 25 percent of the total heat supply. The  9.     The full list of subprojects to be included in this
total building floor area that will be heated is estimated  component is as follows:
at 185 million m2, serving a population of about 1.5
milion.                                                      SUBPROJECTS          Capital Cost Estimate Summary
(rhousand)
7.    The proposed work included in this component                                LRoca   RFoB   usS    RMB
would consist of                                             IDENTIFIED
Industrial Pollution
(a) Construction of 32 km of heat transmission
pipeline from  Shijingshan (CHP) plant with 2         BOC Vinyl Acetate   148,210  56.517  10,827  204,727
booster pump stations to serve 15.0 million           BPW Vitamin C       37,721  20,797   3,984   58,518
Beijing Steel Drum'   38,293  13,875   2,658   52,168
square meters of living space in the west Beijing     BRP Tire Reclaim    18,889  12,230   2,343   31,119
urban area.                                           Subtotal           243113 103419  19812  346,532
(b) Construction of a 348 MW  oil-fired heat plant        S
(Shuangyushu) for peak heat loads.                    Concerning Hazardous Waste
(c) Equipment to convert fixed speed pumps to             BHM Coal Tar          1,088  2,114    405    3,202
variable speed pumps at the Shijingshan Station,      BCF No.8, Borax Mud    821    679    130    I,S00
and equipment to treat and store makeup water.        Subtotal              1,909  2,792    535    4,702
(d) Procure and install a computer monitoring and         TOTAL IDENTIFED 245,022 106,212  20,347  351,234
control system for the operation of the district
heating system.                                       PROJECT PIPELINE
(e) Technical assistance for detailed design.             Industrial Pollution
(f) Conduct a training program which would cover
both overseas training for managers and senior         copper Phthalouyantnel970  10f880   2,084   23,f
technical and financial personnel of the Beijing       Disperse Dye        4,700  8,890   1,703   13,590
District Heating Company and in-house training        Pollution Control -
for operators, including strengthening in-house        BRF No.1            7,540  10,460   2,004   18,000
training center with programs for training trainers  BRF No.2  7,540  10,460   2,004   18,000
training center wtprgasfrtangtaies                    Beijing Paper Mills
and acquiring modern training materials and            Relocation          18,443  12,739   4,970   45,182
training equipment.                                   Power Station, ESP     NA  10,440   2,000      NA
Power Station
Desulfurization      NA  41,760   8,000      NA
Additional installation work which includes the consumer     Beijing No.7 Paper
heat supply network from  the heat exchanger at the           Mill, COD             NA     NA      NA       NA
consumer substation  to  the  buildings  would  be           Subtotal             51,193 119,629  22,765  118,622
constructed at the expense of the building owners.
Total Pipeline      51,193 119,629  22,765  118,622
Industrial Pollution Control Component                    TOTAL                  296,215 225,841  43,112  469,856
*   Cost estimates provided by the enterprises have been
&      The proposed work would consist of a sector                adjusted by the mission to include physical and price
credit line with the Beijing Municipal Government to be           oontingencies. Other subprojei  have not been examined
in sufricient detail to determine what contingencies are to
used to assist seleced industrial enterprises to COMply          be added.



- 52  -                                            Annex 3
Page 3
Hazardous Waste ManaLement Component                 long-term planning for environment management. The
typical municipal plan has a horizon of five to ten years.
10.      To address the problems of hazardous wastes,    While this is useful for administrative and investment
Beijing  Municipality  has  recently  approved  the    programming purposes, it does not help environmental
estab;ishment  of  the  Beijing  lHazardous  Waste    management, where a reasonable planning horizon is at
Management Center. This center will play a leading role    least 20 to 30 years. Furthermore, environmental plans
in developing Beijing's hazardous waste management    are currently designed around established environmental
strategies, design and implementation plans, as well as    standards used in China or in other countries. No effort
construction and implementation of facilities to manage    has been made to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of using
hazardous wastes.  The center is expected to be    these standards for Beijing.   In  particular, the
financially self-supporting from the charges it collects for    practicability of Beijing ever being able to meet the
treatment and disposal of hazardous wastes.          established environmental standards, and the costs of
meeting these standards, have not been critically
11.      The proposed work to be included in this    examined. Beijing therefore needs to find a practicable
component would consist of:                          plan  that will enable  it to  achieve  acceptable
environmental objectives in the least-cost way, within a
(a) Construction of a building to provide office and  universe of legislative, fiscal, physical and institutional
laboratory space for the newly established Beijing    options.
Industrial Hazardous Waste Management Center
(to be entirely financed by Beijing Municipality).    13.  The proposed studies, which would attempt to
(b) Construction of a new interim safe storage facility    address the above-mentioned  shortcomings, would
for highly hazardous waste at Fashang with a    include:
capacity of 650 tons per year for 5 years, which
could be easily expanded if the need arises (to be  (a) An air quality management and master plan study
entirely financed by Beijing Municipality)            to develop least-cost measures to improve
(c) Purchase of laboratory sampling and analytical       ambient air quality, including those to reduce
equipment.                                           sulfur dioxide and fine particulate emissions,
(d) Conduct hazardous waste management studies           which will greatly improve smog and poor visibility
which would focus on: (1) organizational, policy,    conditions.    This  would  include  further
operational and financial proposals for the          development and lnking of the master plans for
management of the newly established Hazardous        district heating, power generation, energy supply
Waste Management Center; (2) the preparation         and industrial development to achieve air quality
of an inventory of hazardous waste generation in     objectives. The problems of photochemical smog
the municipality, (3) appropriate regulatory and     from vehicular emissions and of fugitive dust
least-cost technical measures and processes for      would be examined, but would not be studied in
disposal of the hazardous wastes; and (4)            detail at this time.  Appropriate policy and
identification and design of appropriate sites for   institutional measures would need to be proposed
hazardous waste disposal. This work will start by    to implement this master plan.
September 1991 and complete by end of 1993.
(e) Conduct a training program for managers and      (b) Water quality management and master plan study
specialists  enaged  in  hazardous  waste            for both surface and ground water, including
management work as agreed with the mission.          issues of water resource management (demand
management, quality management and allocation
]Environmental Master Plan Studies                          policies) on a basin-wide basis, in order to
develop least-cost measures to protect against
12.      The effectiveness of Beijing environmental         pollution (organic, inorganic, pathogenic) from
management suffers  from  the  generic  problems            point and non-point sources. Appropriate codes
associated with the traditional hierarchical structure of   of practice, regulatory, administrative and fiscal
government administration. Independent planning occurs      measures to effectively implement the various
within individual economic sectors, and results in a focus  findings and conclusions of the study.
on specific sector needs rather than that of a much more
comprehensive  environmental "system." While  the       (c) Domestic refuse management, to cover all urban
situation cannot be completely remedied, it is possible to  districts and rural counties in the municipality, to
structure the municipal organization with stronger cross-   determine least-cost measures to collect, transport
sectorresponsibilitylineswith environmental management      and dispose of domestic refuse generated in the
agencies, which could help to improve coordination of the   municipality, as well as policies, regulations and
activities of the various entities in the ervironmental     incentive measures needed to implement the
management field. The second problem is the lack of         findings of the study.



- 53 -                                             Annex 3
Page 4
(d) Determination of the main linkages between the  Proiect ManaRement Support
environmental master plans and the various
sector master plans to ensure that planning for  14.      Additional support to be provided by the
least-cost strategies effectively deals with cross-    project would include:
sectoral and cross-media linkages and transfers.
(a) Technical assistance for preparation of tender
documents.
(b) Technical assistance for construction supervision.
(c) Procurement of equipment for project office
use.



- 54 -                                          Annex 4
Page 1
CHINA
BEIJING ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT
Environmental Master Plan Studies - draft Terms of Reference
Backiiround                                          Air Quality Problems in Beiiin!
1.      Beijing Municipality (BM) is one of three    4.       There are two predorminant kinds of air
municipalities in China which are directly under the  pollution problems in Beijing.
Central Government, and has the status of a province.
The other two are Shanghai and Tianjin. BM is the seat   (a)  The main source of air pollution during the
of the nation's capital, and is situated in the north of the  heating period -- November 15 to March 15 -
North China Plain at Latitude 40 N and Longitude 116          is from the burning of coal. This results in
E. The municipality has a total land area of 16,807 sq.       high ambient concentrations of sulfur dioxide
km. Administratively BM is divided into 8 urban districts     (S02) and total suspended particulates (TSP)
(4 in the city center and 4 in the near suburbs), 2 rural     in the urban area that far exceed the Class II
districts and 8 rural counties. It has a total resident       ambient standards for S02 and TSP.  Of
population of about 103 million and a mobile population       particular concern for human health are the
(visitors, travelling merchants, temporary labor force, etc.)  small size suspended particulates of less than
of nearly one million people. Nearly 6 million live in the     10 microns in diameter. Typical concentrations
urban districts.  The municipality has a temperate            of these particulates in the urban area range
continental climate with an average air temperature of        between 200 and 300 micrograms per cubic
11.7 C and an average annual precipitation of 626 mm.         meter during the heating period, vith values
Main rivers include the Yongding River, the Chaobai           which are even higher in the inner city area.
River, and the Wenyu River, all of which have been            Two-thirds of the TSP emissions come from
impounded upstream for Beijing's water supply.                the burning of coal. The other third comes
from naturally occurring phenomena which are
2.      Environmental piotection work in Beijing              also of concern to Beijing.  For example,
started as early as 1971, and an environmental protection     during dry dusty days in April and May, dust
bureau has been set up with a mandate for enforcing           storms often cause the concentration of smal
regulatory control, coordinating efforts on integrated        size suspended particles (<10 microns) to
waste  treatment, increasing  public  environmental           reach much higher levels than those indicated
awareness, operating an environmental management              above.
system and environmental monitoring network, and
establishing a comprehensive set of local environmental  (b) The other potential air pollution problem in
regulations. Thus, while Beijing's environment has been       Beijing is photochemical smog. This is caused
adversely affected by the rapid economic expansion and        primarily by vehicular emissions and could
urban construction occurring over the last decade of          occur throughout the year, being more serious
accelerated   economic  growth,  deterioration  in            from May to August when vehicular traffic
environmental conditions appears to have been somewhat        peaks. However, selective measurements of
arrested in recent years. Despite these achievements, the     ozone levels in Beijing have not shown any
city still suffers from environmental problems of air         serious sign of photochemical smog up to the
quaRity, water quality, industrial solid wastes, hazardous    present.
wastes, and urban refuse, and much work and investment
are needed to resolve the present environmental    5.         Heavy emission of air pollutants, together with
situation.                                           air temperature inversions occurring during the early
winter months, give rise to serious smog conditions in
3.      The   Beijing   Municipal  Environmental    Beijing which can last for days.  Air temperature
Protection Bureau (BMEPB) has developed a plan for    inversion heights reach 100 meters above ground level in
environmental work and set environmental targets to be    the urban area and 200 meters above ground level in the
reached by the year 2000. While very weD thought out,    countryside. To reduce ground level concentrations of air
this plan has not sufficiently analyzed alternative    pollutants, Beijing has built in some instaDlations tall
strategies to ensure that the environmental targets will be    stacks (chimneys) that rise above the inversion layer. It
achieved at least cost, nor has it adequately estimated the    also has installed high efficiency electronic precipitators
costs of the investments required to ensure that they are    at large poDlution sources. The environmental impact of
affordable.                                          the strategy of using tall chimneys has stiDl to be studied
with regard to downwind pollution and contribution to
acid rain problems.



-55-                                           Annex 4
Page 2
Water Quality Problems in Beiiing                      10.      Apart from the uncertainty of funds for these
very large projected investments, there are still other
6.       Beijing has few remaining readily exploitable    factors which are of concern. Almost all of Beijing's
surface water and groundwater resources, but is faced  waterways are fed by upstream rivers which have been
with the problem of rapidly increasing water demand.    impounded by large reservoirs used for Beijing's water
With the current total industrial, agricultural, and urban  supply. Some of the waterways inside the city serve as
water consumption of about 4 billion cubic meters per    aqueducts to transport water from the reservoirs for
year (m3/yr), there is an estimated deficit of 600 million    irrigation water to agricultural lands downstream of the
m3/yr in low rainfall years.  By the year 2000, it is    city, and to part of the city's industrial consumers.
estimated that the water deficit will rise to 1.3 billion  During the winter season, there is no release for
m31yr even under normal rainfall conditions, if present    irrigation water supply, and without rainfall practically not
water use patterns are allowed to prevail.             a single drop of unused water leaves the city. During this
period there is virtually no dilution water in the rivers
7.       Water conservation measures which include    that will receive the effluents from  the proposed
wastewater recycling and reuse are therefore important    treatment plants. Under such circumstances, in order to
factors in water management for Beijing. Appropriate    achieve the stated water quality objectives, a very high
water pricing also will be needed to control uneconomic    degree of treatment (better than secondary treatment)
water use. A strictly controlled water allocation quota  would be required, which would at least triple the
system  appears to be having some effect, as water    investments stated above. A further complication exists
consumption by industry has remained relatively constant    through the decision of the city to have a large section of
at 800-900 million m3/yr for the past eight years during    the old city remain under a combined sewer system (for
which the industrial output value has doubled.         both rainwater and wastewater) for practical and
economic reasons. While there are plans to construct
8.       Scarcity of water resources has prompted      sewer systems to intercept the wastewater, even when
Beijing to concentrate efforts on protecting its surface    these have been completed some untreated wastewater
and groundwater water supply sources. Regulations for    would inevitably overflow into the waterways with the
this have been passed, and much work has been done to    rain. The situation is especially serious during the early
control water pollution in the large reservoirs at Miyun  rainstorm  periods when accumulated sludge in the
and Guanting, and designated protection areas around   combined sewers is dislodged. This could render the
the main underground sources of water supply.  In    achievement of water quality objectives impossible at
addition, sewers have been constructed in many parts of    certain periods, despite any degree of wastewater
the urban and suburban areas to clean up the waterways    treatment provided.   It is thus evident that the
that run through the city. A large number of polluting  application of a single year-round water quality standard
industries have been closed or relocated, and industrial    to Beijing's waterways may not be relevant. A practical
wastewater pretreatment or full treatment have been    strategy has therefore to be found which maximizes the
given high priority.                                   benefits (including environmental benefits) from  the
utilization of Beijing's water resources at realistic costs.
9.       At present municipal sewage receives little
treatment. Of the wastewater flow of 2 million m3/day  Urban Refuse Problems in Beiiinu
only 266,000 m3/day receives a crude form of primary
treatment. A recently completed secondary treatment    11.      The eight urban and ten suburban districts and
plant provides for 40,000 m /day. A first-phase 500,000  counties in Beijing generate some 5 million metric
m3/day secondary treatment plant (final capacity 1.0    tons/year (t/y) of domestic refuse from a population of
million m3/day) at Gaobeidan is under construction with    around 10.3 million (1990 data). The current system of
assistance from the Japanese Government. Plans have    refuse collection is generally effective and efficient, with
also been prepared by Beijing Municipality to install    some 162 small transfer stations, where recyclable
another 1.25 million m3/day of wastewater treatment    material is also sorted out, bulidng the wastes before
capacity by the year 2000, representing a capital    transport for disposal. The past practice for urban refuse
investment of 1.33 billion RMB Yuan (at 1988 prices),    disposal was to simply pile the refuse in open dumps
with an equivalent amount to expand the city's sewer    around the periphery of the city. According to an aerial
systen. Operation and maintenance of these facilities    remote sensing survey, there are 5,190 piles of solid
would represent a yearly expenditure of 109 million RMB  waste, each in excess of 64 n2, occupying a total land
(at 1988 prices). The additional power requirements    area of 650 ha in the vicinity of the third and fourth ring
would be 30 megawatts (MW), and would require an       roads of the city. These refuse piles are causing serious
additional investment of approximately 100 million RMB  environmental problems of water pollution and breeding
for power generation. The plans aim to achieve a water    of flies, mosquitoes and rodents. In addition, large tracts
quality standard of Class HI or better by 2000 in all    of valuable land are rendered unsuitable for productive
major waterways in and around the city.                use.



- 56 -
Annex 4
Page 3
12.     Serious efforts  to  improve  solid  waste             (economic) cost analyses of environmental
management in Beijing started in 1986. A tentative plan        management and pollution control strategies,
for solid waste management has been drawn up. This             and to develop long-term strategic plans for
plan, as well as the regulatory measures required to           environmental management in Beijing; and
enforce proper disposal of the city's solid waste, will have  (e)  To propose measures and procedures for
to  be  expanded  and  refined  in  the  proposed              strengthening  environmental  planning,
environmental master plan studies. The basic technique         monitoring, and enforcement in Beijing
Beijing proposes to use is controlled land disposal, with      Municipality.
emphasis on minimizing agricultural land encroachment
and environmental pollution.  Beijing also plans to    15.     The integrated environmental management
experiment with composting and incineration pilot test    plan (IEMP) for Beijing will recommend appropriate
plants.  Application of these techniques might be    strategies to meet stated environmental goals and
restricted to refuse from a limited number of residential    objectives. It will provide the link between the sector
and  commercial  areas  where  the  content  of    master plans, which have been or are being developed by
nondecomposable refuse is low (from 6 percent to 28    sectoral and regional planning commissions, agencies, and
percent). In mixed districts (which include industrial    bureaus.
complexes), the non-decomposable refuse could reach as
high as 60 percent, and landfill would therefore be a  16.     The studies will ensure that:
more appropriate solution.
(a)  the  proposed  master  plans  explicitly
13.     About 310 ha of rural land has been acquired           incorporate environmental resource needs and
by the municipality for large landfill sites. These sites      constraints, which will be coordinated and
have been selected with appropriate considerations of the      integrated within a more comprehensive
necessary hydrogeological conditions, and are sufficienty      regional management framework, taking into
distant from important habitation centers. Three new           account future economic and population
large transfer stations will also be built. These landfill     growth;
sites and transfer stations would be used to dispose of
refuse from the eight city districts and two counties where  (b)  important linkages (e.g. impact of waste
the landfill sites are located. For the remaining eight        generation and resource use of one sector on
counties, which presently generate about 370,000 tons of       another; reuse of waste by another sector)
refuse per year, smaller landfill sites are proposed with a    among sectors for the different environmental
total land requirement of about 60 ha.. In addition the        media - atmosphere, surface water, land -
city will take measures to gradually clean up the              are adequately considered in the planning and
numerous small dump sites around the city to free the          allocation  of  resources  for  economic
land for productive use.                                       development and environmental resource
management;
Obiectives
(c)  the plans are technicaly, economically, and
14.      The studies have five principal objectives:           financially  feasible  to  achieve  the
environmental goalsand objectives established
(a)  To produce an integrated plan for air quality,       for Beijing; and
water quality, and urban refuse management
in Beijing, to the year 2015, which would       (d)  the plan can be incorporated in the social and
achieve  the  environmental  goals  and              economic five year plan.
objectives at least cost to the region;
(b)  To modify seaor development masterplans    17.       To ensure that the integrated environmental
and the urban development masterplan to     management plan and the sectoral master plans will
reflect the environmental goals and objectives    maintain their usefulness over time, the study should
of Beijing Municipality consistent with the    propose measures to allow their regular updating.
integrated environmental management plan;
(c)  To propose measures and procedures for    Outputs of Studies
integrating environmental planning within the
more well established urban, economic, and  18.      The outputs of the studies are:
infrastructure planning processes In Beijing;
(d)  To propose and provide training for the         (a)  An integrated environmental management
development of technical, analytical, and             plan for air quality, water quality, and urban
institutional capabilities  of key  Beijing          refuse management in Beijing, to the year
Municipality officials to  undertake least           2015;



- 57  -                                        Annex 4
Page 4
(b)  Modified sector development masterplans and    o   A  comprehensive energy master plan to
urban  development  masterplan  that                include all energy sources (electric power,
incorporate  environmental  resource                town gas, oil, liquefied petroleum, coal, etc.),
constraints in an integrated and coordinated        to meet Beijing's needs for space heating,
manner and that are consistent with the             industrial steam, cooking, commercial food
integrated environmental management plan.           and beverage preparation, manufacturing,
(c)  A detailed investment program  to guide             transportation, etc.
investments in environmental management        o   A space heating master plan to include heat
and pollution control in Beijing as part of the     sources from heat and power cogeneration,
five-year economic and financial planning           individual boiler houses, heating stoves, other
process, up to the year 2005 (for two five-         energy sources, taking into account energy
year planning periods).                             conservation alternatives (building insulation,
double glazed windows, etc.)
19.      The integrated environmental management         o   The urban development master plan and
plan will cover the entire geographic area of Beijing         industrial  development  master  plan
Municipality, including the eight urban districts and the     mentioned above.
ten rural districts and counties. In the case of air and  o   A plan for control of open pollution sources.
water quality management, the plan will reflect concerns
for environmental degradation in areas outside Beijing.    For Urban Refuse Management
The plan will recommend the environmental targets that
are achievable given the various physical, financial, social  o   A domestic refuse master plan to include
and political constraints.                                   treatment and disposal or reuse of domestic
refuse, to year 2015,
20.      The master plans in other sectors that need to  o   A master plan for industrial solid waste reuse,
be  coordinated  with  or  integrated  within  the            collection, treatment, and disposal.
environmental master plans include:                      o   The urban development master plan and
industrial  development  master  plan
For Water Quality Mananement                                  mentioned above.
o   A water resources master plan to include    21.      The master plans and investment program for
surface water and groundwater, and to take    air and water quality management and urban refuse
into account water demand management,    management in Beijing should specify the physical and
water recycling and reuse, and groundwater    other inputs needed to achieve the environmental goals
and surface water quality.                and objectives established for Beijing, investment and
o   A sewerage master plan to include municipal    financing requirements and sources, and the regulations,
sewage, night soil and industrial wastewater,    enforcement acts, incentives, technical guidelines, and
recommending  forms  and  degrees  of    administrative procedures needed to implement, monitor,
treatment and disposal of wastewater and    and enforce the plan, together with a compliance
human excreta, and measures to promote    monitoring system and a schedule for achieving pollution
industrial wastewater recycling, reuse, and    abatement targets.
pretreatment/treatment, and protection of
groundwater resources.                    22.       The outputs of the studies are:
o   An agricultural master plan to include
irrigation water, drainage, natural runoff and  (a)  An integrated environmental management
treated wastewater, taking into account             plan for air quality, water quality, and urban
suitable irrigation technologies and crops, and     refuse management in Beijing, to the year
recommendations on appropriate use of               2015;
fertilizers, pesticides, and herbicides.
o   An urban development master plan to include     (b)  Modified sector development masterplans and
residential, commercial, and industrial areas,      urban  development  masterplan  that
and projections of future populations in            incorporate  environmental  resource
Beijing, to the year 2015.                          constraints in an integrated and coordinated
o   An industrial development master plan to             manner and that are consistent with the
include the tpes of industries and production       integrated environmental management plan.
levels in Beijing, to the year 2015.
(c) A detailed investment program to guide
For Air Qualiw Management                                     investments in environmental management
and pollution control in Beijing as part of the



- 58 -
Annex 4
Page 5
five-year economic and financial planning    local cadre of expertise, which will be able to carry on this
process, up to the year 2005 (for tm,i five-    work in Beijing and to then train environmental
year planning periods).                    management staff in other regions of China.  The
schedules of the three major studies will be coordinated,
23.      The integrated environmental management    so that workshops can be conducted at regular six
plan will cover the entire geographic area of Beijing    monthly intervals while the foreign consultants are visiting
Municipality, including the eight urban districts and the    Beijing, to review progress and to adjust work programs
ten rural districts and counties. In the case of air and    as necessary. However, the bulk of the work program
water quality management, the plan will reflect concerns    will be carried out by the teams of local experts that will
for environmental degradation in areas outside Beijing.    be assigned to this project by the Beijing Municipal
The plan will recommend the environmental targets that    Government.
are achievable given the various physical, financial, social
and political constraints.                          26.       A tentative work schedule for the study is
outlined below, which may be refined by the foreign
Study Oqanization and Schedule                      consultants in consultation with the teams of local
experts.
24.      The proposed arrangements within Beijing
Municipality to undertake the studies are as follows:   Month      Activity
Leading Group composed of senior municipality officials  1 - 2     Review of current situation in Beijing
to provide direction to the study work. It would also              and preparation of initial work program.
facilitate integration, cooperation, and coordination of the
work of the various municipal bureaus and agencies       3 - 4     Overseas study visits by key local
involved in preparing and supplying information and data           experts and continued development of
for environmental management plans. It will be the                 work program.
channel to the Beijing Municipal Government on matters
requiring policy decisions.                              5 - 8     Data collection and verification for
existing conditions and for projections
Study Management Office will be responsible for the                to the year 2015.
Overall study management, and the coordination and
integration of the work of the three study teams for air  9        Preparation of Inception Report.
and water quality management and municipal refuse
management. The office will be responsible for (a)      10 - 12    Workshop  in  Beijing  to  review
management of the overall project; (b) zoordination                Inception Report, progress report, and
among the air quality, water quality, and municipal refuse         work  program.   Development of
management  work  groups;  (c)  specification  of                  scenarios to be anabzed. Review of
information needs and planning parameters.                        scenarios and approval by appropriate
agencies.  Local training by foreign
Air. Water. and Urban Refuse Study Teams will each                 experts.
conduct a separate study. They will: (a) develop the
overall framework and methodology, schedules, budgets,  13 - 17    Complete data collection, develop and
and analytical models; (b) supervise, coordinate, counsel         refine models, and begin scenario
and initiate work for subcontractors; (c) incorporate             analysis.
linkages to the other strategy studies; and (d) conduct
analysis, identify optimal strategies, organize results and  18    Workshop in Beijing to review work
prepare reports.                                                   progress  and  consultants  reports.
Refine work program and identify
Study Schedule                                                    special support studies needed.
25.      It is anticipated that approximately three years  19 - 23    Continue  model  refinement  and
will be required to complete the studies, although parts          scenario analysis, and conduct out
of the plans may be completed before this time. This              special studies.
estimate takes into account the need to familiarize local
experts in the special methodologies, techniques and    24 - 25    Workshop in Beijing to review work
models used to develop such master plans and on-the-job            progress  and  consultants  reports.
training provided by foreign experts on a planned                  Prepare work program for development
schedule of six monthly visits during the course of the            of the master plans, and institutional
program. The objective of this approach is to buDld up a           proposals required to implement plans



- 59                                              Annex 4
Page 6
effectively. Local training by foreign  and the study teams to develop and manage the overall
experts.                                program  and the individual studies; to provide the
framework of analysis; to provide speciaUlsts to advise in
26 - 29    Prepare   draft  environmental    critical technical fields; to assist in preparing work
management and sector masterplans    programs; to assist in preparing terms of reference and in
and institutional proposals.            carrying out special studies; to identify the most suitable
existing models, computer programs, and methodologies
30       Workshop to review draft master plans,    for application in these studies; to review and appraise
institutional proposals, and consultants    outputs of the various teams and make suggestions for
reports, and develop work program to    improvements; to propose and assist in developing the
refine work.                            various scenarios to be analyzed; to provide training for
local experts both overseas and in-country, in areas of
31 - 35    Refine and complete all master plans    specialty to be identified by the consultants; to assist in
and institutional proposals, and prepare    developing master plans; and to write summary reports
summary report in Chinese and English.    for submission to Beijing Municipal authorities and to the
World Bank.
36       Workshop to present final report to
decision-makers in government and the
international donor community, etc.
Revortinp Reauirements
27.       As described in the schedule, it is expected
that each study team will prepare an Inception Report
during the ninth month after the start of the project, for
discussions in a subsequent workshop involving foreign
consultants, local technical advisors and team members,
as well as World Bank representatives. It is proposed
that the teams will prepare progress reports at six-month
intervals for discussion in subsequent workshops with
foreign experts and World Bank representatives. At the
conclusion of the project, final reports will be prepared
describing the master plans and the results of the
institutional and other studies carried out during the
project.
Role and Resvonsibilitv of Foreign Consultants
28.       In order to build a capacity within Beijing
Municipality to develop and update environmental master
plans (and therefore realize a major objective of this
project), it will be necessary for the municipal authorities
to assume full responsibility for organizing, managing, and
carrying out the studies described above. However, it is
important for Beijing to gain from the experiences of
other countries, and to benefit from the objectivity of
proposals made by those who are not themselves
intimately involved in the problem. There also may be
certain specialty areas in which Beijing Municipality, and
China more generally, may lack expertise. The foreign
experts to be engaged for the studies will have to
supplement these needs. Therefore they must have
previous experience in the required fields and be able to
provide the technical support and training that will be
required.
29.       The role and responsibilities of the foreign
consultant are: to assist the Study Management Office



- 60 -                                           Annex 5
Page 1
CHINA
BEIJING ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT
Industrial Hazardous Waste Management Studies - draft Terms of Reference
Backzround                                              In addition some 175,000 small packages of hazardous
materials are transported for storage at the Yangfang Acute
1.         Beijing Municipality (BM) is one of three    Toxics Store each year.
municipalities in China which are directly under the Central
Government, and has the status of a province. The other    4.      There are many uncertainties concerning the
two are Shanghai and Tianjin. BM  is the seat of the    accuracy of the survey for the following reasons: (a) the
nation's capital, and is situated in the north of the North    classification of hazardous wastes not well-defined, as China
China Plain at Latitude 40 N and Longitude 116 E. The   had little experience with these wastes; (b) on-the-spot
municipality has a total land area of 16,807 sq. km.    checking of the results of survey questionnaires was inade-
Administratively BM is divided into 8 urban districts (4 in    quate, and it was known that enterprises tended to underes-
the city center and 4 in the near suburbs), 2 rural districts    timate and/or underreport the quantities of hazardous waste
and 8 rural counties. It has a total resident population of    generated; and (c) enterprises often label hazardous wastes
about 10.3 million and a mobile population (visitors, travel-    as "innocuous" wastes in order that they can sell these to
ling merchants, temporary labor force, etc.) of nearly one    other enterprises for reuse.
nillion people. Nearly 6 million live in the urban districts.
The municipality has a temperate continental climate with    S.    At present there is limited capacity safe
an average air temperature of 11.7 C and an average    storage and treatment of hazardous wastes hn Beijing. This
annual precipitation of 626 mm. Main rivers include the    include: (a) ten small incinerators capable of treating a total
Yongding River, the Chaobai River, and the Wenyu River,    of some 5,000 tons of combustible organic wastes each year;
all of which have been impounded upstream for Beijing's   (b) a safe landfill site of 45,000 m3 capacity for wastes from
water supply.                                           a large petrochemical complex; (c) a "secure" storage facility
at Yangfang Acute Toaic Waste Storehouse for small
2.         Hazardous wastes in Beijing, as in other parts    packages of highly toxic wastes; and (d) two hazardous
of China, are being disposed of without any regulatory    waste storage sites located in caves at Qing Quanpu and
controls and with serious consequences to the environment    Huang Shicuo in Yangqing County, storing some 8,400
and people's health and welfare. At the national level the    retired electrical capacitors containing 120 tons of polychlor-
National Environemtnal Protection Agency (NEPA) has    inated biphenyls (PCBs). Recent hydrogeological investiga-
drafted a law to control the generation, transport, treatment    tions have revealed soil substrata of high permeability at
and disposal of hazardous wastes, which has been passed in  Yangfang, casting doubts on the further usefulness of this
1991. With the assistance of funds frorr the Japan Grant    site. An additional 2,500 retired capacitors are stored at
Facility, executed by the World Bank, NI PA is drafting the    dispersed locations in Beijing. About 20 percent of these
required regulations to support this law.               capacitors are found to be splitting, with leaking of their
PCB contents.
3.         In a survey carried out in 1985-1987, covering
more than 10 industrial subsectors, the Beijing Municipal    6.    The  Beijing  Municipal Authorities have
Environmental Protection Bureau (BMEPB) and the    requested the World Bank, under the Beijing Environmen-
Beijing Economic Commission (BEC) found that at least    tal Project, to assist in the building up of its capability for
270,000 tons of hazardous waste are generated annually    hazardous waste management in the municipality.
from the 18 districts and counties of Beijing Municipality
(BM), and are disposed of in some 1.1 million disposal sites.    New Institutional Arrangements for Hazardous Waste
Table I summarizes the current situation.               ManaRement in Beiiinz
TABLE 1. H ardous W=ze Genwation and Dipual    7.               The Beijing Industrial Hazardous Waste
in Beijn                              Management Center (BIHWMC) was established in 1990,
as a municipal department under the Beijing Economic
Item                   Quantity (tn*r)            Commission. Together with BMEPB and Beijing Public
Security Bureau (BPSB), the three institutions have become
Total output                 267,00G              primarily responsible for hazardous waste management and
Recovered and reutilized     119,500              control in the municipality. The roles and responsibilities of
Treatment to detoxify         12,400             these organizations for hazardous waste management are
Untreated                    135,100              briefly described below
Amount acsmr     J          1,120,000



- 61 -
Annex 5
Page 2
(a)   BMEPB                                               o  Undertake personnel training, sampling and
analysis and inspection of hazardous waste
o  Implement national laws, statutes, regulations          generators and treatment facility operators;
and policies; propose and enforce local stat-
utes, regulations, and standards relating to the  (c)   BPSB
control of hazardous waste in Beijing;
o  Prepare plans for hazardous waste manage-            o  Recommend and implement laws and regula-
ment for incorporation into 5 year Municipal           tions for management of acutely hazardous
planning process;                                       chemicals in Beijing from  a public safety
o  Set up hazardous waste monitoring system,               perspective; including:
standardize sampling and analytical tech-               -    maintenance of an up-to-date register
niques;                                                      of users, producers and storage;
o  Review and approve Environmental Impact                  -    stipulation of labelling and packaging
Assessments for projects generating, storing,                requirements;
treating, or disposing of hazardous waste;              -    issue certificates of purchase;
o  Make on-site inspections of hazardous waste              -    establish rules and regulations for safe
generators, waste treatment and disposal                     storage and transport;
facilities to ensure compliance with regulations        -    inspect, monitor and control users, and
or permits;                                                  producers of acutely hazardous chemi-
o  Maintain a statistical and management infor-                  cals, including BIHWMC.
mation system for generation, transport,
storage, treatment and disposal of hazardous    Current Status of Institutional Development
waste in Beijing;
o  Manage a licensing/permitting system  for    8.         BMEPP has a group of technical specialistu
hazardous waste generators, transponers and    working on hazardous waste issues in the First Supervision
treatment facility operators as required by law;    Division. This group has prepared three draft regulations
o  Advise and encourage enterprises on technolo-    concerning hazardous wastes, namely:
gy for reducing hazardous waste (waste mini-
mization, renovation, reuse, recycle and recov-   (a)   Provisions on the Management of Industrial
ery, low waste technology, etc);                        Hazardous Waste in Beijing;
o  Collect hazardous waste generation fees and       (b)  Provisions on Industrial Solid Waste Genera-
approve investment plans for support under             tion in Beijing;
Environmental Pollution Investment Fund.          (c)   Provisions on the Pollutant Discharge License.
(b)  BIHWMC                                       9.         BIHWMC is now officially established, with an
acting director, two deputy directors and three full time
o  Cooperate with BMEPB and BPSB in draw-    staff appointed. It is expected that the full initial comple-
ing up hazardous waste management regula-    ment of 30 staff will be recruited by the end of 1991. The
tions, and in their monitoring and enforce-    proposed organization and functions of the Center were
ment;                                       studied by the China Armament Industry Research Insti-
o  Draw up plans for hazardous waste treatment,   tute, and a report titlted 'Report on the Feasibility Study of
storage and disposal and cooperate with    the Beijing Hazardous Waste Management and Disposal
BMEPB for inclusion in 5 year development    Project", was issued in December 1990.  This report
plans;                                      recommended three tasks, under Phase I operations, to be
o  Construct and operate waste treatment, stor-    carried out under the Beijing Environment Project namely:
age and disposal facilities;
o  Coordinate and facilitate utilization of individ-  (a)   Construction of a building to provide office
ual and central hazardous waste treatment              and laboratory space for the Center and
and disposal facilities;                                purchase of laboratory sampling and analtical
o  Develop waste minimization and comprehen-               equipment, as well as vehicles;
sive waste utilization methods with waste         (b)  Construction of a new interim safe storage
generators and users, and assist in securing            facility for highly hazardous waste at Fashang
approval and finance for required facilities;           with a capacity of 650 tonnes/yr, which could
o  Set up a waste exchange register and coopera-           be easily expanded if the need arises;
tion network with other municipalities and        (c)   A study to propose measures for effective
provinces;                                              operation of the Center, and to determine
o  Organize research and promotional efforts for           feasible investments needed for hazardous
hazardous waste management;                             waste management.



- 62 -                                            Annex 5
Page 3
10.        The technical assistance work program to be               outline description of these and propose a
funded under this project will be directed at the task under         program for their development;
parw. 9(c) above. The objectives and scope of work for the
study are given below.                                         (b)   Survey and Validation of Hazardous Waste
Generation Data.
Objectives
o  Review the hazardous waste surveys carried
11.        The objectives of the study are:                          out to date, with panicular regard to the
sampling and analytical methods used, the
(a)   To propose measures to support BMEPB and                 definition and classification of "hazardous
BIHWMC to expedite institutional develop-                waste", and data on industrial classification,
ment and orgarnization of hazardous waste                production and location in Beijing.
management and control in Beijing,                   o  Develop the methodology for a supplementary
(b)  To develop the capacity and level of expertise            survey to identify, characterize and quantify
of the staff of these organizations and local            hazardous waste inadequately covered in the
consulting institutes through on-the-job, over-          original surveys, to cover potential waste
seas and local training courses to be arranged           generators, hospitals, pharmacies, research
by the foreign consultants;                              laboratories, etc, not previously surveyed; and
(c)   To carry out feasibility and other studies               to sample check to detect inadequate or
needed to develop least cost investment pro-             potentially unreliable data;
grams, financial and operational management          o  Conduct supplementary survey as specified
plans, as well as to develop the policies, regu-         above with the use of appropriately-designed
lations and financial and economic incentive             questionnaires and site visits;
strategies for hazardous waste management in         o  Analyze the new data and generate a revised
Beijing.                                                 hazardous waste inventory for Beijing;
o  Develop methodology for periodically updating
Scone of Work                                                        this inventory.
12.        The scope of work will include the following:       (c)   Survey of Existing Hazardous Waste Treat-
ment and Disposal Facilities and Practices in
(a)   Preparation of Hazardous Waste Regulations               Beiiini.
and Policies.
o  Review current practice for treatment and
o  Review draft and proposed hazardous waste                 disposal of hazardous waste in Beijing, identi-
laws, regulations and policies under prepara-            fying downstream processors or purchasers of
tion at the National and the Beijing Munici-             hazardous wastes from generators inside, as
pality levels;                                           well as outside the Municipal boundaries (e.g.
O  Review existing laws, regulations and policies            waste acid contaminated by toxic organics sold
for pollution control, pollution levy, pollution         to a fertilizer manufacturer);
control fund, special tax incentives for compre-     o  Develop methodology and conduct survey of
hensive waste utilization, acutely hazardous             current waste disposal practices, using ques-
chemicals, etc in relation to the special re-            tionnaires and visits to existing treatment and
quirements and possible adjustments needed               reprocessing facilities. Each facility should be
for hazardous waste management, control and              assessed for
regulation;                                                -  Appropriateness of the level of technol-
o  Reviewadministrativeproceduresandprocess-                       ogy used;
es, such as the responsibility system for envi-            *  Level of performance of the technology
ronmental management, to identify the poten-                   and its operations;
tial for hazardous waste minimization, reuse               -  Ability to meet ambient and emission,
and treatment;                                                 as well as health and safety standards;
o  Review the legal liability issue in relation to             -  Type and ezstimated costs of improve-
the generation, transport, treatment and                       ments required to meet these stan-
disposal of hazardous wastes and the potential                 dards;
impact on generators, transporters, and opera-             -  Potential for facility to be used or ex-
tors of waste rnanagement facilities;                          panded to treat or dispose of other
o  Propose a priority list of regulations and policy               wastes;
instruments adopting a comprehensive "cradle         o  Develop a methodology for periodically updat-
to grave" management approach, prepare an                ing this survey.



- 63 -
Annex 5
Page 4
(d)   Software Development for Information and                   -  Sell or give the waste to another enter-
Data Processing.                                               prise for reprocessing, recycle, or recov-
ery;
o  Determine data reporting and monitoring                     -  Set up an on-site treatment and dispos-
requirements for the management of hazard-                     al facility-, and
ous wastes in Beijing;                                     -  Pay for treatment and disposal at an-
o  Examine requirements of BEPB, BIHWMC                            other facility, etc.
and BPSB for data storage and reporting, and         o  At the regional and inter-regional levels op-
review existing practice and available equip-            tions to be considered may include:
ment;                                                      -  Waste exchange operations promoted
o  Develop computer software for a data man-                       by industry associations or government
agement system to process at least the follow-                 agencies;
ing basic data:                                            -  Use of existing treatment, or recycle
-  Inventory of hazardous waste genera-                      and reuse facilities by more than one
tors and waste arisings;                                 generator, and  possibly  modifying
-  Inventory of waste transporters;                          and/or expanding such facilities; and
-  Inventory of waste storage, treatment,          -  Construction of common treatment and dis-
recycle, reuse and disposal facilities;            posal, or recycle and reuse facilities for groups
-  Inventory of contaminated waste dis-                of generators, etc.
posal sites;                                   o  For individual major generators identify in-
-  Inventory of wastes arisings and hazard-            vestment requiremenw  for on-site waste
ous waste in storage requir.ng installa-           minimization, recycle or reuse, as well as the
tion of suitable treatment technology,             quantity of waste requiring treatment and
or that would be available for repro-              disposal, or reprocessing off-site.
cessing or reuse;                               o  For small generators develop scenarios for
-  Analytical and monitoring data;                     common treatment and disposal, recycling and
-  Internationally available data bases, eg.           reuse at the regional level. For each scenerio
ILO's Material Safety Data Sheets, etc.;           an analysis will be made to evaluate treatment
o  Specify enquiry and reporting requirements                an"d disposal technologies; identify options for
for each of the three organizations and identi-          packaging, storage and transportation; evalu-
fy how data sharing and reporting require-               ate environmental and safety impacts; and
ments can be met most cost effectively;                  develop investment costs for comparison
o  Test software, and operationalize witnin the              among options.
three organizations with trained operators.          o  For feasible common treatment, disposal,
recycle and reuse facilities, develop the con-
(e)   Study of Least Cost Strategies for Hazardous             ceptual layout and design, calculate general
Waste Management.                                        material and heat balance, develop major
equipment selection criteria, develop invest-
o  Based on findings and conclusions of                      ment and operating and maintenance costs,
the activities described in (b) and (c)                  prepare environmental impact assessment,
above for the next 10-15 years, identify                 illustrate  appropriate  analytical methods,
alternative strategies or wscenarios" for                p'opose laboratory facilities, specify pakaging,
hazardous  waste  management  in                         transportation  and  storage  requirements;
Beijing, both for individual and group                   prepare procurement documents; and specify
(regional and inter-regional) solutions                  operating procedures.
among waste generators within and
even outside BM;                                   (f)   Pricing. Financial and Economic Incentives
o  For the individual waste generator possible               Stu8v.
options may include:
-  Closure of waste generating operations;         o  In conjunction with study teams (a) and (g)
-  Changing the source of raw materials                evaluate the scope and level of fees, levies,
to reduce or eliminate waste;                      taxes, penalties and charges to be imposed on
-  Changing the process, or equipment to               waste generators, transporters and waste
reduce or eliminate wastes;                        treatment and disposal operators in Beijing
-  Partially or completely recycle or reuse            under existing, draft and proposed legislation.
the waste on-site;                                 Such fees, levies, taxes, penalties and charges
-  Improve plant management and opera-                 should be adequate to provide the necessary
tions to reduce waste;                             incentives for enterprises to dispose of waste



- 64 -                                           AnnexS
Page 5
properly, and should reflect the economic    BPSB, local consulting design institutes, such as the China
costs waste disposal and of pollution. They    Armament Industry Design and Research Institute, and the
should also be affordable to users. In addi-   foreign consultants that are selected for this contract. It is
tion, the consultants should:               intended that the local team members will gain experience
-  estimate the yearly cost and cost per    from  on-the-job training by working with the foreign
unit (e.g. per ton) of such fees, levies,    experts, as well as from overseas and in-country training
taxes, penalties and charges which    courses, which will be funded under the consultants'
would be generated each year by differ-    contract. The proposed training courses and schedules will
ent types of waste generators (by type    be specified by the foreign consultants in their proposaL
and size of industry), transporters and    The consultants will designate staff from their organization
waste treatment and disposal operators.    who will be their representative for each of the six proposed
-  propose the organization(s) to which    activities or study components. A team leader for each
such fees, levies, taxes, penalties and    study component will be appointed by the Beijing authori-
charges would be paid, and the yearly    ties from one of the local organizations.
amount which each organization should
expect to collect from these charges.  14.        The role and responsibilities of the foreign
-  estimate the unit and yearly amount of    consultant are to:
subsidies or cross subsidies, and the
beneficiaries of these subsidies.             o  Assist the local staff to develop and manage
o  Develop a 15-year financial plan using a                their various activities;
computerized financial model for BIHWMC             o  Assist in preparing and revising work pro-
(a spreadsheet model is already available and           grams;
is used by a few utilities in Beijing), which       o  Provide advice on analytical methods and
would allow BIHWMC to be financially self-             survey methodologies;
sufficient within a reasonable time frame, with     o  Review and appraise the outputs of the vari-
charges that are affordable to the industries           ous study teams;
whose hazardous waste are sent to BIHWMC            o  Provide outline and framework of interim and
for storage and/or disposal. The plan will be           final reports;
closely coordinated with the efforts of study       o  Prepare summary reports in English;
teams (a) and (e). The outputs are expected         o  Prepare training materials and carry out
to be:                                                 overseas and in-country training as agreed;
-  A schedule of fees and charges to be
imposed on different types of waste
generators (by type and size of indus-    Proposed Work Schedule
try), transporters and waste treatment
and disposal operators.                15.        The overall time required to complete the
-  Subsidies for specific industries. The    various studies and surveys is e-xpected to be about two
amount and justification for any subsi-    years. It is recommended thIdt joint workshops be held at
dies should be clearly indicated.     six monthly intervals at which progress reports of each team
-  Recommendations on the desirable    are discussed and future work programs are coordinated to
.inancial objectives for BIHWMC.      avoid duplication of work. A tentative work schedule is
-  Pro-forma financial statements, includ-    outlined below. In their proposal the foreign consultant will
ing income statements, cash flows and  expand on this schedule.
balance sheets for 15 years, relevant to
the Chinese accounting and reporting
systems.
-  Recommended yearly monitoring indi-
cators which should be used to track
the operations, finances and operational
efficiency of BIHWMC.
-  Training of BIHWMC staff in the
using, updating and nr -difying the fi-
nancial model.
Work Orianization
13.        The work would be carried out in teams
composed of staff seconded from BIHWMC, BEPB and



- 65 -
- 65 -                                     Annex 5
Page 6
Month    Activity                                Budget
I - 2    Review of current situation regarding    17.        The proposed budget for the study is
hazardous waste management in Beijing,   summarized below:
preparation of initial work program for the
various studies and begin preliminary           Item                   Estimate of Cost
work;                                                                 US$'000  RMB'000
3 - 5    Overseas training of key local experts,
continuation of the work program and       Foreign Consultants            690
preparation of the interim reports;        Local Consultants                 -  2,000
6       Workshop in Beijing to review interim      Overseas Training of Local Experts 150
reports and coordinate work programs of
the various teams;
7 -11    In-country training of local experts, contin-  Total                       840   2,00o
ued work on the revised program by vari-
ous teams, and preparation of interim
reports;
12      Workshop in Beijing to review interim
reports and coordinate work programs of
the vaiious teams;
13-17    Continued work on the revised program
by the various teams and preparation of
interim reports;
18      Workshop in Beijing to review interim
reports and coordinate work programs of
the various teams;
19-23    Finalize work of various teams and pre-
pare final reports as well as summary
reports;
24      Final workshop to present and review
findings and conclusions of the various
studies, and recommend follow up actions
by BM.
Reports
16.         From the above schedule, it is expected that
interim reports of each study team will be prepared every
six months. A final report will be submitted at the end of
the study period. The foreign consultants will prepare
summary progress reports in English every six months for
submission to BM and the World Bank. At the completion
of the studies the foreign consultants will prepare a final
summary report outlining the main findings and conclusions
of the study and recommendations for follow up actions.



- 66 -
Annex 6
CHINA
BEIJING ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT
Appraisal Procedure and Criteria for Industrial Subnrojects
Procedure                                            Additional material on this subject may be provided by
the Bank from time to time.
1.      Subprojects suggested for inclusion in the
component would have been screened by the Beijing    Financial Anpraisal
Municipal Planning Commission (BMPC), with the
assistance of the Finance Bureau, the EPB, other    4.        In all cases a financial appraisal should be
interested parties, and the World Bank.   Those    conducted to determine if the enterprise as a whole wilH
subprojects which have been accepted for further    be financially viable. In particular the enterprise must be
processing (Page 2 of Annex 3) would be prepared and  able to service the loan without compromising the
appraised in accordance with criteria satisfactory to the    financial viability of the enterprise.  This would be
Bank. The Beijing Branch of China Investment Bank    measured by the debt service capacity shown by the
(CIB), will conduct the appraisal with assistance from  financial projections which should be not be less than 1.4
CIB Headquarters where required, and from the Beijing    in each future year once full production capacity is
Engineering Consultancy Corporation (BECC' on the    reached. If this condition cannot be met, and provided
technical aspects of the appraisals. CIB Beijing will be    that the economic criteria is satisfied, Beijing Municipal
responsible for compiling the appraisal report and    Government, the Central Government etc. would be
submitting it to the BMPC for final approval.  If    required to consider making an investment grant, which
approved the appraisal report will be sent to the Bank for    is essentially an equity contribution. The size of the grant
its review through the Beijing Environmental Project    would be specified in the subloan agreement.  For
Office. Approval by the Bank wil be required prior to    guidance purpose, the maximum  amount of the
the disbursement of Bank funds for the particular    investment grant should be limited to 25 percent of the
subproject.                                          capital investment; if this is still insufficient to allow the
required debt service capacity to be met, the project
2.      The Beijing Environmental Project Office    should not be supported without specific World Bank
(BEPO) will be responsible for the supervision of the    agreement, as this could indicate that the enterprise has
subprojects and reports on progress to the Bank. CIB    serious financial problems, and its operations may not be
Beijing and BECC will also be formally involved in    sustainable in the long term. Under such circumstances
subproject supervision.  The BEPO will inform  the    closure may be the best solution.
mission as soon as possible of the detailed arrangements
it proposes for the supervision of the Industry    5.         For the hazardous waste subprojects, financial
Component. The formal agreements for the services to    analysis would be carried out to determine whether the
be provided by CIB Beijing and the BECC for the    entity responsible for disposing the hazardous waste
appraisal of the subprojects and other services concerning  would have the necessary financial resources to efficiently
the implementation of the subprojects should be sent to    carry out its responsibilities over the life of the
the Bank for its review and approval.                subproject.
Economic Appraisal                                   Subloan Size
3.      The CIB appraisal of the Industrial Pollution    6.   The size of any subloan will be limited to a
subprojects will, inter alia have to demonstrate that the  maximum of US$11 million, or 70 percent of the total
enterprise merits support and that closure of the    cost of the subproject.
processes generating the pollution is not the most cost
effective or economic solution; this in general would be
demonstrated by showing that with the proposed
subproject the enterprise would be financially viable, and
using economic analysis, with a discount rate of 10%,
would generate a positive net present value (NPV). For
both the Industrial Pollution and Hazardous Waste
subprojects the appraisal would also have to show that all
feasible solutions had been examined and that the
solution proposed was the most cost effective within the
constraints imposed; financing, technical risk, etc. The
appraisal will basically follow the CIB Appraisal Manual
agreed with the Bank for use on Bank financed projects.



CHINA
BEJING ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT
Project Cost Estimate                                                               US$I = Y5.28
(million RMBY)
WASTEWATER
1991                  1992                  1993                  1994                  1995                  1996                TOTAL
item             Local Forcign Total  Local Foreign Total   Local Foreign  Total  Local Foreign  Total   Local Foreign  Total  Local Foreign Total  Local Foeign  Tota
y      y      y       y      y      y       y      y       y      Y      y      y       y      y      y       y      y      y      S       y       y
Civil Works
Trunk Swer                0.0    0.00   0.00   9.88   8.18  18.06  15.78  13.04  28.82  11.44   9.45  20.89   3.81   3.17   6.98                             40.91  33.84   74.75
OtherSewers               1.29   1.06   2.35   3.08   2.53   5.61    5.07   4.22   9.29   0.77   0.63    1.40   5.68   4.70  10.38                           15.89  13.15   29.04
Land Acquisition           4.92   0.00   4.92  24.61   0.00  24.61  25.46   0.00  25.46   1.55   0.00    1.55   0.66   0.00   0.66                            57.20   0.00   57.20
Operation Equipment
River Cleaning                                  0.65   5.86   6.51   0.65   5.86   6.51                                                                       1.30  11.72   13.02
Sewer System                                    0.45   4.07   4.52   0.45   4.07   4.$2                                                                      0.90   8.13    9.03
Monitoring System                               0.98   1.48   2.46   0.98    1.48   2.46                                                                      1.96   2.96    4.92
Detailed Design            1.25   0.00    1.25   1.25   0.21    1 46                                                                                           2.50   0.21    2.71
Other Costs                1.48   0.00    1.48                                                                                                                 1.4&   0.00    1.48
Training                   0.10   0.21   0.31   0.40   0.58   0.98   0.40   0.53   0.93                                                                        0.90   1.32    2.22
TOTAL BASE COST (1990)   9.04   1.27  10.31  41.30  22.92  64 22  48.79  29.20   77.99  13 76  10.08  23.84  10.15   7.87  18.02                             123.04  71.33   194.37
Physical Cant.     10%     0.90   0.13    1.03   4.13   2.29   6.42   4.88   2.92   7.80   1.38   1.01   2.38   1.02   0.79   1.80                            12.30   7.13   19.44
T13C- Physical Cont        994    1.39  11.34  45.43  25.21  70.64  53.67  3212   85.79  15.14  11.09  2623   11.17   8.65  19.82                            135.34  78.47  213.81
Price Contingency          0.50   0.07   0.57   6.56   3.64  10 21  11.75   7.03  18.78   4.24   3.10   7.34   3.84   2.98   6.81                             26.88  16.82   43.71
TOTALCOST                 10.44   1.46   11.90  51.99  28.85  80.84  65.42  39.15  104.57  19.37  14.20  33.57   15.00  11.63  26.63                         162.23  95.29  257.52
Mnflation Rate            10.0%   10.0%          8.0%   8.0%           5.0%   5.0%           5.0%   5.0%           5.0%   5.0%           5.0%   5 0;
Escalation Factor         1.050  1.050          1.145  1.145          1.219  1.219          1 280  1.280          1.344  1.344          1.411   1.411
SOLID WASTE
1991                  1992        1         1993                  1994                  1995                 1996                 TOTAL
Itnm             Local Foreign  Total   Local Foreign  Total   Local Foreign  rotal   Local Foreign  Total   Local Foreign  Total   Local Foreign  Total   Local Foreign  Total
y      y      y       y      y      y       y      y      y       y      y      y      y       y      y      y       y      y      y       y      y
Civil Works (Stagc 1)                           14.54   0.48   15.02                                                                                          14.54   0.48   15.02
Civil Works (Stage 2)                                                                                              9.81   0.26   10.07                         9.81   0.26   10.07
Landfill Machinery                               0.05   7.18   7.23                                                                                           0.05   7.18    7.23
Instrunents& meters                              0.08   1.19   1.27                                                                                           0.08   1.19    1.27
Other Equipment                                  0.05   0.69   0.74                                                                                           0.05   0.69    0.74
Detailed Design            0.08   0.00   0.08   1.17   0.69    1.86                                                                                            1.25   0.69    1.94
Training                                         0.00   0.58   0.58                                                                                           0.00   0.58    0.58
TOTAL BASE COST (1990)   0.08   0.00   0.08   15.89  10.80  26.69                                                  9.81   0.26  10.07                         25.78  11.06   36.84
Pbysical Cont.     10%    0.01   0.00   0.01    1.59   1.08   2.67                                                 0.98   0.03    1.01                        2.58   1.11    3.68
TBC.PlrysicilConC.         0.09   0.00   0.09   17.48  11.88  29.36                                               10.79   0.28   11.07                       28.36  12.16   40.52
PriceContingency           0.00   0.00   0.00   2.53   1.72   4.24                                                 3.71   0.10   3.81                         6.24   1.81    8.05
TOTAL COST                 0.09   0.00   0.09  20.01   13.59  33.60                                               14.50   0.38  14.88                         34.60  13.98   48.58
Inflation Rate            10.0%  10.0%           8.0%   8.0%           5.0%   5.0%           5.0%   5.0%           5.0%   5.0%           5.0%   5.0%
Escalation Factor         1.050  1.050          1.145  1.145          1.219  1.219          1.280  1.280          1.344  1.344          1.411   1.411
(X



DISTRICT HEATING
1991                 1992                 1993                  1994                 1995                 1996                TOTAL
Item             Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total I Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign  Total  Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Local ForeigK  Total
Equipment & Materials
Pipes                    0.28   5.49   5.77   2.24  44.09  46.33   0.28   5.49   5.77                                                                    2.80  55.07   57.87
Boiler                                                             0.85  17.00  17.85   0.85  17.00  17.85                                               1.70  34.00   35.70
Equipment (batch 1)                           0.80  18.85  19.65   0.80  18.85  19.65                                                                    1.60  37.70   39.30
Equipment (bateb 2)                                                0.55  14.10  14.65   0.55  14.10  14.65                                               1.10  28.20   29.30
Replacepu-p(SJS)                              0.16   3.17   3.33                                                                                        0.16   3.17    3.33
Civil Works
Pipe Sect I              7.10   3.48  10.58  16.55   8.13  24.68                                                                                        23.65  11.62   35.27
Pipe Sect 2                                  23.23  19.01  42.24  23.22  19.01  42.23                                                                  46.45  38.02   84.47
Boiler& PipeSct3                                                                        11.41   6.23  17.64  19.01  10.45  29.46   7.60   4.12  11.72  38.02  20.80   58.82
Land Acquisition        150.00   0.00 150.00  10.00   0.00  10.00  30.00   0.00  30.00  10.00                                                           200.00   0.00  190.00
Detailed Dcsign           4.80   0.16   4.96   6.90   0.53   7.43   4.80   0.42   5.22                                                                   16.50   1.11   17.61
Trainirtg                                      2.00   0.79   2.79   2.00   0.79   2.79   2.00   0.53   2.53                                               6.00   2.11    8.11
TOTALBASECOST(1990) 162.18   9.13 171.31  61.88  94.56 156.44  62.50  75.66 138.16  24.81  37.86  62.67  19.01  10.45  29.46   7.60   4.12  11.72 337.98 231.79  569.77
Physical Cont.    10%   16.22   0.91  17.13   6.19   9.46  15.64   6.25   7.57  13.82   2.48   3.79   6.27   1.90   1.05   2.95   0.76   0.41   1.17  33.80  23.18   56.98
TBC + Fhysical Cont.    178.40  10.05 188.45  68.07 104.02 172.09  68.75  83.23 151.98  27.29  41.64  68.93  20.91  11.50  32.41   8.36   4.53  12.89 371.78 254.97  626.75
Price Contingency         8.92   0.50   9.42   9.84  15.03  24.87  15.05  18.22  33.27   7.64  11.65  19.29   7.19   3.95  11.14   3.44   1.86   5.30  52.07  51.22  103.29
TOTAL COST              187.32  10.55 197.87  77.90 119.05 196.96  83.80 101.45 185.25  34.93  53.30  88.22  28.10  15.45  43.55  11.80   6.39  18.19 423.85 306.19  730.04
flation Rate             10.0%  10.0%           8.0%   8.0%          5.0%   5.0%          5.0%   5.0%          5.0%   5.0%           5.0%   5.0%
Escalation Factor        1.050  1.050         1.145  1.145          1.219  1.219         1.280  1.280         1.344  1.344          1.411  1.411
INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION
1991                 1992                 1993                 1994                  1995                 1996                TOTAL                00
Itcm             Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign  Total
y      y      y      y      y      y      y      y      y       y      y      y      y      y      Y      Y      Y      Y      Y       Y      Y
subprojects                                   63.10  52.80 115.90 126.20 105.60 231.80  63.10  52.80 115.90                                             252.40 211.20  463.60
Price Contingency                              9.12   7.63  16.75  27.62  23.12  50.74  17.66  14.78  32.43                                              54.40  45.52   99.92
TOTAL COST                                    72.22  60.43 132.65 153.82 128.72 282.54  80.76  67.58 148.33                                             306.80 256.72  563.52
Inflation Rate           10.0%  10.0%           8.0%   8.0%          5.0%   5.0%          5.0%   5.0%           5.0%   5.0%          5.0%   5.0%
Escalation Factor        1.050  1.050          1.145  1.145         1.219  1.219         1.280  1.280          1.344  1.344         1.411  1.411
HAZARDOUS WASTE
1991                 1992                 1993                  1994                 1995                 1996                TOTAL
Itemn            Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign  Total
Y      Y      Y      Y      Y      Y      Y      Y       Y      Y      Y      Y      Y      Y      Y      Y      Y      Y       Y      Y      Y
Office & Temporary        3.00   0.00   3.00   3.00   0.00   3.00   2.00   0.00   2.00                                                                    8.00   0.00    8.00
Storage Facility
lntnuncnts                                     0.02   0.42   0.44                                                                                         0.02   0.42    0.44
Managaent Study                               0.50   0.53   1.03   1.00   2.11   3.11   0.50   0.90   1.40                                               2.00   3.54    5.54
Training                                       0.00   0.26   0.26   0.00   0.79   0.79                                                                    0.00   1.06    1.06
TOTAL BASE COST (1990)   3.00   0.00           3.52   1.21   4.73   3.00   2.90   5.90   0.50   0.90   1.40                                              10.02   5.02   12.04
Pbysical Cont.    10%    0.30   0.00           0.35   0.12   0.47   0.30   0.29   0.59   0.05   0.09   0.14                                               1.00   0.50    1.20
TBC + Physical Cont.      3.30   0.00          3.87   1.34   5.21   3.30   3.19   6.49   0.55   0.99   1.54                                              11.02   5.52   13.24
Price Contingency         0.17   0.00          0.56   0.19   0.75   0.72   0.70   1.42   0.15   0.28   0.43                                               1.60   1.17    2.60
TOTAL COST                3.47   0.00          4.43   1.53   5.96   4.02   3.89   7.92   0.70   1.26   1.97                                              12.62   6.69   15.84
Inflation Rate           10.0%  10.0%           8.0%   8.0%          5.0%   5.0%          5.0%   5.0%           5.0%   5.0%          5.0%   5.0%
ESCalation FPctor        1.050  1.050          1.145  1.145         1.219  1.219         1.280  1.280          1.344  1.344         1.411  1.411                                    >
, Q (D
O  X



ENVIRONMENTAL STUDY
1991                 1992                 1993                  1994                 1995                 1996                TOTAL
Rtem             Local Foreign  Total  Local Foreign  Total  Local Poreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total   Local Foreign  Total  Local Foreign  Total
Y      Y      Y      Y      Y      Y      Y       Y      Y      Y      Y      Y      Y      Y      Y      Y      Y       Y      Y      Y      Y
CosmttantaQOF)            0.00   1.58   1.58   0.00   3.17   3.17   0.00   2.11   2.11                                                                    0.00   6.86    6.86
Comwlants                 0.50   0.00   0.50   1.00   0.00   1.00   1.00   2.11   3.11   1.00   3.17   4.17                                               3.50   5.28    8.7S
In_tunta                  0.01   1.06   1.07   1.08   8.66   9.74                                                                                         1.09   9.72   10.S1
Trainig                   0.20   0.79   0.99   0.30   1.06   1.36                                                                                         0.50   1.85    2.35
TOTALBASECOST(1990)   0.71   3.43   4.14   2.38  12.88  15.26   1.00   4.22   5.22   1.00   3.17   4.17                                                   5.09  23.71   28.80
Pbysial Cost.     10%    0.07   0.34   0.41   0.24   1.29   1.53   0.10   0.42   0.52   0.10   0.32   0.42                                                0.51   2.37    2.88
TBC+ Physical Cont.       0.78   3.78   4.56   2.62  14.17  16.79   1.10   4.65   5.75   1.10   3.48   4.58                                               5.60  26.08   31.68
Prie Contingency          0.04   0.19   0.23   0.38   2.05   2.43   0.24   1.02   1.26   0.31   0.98   1.28                                               0.97   4.23    5.19
TOTAL COST                0.82   3.96   4.78   3.00  16.22  19.22   1.34   5.66   7.00   1.41   4.46   5.87                                             | 6.56  30.31   36.87
Inflation Rate           10.0%  10.0%           8.0%   8.0%          5.0%   5.0%          5.0%   5.0%           5.0%   5.0%          5.0%   5.0%
Escalation Factor        1.050  1.050          1.145  1.145         1.219  1.219          1.280  1.280         1.344  1.344         1.411  1.411
PROJECT OFFICE
1991                 1992                 1993                  1994                 1995                 1996                TOTAL
Itetm            Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign  Total  Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign  Total   Local Foreign  Total
y      y      y      y      y      y      y       y      y      y      y      y      y      y      y      y       y      y      y      y      y
Contract Preparation      2.00   0.21   2.21   3.00   0.42   3.42   1.0    0.00   1.00                                                                    6.00   0.63    6.63
ConstructionSuper.        0.40   0.26   0.66   1.60   0.11   1.71   1.60   0.11   1.71   1.60   0.11   1.71   1.60   0.11   1.71   1.47   0.00   1.47   8.27   0.69    8.96
ProjectOffice Expend.     0.30   0.26   0.56   0.60   0.74   1.34   0.80   0.74   1.54   0.80   0.74   1.54   0.80   0.74   1.54   0.70   0.74   1.44   4.00   3.96    7.96
TOTAL BASE COST (1990)   2.70   0.74   3.44   5.20   1.27   6.47   3.40   0.84   4.24   2.40   0.84   3.24   2.40   0.84   3.24   2.17   0.74   2.91  18.27   5.28   23.55
Physical Coat.    10%    0.27   0.07   0.34   0.52   0.13   0.65   0.34   0.08   0.42   0.24   0.08   0.32   0.24   0.08   0.32   0.22   0.07   0.29   1.83   0.53    2.36          a
TBC+ Physical Cont.       2.97   0.81   3.78   5.72   1.39   7.11   3.74   0.93   4.67   2.64   0.93   3.57   2.64   0.93   3.57   2.39   0.81   3.20  20.10   5.81   25.91         .0
Price Contingency         0.15   0.04   0.19   0.83   0.20   1.03   0.82   0.20   1.02   0.74   0.26   1.00   0.91   0.32   1.23   0.98   0.33   1.32   4.42   1.36    5.78
TOTAL COST                3.12   0.85   3.97   6.55   1.60   8.14   4.56   1.13   5.69   3.38   1.19   4.57   3.55   1.25   4.80   3.37   1.15   4.52  24.52   7.17   31.69
Inflation Rate           10.0%  10.0%           8.0%   8.0%          5.0%   5.0%           5.0%   5.0%          5.0%   5.0%          5.0%   5.0%
Escalation Factor        1.050  1.050          1.145  1.145         1.219  1.219          1.280  1.280         1.344  1.344         1.411  1.411
TOTAL COST ESTIMATE
1991                 1992                 1993                  1994                 1995                 1996                TOTAL
item             Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign  Total
y      y      y      y      y      y      y       y      Y      Y      Y      Y      Y      Y      Y      Y      Y      Y       Y      Y      Y
WASTEWATER               10.44   1.46  11.90  51.99  28.85  80.84  65.42  39.15 104.57  19.37  14.20  33.57  15.00  11.63  26.63   0.00   0.00   0.00  162.23  95.29  257.52
SOLID WASTE               0.09   0.00   0.09  20.01  13.59  33.60   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  14.50   0.38  14.88   0.00   0.00   0.00  34.60  13.98   48.58
DISTRICT HEATING        187.32  10.55 197.87  77.90 119.05  196.96  83.80 101.45 185.25  34.93  53.30  88.22  28.10  15.45  43.55  11.80   6.39  18.19 423.85 306.19  730.04
INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION   0.00   0.00   0.00  72.22  60.43 132.65 153.82 128.72 282.54  80.76  67.58 148.33   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00 306.80 256.72  563.52
HAZARDOUS WASTE           3.47   0.00   3.47   4.43   1.53   5.96   4.02   3.89   7.92   0.70   1.26   1.97   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  12.62   6.69   19.31
ENVIRONMENTAL STUD    0.82   3.96   4.78   3.00  16.22  19.22   1.34   5.66   7.00   1.41   4.46   5.87   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   6.56  30.31   36.87
PROJECr OFFICE            3.12   0.85   3.97   6.55   1.60   8.14   4.56   1.13   5.69   3.38   1.19   4.57   3.55   1.25   4.80   3.37   1.15   4.52  24.52   7.17   31.69
GRAND TOTAL            205.26  16.83 222.09 236.10 241.27 477.37 312.96 280.00 592.96 140.55 141.98 282.53  61.15  28.71  89.87  15.16   7.54  22.70 971.18 716.34 1687.52
Lcam IOP FUNDING                 1.83   1.83           3.99   3.99          2.83   2.83                                                                   0.00   8.65    8.65
PROJECT FUNDING         205.26  15.00 220.26 236.10 237.28 473.38 312.96 277.17 590.13 140.55 141.98 282.53  61.15  28.71  89.87  15.16   7.54  22.70 971.18 707.69 1678.87
CD o
OD X
w -4



CHNA
BEUING ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT
Project Cost Estirmte                                                            US$1 = Y5.28
(minion US$)
WASTEWATER
1991                 1992                 1993                  1994                 1995                 1996                TOTAL
item             Locl Foreip  Total  Local Fomip  Total  Local Poreign Total  Local Foreip  Total  Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign  Total  Local Forign  TOW
us$   us      US$ U $ Us USS   US     $   USs   us$   USs   USs   USs   USs   USs   uss   uss   USs   USS   USs   USS   USs   uSs
CnDi Wors
TnmkSewer                0.00   0.00   0.00   1.87   1.55   3.42   2.99   2.47   5.46   2.17   1.79   3.96   0.72   0.60   1.32                          7.75   6.41  14.16
OtherSewers              0.24   0.20   0.44   0.58   0.48   1.06   0.96   0.80   1.76   0.15   0.12   0.27   1.08   0.89   1.97                          3.01   2.49   5.50
Land Acquisition          0.93   0.00   0.93   4.66   0.00   4.66   4.82   0.00   4.82   0.29   0.00   0.29   0.13   0.00   0.13                         10.83   0.00  10.83
Operation Eqipment
RiverCleaning                                 0.12   1.11   1.23   0.12   1.11   1.23                                                                   0.2S   2.22   2.47
Sewer Systcm                                  0.09   0.77   0.86   0.09   0.77   0.86                                                                   0.17   1.54   1.71
Monioring System                              0.19   0.28   0.47   0.19   0.28   0.47                                                                   0.37   0.56   0.93
Detiled Design           0.24   0.00   0.24   0.24   0.04   0.28                                                                                         0.47   0.04   0.51
Other Costs               0.28   0.00   0.28                                                                                                              0.28   0.00   0.28
Training                  0.02   0.04   0.06   0.08   0.11   0.19   0.08   0.10   0.18                                                                    0.17   0.25   0.42
TOTAL BASE COST (1990)   1.71   0.24   1.95   7.82   4.34  12.16   9.24   5.53  14.77   2.61   1.91   4.52   1.92   1.49   3.41                          23.30  13.51  36.81
Physical Cont.    10%    0.17   0.02   0.20   0.78   0.43   1.22   0.92   0.55   1.48   0.26   0.19   0.45   0.19   0.15   0.34                           2.33   1.35   3.68
TC +Physical Cont.        1.88   0.26   2.15   8.60   4.77  13.38  10.16   6.08  16.25   2.87   2.10   4.97   2.11   1.64   3.75                         25.63  14.86  40.49
Price Contingency         0.08   0.01   0.10   0.84   0.47   1.31   1.22   0.73   1.95   0.44   0.32   0.76   0.40   0.31   0.70                          2.98   1.84   4.82
TOTAL COST                1.97   0.28   2.24   9.45   5.24  14.69  11.38   6.81  18.20   3.31   2.42   5.73   2.51   1.95   4.46                         28.61  16.70  45.31       _}
I_   _                                                        I      0
Intlation Rate            9.0%   9.0%           1.1%   1.1%         2.95%  2.95%         2.95%  2.95%          2.95%  2.95%         2.95%  2.95%
Escalation Factor        1.045  1.045          I.098  1.098         1.120  1.120         1.153  1.153          1.187  1.187         1.222  1.222                                    1
SOLID WASTE
1991                 1992                 1993                  1994                 1995                 1996                TOTAL
Item             Local Foreign Total  Local Forcign Total  Local Foreign T'tal  Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total
USS   U$   USS   US$   USS   USS   U$   USS USS US$   USS   USS   US$   USS   us$   us$   us$   us$   uS$   ISS   uSS   US$
Civil Works (Stage 1)                           2.75   0.09   2.84                                                                                        2.75   0.09   2.84
Civil Works (Stage 2)                                                                                           1.86   0.05   1.91                        1.86   0.05   1.91
Landfill Machinery                             0.01   1.36   1.37                                                                                         0.01   1.36   1.37
Instruments & meters                           0.02   0.23   0.24                                                                                         0.02   0.23   0.24
Otber Equipment                                 0.01   0.13   0.14                                                                                        0.01   0.13   0.14
Detailed Design           0.02   0.00   0.02   0.22   0.13   0.35                                                                                         0.24   0.13   0.37
Training                                        0.00   0.11   0.11                                                                                        0.00   0.11   0.11
TOTAL BASE COST (1990)   0.02   0.00   0.02   3.01   2.05   5.06                                                1.86   0.05   1.91                        4.88   2.09   6.98
Physical Cont.    10%    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.30   0.20   0.51                                               0.19   0.00   0.19                         0.49   0.21   0.70
TBC e Physical Cont.      J.02   0.00   0.02   3.31   2.25   5.56                                              2.04   0.05   2.10                         5.37   2.30   7.67
Price Contingency         0.00   0.00   0.00   0.32   0.22   0.54                                              0.38   0.01   0.39                         0.71   0.23   0.94
TOTAL COST             i 0.02   0.00   0.02   3.63   2.47   6.10                                                2.43   0.06   2.49                        6.08   2.53   8.61
Inflation Rate            9.0%   9.0%           1.1%   1.1%         2.95%  2.95%         2.95%  2.95%          2.95%  2.95%         2.95%  2.95%
EscalationFactor         1.045  1.045          1.098  1.098         1.120  1.120         1.153  1.153          1.187  1.187         1.222  1.222
O> Q



DISTRICT HEATING
1991                 1992                 1993                  1994                 1995                 1996                TOTAL
inm              Loc  Feoreign  Total  Local Forcign TOa   Loca Foin Total  LOl  Poreign Total  Local Forcign Total  Local Foreign Total            al Forlign  Total
USS   USS   USS   USS   USS   US3             USS US$   US$   US$   US$   USS   USS   US$   us$   USS   us$   USS   USS   US$   USS
Equipment & Materials
pipes                    0.05   1.04   1.09   0.42   8.35   8.77   0.05   1.04   1.09                                                                    0.53  10.43  10.96
Boiler                                                              0.16   3.22   3.38   0.16   3.22   3.38                                              0.32   6.44   6.76
Equipment (batch 1)                           0.15   3.57   3.72   0.15   3.57   3.72                                                                    0.30   7.14   7.44
Equipment (batch 2)                                                 0.10   2.67   2.77   0.10   2.67   2.77                                              0.21   5.34   5.55
Replace pumDp (S1)                            0.03   0.60   0.63                                                                                         0.03   0.60   0.63
Civil Wois
Pipe Sect 1              1.34   0.66   2.00   3.13   1.54   4.67                                                                                         4.48   2.20   6.68
Pipe Sect 2                                   4.40   3.60   8.00   4.40   3.60   8.00                                                                    8.80   7.20  16.00
Boiler & Pipe Sect 3                                                                     2.16   1.18   3.34   3.60   1.98   5.58   1.44   0.78   2.22   7.20   3.94  11.14
Land Acquisition         28.41   0.00  28.41   1.89   0.00   1.89   5.68   0.00   5.68   1.89   0.00   1.89                                              37.88   0.00  37.88
Detailed Design           0.91   0.03   0.94   1.31   0.10   1.41   0.91   0.08   0.99                                                                    3.13   0.21   3.34
Training                                       0.38   0.15   0.53   0.38   0.15   0.53   0.38   0.10   0.48                                               1.14   0.40   1.54
TOTAL BASECOST(1990)  30.72   1.73  32.45  11.72  17.91  29.63  11.84  14.33  26.17   4.70   7.17  11.87   3.60   1.98   5.58   1.44   0.78   2.22  64.01  43.90 107.91
Pbysical Cont.    1n%    3.07   0.17   3.24   1.17   1.79   2.96   1.18   1.43   2.62   0.47   0.72   1.19   0.36   0.20   0.56   0.14   0.08   0.22   6.40   4.39  10.79
TBC + Physical Cowt.     33.79   1.90  35.69  12.89  19.70  32.59  13.02  15.76  28.78   5.17   7.89  13.06   3.96   2.18   6.14   1.58   0.86   2.44  70A1  48.29 118.70
Price Contingency         1.52   0.09   1.61   1.26   1.93   3.19   1.56   1.89   3.45   0.79   1.21   2.00   0.74   0.41   1.15   0.35   0.19   0.54   6.23   5.71  11.94
TOTALCOST                35.31   1.99  37.30  14.15  21.63  35.78  14.58  17.65  32.24   5.96   9.09  15.05   4.70   2.59   7.29   1.93   1.05   2.98  76.64  54.00 130.64
Inflation Ratc            9.0%   9.0%           1.1%   1.1%         2.95%  2.95%          2.95%  2.95%         2.95%  2.95%         2.95%  2.95%
EscalationFactor         1.045  1.045          1.098  1.098         1.120  1.120         1.153  1.153          1.187  1.187         1.222  1.222
INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION                          __
1991                 1992                 1993                  1994                 1995                 1996                TOTAL
Item             Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Local Formign Total  Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total
.____________ .lJS$   US$   USS   us1$   US$   usS   138    US$   13$   US$   13$   US$   US$   US$   13$   us$   us$   us$   1S$   USS   USS
Subprojects                                    11.95  10.00  21.95  23.90  20.00  43.90  11.95  10.00  21.95                                             47.80  40.00  87.80
Price Contingency                               1.17   0.98   2.15   2.87   2.40   5.27   1.83   1.53   3.36                                              5.87   4.91  10.77
TOTAL COST                                     13.12  10.98  24.10  26.77  22.40  49.17  13.78  11.53  25.31                                             53.67  44.91  98.58
InflationRate             9.0%   9.0%           1.1%   1.1%         2.95%  2.95%         2.95%  2.95%          2.95%  2.95%         2.95%  2.95%
Escalation Factor        1.045  1.045          1.098  1.098         1.120  1.120         1.153  1.153          1.187  1.187         1.222  1.222
HAZARDOUS WASTE
1991                 1992                 1993                  1994                 199S                 1996                TOTAL
item             Local Forign Total  Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total
US$   US$   US$   US$   US$   'S$   US$   US$   US$   US$  U1$   US$   US$   US$   USS   US$   US$   US1$   U$   U1$   US$
Office & Temporary        0.57   0.00   0.57   0.57   0.00   0.57   0.38   0.00   0.38                                                                    1.52   0.00   1.52
Storage Facility
Instuments                                     0.00   0.08   0.08                                                                                         0.00   0.08   0.08
Management Study                               0.09   0.10   0.19   0.19   0.40   0.59   0.09   0.17   0.26                                               0.38   0.67   1.05
Training                                       0.00   0.05   0.05   0.00   0.15   0.15                                                                    O.O   0.20   0.20
TOTAL BASE COST (1990)   0.57   0.00   0.57   0.67   0.23   0.90   0.57   0.55   1.12   0.09   0.17   0.26                                                1.90   0.95   2.85
Physical Coat.    10%    0.06   0.00   0.06   0.07   0.02   0.09   0.06   0.06   0.11   0.01   0.02   0.03                                                0.19   0.10   0.28
TBC . Physical Cont.      0.62   0.00   0.62   0.73   0.25   0.99   0.63   0.61   1.23   0.10   0.19   0.29                                               2.09   1.05   3.13
Price Contingency         0.03   0.00   0.03   0.07   0.02   0.10   0.08   0.07   0.15   0.02   0.03   0.04                                               0.19   0.13   0.32
TOTAL COST                0.65   0.00   0.65   0.81   0.28   1.08   0.70   0.68   1.38   0.12   0.22   0.34                                               2.28   1.17   3.45
Inflation Rate            9.0%   9.0%           1.1%   1.1%         2.95%  2.95%         2.95%  2.95%          2.95%  2.95%         2.95%  2.95%
Escalation Factor        1.045  1.045          1.098  1.098         1.120  1.120         1.153  1.153          1.187  1.187         1.222  1.222
(  X



ENVIRONMENTAL STUDY
1991                1992                  1993                1994                 1995                 1996                TOTAL
Jim              Local ForeinP  Total  La PFneign Total  Local Porcyp  Toal  Loa ForcigT Tota   La Foig  Tota   La Forcign Total  L     Foreign Tetal
US$ 5 1$   USS   US$               US$    US$ us$             USs    USS   us$   US$   us$   us$   US$   USS   USS U USS   11$   US$
Conmla  (OF)              0.00   0.30   0.30   0.00   0.60   0.60   0.00   0.40   0.40                                                                 0.00   1.30   1.30
0.09   0.00   0.09   0.19   0.00   0.19   0.19   0.40   0.59   0.19   0.60   0.79                                            0.66   1.00   1.66
bnatuu                    0.00   0.20   0.20   0.20   1.64   1.84                                                                                      0.21   1,84   2.05
Taning                    0.04   0.15   0.19   0.06   0.20   0.26                                                                                      0.09   0,35   0.44
TOTAL BASE COST (1990)   0.13   0.65   0.78   0.45   2.44   2.89   0.19   0.80   0.99   0.19   0.60   0.79                                             0.96   4.49   5.45
Pbyscal Co.       10%    0.01   0.07   0.08   0.05   0.24   0.29   0.02   0.08   0.10   0.02   0.06   0.08                                             0.10   0.45   0.55
TBC + PhyaI Coat.         0.15   0.72   0.86   0.50   2.68   3.18   0.21   0.88   1.09   0.21   0.66   0.87                                            1.06   4.94   6.00
PriceCoetiecy            0.01   0.03   0.04   0.05   0.26   0.31   0.03   0.11   0.13   0.03   0.10   0.13                                             0.11   0.50   0.61
TOTALCOST                 0.15   0.75   0.90   0.54   2.95   3A9   0.23   0.99   1.22   0.24   0.76   1.00                                             L17   5.44   6.61
hdbnfa   Ratw             9.0%   9.0%          1.1%   1.1%         2.95%  2.95%         2.95%  2.95%        2.95%  2.95%         2.95%  2.95%
Escalation Factor        1.045  1.045         1.098  1.098         1.120  1.120        1.153  1.153         1.187  1.187         1.222  1.222
PROJECT OFFICE
1991                1992                 1993                 1994                 1995                 1996               TOTAL
ikm              Local Forcign Total  Loal Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Local Formign Total  Local Foreign Total  Local Forign Total
US$   US$ US$   US$   US$   US$   US$   US$   us$   us$   US$   US$   uS$   USS   US$   USS   US$   USS   US$   USS   USS
Contract PmaraIion        0.38   0.04   0.42   0.57   0.08   0.65   0.19   0.00   0.19                                                                 1.14   0.12   1.26
CosrUction Super.         0.08   0.05   0.13   0.30   0.02   0.32   0.30   0.02   0.32   0.30   0.02   0.32   0.30   0.02   0.32   0.28   0.00   0.28   1.57   0.13  170
Project Offic Expend.    0.06   0.05   0.11   0.11   0.14   0.25   0.15   0.14   0.29   0.15   0.14   0.29   0.15   0.14   0.29   0.13   0.14   0.27   0.76   0.75   1.51
TOTAL BASE COST (1990)   0.51   0.14   0.65   0.98   0.24   1.22   0.64   0.16   0.80   0.45   0.16   0.61   0.45   0.16   0.61   0.41   0.14   0.55   3.46   1.O0   4.46
Physical Co.      10%    0.05   0.01   0.07   0.10   0.02   0.12   0.06   0.02   0.08   0.05   0.02   0.06   0.05   0.02   0.06   0.04   0.01   0.06   0.35   0.10   0.45
TBC + Pbycal Coat.        0.56   0.15   0.72   1.08   0.26   1.35   0.71   0.18   0.88   0.50   0.18   0.68   0.50   0.18   0.68   0.45   0.15   0.61   3.81   1.10   4.91
Price Contiiency         0.03   0.01   0.03   0.11   0.03   0.13   0.09   0.02   0.11   0.08   0.03   0.10   0.09   0.03   0.13   0.10   0.03   0.13   0.49   0.15   0.63
TOTAL COSr               0.59   0.16   0.75   1.19   0.29   1.48   0.79   0.20   0.99   0.58   0.2D   0.78   0.59   0.21    .80   0.55   0.19   0.74   4.29   1.25   5.54
Inflation Rate            9.0%   9.0%          1.1%   1.1%         2.95%  2.95%        2.95%  2.95%         2.95%  2.95%         2.95%  2.95%
Escalation Factor        1.045  1.045         1.098  1.098         1.120  1.120        1.153  1.153         1.187  1.187         1.222  1.222
TOTAL COST ESTIMATE
1991                1992                 1993                 1994                 1995                 1996               TOTAL
It=              Local Foreign Total  Local Formign Total  Local Formign Total  Local Foreign Total  Local Forcign Total  Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total
USS   US$   UUSS USS   us$   US$   us$   118    USS   us$   115    US$   115    us$   US$   US$   USS   USS   USS   USS   USS
WASTEWATER                1.97   0.28   2.24   9.45   5.24  14.69  11.38   6.81  18.20   3.31   2.42   5.73   2.51   1.95   4.46   0.00   0.00   o.O  28.61  16.70  45.31
SOLID WASTE              0.02   0.00   0.02   3.63   2.47   6.10   0O.O   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   2.43   0.06   249   0.00   0.00   0.00   6.08   2.53   8.61
DlSTRICT HEATING         35.31   1.99  37.30  14.15  21.63  35.78  14.58  17.65  32.24   5.96   9.09  15.05   4.70   2.59   7.29   1.93   1.05   2.98  76.64  54.00 130.64
INDUSTRIALPOLLUTION   0.00   0.00   0.00  13.12  10.98  24.10  26.77  22.40  49.17  13.78  11.53  25.31   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  53.67  44.91  98.58
HAZARDOUS WASTE          0.65   0.00   0.65   0.81   0.28   1.08   0.70   0.68   1.38   0.12   0.22   0.34   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   2.28   1.17   3.45
ENVIRONMENTALSTUD    0.15   0.75   0.90   0.54   2.95   3A9   0.23   0.99   1.22   0.24   0.76   1.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   o.o0   0.00   1.17   5.44   6.61
PROJECT OFFICE           0.59   0.16   0.75   1.19   0.29   1.48   0.79   0.20   0.99   0.58   0.20   0.78   0.59   0.21   0.80   0.55   0.19   0.74   4.29   1.25   5.54
GRAND TOTAL             38.69   3.17  41.86  42.89  43.83  86.72  54.46  48.73 103.19  23.98  24.23  48.21  10.23   4.80  15.03   2.49   1.24   3.72 172.74 126.00 298.74
Less1 OP FUNDING                0.34   0.34          C 72   0.72          0.49   0.49                                                                  o.0o   1.56   1.56
PROJECT FUNDING          38.69   2.83  41.52  42.89  43.10  85.99  54.46  48.24 102.70  23.98  24.23  48.21  10.23   4.80  15.03   2.49   1.24   3.72 172.74 124.43 297.18
b X
(I    (D



- 73 -                                                         Annex 8
Page 1
CHINA
BEIING ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT
Project Off. Organization
Leadership
Group
headed by
Vice Mayor
Beijing Envir
Proj. Offce
Director
V. Dir. (2)
Procuxement            Project                                 Projct            Constuction           Liaison            Admmnistra-
Section           Management          & Finance           Component            Supervision           Section              tion
SSection             ection             Offices              Section                                  Section
(see next page)



- 74 -
Annex 8
CHINA                                                    Page 2
BEIJING ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT
Project Office Organization
Organization of Project Component Offices
Wastewater Component
Proj. Office
Director
V. Dir. (2)
P   M  Personnel         Finanoe         Adminiutda-           Legal
Deign           Construction    |Acquisition         & Training           Section            tion               Affairs
Section          SupervisIon          Section&Section                                      _Section              Section
District Heating Component
Proj. Office
Director
OfePlanning                         Design             Financ           Technology         Engineering
Management          Secton             Seintion                             Section         Works Inide
Section                          L                                                        Power Plat
Solid Waste Component
Proj. Office
Director
V. Dir. (1)
Project         Con|stion         Procurement          Finace           Adminisr-            UI son
Management        Supervision          Section          tSction             tion               Jecdon
Section           Sect -n                                                 Section
Hazardous Waste Component
EProj Office   P
|Director
|V. Dir. (2)
Ch. Enginecr
T ofic    oea   |  |Technologn
Secretariatd         F | Plsnninance & ||Section          Syment
Section          S | Mectionse      Section            Teamon
Environimental  Master Plan Study
[&ccrcatrb           Fiumne      |  |B@upment       |     SUXlY
|Sectio      ||Sectio                 S ection     ||Team  
I   . I  |         I  l              |  | ~~~~~Membefs |
Industrial Pollution Control Component
Subproject
Apprisal
Mechanlmn
Deidjing                              DMEC        . 



- 75 -                                   Annex 9
Page I
CHINA
BEIJING ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT
Contract Packaging (in base prices)            $1 =  RMB Yuan
5.28
Estimated Cost (million)
Package         Description               Procure-        Local    Foreign     Total     Total
Number                                     ment type      RMB        US$       RMB        USS
WASTEWATER COMPONENT
I     Construction of Trunk            ICB           40.91       6.41     74.75      14.16
Sewers (South area)
2     Contruction of other             LCB            15.89      2.49      29.04      5.50
Sewers (South area)
& Sewers (No. 3 Water
Plant area)
3     Equipment for Watercourse        ICB             2.20      3.76      22.05      4.18
cleaning & Sewer
maintenance (part of IFBI)
4      Monitoring System                ICB            1.96      0.56       4.92      0.93
(part of IFB2)
TOTAL                                       60.96      13.22    130.76      24.77
SOLID WASTE COMPONENT
I     Civil Works (Stage I)            LCB            14.44      0.09      14.92      2.83
2     Civil Works (Stage 2)            LCB            9.809     0.049      10.07      1.91
3     Landfill Machinery               ICB             0.05      1.47       7.81      1.48
(part of IFBI)
4      Equipment & Instruments         ICB             0.00      0.23       1.21      0.23
(part of IFB2)
S     Disc Rotor                     Shopping            0       0.07       0.37      0.07
TOTAL                                       24.30       1.91     34.39       6.51
DISTRICT HEATING COMPONENT
i     a. Steel pipes 10,OOOT           ICB             1.60      6.00     33.28       6.30
(1000mm, 1200mm)
b. Globe Valves                                 1.20      4.44      24.64      4.67
2     Boiler & ancillary equip         ICB             1.70      6.45      35.76      6.77
3     Pumps, control instru-           ICB             1.60      7.14      39.30      7.44
ments, meters (batch 1)
4      Pumps, control instru-          ICB             1.10      5.34      29.30      5.55
ments, meters (batch 2)
5      Variable speed Controller       Direct          0.16      0.60       3.33      0.63
Shijingshan Power Station
6     Pipeline construction            LCB            23.65      2.20      35.27      6.68
Section I (5 km.)
7     Pipeline construction             ICB           46.45      7.20      84.47     16.00
Section 2 (12 km.)
8     Boiler Construction               ICB           38.02      3.94      58.82     11.14
& Pipeline Sect. 3
TOTAL                                       115.48     43.31    344.16      65.18
HAZARDOUS WASTE COMPONENT
I     Instruments                   Shopping          0.02       0.08      0.44       0.08
ENVIRONMENTAL STRATEGY STUDY COMPONENT
I     Instruments                   Shopping           !.09      1.84     10.81       :!
INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION COMPONENT               ICB &         252.40     40.00    463.6D      87.80
Quotations
GRAND TOTAL                                   454.25     100.36    984.15    186.39



- 76 -
Annex 9
Page 2
CHINA
BEIJING ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT
Contract Packaging - Proposed Thresholds for Procurement
Industrial Pollution Component
a.   Contracts exceeding US$2             International Competitive Bidding
million each                         (ICB)
b.   Contracts less than US$2             Comparison of quotations from at
million each                         least 3 qualified suppliers from
not less than 3 eligible countries
Other Comnons"nts
a.   For goods contracts exceeding        International Competitive Bidding
US$200,000 each, and works           (ICB)
contr.acts exceeding US$10
million each
b.   For goods contracts less than        Local Competitive Bidding (LCB)
US$200,000 each, and works
contracts less than US$10
million each
c.   Miscellaneous items not              International and Domestic
exceeding US$150,000 each,           Shopping
where it is not practical to
carry out a bidding process,
with a total value of US$4
million for the entire
project.
d.   Proprietary items which are          Direct contracting
obtainable only from one
source, or required to be
compatible with existing
equipment.



- 77 -                             Annex 10
CHINA
BEIJING ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
(US$ Million)
Bank     Year and            DISBURSEMENT             DISBURSEMENT PROFILE
Fiscal    Semester      Semester    Cumulative        China's        Project's
Year     Ending                                      (General)
19921    31-Dec-91         8.0          8.0             6.9%           6.4%
30-Jun-92         5.0        13.0            16.0%          10.4%
1993     31-Dec-92        15.0         28.0            31.0%          22.4%
30-Jun-93        16.0        44.0            48.0%          35.2%
1994     31-Dec-93        17.1         61.1            61.0%          48.9%
30-Jun-94        17.0        78.1            69.0%          62.5%
1995     31-Dec-94        16.0         94.1            76.0%          75.3%
30-Jun-95        16.2       110.3            83.0%          88.2%
1996     31-Dec-95         6.0        116.3            89.0%          93.0%
30-Jun-96         5.0       12i.3            94.0%          97.0%
1997     31-Dec-96         3.7        125.0           100.0%         100.0%
30-Jun-97
I    Includes the initial disbursement of $7.8 million for the
Special Account.



- 78 -                                       Annex 11
CHINA
BEILING ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECr
land Acquisition and ResetUement Program
1.     Land acquisition and resettlement will be govemed by the following standing National and Beijing Municipality
laws and regulations which define procedures for land acquisition and resettlement, and the compensation and levies to
be paid:
(a)    Land Administration Law of China
(b)    Regulations for Implementing the Land Administration Law, promulgated by the State Council on
Februaxy 1, 1991.
(C)    Law (temporary) of the People's Republic of China on Agricultural Land Occupancy Tax,
promulgated by the State Council on April 1, 1987.
(d)    Regulation on Method of Application of the Law (temporary) of the People's Republic of China on
Agricultural Land Occupancy Tax, issued by the Beijing Municipal Government on July 23, 1987.
(e)    Regulation on Levies from Acquisition of Agricultural Land for a Fund to Develop New Agricultural
Land, issued by the Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and Fishery, The State Planning
Commision and the Ministry of Commerce in 1985, and by the Beijing Municipal Government on
October 15, 1986.
(f)    Regulation on Method of Demolition and Resettlement for Construction in Beijing Municipality,
issued by the Beijing Municipal Government on December 25, 1982.
(g)    Regulation concerning Certain Issues pertaining to the "Regulation on Method of Demolition and
Resettlement for Construction in Beijing Municipality", issued by the Beijing Municipal Government
on September 27, 1985.
2.             Part of the land in agricultural areas which are required for underground works, will be leased
(acquired on a temporary basis), and returned for farming use after completion of construction. The remaining land
would be acquired permanently.
3.             The process of resettling persons required to be moved because of the project irx-iloves:
(a)    Survey of the affected area to determine the number of persons to be resettled, and the housing
requirements. The population to be resettled will remain frozen after the survey. (1 month)
(b)    Construct or purchase housing for persons to be resettled. (8 to 12 months)
(c)    Moving of persons to be resettled. (1 to 2 months)
4.             The schedule for acquiring land and resettlement is as follows:
1991        1992         1993        1994
Wastewater Comnonent
Agricultural Land to be leased       50 mu       276 mu       94 mu
Agricultural Land to be purchased    40 mu        40 mu        20 mu
Persons to be resettled               1,000        3,000       2,430
District Heating ComRonent
Agricultural Land to be leased
Agricultural Land to be purchased   600 mu       100 mu       200 mu      100 mu
Persons to be resettled                 700          135         135         130



- 79 -                                    Annex 12
Page 1
CHINA
BEIJING ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECI
Tning Program
Training and Management Development Strategy
1.         In order to acquire new technology and methods needed for environmental management,
a program of overseas training is proposed for managers and senior professionals responsible for
environmental protection, and for operating services and facilities required for environmental pollution
control included in this project, as well as local trainers in these fields, and project staff. Local training
facilities for operators in the various sectors already exist.
2.         Consultancy services will be provided to:
a.   plan and arrange overseas training visits for managers, senior professionals and trainers;
b.   develop local capability to assess training and management development needs; and
c.   develop proposals for upgrading local training; including training of trainers, and
procurement of suitable training equipment and materials.
Training and Management Development Levels
3.         The overall training plan envisages training activities at two basic staff levels:
a.   operator level for plant operators, assistants, and unskilled workers in the operation and
maintenance of environmental pollution control services and facilities;
b.   professionals - managers, engineers, scientists, financial specialists, trainers, etc.
Operator and Maintenance Personnel Training
4.         This training will continue to be provided at local training facilities. The contents of local
training courses would be reviewed to see if they can fulfill the needs for environmental protection work.
Consideration will be given to the incorporation of new training techniques and training materials.
Training of Managers and Professionals
5.         The training is intended to acquaint senior managers, engineers, scientists (chemists,
biologists, environmental scientists etc.), accountants, trainers and other professionals responsible for
environmental management with up-to-date knowledge on methods and technology for planning
investments for environmental improvement; enforcing environmental protection regulations; building,
managing and operating facilities required for maintenance of environmental quality, and training in
various areas related to the environment. The program will include visits to enviromental management
organizations and facilities in cities abroad, together with a comprehensive schedule of training sessions
in the cities to be arranged with the help of consultants.
Training for Project Staff
6.         Project staff training includes intensive courses for project management personnel. Area
of project staff training would cover contract law which covers contract programming and administration,
arbitration, and other related subjects, construction supervision and quantity survey. The project will
contract the services of consultants specializing in this field to prepare and conduct the training in
Beijing. In order to achieve maximum benefit, this course would have to be conducted at an early stage
of the projecL



- 80 -                                 Annex 12
Page 2
Training Program and Cost Estimates
7.        The following training program has been identified. Some changes may be required during
project implementation pursuant to the recommendations of the training consultants.
District Heating
Overseas Training
1. DH system management     6p x I month         40,000
2. Integrated System Operation 6p x 1 month       40,000
3. Specialist Training
- Computerized System  Sp x 3.0 months      60,000
- Integrated Control  Sp x 3.0 months       60,000
- Peak Boiler Operation 5p x 3.0 months     60,000
4. Fees (Training and Visit Arrangement)          90,000
Equipment and Course Material for Local Training      30,000
Consultant on Local Training                          50,000
Subtotal                              400,000
Wastewater Component
Overseas Training   3 visits x 6p x 1 month          115,000
Fees (Training and Visit Arrangement)                 50,000
Equipment and Course Material for Local Training      20,000
Consultant on Local Training                          30,000
Subtotal                              215
Solid Waste Comnonent
Overseas Training   I visit x 6 x 1 month             40,000
Fees (Training and Visit Arramgement)                 15,000
Subtotal                               55.000
Environmental Management (included in Environment Studies)
Hazardous Waste Management (included in HWM study)
Project Staff Training (course in Beijing for 30p)    100.000
TOTAL                                 7700
&         The Beijing Environmental Project Office will be responsible for working out the details
of the training program, arranging overseas training, engaging training consultants, and procurtment the
required training equipment and materials for upgrading of local training faciliies.
Timiny
9.        The training program is to be completed by December 31, 1994.



- 81 -                                                   Annex 13
CHINA
BEIJING ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
No. Contract Description             Type         Year
1991            1992             1993            1994             1995             1996
JFMAMJJASOND  JFPtJJASORTD  JFMAMJJASOND  JFKAKJJASOND  JFMAMJJASOND  JFMAMJJAi0
WASTEWATER
I ConvatrutTrunkSewera             ICB               D--R  -B-A-C           ----- .....--- ...... .....  ...NCON
(South arm)
2 CongrictotherScwcrs              LCB            D=1'13   -AC ... ....   ............  .....   ......... COY
(S. area & No. 3 Water
Plank area)
3 Equipruent (watercour7i          ICa                D- -  R B AM .. S.  .... COM
cleaning, wwsr nmintain)
(Part of IFB I )
4 Moditoring SystemA h cquip       ICB                      D--R-D--A-t -S--- COM
(Part of IFB 2)
SOLiD WASTE
I CivilWorks (Stage l)             LCB           P..... -    D-R-B-AC- .       .CON
2 Civil Works (Stage 2)            LCB                                                              DORlBi     -AC .....COOt
3 lAndfll rtch., etc.              ICB                D-   R-B- AMN-S-- ..... LICON
(Pat o IFB I)
4 lnauments& metera                ICB                                    -S ... CON
(Part of IFB 2;
5 Disc Rotor                      Shopping                  D-B-AS--COM
DISTRICT HEATING
I Procurpipes &valves              ICB        D0--R-B--A   N....S...M -SS--CON
2 Boiler&ancill. cqup              ICB                             D--R--  B-A-M ...         S.-.COM
3 Pumps, Control instru-           ICB         D=-R-B--A    ..=. -SM=--    S
mcals. rneter (batch I)
4 Pumps, Control ittru-            ICB                                      D--RB-B AN .      .SFP... S
trwo, mnaeri (batch 2)
5 Replacnutent pump for           Direct       D-1eR r1BAM  --S
Shijingbaan Power Sta.
6 Pipeline construction            LCB         DeRBA  AC .  ..........    CON
(Section 1) 5 km.
7 Pipelin conv ruction             ICB         D -BR-B=A  C.                .   CON
(Sretion 2)
8 Boiler corstruction and          [CB            p..... p       D- R-- B'   A-C .........  .        . e                      .           COh
Pipeline Section 3
INDUSTRIAL
Subprojocu                     IC d&              Dit-...  .              ..... -CON
Quot-                R.  ...................... COM
tions   B..                            . ............'-CON
A -     ............ ...... CON
NMS I.C                . .             CON
HAZARDOUS WASTE
lnrtuM                         Shopping                 DORAS*-COM
Mnamgonr  Study                Other          T..-         -AC ......  .                  .        CON
ENVIRONMENTAL STRATEGY STUDY
Inrutars                       Shopping DIR-AS-'COM
Study  O&tr                                   T..   L.AC-CN ................... ......... C
LAND ACQUI. & RESlLEMENT
W.macr cipert
t.adto blmwd                                   50 mu          276 mu            94 mu
LAttdtobepurcbad                               40 mu           40 mu            20 mu
Penutto bhectltsed                             1.000           3.000             2430
Distri"t Hatn Compont
lAnd to be temd
lAnd tobepurobad                              600 mu          100 miu          200 mu          100 mu
Pftao  to be rretted                             700              135             135              130
LEGEND:
D- Coaust documni              A- ArIyatais & Contract award              M- Mmfacturo
P- Prqre drwings               C-. Coniatruction/Comiuct work             S- Shipping
R-Rview                        1- In ion                                  T- Tecm of Refdrcuo
B- Bidding Prow                COM- ComplctiontCornmicion                Lu Propool



- 82 -
Annex 14
CHINA
BEIJING ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT
Environmental Improvement Monitors
1.         These environmental improvement monitors are based on environmental improvement
objectives developed by the Beijing Environmental Protection Bureau, and assumes needed
investments for environmental quality improvement in addition to this project would be made, and
enforcement of environmental quality control would be strengthened.
Area                        1995                               2000
Air Quality          Class II standard in scenic tourism  Class I standard in all natural
areas and natural protected areas.  protected areas.
Class III standard in all city areas.  Class II standard in scenic tourism
Dust deposits in city areas will be  areas.
controlled to not more than 20 tons    Class II standard in all other areas
per month per sq. km.,             with the exception of TSP, inhalable
dust and SO2 during the heating
season.
Water Quality       Class II standard for Miyun and    Class II standard for Miyun and
Huairou Reservoirs and water      Huairou Reservoirs and water
aquiducts.                        aquiducts.
Class III standard for Guanting   Class III standard for Guanting
Reservoir, scenic waterways and   Reservoir, scenic waterways and
ponds in areas upstream of city,  ponds in areas upstream of city,
and within the 3rd Ring Road.     and within the 4th Ring Road, and
Class V (irrigation) standard in all    important water courses
water courses downstream of city.  downstream of city.
Class V (irrigation) standard in all
other water courses downstream of
city.
Solid Waste          Prompt transportation of urban    Sanitary landfill provided for about
domestic refuse.                  50% of city's domestic refuse.
Integrated reuse of industrial waste    Other safe disposal methods for
increased to 60%.                 another 20% of city's domestic
refuse.
Industrial Pollution    Heavy metal treatment to be carried   Industrial wastewmter treatment rate
Control              out at factory site in entire     to reach 75%.
municipality.                     90% of industrial waste gases to
Industrial wastewater treatment rate   reach emission standards.
increased to 50%.                 Integrated reuse of industrial waste
Treatment of waste gases from     to reach 70%.
industries to reach emission
standards.
Reuse of industriai ash and dust to
reach 95%.



- 83 -
Annex 15
CHINA
BEIJING ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECr
Organization of Beiiing Municipality
Beijing Municipal People's Congress
Beijing Municipal People's Government
Mayor
Vice Mayors (7)
Secretary General
Government Commissions and Offices
Economic Commission                           Government Office
Planning Commission                      Government Research Office
Capital Planning & Construction                Finance and Trade Office
Commission                          Agriculture and Forestry Office
Urban & Rural Construction                     Foreign Affairs Office
Commission                           Culture and Education Office
Civil Engineering Administration                  Air Defence Office
Science and Technology Commission
Foreign Economic and Trade
Commission
Nationality Affairs Commission
Family Planning Commission
Physical Culture and Sports
Commission
Government Bureaus
Personnel Bureau                             Finance Bureau
Public Security Bureau                  Environmental Protection Bureau
Justice Bureau                      Environmental Sanitation Bureau
Civil Affairs Bureau                       Public Utilities Bureau
State Security Bureau                   Urban Planning Administration
Labor Bureau                                 Tax Bureau
Statistics Bureau                           Auditing Bureau
Bureau of Prices                      Industrial & Commercial Admin.
Goods and Materials Administration               First Bureau of Commerce
Real Estate Administration                  Second Bureau of Commerce
Travel and Tourism Bureau                  Bureau of Water Conservation
Bureau of Grain                       Standards & Metrology Bureau
Bureau of Higher Education                     Public Health Bureau
Bureau of Education                         Bureau of Agriculture
Bureau of Adult Education                       Bureau of Forestry
Bureau of Culture                   Township Enterprises Administration
Cultural Relics Administration                Gardens and Parks Bureau
Broadcasting and TV Bureau             Beijing Municipal Administration Bureau



- 84 -
Annex 16
CHINA
BEIJING ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT
Beijing Environmental Protection Organization
Bcrijitig
Environ
Prontacon
CBMWe
Berijing
Diremor    Brea
Tochnology     niy  Nla         Coearoi         ass          NaucC
DiiinDivision                 Division        Ain             rsl  Dv
Cater   Mfairs       ~~& FIinkClrec                 Pulc wae
Division       Dvion          osDv
Composition of Beilina Environmental Protection Committee
Chairoma: Standing Vice Mayor
Idt. Vice Cairmnna: Vice Mayor
Standing Vice Chairman: Director. Beijing Municipal Administation Commission
Vicec Charimen: Vice Dimector, Beijing Planninqg Commission
Vice Director, Beijing Municipal Administrtion Commission
Director. Beijing Fnvironental Protection Bureau
Membrre (26): Representatives from:
Commissions:  Economic, Science & Technology, Caontmction.
Bureus:        Environmenaul Sanitation, eolWogy & Mining, Public Utility. Urban Planning,
Financ. Culturl Artifacts. Townshp Enterprise, Public Security.
Water Resource, Traffic Cotrl.
Offices:       Municipal Govemnment, Agriculture & Forestay, Capital City Planning. Legal.
Inadhtits:     BeUiaig City Plannin  & Desgn insftit.
MeiAM:         Beijing Daly. Beijing Broadcastig 3tio  Being Television Station.
Districta andt
Counties:     myIm, Hualrou, C          , oyang. Hal"



- 85 -
Annex 17
Page 1
CHINA
BEIJING ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT
Beijing Sewerage Company - Proposed Plan for Establishment
Task Description                      Year
1991           1992            1993            1994
JFMAMJJASON  JFMMJJASON  JFMAMJJASoOND JFMAMJJASON
1. Municipality approval for estab-    a
lishment of Wastewater Company
2. Establishment of Wastewater           a.a
organization Steering Committee
3. Draft Legal Requirements and               ............
Management Regulations
4. Design Organizational                      ............
Structure (incl. approvals)
S. Prepare and implement                      ........................
Training Plan
6. Study Staffng                              ...........
Plan (incl. approvals)
7. Prepare Staff assigment                   a.a.aa
and Recruitment Plan
8. Conduct Wastewater Tariff          D..aa..... .... f.......as..
Study (incl. review & approval)
9. Planning and Construction of              a...aa i. aau.. a.a.. a    can......
Organization Headquarters
10. Decide on Senior Staff                     .... .... .a *a
Appointment
11. Decide on Appointment of                           .... a     ...a.a.
other Management Staff
12. Carry out Legal Procedural                                ........C8 0
Requirements
13. Inauguration of                                                               am"
Beijing 3ewerage Company
14. Transfer of Assetas to                                             . a .  000.0..
Beijing Sewerage Company
15. Official Commencement of                                                           ...
Business



- 86 -                                       Annex 17
Page 2
CHINA
BEIJING ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT
Beijing Sewerage Company - Tentative Proposed Organization
General
Manager
Chief Engineer
Chief Accountant
Asst. Gen. Managers (4)
[Pla ging & Engineering             Planning Section         1                       Sewer Network
Design Section          J                       Maintenance
Engineering Management                          Depots (970)
Construction Management            Quality Inspection Sect.                         Inspection
Construct. Supervis. Sect.                      Depots (201)
Constr. Record Management
_ jOperation & Maintenance  |      Treatment Works & Pump-                          Wastewater
Department (21)                      Stations Section                               Charges Collect-
Sewer Network Section                           ion Depots (80)
Minor Repairs Section
Wastewater
Financial Account. Sect.                        Treatment
Management Account. Sect.                       Plants (281)
Internal Audit Secdon
Pumping Staion
Personnel & Labor Force            Personnel Maagemt Sect.                          Management
Department (10)                    Human Res. Dev. Section                          Depots (179)
Training   |   |Training Section  l          |Wastewater
Employee TraDnCenter               (1Monitoring
l                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Centers (40)
    Administration        |          Admin. Services KSection                       _______
FLDepartment (15)                  General Affairs Section                          Waswater Treat-
ment Research
scie nc|& Technology                Industrial Wastewater                            Center (30)
r IDepartment (28)      1           Control Section
Research Seetion                                Meehaical
Tech. Coordination Sect.                        Repair
g    gLega. :iesvieea                                                         0  Workshop (150)
0 Depatment (5)
LMo~~~cc. &Equpent                   Equipment Resear-eh&
e(20)                       Procurement Sodon
i                             I~~~~~~~~~~Equip. Maint. Section 
Deportment (2tEquip. Management Secti.o
-1eneral Office (10)        I
Notw:  Numbers in parenthesis are esamated employee numbers prior to Gaobeidian Treatment
Works being brought into service. Employer numbers would be increased by 560 to 600
when that treatment plant comes into operation.



CHINA
BEIUING ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT
Beijing Sewerage Company
Financial Projections
INCOME STATEMENT                        ---      Estimated ------ -------- --------            --------------------- Projected --- --------------------------------------
RUBY THOUSAND                            1988       1989      1990       1991      1992       1993      1994      1995       1996      1997       1998      1999      2000
Water Quantity (lOM3)                  89,778    88,047    89,792    86,027    84.448    83.194    81,704    80,263    78,868    77.427    76,001         74,580    73,150
Percentage Billed                         83%        82%       81%        80%       79%       92%        92%       91%        91%       90%       90%        89%       89%
Average Tariff                          0.096      0.096     0.096      0.096     0.096     0.262      0.260     0.258      0.256     0.254      Q.251     0.249     0.247
Sewerage Charges                       71,620    69,047    69,737    66,362    64,418   200.783    194,841    189,049   183,397   177,602   171.856   166,125   160.367
Fees Retwned to Municipality           (42,419)  (29,417)   (24,688)       0          0         0
Connection Fees                         12,682     9,473     11,976    11,046    11,046    11,046    11,046    11,046    11,046    11,046       11.046    11,046    11,046
Govermnent Operating Subsidy            7,009      7,952     9,553         0          0         0          0         0         0          0         0          0         0
OPERATING REVENUE                      48,892    57,055    66.578    77,408    75,464   211.829   205.887   20D,094   194,443   188.648    182,901    177,170   171,413
Persongel                               2.332      3,647     4,149      5,678     5,928    10,638    10,888    11,147    11,397    11,647    11.897       12,147    12,397
Materials                               3,483      7,813     6,948      8,009     8,119    10,742     10,852    10,967    11.078    11,188    11,299      11.410    11,521
Electricity                             2,582      4,612     6,324      8,165     8.174    13,465    13,475    13,485    13,495    13,505    13,515       13,525    13.535               1
Management Fees                          1,171     2,077     1,751      2,730     2,762      4,639     4,675     4,712      4,748     4,784      4,820     4,856     4.892              00
Connction Expenditures                  11,414     8,526    10,779      9,941     9,941      9,941     9,941     9,941      9,941     9,941      9,941     9.941      9,941
Others                                   1,309     2,475     3,617      3,504     3,546      6,262     6,310     6,360      6.409     6,457      6,506     6,555      6,603
Taxes                                     380        284       359        331       331       331        331       331       331        331       331        331       331
Inflation                                   0         0          0      3,836     7,295    13,859    17,494    21,369    24,697    28,203    31,894       35,779    39,868
lOTAL EXP4SES                          22,671    29,433    33,927    42,194    46,098    69,877    73,967    78,313    82,097    86.058    90,204    94,544    99,087
OP. REV. LssE(PHNEsSUBTOTAL            26,221    27,622    32,651      35,214    29,365   141,952   131,921   121,781    112,346   102,590    92.698    82,626    72,325
Los on Receivables                     22,537    23,826    28.154      18,462    17,397    13,891     12,593     11,317    10,063     8,787      7,519     6.252     4,982
OPERATING EXPENSE                      45,208    53,259    62.081    60,656    63,495    83,768    86,560    89,631    92,160    94,845    97,722    100.796   104,069
INCOME BEFOREDEPRECIATION               3,684      3,796     4,497     16,752    11,968   128,061    119,327    110,464   102,283    93,803    85,179    76,374    67,343
Depreciation*                             539       707        771    63,092    65,402    67,582    68,828    78,010    79,255    80.500    81,746    82,991    84,236
OPERATING INCOME                        3,145      3,089     3,726   (46,340)  (53,434)   60,479    50.500    32,454    23.028    13,303        3,433    (6,617)  (16,893)
bnterestExpcnse                             0         0          0         0         0        192        192       192     7,587      7,070     6,509      5.899     5,244
Non-Operating Revenue
NET INCOME                              3.145      3,089     3,726   (46,340)  (53.434)   60,287    50.308    32.262    15,442        6.233    (3,076)  (12.516)  (22.137)
C  (D
0 4
1-F



CHINA
BEIJING ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT
Beijing Sewerage Company
Financial Projections
SOURCES & USES OF FUNDS                            Esnimatod ------                                             - ----  -------- Prjcd ---
RMBY THYOUSAND                             198       1989       1990       1991       1992       1993      1994       1995       1996       1997      1998       1999       2000
beam befom Dqtcciatieo                    3.684     3,796      4,497     16.752     11,968    128,061    119,327    110.464   102,283     93,803    85.179     76,374     6/,343
Not-Operating nIWAe                          0          0          0          0          0         0          0          0          0         0          0          0          0
INDRNALCASH ONlRATION                     3,684     3,796      4,497     16.752     11,968    128.061    119.327    110,464    102,283    93.803    85,179     76.374     67.343
AmoiliAtin                                   0          0          0          0         0          0          0          0      6,653      7.169     8,110      8,709      9.355
Ingtcsl                                      0          0          0          0          0        192       192        192      7.587      7,070     6,509      5.899      5.244
TOTAL DEBT SERVICH                           0          0          0          0          0        192       192        192     14,240     14,240     14,618    14.608     14,599
WodiagCapitalNeds                            0        317       (347)    14.748      7,385    114,544    111,472    (17.371)   (35,967)   (38,370)   (16,669)   (17,075)   (17,091)
CONTRJUBTIN TT   O INVU1bET               3,684      3,479     4,844      2,004      4,583     13,325     7,664    127.642    124.010    117,934     87.229    78.,41     69.835
CapIl E-difte-Gaobcdlan                   3,962     24,637    11,728     10,660      4,813         0          0          0          0         0          0          0          0               t
Capital Expeidit-ProJcct                     0          0          0     11.900     80,840    104,570    33,570     26.630          0         0          0          0          0               m
00
TUTAL IVE1ISM    COST                     3,962     24.637    11,728     22,560     85,653    104.570    33,570     26,630          0         0          0          0          0               1
RBQUERED FINANCING                         278    ^,158        6,884     20,556     81,069    91,245     25,906   (101,012)  (124,010)  (117,934)   (87,229)   (78.841)   (69.835)
Lem                                        545       3,389         0      5.200     28,850     39,150     14,200    11.630          0         0          0          0          0
Consumer Co1tnrnbuhion
OovemmzenContnbttion                      3,417     21,248     11,728    17.360     56.803     65,420     19,370     15,000         0          0         0          0          0
TOrAL FINANCING                           3,962     24,637     11,728    22,560     85.653    104,570     33.570    26,630          0          0         0          0          0
CHANGEIN CASH                             3,684      3,479     4,844      2,004      4,583     13,325      7,664    127,642    124.010    117,934    87,229    78.841     69,835
00



CHINA
BEIJING ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT
Beijing Sewerage Company
Financial Projections
BALANCE SHEET                                    Eimated --------          ------------------------------ Projected 
RMBY THOUSAND                            1988       1989      1990      1991       1992      1993       1994      1995       1996      1997      1993       1999      2000
Faxed Assdes                         1.902,121  1,978.079  2,061.538  2,103,050  2,180,072  2.252,742  2,294,253  2.600.321  2,641,833  2,683,345  2,724.857  2.766.368  2,807,880
Acemnulated Depreciation             1,202,241  1,261,583  1.323,430  1,386,521  1,451,923  1,519,505  1,588.333  1,666.343  1.745,.598  1,826,098  1,907.844  1990,835  2,075.071
Net Faxcd Assets                      699,880   716,496   738,108   716,529   728,149   733.237   705,920   933,978   896,235   857,247   817,013   775,533   732.809
Work in Progress - Gaobedian            3,962    28,992    40,327    50,987      55,800
Work in Progress - Project                  0         0          0     11,900    80,840    104,570    33,570    26.630
CaabSpecial Accotmts                   11,073     15,629    15,330    27,884     34,304    148,207   258,499   240,571    201,211    162,257    144.968   127,353   109.697
Aceamnl Receivable                      6,204      2,375     4,211      5.616     7,291      8,404    10,451    11,419    17,308    18,322    19.398    20,335    21,316
Invety                                  1.713      2,444     2,486      2,916     3,785      4,363     5,426     5,928      S,986     9,512    10,071     10.558    11,067
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS                   22,952    49.440    62,353    99,303    182.020   265,544   307.947   284,548   227,506   190,091    174,437   158.246    142,080
TOTAL ASSETS                          722.832   765,936   800.462   815,32   910.169   998,780  1,013.867  1,218,526  1.123,741  1.047,338   991,451    933.779   874.889
Accart Payable                          2.849      3,230     5,895      5.296     6,876      7,925     9,857    10,769    16.323    17,279    18.294    19,1;8    20,103
Log Ter Debt, Cuffet                        0         0          0         0          0         0         0      6,653      7.169     7,726      8.709     9 355    10,051
Oder Curreat Liabilities                    0         0          0         0          0         0         0          0         0          0         0          0         0
TOTALCURRENT LIABILITES                 2.849      3.230     5.895      5.296     6,376      7.925     9.857     17,422    23.493    25.004    27.003     23,5Z3    30.154
LT Debt, lng te rm - Gaobedian            545      3,934     3,934      7.674     7.674     7.674      7.674     7,674      7,674     7,674      7.291     6,907     6,523
Long Tenm Debt, long term - Project         0         0          0      1.460    30.310    69.460    83,660    95,290      88,637    81.467    73,742    65,416    56.445
TOTAL LABIRITIES                       3,394      7,164     9,329     14.430    44.360     85,059   101.191    120.386   119,803    114.146   108.035   100.856    93,122
Accumulftd Net Income                   3,145      6,234     9,961    (36,379)   (89,813)   (29,526)   20.732    53.044    68,486    74,718    71.642    59.126    36,989
Stte Capital                          716,293   752,533   780,672   837.780   955,122   943,247   891,894  1.045,097   935,452   858,474   811,773   773.797   744,77;8
TOTAL LABmnTES AND EQUrrY             722,32   765,936   800,462   815,S32   910,169   998.780  1.013,867  1,218.526  1,123.741  1,047,338   991,451   933,779   874.889
CDX
Cof



CHINA
BEIJNG ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT
Beijing Sewerage Company
Financial Projections
MONITORING INDICATORS                        1988       1989        1990       1991       1992        1993       1994        1995       1996       1997        1998       1999       2000
OPERATIONS
Quantity of Water Discharge (Million M3)      898        880         898        860        844         832        817         803        789        774        760         746        732
fromlKdustry(MillionaofToms)                385         369        368         335        316        297         279        260        241         223        204         185        166
rron Domestic Cones (Millions of             152        161        171         169        173         178        182        187         191        196        200         205        209
from Administrative Units (MillionsofT       205        203        207         205        205        206         205        205         205        205        205         205        205
fromCommercialEstablishmenms(Min             120        111         117        116        115         116        116        115         116        116        116         116        116
from Otber Units (MiiWos of Tons)             36         36          35         35         35          35         35         35          35         35         35          35         35
FINANCE
Volume Exempted from Dishargc Fees          16.9%       18.3%      19.1%       19.6%      20.5%       7.8%        8.2%       8.7%       9.1%        9.6%      10.1 6      10.6%      11.1%
PecentageofDiachargeFeesNotCollect          26.1%       28.2%      32.7%       27.8%      27.0%       6.9%        6.5%       6.0%       5.5%        4.9%       4.4%        3.8%       3.1%
Annua1 Rcvenue Increase                       NA        26.115     15.6%       53.4%      -1.5%     240.9%       -2.3%      -2.3%      -2.3%       -2.5%      -2.5%       -2.5%      -2.6%
Inlflatic.                                    NA         NA          NA          10%         8%         5%          5%         5%         4%          4%         4%         4%          4%
O&M Cost/Ton                                30.09       38.92      44.98      58.39       64.99      99.99      107.77     116.16     123.92      132.32     141.30     150.92      161.26            0
O&M CosTon Inrease(nominal)                  NA        29.3%       15.6%      29.8%      11.3%      53.9%        7.8%       7.8%       6.7%        6.8%       6.8%        6.8%       6.9%             1
O&M Cost/Ton Iwcmcatc (real)                            29.3%      15.6%       18.0%       3.1%      46.5%        2.7%       2.6%       2.6%        2.7%       2.7%        2.7%       2.7%
Wo*Jng Ratio                                  46%         52%        51%         55%        61%        33%         36%        39%        42%        46%         49%        53%         58%
Opereting Ratio                               94%         95%        94%        160%       171%        71%         75%        84%        88%         93%        98%       104%        110%
Rateof Rctunon FixedAsets                   0.45%       0.44%      0.51%      -6.37%     -7.40%      8.25%       6.99%      3.93%      1.69%       0.71%     -0.37%     -1.57%      -2.94%
Debt Savice Coveragc                          NA         NA          NA         NA         NA          667        621         575          7          7           6          5           5
DehIDeht+Eq*ity                                0%          1%         0%          1%         4%         8%         9%          8%         9%          9%         8%         8%          7%
4-I-
0D
(  X
JS I.
Go



CHINA
BEIJING ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECr
Beiiinsi Sewerage Company - AssumDtions for Financial Proiections
lTese financial pecions were produced by the staff of the  PersonneL   The number of staff is expected to increase     Gaobedian investment and the Project inestmnt  The
Beijing Municipal Engineering Administration Division in   siganficantly in 1993 wben the Gaobedian plant initiates    increase in fiwd assets foreseen in the Balance Sheet is
order to analyze future financial scenaios of a new sewerage  operations. Personnel expenditutes follow a detailed stafftng  significantly morem Thus the Sources and Uses Statement is not
company that Beijing Municipality is planning to organize. The  plan presented at appraisal.                           completely integated with the Balanoe Sheet It was decided
plauning for this company is still at an eady stage, and the                                                           not to indude these additional (notional) investments in order
assumaptions and the finandal model itself would need to   Electridtv expenditure is  based on prices prwvided in      to clarify the funds flows associated with those investments
become more detailed as planning for the compays operations  feasibility studies. Prices for power are based on a two tier  already decided.
advances,                                                  system in which a 'normalr price is charged for investments
arising from official plans and a higher price (double at  Financine is shown to cover the entire investment costs of both
The figurss given for the historical period (1988-90) are rough  present) is charged for investments made outside of official    the Gaobedian investment and the Project investment through
esimates of the funds that were used for the sewerage system.  plans.   Electricity expense for project investments are  loans from BM and Contnbutions from BM. lherefore, the
The BMEAD presently handles maintenance of roads, bridges,  considered to be within the official plan.                 entire amount of internal cash generation less debt service and
and sewets, and much of its expenditures are for general                                                               working capital increases would be available to increase casb
overhead and not easily attributable to any one of the     Taxes are based on the average paid for 1988-90. This amounts  and special funds accounts, to provide additional investment,
individual sstems.                                         to 4-5 percent of revenues, though Government has not made  or to give dividends to the Government Alternatively, these
a decision on specific taxes to be imposed on BSC.         cash surpluses could be used to  reduce Government
INCOME STATEMENT                                                                                                       contributions.
Depreciation is taken as 3 percent of Fixed Assets. Fixed
Revenues                                                   Assets were evaluated at replacement cost (in 1990 prices).  BALANCE SHEET
Depreciation before 1991 was taken at values carried in the
Sewerage charnes are presently based on a fee of Rmb 0.12W  books of BMEA, based on incompleted asset registers.       Fixed Assets and Accumulated Depreciation
on 80 percent of the metered water use. Domestic consumers
are exempted from payment of sewerage charges.  Future     Interest is payable on a loan from  the Japanese Government for  Historical Basis. Only historical values of fixed asset for
sewerage charges assume a tariff increase in 1993 to 38/m3 for  the Gaobedian Treatment Plant and from  the Beijing    equipment are carried on the books of BMEA. The sewerage
most categories of consumers (esxluding domestic). Metered  Municipality for the project The Gaobedian interest is shown  network is not carr.d as a fixed asset at present At the
water use for non-domestic consumers is expected to fall by I  as contracted, while interest on project works is taken at 7.76  request of Bank missions, BMEA staff did a desk study to
percent per year due to consemtion policies. This continues  percent for 15 years, with 5 years of grace (during which time  identify fixed assets and value them at replacement value.
a trend which has already been established. The percentage of  neither principal nor interest is charged). The annuity payment  These values are included  from  1991.   Accumulated
sewerage exempted from payment of sewerage charges fees is  method is assumed for loan associated with the project     depreciation was taken based on some rules of thumb for age
expected to fall from 20 percent to 8 percet in 1993.                                                                  and expected life, and it is felt that accumulated depreciation
SOURCES AND USES OF FUNDS                                  is reasonable.
Non-collection of sewerage charges are subtracted from net
income in the year in which such fees are billed and are not  Working Capital Needs. Reflects increase in working capital  Assumptions for Future.  Future fixed assets indude the
carried on the balance sheet as accounts receivable.       derived from changes in balance sbeet estimates of Accounts  Gaobedian plant and Bank-supported project and a general
Receivable, Inventory, and Cash less Accounts Payable.     baseline increase of about 1.5 percent per year.
Fees Returned to Municipality. It is assumed that the BSC will
be allowed to retain the fees it collects and not remit them to  Amortization is taken for the loan from  the Japanese  Accumulated Depreciation. Assumes depreciation rate of 3
the Beijing Municipality (BM) as presently required. However,  Government for the Gaobedian plant and for the project loan.  percent per year on gross fixed assets starting in 1991.
BSC will be subject to tax on its revenues.                Amortization for the Japanese loan is based on a percentage of
the depreciation taken for the fixed asset represented by the  Cash. Accounts Receivable, Inventory and Accounts Payable.
Connection Fees presently cover the costs of connecting new  investment, based on terms and conditions agreed between the  Future years are based on retaining a fixed percentage of
cuStomers plus a pr- 'r to BSC. This policy is not expected to  BMEA and BM. Amortization for the Bank-supported project  expenditures in these accounts.
change.  Both fees and connection costs are expected to    is assumed over 10 years based on the annuity method of
increase wvith inflation.                                  repaymenL                                                   Long Term Debt  For project loan - based on outstanding
balance after amortization over 10 years (annuity method) with
Expenditures. Line item expenditures for 1991-2000 are given  InvestmenL Substantially more investment is anticipated over  interest set at 7.76 percenL
in 1990 prices. All increases due to inflation are carried under  the next ten years by the BSC, however, the feasibility studies
the 'inflation' line item.                                 for such investments are not yet complete. The investment
covered in the sources and uses statement only includes the                                                         lb 
Ln I-'



CHINA
BEUING ENVIRONMENTAL PROJEC;
Beijing District Heating Company
Financial Projections
INCOME STATEMENT                         ----- Actual ---------        ----------------------------------- Projected --------------
RMBY 77TOUSAND                            198S      1989       1990      1991      1992       1993      1994      1995      1996      1997       1998      1999      2000
Hen Sales                               78,912   108,048   119,623   160,710   196,657   292,240   327,060   448,690   519,760   591,060   692,240   769,040   841,520
Steam sales                             50,820    51,820    53,390    55,352    55,966    54,411    S4,411    54,411    77,700    99.902   109,855   112,466   112,466
Other Operating Revenues                     0         0         0          0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0          0         0
OPERAT0 REVENUE                         129,732   159.868   173,013   216,062   2'2,623   346.651   381,471   503,101   597,460   690,962   802.095   881,506   953,986
Peracuac                                 6,192      6,568     9,944    15,000    21,100    29,200    39,800    45,689    57,318    57,318    63,666    70,420    74,314
Purchse of Steam                        77,349    85,818   112.461    122,430   146.675   171.455   202,895   238,238   308,557   383.422   447,357   510,200   570,385
Electricity                               1,752      743      1,295     1,993      1,993     2.180     2,534     2,776     3,030      3.273     3,555     3.857     4,155
Materials                                13,115    15.645    25,279    37,043    38,913    42.564    49.466    54,209    59,168    63,893    69,409    75.299    81,125
Taxes                                   10,558    14,512    20,762    25,927    30,315    41,598    45,777    60,372    71,695    82.915    96.251   105,781   114,478
Otzhr                                     1,796     2,013     3,149     2,970      3,132     3,150     3,150     3,360     3,780      4,264     4,888     5,616      6,344
Lcss: capitalized
OPERATING EXPENSESUBTOTAL               110,762   125.299   172,890   205.363   242,128   290,147   343,622   404.644   503,549   595,085   685.126   771.173   850,801
OP. REV. LESS EXPENSESUBTOTAL            18,970    34.569       123    10,699    10,495    56,504    37,849    98,457    93,911    95,877    116,969   110,333   103,184
Lame og Receivables                      5.500      5,500     6,041     6,428      7.866    11,690    13,082    17,948    20,790    23,642    27.690    30.762    33,661
OPERATING EXPENSE                       116,262   130,799   178.931   211.792   249.994   301,837   356.704   422.591   524,339   618,728   712,816   801,935   884,462
Prior penod adjustments                      0         0          0
INCOME BEFORE DEPRECIATION               13,470    29,069    (5,918)    4,270      2,629    44,814    24,767    80,510    73,121    72.235    89,279    79.571    69,523
Depreciation                             5.396      5,987     4,705     5.146    14,007    18,212    23,423    28,561    33,474    37,491    41,091    44,191    46,191
OPERATI   INCOME                          8,074    23,082   (10,623)     (876)  (11,378)   26,602      1,344    51.948    39,647    34,744    48,189    35,380    23,332
Intstx epenac                                0         0         0      2.723      1,789      920        358        48    14,512    13.332    12.106    10,833      9.510
Non-operating tvenue                      1,539      (376)     (632)        0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0          0         0
NErT MNDE                                9,613    22.706   (11,255)   (3,599)  (13,167)   25.682         986    51,900    25,135    21,412    36.083    24,547    13,822
0D X
(D X



CHINA
BEIJING ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT
Beijing District Heating Company
Financial Projections
SOURCES & USES OF FUNDS    - - ------ Act-l --------- Projected - --------------------------- -                                                                           -
RMBY THIOUSAND                               1988       1989      1990       1991       1992       1993       1994      1995       1996       1997       1998       1999      2000
Income before depreciation                 13,470     29,069     (5,918,    4,270      2,629    44,814      24,767    80,520     73,121     72,235     89.279    79,571     69.523
Non-operating income                        1,539      (376)      (632)         0          0          0         0          0          0          0         0          0          0
INTERNALCASHOENERATION                     15.009     28,693     (6,550)    4,270      2,629     44,814     24,767    80,510     73,121     72,235     89,279    79,571     69,523
Amortization                                                         0          0          0          0         0          0     30,411     31,591     32.816    34,090     35,412
Interest expcnse                                                     0      2.723      1,789        920       358         48     14,512     13,332     12,106     10,833     9,510
TarAL DEBT SERVICE                              0         0          0      2,723      1,789        920       358         48    44,922      44,922     44,922    44,922     44,922
WoriDg capital needs                        5,032     11,9S5     (2,196)    3,722        842      1,847      3.196     3,569      (1,655)      665      7,189     11,603    15,514
CONTMRUTION TO lVESTMENT                    9,977     16,708     (4,354)    (2.175)       (2)   42,048      21,213    76,893     29.854     26,648     37.168     23.046     9.087
Capital expenditure                       143,126      8.838   256,509   443,040    210,250    260,550   256,910    245,650    200,820   10,000    155.000    100,000           0
Purchae of oter longtem assets             11,995      4,795      5,250         0          0          0         0          0          0          0          0         0          0
Capitalized interest                            0         0          0        409      5,470     14,449     21,575    25.917          0          0          0         0          0
TOTALINESTbTMET C)STS                     155,121     13.633    261,759   443,449    215,720    274,999    278,485    271,567    200.820    180.000    155.000    100,000        0
REQUIRED FINANCING                        145.144     (3,075)   266,113   445,624    215.721    232,952    257,272    194.674    170,966    153,352    117.832    76.954     (9.o07)
LOans                                           0     (1I800)        0     10,959    124.520    115,899     74,875    41.367      6,390          0         0          0          0
Consumercontribution                                      0      11,334    118,503    13,300     76.300    102,013    115.433    95,963     60,000     51,667     33,333         0
CGovenment Contribution                   151,170     16.187     21.016    3;.3.987   77,900     83,800     84,930    93,100     76,800     90,0W0     77,500     50,000         0
Revaluation of Assets                                          256,509
TOAL FINANCING                            151,170     14.387   288,859   443,449    215.720    275,999    261,818    249,900    179,153    150.000    129.167     83,333         0
CHANGE IN CASH                              6,026     17,462    22,746      (2,175)       (2)   43,048       4,547    55,226      8,187     (3,352)    11,335      6,379     9,087
q OD
rs X
ro 



CHINA
BEUING ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT
Beijing District Heating Company
Financial Projections
BALANCE SHEET                                     Actal --------         --  ------------ -------------- Projected
RMBY THOUSAND                             1988      1989      1990      1991      1992      1993      1994      1995       1996      1997      1998      1999      2000
Fixed assets                           300,086   308,924   565,433   588,100  1,031,140  1.241.390  1.501,940  1.758,850  2,004,500  2,205.320 2.385.320  2,540.320  2,640,320
Accumulated depreciation                34,101    40,088    44,793    49,939    63.947    82,159   105,582   134,144   167,618   205.109   246.200   290,391   336.581
Net fixed asets                        265,985   268,836   520,640   538,161   967,193  1.159,231  1.396.358  1,624.706  1,836,882  2.000,211  2,139,120  2.249,929  2,303.739
Work in progress                            0         0    22,667   443,449   216,129   280,878   298,813   313.470   268,640   247,820   222,820   167,820    67,820
Otier long term assets                  17.785    22,580    27,830    27,830    27,d30    27.830    27,830    Z7830    27,830    27,830    27,830    27,830    27,830
Cash/Special Funds                      23.105    17,861    17,861    15,686    15,684    58,732    63,279   118,505   126.692   123,339   134,674   141,053   150,140
Deposits                                    0         0          0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0
Accounts receivable                     45.135    59,483    67,999    76,641    86,746   100,612   115.871   135,995   159.894   187,532   219.616   254,876   293.036
Provision for doubtfl receivables       (5.500)   (5,500)   (6,041)   (6,428)   (7,866)  (11,690)  (13,082)  (17,948)  (20.790)  (23,642)  (27.690)  (30.762)  (33.661)
Invenloq                                 2,793     4,489     5,199     7,618     8,003      8,754    10,173    11,149    12.169    13,141    14.275    15.486    16.6S5
Other cufent assets                         0          0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0          0         0
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS                    65.533    76,333    85,018    93,518   102,567   156,409   176,241   247,702   277,964   300,370   340,876   380,654   426,20D
TOTALASSEIS                            349,303   367,749   656,155  1,102.958  1,313.720  1,624,348  1,899,242  2,213,708  2.411,316  2,576,231  2,730.646  2,826,234  2,825,589  kD
Accounts payable                        36.702    32,111    44,423    51.375    59,585    68,532    80,622    93,287   117,017   142,111   164.093   185.889   206.834            1
Longtermdebt, cumet                         0          0         0         0         0         0         0    30,411    31,591    32,816    34,090    35,412         0
Sbott term loans                            0          0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0
Other curent liabilities                   926     9,576     8.145     8,145      8.145     8,145     8,145     8,145     8,145     8.145     8,145     8,145     8,145
TOTAL CURRElIT LlABlxns                 37.628    41,687    52,568    59,520    67,730    76,677    88,767   131,843   156,753   183,072   206,327   229,446   214,979
Loqtersmdet,longtsrm                     2,590       790       790    11,749   136,269   252,168   327.043   337,999   312.799   279,983   245.893   210,481   210,48
Deposits                                    0         0          0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0
TOTAL LIABILlTYI                        40.218    42,477    53,358    71,270   203,999   328,845   415,810   469,842   469,552   463,055   452,220   439,927   425.460
Equity & Accumulated Profit            309,0S5   325,272   346,288   775,179   853,212  1,038,994  1,226,923  1,487,357  1,685,255  1,856,667  2,021,917  2,129,797  2,143,620
Revaluatiow,                                0         0   256,509   256,509   256,509   256,509   256,509   256,509   256,509   256,509   256,509   256,509   256,509
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILTIES            349,303   367,749   656,155  1,102,958  1,313,720  1,624,348  1,899,242  2,213,708  2,411,316  2.576,231  2.730.646  2,826,234  2.825,589
I1t1
tD PC
NO,



CHINA
BEUJING ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT
Beijing District Heating Company
Financial Projections
MONITORING INDICATORS
Thousandsunks otherwis noted               1988       19S9      1990       1991      1992       1993      1994      1995       1996      1997      1998       1999      2000
OPERATIONS
Actualproduction(PJIyr)                    10.8       10.8      11.0       11.6      12.4       14.0      16.7      18.5       21.0      25.0       27.9      31.1      32.5
Heat sold (PJIyr)                          10.2       10.3      10.5       11.0      11.8       13.3      15.8       17.6      19.9      23.7       26.5      29.5       30.8
Unbilledbeataproduction                      6%         5%        5%         5%        5%        5%         5%        5%         5%        5%        5%         5%        5 %
Heat sold/M2Jyear (OJ)                     0.78       0.70      0.65       0.64      0.55      0.53       0.56      0.52       0.50      0.53       0.52      0.49      0.47
Space Heated  throusand of m2)            13,100    14,6C0     16,100    17,100    21,600    25.100    28,100    34.100    40.100    44,600    50,600    60,100    65,100
Dwellings (equivalent) heated               262       292        322       342        432       502        562       682        802       892      1,012     1.202      1,302
Servicecoverge. beat                        18%        20%       21%        21%       26%       29%        31%       36%        41%       43%       47%        54%       56%
Stem Sold (OM1)                           2,622      3,680     4,500      4,512     4,608      4,608     4,608     4,608      6,707     8,797      9,703     9,940      9.340
NWuberof eCployccsinBDHC                  2,304      2,304     3.530      3,550     4,079      4.859     5,334      6,164     6.649     7,309      7.889     8.369      8.554
Space HeatedIemplejree                     5.69       6.34      4.56       4.82      5.30       5.17      5.27       5.53      6.03      6.10       6.41      7.18      7.61
FINANCE
Operating revenue                        129,732   159,868    173,013   216.062   252,623   346,651   381,471   503.101   597,460   690.962   802,095   881.506   953.986
Operating exn                            110,762   125.299   172,890   205.363   242,128   290,147   343,622   404,644   503.549   595,085   685,126   771.173   850.801
Average per PJ sold
Operating reveme                        12,717    15,582    16,556    19,657    21,428    26,120    24,117    28,610    29,991    29,143    30,245    29,848    30,941
Operating  ven-eontant                   1,272     1,558       993      1,966      1,714     1,306      1,206     1,431     1,500      1,166     1.210      1,194     1,238            I
Tdal oat                                11,926    13,332    17,573    19,985    22,545    24,185    24,055    25.659    28,729    28,240    28.884    29,017    30,493                %O
Total ot-contant                         1,193     1,333      1,054    1998       1,804     1,209     1203       1,283     1.436      1,130     1.155      1,161     1,220
Purhse of beat                           7,582     8,364    10,762     11,139    12,441    12,919    12827       13,548    15,489    16,172    16,869    17,276    18,500              1
Purcbaseofheat(consta)                    758        836       646      1,114       995        646       641       677        774       647        675       691       740
Average per dwelling (cquiv.)
Operting rven                             495        547       537        632       585        691       679       738        745       775        793       733       733
Opeaing reve -constn                       SD0        55        32         63        47         35        34        37         37        31         32        29         29
Toalcost                                 423        429       537        600       560        578       611       593        628       667        677       642       653
Totsl cost-cont                            42         43        32         60        45        29         31        30         31        27         27        26        26
Pucbase of team (CHP)                     295        294       349        358       340       342        361       349        385       430       442        424       43S
Pwcbase of steam (cnaant)                  30         29        21         36        n          17        18         17        19        17         IS        17         18
Net income                                9,613    22,706    (11,255)   (3,599)  (13,167)   25,682         986    51.900    25.135    21,412    36.083    24.547    13,822
Inteal Cash Genastion                     15,009    28.693    (6,550)    4.270      2,629    44,814    24.767    80,510    73,121    72.235    89.279    79,571    69,523
Intmnal Cnmtributicnto Investment         9,977     16,708    (4,354)   (2,175)        (2)   42,048    21,213    76,893    29,154    26,648    37,168    23,046        9,087
Conses Contributions                          0         0      11,334    118,503    13,300    76,300   102,013    115,433    95,963    60,000    51.667    33.333          0
Long tenm boffowing                           0     (1,800)        0     10,550   119,050   101,450    53,300    15,450       6,390         0         0          0         0
Capital expenditures (in Millions)          143          9       257        443       210       261        257       246       201        IS0       153        100         0
Capital expcndidtis-coustant millions        14          1        1        44         17        13         13        12         .0         7         6          4         0
Rateofmutn                                   4%         8%       -3%        -1%       -2%        2%         0%        3%         I%        1%        2%         I%        I%
Working ratio                             89.6%      81.8%     103.4%     98.0%     99.0%      87.1%     93.5%      84.0%     87.8%     89.5%      88.9%     91.0%      92.7%
Opeating ratio                             93.8%     85.6%     106.1%    10D.4%    104.5%      92.3%     99.6%      89.7%     93.4%     95.0%      94.0%     96.0%      97.6%
Debt sevkc coverage ratio                   NA        NA         NA          2          1        49         69      1,680      1.63      1.61       1.99      1.77       1.55
Contribuloc toycarly investmen               6%       123%        3%        26%        6%       43%        44%       71%        63%       48%       57%        56%       NA
Contribution to Average lnvestment          33%        33%        5%        53%        4%       49%        48%       82%        60%       49%       61%        66%       27%
Number of months' saIls in AIR              3.7        4.1       4.3        3.9       3.7        3.1       3.2       2.8        2.8       2.8        2.9       3.1       3.3
Infttion Rate                               10%        10%        6%        10%        8%        5%         5%        5%         5%        4%        4%         4%        4%
DebtW(Debt+Equity) ratio                   0.8%       0.2%      0.2%       1.5%     13.8%      19.5%     21.0%      18.5%     15.7%     13.1%      10.8%      9.0%       8.9%
Curen ratio                                1.74       1.83      1.62       1.57      1.51       2.04      1.99      1.88       1.77      1.64       1.65      1.66       1.98
QQ ,



CHINA
BEIJING ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECr
Beiiinp- District Heat Company - Assumptions for Financial Projections
INCOME STATE.MENT                                           Municipality are still in discussions on technical elements of the  Working Capital Needs.  Increases in working capital is
cost calculation for steam purchases.                       calculated by by subtracting year to year increases in accounts
Revenues                                                                                                                 payable from  increases in net accounts recivable and
Taxes. Taxs, which are 12.06 percent of revenues include    inventory. Four percent of current yearly bitling is used to
Heat Revenues based on nominal average tariff increases of  public utility charges (9.09 percent of revenue), business tax  increase accounts receivable balances; 20.6 percent of materials
about 30 percent (per GJ) for 1991, 8 percent for 1992, and  (revenues minus utility taxX 3 percent), and education and city  purchases per year (in operating costs) is carried in inventory,
22.5 percent for 1993. 15 percent in 1995 and 9 percent in  construction taxes (2 percent and 7 percent of business tax) in  and payables assume a 4 month lag in payment of bills for
1997. Production (in GJ's) and number of square meters      accordance with existing national regulations.               purchase of steam, electricity, materials and taxes.  The
provided according to planning estimates and given in the                                                                assumptions used to calculate balances in materials, receivables
Monitoring Indicators report                                Losses on Receivables are assumed to be 4 percent of heat    and pdyables are based on continuination of experience in 1989
revenues, in accordance with estimates of BDHC staff and    and 1999.
Steam revenues from industrial customers are based on planned  reflecting recent experience.
quantities sold per year and price increases in accordance with                                                          Capital Expenditures are based on expenditures for the project
inflation.                                                  Depreciation  has been  restated to reflect intemati.:nal    and for BDHC's other planned irnvestments prsently included
accounting practices. Depreciation on existing assets is tasen  in the Master Plan for District HeaL Such other investments
Physical heat and steam losses equivalent to 5 percent of   at a rate commensurable with yearly charges in accummulated  include: a) new cogeneration facilities at Gaobedian with
production are estimated. However, since universal metering  depreciation showing in the balance sheet Depreciation of   distribution to an additional 15 million m2 (scheduled
at the building or beat exchanger level has not been        new assets (from 1991 on) is set at 2 percent of GFA. Assets  completion in 1995), b) new cogeneration at Sungruhuang with
implemented yet, these estimates are very rough.            were revalued in 1990 at the at the request of the Bank.     distribution to 9 million m2 (scbeduled completion in 1997),
and rehabilitation of the power plant at Gaojing witb
Operatine Costs                                             Operating interest includes interest and committment fees on  distribution to 5 million m2. (scheduled completion in 1999).
the Bank loan attributable to BDHC.  No other loan i        The Master Plan will be revised during the implementation of
Wa   BHDC expects to increase their staff from 3500         envisageJ. Interest is paid at the rate of 7.76 percent per yea.  the project, and these estimates are subject to substantial
employees in 1990 to 8500 by the year 2000. (Staff will grow  for 10 years based on constant payments of principal and   change.
by 142 percent, while heat production and consumers served  interest. (Interest is capitalized during a five year period of
will grow by 168 percent and 280 percent, respectively. Wage  grace).                                                    Capitalized Interest. Interest on the loan for the project is
increases through 1994 are projected to be significantly higher                                                          capitalized for five years. No other debt is foreseen.
than inflation (14 percent real on average), reflecting long
term trends in China.  Thereafter, wages are expected to    SOURCES AND USES OF FUNDS STATEMENT                          Loans. No other loans except those made in connection with
increase by 2 percent above inflation.                                                                                   the project are foreseen.
Cbinese agencies do not normally prepare a Sources and Uses
Purchase of Heat aSteam). The costs of purchasing steam     statement equivalent to that used in Western Accounting      Consumer Contribution. Consumers are expected to pay for
represents 60466 percent of cash operating costs. The price of  Systems.                                                 certain assets which are owned by BDHC in connection with
steam, most of which is derived from cogeneration, will be the                                                           each consumer's system, Specilically. consumers pay the capital
same regardless of the plant from which it is purchased. The  Debt Service. At present, BHDC bas virtually no debt. The  costs of heat exchangers and pipes in the primary system that
proposed price is based on a) the cst of derating the       Bank loan is expected to be passed on to BHDC by Beijing     are less than 500 mm. The exchangers and all of the p-imary
production of electrical power in order to cogenerate beat and  Municipality on the following terms: 7.76 percent interest,    system are owned by BDHC. Consumers also pay for and own
electricity, b) the direct capital and operating costs of providing  standard IBRD committment fees, a five year period of grace  the pipes in the secondary system, defined as pipes from the
the heat and c) the cost of electricity used by the CHP plant  for payment of both principal and interest, and constant  heat exchanger to the buildings.
itself in producing heat. The major cost element is the derating  payments over ten years for payment of principal and interest.
cost, wbich includes an estimate for additional peak capacity  BHDC would be responsible for foreign exchange risk,      Government Contribution. Beijing Municipality is expected to
required to replace the electricity lost (i.e. depreciation, profit,  however, no devaluation is foreseen over the next 9 years,  cover all the capital costs of the project that are not covered by
repairs, and fixed labor costs), and the variable costs (eg. coal)    therefore any additional costs of foreign exchange are not  loans.  For future projects, Govemment contributions are
for such electricity losses. The Bank, BDHC, and the Beijing  reflected in these projections.                            expected to cover 50 percent of investment costs, with the
Oq X
mx 
tAt-'~



remaiuder covered by BDHC cash surpluses and contributions  MONITORING INDICATORS
from consumem
This table summarizes some of the major assumptions used in
Revaluation of Assets  At the request of Bank missions,    deriing the financial projections, and recounts some important
BDHC undertook a revaluation of assets in 1990. No further  figures contained in the reports. It also provides key ratios to
vaations are expected during the next ten years.           analyze and describe BHDCs finances.
Operational Indicators provide physical and other
BALANCE SHEET                                              measurements on which financial indicators are based.
Operational indicators also indicate physical achievements (e.g.
Fixed Assets, Accmmulated Depreciation and Net Faed Assets    service coverage) and prowide measurements of efficiency (eg.
reflect official balance sheets for 1988 and 1989. In 1990,  space heated per employee). All indicators are given in
Fixed Assets were increased by a revaluation.              thousands unless otherwise indicated. The equivalent dweUing
measurement assumes each dwelling unit is 50 m2 in size.
Work in Progress. It is assumed that capital expenditures are
carried as work in progress during the year such expenditures  Financial Indicators extract balances of key financial figures
were incurred and placed into fixed assets during the following  given in the financial reports.  They also: a) provide an
year.                                                      indication of certain annual figures per PJ of beat produced
and per dwelling equivalent, and b) give key ratios.
Other Long Tern Assets are carried at their balance in 1990.
Ratios:
CashjSecial Funds. Most cash surpluses are put into special
funds                                                      Working  Ratio   =   Operating  Expenses  before
DepreciationiOperating Revenue
Accounts Receivable reflect actual balances in 1990 plus 4                                                                                                                         %
percent of billings in future years.                       Operatine   Ratio   =   Operating  Expense  including
Depreciation/Operating Revenue
Provision For Uncollectable Receivables Chinese accounting
systems do not recognize provisions for uncolectables,     Debt Service Coverage Ratio =lternal Cash Generation/Debt
however, a provsion has been introduced here for clarity. The  Service
provision is equal to 4 perCent of heat revenues plus the
balance from prvious year, and is based on BDHC staff      Contrnbution to Yearly Investment = Internal Cash Generation
estimates of actual uncolectables                          and Consumers contribution minus Working Capital and Debt
Sesvice/Capital Exenditures for each year
Inventory. See note under Worling Capital NeedsW in Sources
and Uses of FundL                                          Contribution to Averaee Investment = Internal cash generation
and consumers contribution minus working capital increase and
Accounts Payable Equal to lag of four months in payment of  debt service divided by 3-year aveage capital expendhtures.
cash operatuin costs (emept salaries).
Months Sales in A/R = Net Accounts Receivable for
Long Term  DebL  Loatn for Bank-financed project plus      Year/Operating Revenue for year (times 12)
capitalized interest mninus amortization. Amortization based on
constant payments of principal and interest over ten years.  Price Deflator - Assumes following inflation 1991=10 percent,
1992=8 percent, 1993 and thereafter = 5 percent
EaaitY. Equal to Government and Consumers' Contributions
plus Retained EarningL                                     Current Ratio = Current Assets/Current Liabilities
Revaluations. See note under Sources and Use
al tD
iX



- 98 -                                   A       20
Page 1
CHINA
BEUING ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT
Economic Analysis of Wastewater Component
South Urban Sewer Interceptor
Costs (Million)                               Benefits (Million)
No. 6    No. I  Improved Improved    Net
Capital Cost             O & M    Water    CHP        Land   Recreat-    Cash
Year   F        or.       L                  Cost    Plant    Station    Value  ion Vauo    Flow
(USS)   (RMB)   (RMB)   (RMB)   (RMB)   (RMB)   (RMB)   (RMB)   (RMB)   (RMB)
(A)               (B)       (C)      (D)      (E)       (F)      (a)
1991     0.40     2.32      5.11     7.43                                                   -7.43
1992     3.92    22.74    38.54    61.28                                                   -61.28
1993     4.89    2u.36    39.93    68.29                                                   -68.29
1994     2.04     11.83    14.59    26.42                                                  -26.42
1995     1.60     9.28    10.94    20.22                                                   -20.22
1996                                          1.84    22.94    14.56      5.64      0.51    41.81
1997                                          1.84    22.94    14.56      5.64      0.51    41.81
1998                                          1.84    22.94    14.56      5.64      0.51    41.81
1999                                          1.84    22.94    14.56      5.64      0.51    41.81
2000                                           1.84    22.94    14.56     5.64      0.51    41.81
2001                                           1.84    22.94    14.56      5.64     0.51    41.81
2002                                           1.84    22.94    14.56     5.64      0.51    41.81
2003                                           1.84    22.94    14.56     5.64      0.51    41.81
2004                                           1.84    22.94    14.56     5.tu4     0.51    41.81
2005                                           1.84    22.94    14.56     5.64      0.51    41.81
2006                                           1.84    22.94    14.56     5.64      0.51    41.81
2007                                           1.84    22.94    14.56     5.64      0.51    41.81
2008                                           1.84    22.94    14.56     5.64      0.51    41.81
2009                                           1.84    22.94    14.56     5.64      0.51    41.81
2010                                           1.84    22.94    14.56     5.64      0.51    41.81
2011                                           1.84    22.94    14.56     5.64      0.51    41.81
2012                                           1.84    22.94    14.56     5.64      0.51    41.81
2013                                           1.84    22.94    14.56     5.64      0.51    41.81
2014                                           1.84    22.94    14.56     5.64      0.51    41.81
2015                                           1.84    22.94    14.56     5.64      0.51    41.81
Economic Rate of Return      15.78%
13.01%  (+10% cost, -10% benefit)
11.87%  (+20% cost, -10% benefit)
10.39%  (+20% cost, -20% benefit)
Explanatory Notes
Col (A)  Conversion of Foreign Cobt to RMB is done using a Shadow Exchange Rate of $1 = RMB 5.8
Col (B) Cost estimates do not includes taxes, interest and depreciation.
Col (C)  O. & M. Cost is eslmated at I % of total Capital Cost per year.
Col (D) Replacement source (based on production cost at NO. 9 Water Plant) will cost RMB 0.50 per m3.
O & M costs at No. 6 Water Plant are RMB 0.13 per m3.
Net benefit from not having to replace water source is therefore RMB 0.37 per m3.
At 62 milion m3 per annum output, total benefit = 0.37 x 62 = RMB 22.94 milion/year.
Col (E) Reduction in electrical generation due to stoppages for repairs to clean cooling system
results in loss of about 300 milion kwh per year. With improved water supply this loss is
reduced by 33% or 100 million kwh. Using shadow price of electricity of RMB 0.20/kwh (N. China Grid)
and 0.34 Kg coal (at RMB 160 per ton) to generae I kwh,
Bneft = (100 x 0.2) - (100 x 0.34 x 160 / 1000) = RMB 14.56 million/year
Col (F)  Total length of waterway benefitted is 18.8 Km. (South Moat and Tonghui River).
Assuming an increase of RMB 1.50/m2 land/year in land value (reflected in rental value)
along a strip of land lOOm on each side of waterway,
Benefit = 18800 x 200 x 1.50 /1000000 = RMB 5.64 miDlion/year.
Col (0)  17 swimming pools x 60 swimming days x 1500 persons/day = 1.53 milion visits
Other park visitors 10,000 persons/day x 365 days = 3.65 million visits
Assume 33% of visits are due to improved water quality in rivers and lakes at parks, and RMBO.30/visit
Benefit = 0.33 x (1.53 + 3.65) x 0.3 = RMB 0.51 milIon/year.



- 99  -                                 Annex 20
Pagp 2
CHINA
BEUING ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT
Economic Analysis of Wastewater Component
Sewer Interceptors in No. 3 Water Plant Area
Costs (Milion)                                Benefits (Million)
Improved Land Value    Net
Capital Cost                    O & M     Water      from       Cash
Year    For.       For.       Loc.       Tolal       Cost    Supply   Sewerage      Flow
(US$)     (RMB)      (RMB)       (RMB)      (RMB)    (RMB)    (RMB)        (RM8)
(A)                   (B)        (C)       (D)       (E)
1991       0.59       3.42       9.48      12.90                                     -12.90
1992       0.22       1.28       1.40       2.68                                      -2.68
1993       0.85       4.93      11.10       16.03                                    -16.03
1994                             1.00                  0.32    11.84        5.76      17.28
1995                             1.00                  0.32    11.84        5.76      17.28
1996                             1.00                  0.32    11.84        5.76      17.28
1997                             1.00                  0.32    11.84        5.76      17.28
1998                             1.00                  0.32    11.84        5.76      17.28
1999                             1.00                  0.32    11.84        5.76      17.28
2000                              1.00                  0.32    11.84       5.76      17.28
2001                              1.00                  0.32    11.84       5.76      17.28
2002                              1.00                  0.32    11.84       5.76      17.28
2003                              1.00                  0.32    11.84       5.76      17.28
2004                              1.00                  0.32    11.84       5.76      17.28
2005                              1.00                  0.32    11.84       5.76      17.28
2006                              1.00                  0.32    11.84       5.76      17.28
2007                              1.00                  0.32    11.84       5.76      17.28
2008                              1.00                  0.32    11.84       5.76      17.28
2009                             1.00                   0.32    11.84       5.76      17.28
2010                              1.00                  0.32    11.84       5.76      17.28
2011                              1.00                  0.32    11.84       5.76      17.28
2012                              1.00                  0.32    11.84       5.76      17.28
2013                              1.00                  0.32    11.84       5.76      17.28
2014                             1.00                   0.32    11.84       5.76      17.28
2015                             1.00                   0.32    11.84       5.76      17.28
Economic Rate of Retura   38.74%
33.11% (+10% cost, -10% benefit)
30.86% (+20% cost, -10% benefit)
27.991  (+20% cost, -20% bnefilt)
Exdlanato  Notes
Col (A)  Conversion of Foreign Cost to RMB is done using a Shadow Exchange Rate of $1 = RMB 5.8
Col (B)  Cost estimat do not include taxes. interest and depreciation.
Col (C)  0. & M. Cost is cstimated at 1% of total Capital Cost per year.
Col (D)  Benefits are estmated from loss of production output which can be avoided from
improved water supply quality. Assumptions are:
Population served by source = I million
1990 BeiIing per capita output = RMB 8,640
Days of output loss due to sickness from poor water qualky = 0.5
Benefit = RMB 8,640 / 365 x 0.5 day x I million - RMB 11.84 million/year
Col (E)  Area served by proposed sewor Is estimated to be 384 hectars. Environmental conditions will
will be improved with corresponding increase in land value. Assuming a lare value
increse (reflected in rental value) of RMB 1.50 per m2 per year,
Benofit = 384 x 10,000 x 1.50 = RMB 5.760,000 per year



- 100 
Annex 21
Page 1
CHINA
BEIJING ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT
Economi. Analysis of District Heating Component
1.          The four alternatives considered in the analysis are described
below.
Alternative 1 - Combined Heat and Power (CHP/DH Project)
2.          The various parts of the DII component under the project would
be completed in accordance with the following sequence:
1991   Connection of three medium size heat only boilers (HOB) to
serve a floorspace of 0.8 million mi2;
1992   Connection of HOBs (129 MWt) and Shijingshan CHP plant (697
MWt) to serve an additional floor area of 2.8 million M2;
1993   Expansion of service to a total floor area of 7 million m2;
1994   Connection of oil-fired HOB al Shuangyushu (348 MWt), and
integration of operation over all the serviced area with
expansion of service to a total floor area of 10 million m2;
1995-96  Expansion of service to a total floor area of 15 million m2;
1997-99  Connection of HOBs at Lugu and Beizhong (2x174 MWt), and
expansion of service to a total floor area of 18.5 million M2.
3.          The share of CHP in meeting the peak load would fall from 80
to 55 percent over the 1993-98 period: CHP's share in total heat supply
drops to 87 percent in 1999, at which date the annual coal and fuel oil
consumptions by HOBs would reach peaks of 54,600 tons and 31,900 tons
respectively. The Average Incremental Cost (AIC) of heat supply to
buildings is Y39.9/GJ (Y21.6/m2/year) after shadow pricing inputs. Bulk
prices for steam purchased from Shijingshan by BDHC would be required to
reflect its opportunity cost. This cost, before shadow pricing, consists
of three elements:
(a)    an annuity for the neat extraction system (Y1.5 million/year);
(b)    a maximum demand charge to compensate for power capacity
derating (Y33.8/kWt/year); and
(c)    an energy charge to cover fuel derating (Y4.17/GJ).
4.          After adding the cost of the main transmission line, and
shadow pricing all inputs, the cost of CHP heat is Y 150/kWt/yr plus Y
5/GJ; the cost of HOB heat is Y 80/kWt/yr plus Y 12/GJ. To compete with
HOBs, each kWt of CHP should produce at least 10 GJ annually, i.e., the
utilization factor must exceed 2,800 h (base load operation).



- 101 -                            Annex 21
Page 2
Alternative 2 - District Heat-Onlv Boilers
5,          This DH alternative follows the same expansion sequence as the
CHP/DH alternative with the following modifications:
The transmission line and other works for heat supply from
Shijingshan are deleted; other lines are downsized and/or
shortened accordingly;
-      The HOBs at Lugu and Beizhong are brought into service in
1992-93; and
-      Medium-size HOBs, 740 MWt in total, are pul into service in
succession through 1999,
Except for the oil-fired Shuangyushu HOB, all boilers are assumed to burn
washed coal (524,000 tons in 1999).
Alternatives 3 and 4 - Small Boilers (two cases)
6.          These two alternatives also include the connection in 1991 of
three existing HOBs to 0.8 million m2 of floorspace, and the commissioning
of the Lugu and Beizhong HOBs in 1992-93 to serve 3.5 million m2 of
floorspace. The remaining area is served by small dispersed boilers that
are not interconnected and only require a secondary network of pipes to
buildings.
7.          In Alternative 3, which is used to compare with the DH project
alternative, all boilers are assumed to use washed coal (750,000 tons in
1999). The AIC for this alternative is calculated to be Y37.5/GJ before
shadow pricing, and Y42/GJ at economic prices. This cost is then assumed
to be the minimum price that consumers are willing to pay for the supply of
heat, while complying with some degree of air pollution requ'--ment. It is
used as the proxy benefit to compute the internal rate of re, 1 of the
CHP/DH proposal under the Project.
8.          Alternative 4 is the baseline case where no special efforts
are made to alleviate environmental problems. This case is similar to
Alternative 3, except that all boilers would use raw coal (900,000 tons in
1999).  Since the present air quality conditions are already unacceptable,
this alternative is not a viable one.  It must be pointed out that this
alternative has the same economic cost as the DH alternative, but SOX and
TSP concentrations would be 250 percent and 56 percent higher, and ash and
clinker generation would increase by 170,000 tons/year.
Main Results and Assumptions
9.          The main results at economic prices are shown in the table on
Page 3 of the annex, together with the assumptions used.



- 102 -                                     Annex 21
Page 3
CHINA
BEUING ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
Economic Analysis of District Heating Component
Performance of Space Heating Alternatives
ALTERNATIVES                               SmaWMedlunm HOBs    DH/HOBs            DH/CHP Proj.
TYPE OF COAL                             Raw          Washed        Washed             Raw
Fud requIrmets
Coal (kton)                             899            749            524             55
Oil (kton)                                0              0             32             32
Electricity (OWh)                        54             54             54            553
Total (kton oil equivalent)            464            463            361            203
Investments (Y Mlllon)                 1646           1646           2168           1954
A         Emisons (ktan)
TSP                                    15.2           6.34           1.21           0.70
SOX                                    14.4           8.39           6.03           5.67
Incrmeat in Ambiet Concantratons (mg/cu.m)
TSP                                   0.230          0.092          0.018          0.004
SOX                                   0.302          0.169          0.121          0.011
ToAs bIcludi  Background (mg/cam)
TSP                                   0.631          0.493          3.419          0.405
SOX                                   0.387          0.254          0.206          0.096
ECONOMIC COST OF HEAT (Y/GI)           39.8           42.0           43.3           39.9     Conversion
of which:                                                                                         Factor
From Invstmeats
HOBs                                    9.2            9.2            8.4            3.8           1.16
Lines                                   0.8            0.8            5.8            8.6           1.15
Substations                             1.0            1.0            2.3            2.3           1.19
Secondary Network                       7.6            7.6            7.5            7.5           1.17
Subtoal from Investments              18.6          18.6           24.0           22,2
From Operatfng Costs
Coal for HOBs                          13.0           15.2           10.7            0.7           1.00
Oil for HOBs                                                                         1.8           1.50
Power Capacity Derating                                                              3.5           1.50
Additional coal for CHP                                                              4.1           1.20
Electricity                             1.4            1.4            1.4            1.4           1.20
Other O&M                               6.8            6.8            7.2            6.2           1 30
Subtotl from prating Costs           21.2           234            19.3           17.7
Note: Floor Area (miUion sq.m):  18.50 (0.54 GJ/sq.m)
Shadow exchange rate (Y/US$): 5.8     Discount rate: 10.0%
ASSUMPTIONS                                         SmaU HOBs    District HOBs      CHP
Raw coal consumption (kg/GJ)                          95.0           65.0           35.0
Particulate Emission Control Efficiency (%)            45%            85%            95%
SOX Removal efficiency                                  0X1           20%            20%
Plant Investment cost (Y/kWt)                        550.0          510.0          465.0
SS/IC.condary network (Y/kWt)                        516.0          670.0          670.0
Raw Coal      Washed Coal   Heavy Oil
Calorific value (Gift)                                20.9           25.1           41.9
Ash content                                            28%            14%             0%
Sulfur content                                        1.0%           0.7%           0.3%
Financil price (Y/t)                                 150.0          210.0          460.0
COMPOSITE CONVERSION FACTORS  HOB                   Lies      Subations       Sondary
Share  C.F.   Shar  C.F.   Share  C.P.   Share  C.F.
Sted                              8%   1.75     8%   1.84    10%    1.9    12%    1.8
aIbour                            3%   0.80     4%   0.80      3%    0.8      5%    0.8
Importod equipment               11%   1.22     4%   1.22    18%    1.2       0%    1.2
Local equipment t & meiaki       78%   1.10    84%   1.10    69%    1.1    83%    1.1
Totdl                          100%    .16-  100%   1.15   100%   1.19   10%   . lo 1



- 103 -                                     Annex 21
Page 4
CHINA
BEIJING ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT
Economic Analysis of District Heating Component
DH/CHP Project - Alternative 1 (before Shadow Pricing)
|PV of costs (Y Million)   2342                 iRR       13.6%
Year                              1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   Total
INSTALLED CAPACITY (MWQ)
Small Hoat Only Boilers             98    129    129    129    129    129    129    129    129    129
Belzbong                                                                          174    174    174    174
LAIgu                                                                                     174    174    174
Shuangyuahu                                               232    348    348    348    348    348    348
SilbtotIHOBi                      98    129    129    361    477    477    651    825    825    825
Shijingshan                                697    697    697    697    697    697    697    697    697
Total                             98    826    826   1058   1174   1174   1348   1522   1522   1522
CHP ShAre                           0%    84%    84%    66%    59%    59%    52%    46%    46%    46%
INVETMENTS (Y million of 1990)
Small HOBs                        54.0   12.0                                                                     66
Belzhong                                                                 66.6   22.2                              89
Lugu                                                                             66.6   22.2                      SJ
Shuangyushu                                       39.0   65.0   26.0                                             130
&AO  HOEsI                      54.0   12.0   39.0   65.0   26.0   66.6   88.8   22.2    0.0    0.0    374
Small HOBs' lines (2.8 kin)       10.1    4.0                                                                     14
Bezhong-Lugu line (7.2 kin)                                                      45.0   20.7                      66
Shuangyushu mains (7.6 kin)                               81.0    5.0                                             86
Power plant "tains (24.4 kim)     18.0  379.7   33.8   26.5    5.7                                               464
Brnch lines (82 km)                4.2   11.9   18.2   15.5   15.5   10.3   10.3    5.2    2.6                    94
azbtout lines                   32.3  395.6   52.0  123.0   26.2   10.3   55.3   25.9    2.6           0.0    723
Subrsation (260)                  29.5   29.5   32.2   27.6   27.6   18.4   18.4    9.2    4.6                   197
Secondary pipes                  105.0  105.0  105.0   90.0   90.0   60.0   60.0   30.0   15.0                   660
S-*a                            134.5  134.5  137.2  117.6  117.6   78.4   78.4   39.2   19.6    0.0    857
Total                          220.8  542.1  228.2  305.6  169.8  155.3  222.5   87.3   22.2    0.0  1953.7
OPERATION & WMAITEANCE (Y million of 1990)
Coal                               4.2    3.2    0.8    2.S    2.5    2.7    5.1    8.0    8.2    8.2             45
Oi                                0.0    0.0    0.0    7.0    7.6    8.9   10.3   12.1   14.7   14.7             75
Power Capacity Derating            0.0    4.4   12.0   12.9   17.7   23.6   23.6   23.6   23.6   23.6    165
Additional coal forCHP             0.0    6.4   15.0   18.7   25.4   31.1   34.3   34.9   35.1   35.1    236
Elcetricity                        0.7    I.S    3.6    5.4    8.0    9.3   10.5   11.1   11.4   13.5             75
Labour                             0.3    1.2    1.9    2.8    3.5    3.7    3.9    4.1    4.3    4.9             30
Other O&M                           1.7   14.8   18.8   28.1   32.5   35.0   37.0   39.0   41.0   44.7    293
TOdal                            6.8   31.7   52.0   77.2   97.1  114.2  124.7  132.7  138.2  144.6    919
and Toal                        227.6  573.8  280.2  382.8  266.9  269.S  347.2  220.0  160.4  144.6
Benefits                          15.8   76.9  153.7  219.6  285.4  329.4  373.3  395.2  406.2  406.2
Cash Plow                       -211.8 -496.9 -126.5 -163.2   18.5   59.9   26.1  175.2  245.8  261.6
SHARE OF PEAK LOAD (UWW)
Small Host Only Boilers             50    102    102    102    102    102    102           99     99      99    102
Belziong                             0       0      0       0       0       0       0     104    121    121       28
Lugu                                 0       0      0       0       0       0     135    104    121    121        41
Sbuanzyushu                          0       0      0     181    242    239    242    242    242    242    161
SdtOStal HOEs                     50    102    102    284    345    341    480    549    583    583    332
SbjiDgshan                           0    140    382    408    555    697    697    697    697    697    509
TOaW                              50    242    484    692    900   1038   1176   1246   1280   1280    841
CHP Share                         0%    58%    79%    59%    62%    67%    59%    56%    54%    54%    62%
SHARE OP HEAT PRODUcION (TI)
HOB                              405    310       80    240    240    260    500    780    S00    8G0    390
SbugUAU                                                 570    620    730    840    990   1200   1200    583
CHP                                0   1661   3861   4820   6459   7455   8231   8364   8416   8416   5S6S
TOWl                             405   1971   3941   5630   7319   S445   9571  10134  10416  10416   6842
CHPShare                          0%    84%    98%    86%    88%    88%    86%    83%    81%    81%    87%
LOAD FACrOR (byyr)
HOD                             2260    841    217    793    693    806    776    896    952    952    740
CHP                                0   3300   2808   3279   3233   2972   3281   3334   3355   3355   3193



- 104 -                                   Annex 21
Page 5
STEAM PURCHASES FROM SHIJINOSHAN
Y Million                              10.8   27.0   31.3   43.1   54.6   57.9   58.4   58.7   58.7   40.6
Y/Oi                                    6.5    7.0    6.5    6.7    7.3    7.0    7.0    7.0    7.0    6.9
Profit (Y Milion)                       0.6    1.6    1.7    2.3    3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0         2
P. ess (Y Million)                     78.5  178.3  189.1  252.4  329.4  329.4  329.4  329.4  329.4  246.4
ROR of CHP                             0.7%   0.9%   0.9%   0.9%   0.9%   0.9%   0.9%   0.9%   0.9%   0.9%
FUEL CONSUMPTION
Coal (klon)                     27.7   21.2    5.5   16.4   16.4   17.7   34.1   53.2   54.6   54.6    27
Oll(kon)                         0.0    0.0    0.0   15.1   16.5   19.4   22.3   26.3   31.9   31.9    15
Derating(MWe)                          30.8   84.0   89.8  123.6  164.8  164.8  164.8  164.8  164.8   117
Detating(OWb)                         101.5  236.0  294.6  399.7  489.7  540.7  549.4  552.8  552.8   376
Electricity(OWb)                 2.8    7.1   14.4   21.6   32.2   37.1   42.1   44.5   45.8   54.1    30
ATMOSPHERIC EMISSIONS
TSP ton)                        0.13   0.18   0.22   0.31   0.40   0.48   0.59   0.69   0.70   0.70   0.43
SOX (ktow)                      0.44   1.19   2.07   2.81   3.70   4.49   5.19   5.59   5.67   5.67   3.66
Avore Icramentl Coast (AIC)    Y/OI                 Average Incremental Cost (AIC)        Y/aI
HOBa                             3.3                Coal                                   0.7
Lines                            7.5               Oil                                     1.2
Substations                      1.9                Power Capacity derating                2.3
Secondary Network                6.4                Additional coal for CHP                3.4
.Sekotal                      19.1                Electricity                             1.2
Otber O&M                              4.8
subtol                               13.7
TOTAL AIC       32.8
HEAT PRICE FROM CHP
Heat System    Replacement cost of power
Capacity costs                Y Million     Y/kWe          Y/kWt
Investment                      22.0         1833.0         466.1
IDC                              0.0           0.0            0.0
Fixed asus (95% of Invst.)      20.9         1741.4         442.8
Analized ebarge                  1.0          100.8          25.6
.depreciation (4.8%)           1.0           83.6          21.3
.Antereat/retun                0.0           17.2           4.4
Fixed O&M                        0.5          32.3            8.2
.Repai(1.4% of assets)         0.3           24.4           6.2
.labour                        0.2            7.9           2.0
&dtXol                         1.5          133.1          33.8
Net of plant us (7%)                          143.1
Vaiable cos                   Y/kWh           Y/IOJ
Coal (Y 100I )                0.0490          3.461
Water                         0.0015         0.106
Materials                     0.0045          0.318
Other                         0.0040          0.283
**tol                        0.0590         4.167
Net of pant use               0.0634
Derat  in Year 2D00 (We/WQ):    0.236
C8P OPERATION IN THE YEAR 2t010
CHP            Steam output                       Powor derating
Generator         th  Meal/t          MWt           MWe We/Wt
Unit 1           450    510            266           58.6  0.22D
Unit 2           450    510            266           58.6  0.220
Unit 3           264    535            164           47.6  0.290
Total                                  697          164.8  0.236



- 105 -                                      Annex 21
Page 6
CHINA
BEIJING ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT
Economical Analysis of District Heating Component
HOB using Washed Coal - Alternative 2 (before Shadow Pricing)
PV of costs (Y Million)           2957 |
Years                             1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   Total
INSTALLED CAPACITY (MWt)
Medium size Heat Only Boilers       98    129    162    162    408    S74    739    823    864    864
Beizhong                                   174    174    174    174    174    174    174    174    174
Lugu                                              174    174    174    174    174    174    174    174
Shuangyusbu                                               232    348    348    348    348    348    348
Total HOBs                         98    303    510    742   1104   1270   1435   1519   1560   1560
ENVESTMENTS (Y million of 1990)
Medium size HOBs                  34.0   12.0   18.2    0.0  135.3   91.1   91.1   46.2   22.4    0.0    470
Beizhong                          66.6   22.2                                                                   89
Lugu                                      66.6   22.2                                                           89
Shuangyushu                                      39.0   91.0                                                   130
Subtotal OIRs                   120.6  100.8   79.4   91.0  135.3   91.1   91.1   46.2   22.4    0.0    778
Medium size HOBs lines            10.8    3.4    3.6    0.0   27.1   18.2   18.2    9.2    4.5    0.0           95
Beizhong-Lugu line (7.7 km)                                                     30.0   20.7                     71
Shuangyushu mains (7.6 kin)                              81.0    3.0                                            86
Mains (14 km)                            141.4   23.7   18.6    4.0                                            188
Branchlines(82km)                  4.2   11.9   18.2   15.3   13.5   10.3   10.3    5.2    2.6                 94
Subtotal lins                    14.9  156.7   45.3  115.1   51.6   28.5   78.5   35.1    7.1    0.0    533
Substations (260)                 29.5   29.5   32.2   27.6   27.6   18.4   18.4    9.2    4.6                 197
Secondary pipes                  105.0  105.0  105.0   90.0   90.0   60.0   60.0   30.0   13.0                 660
Subtotal                        134.5  134.5  137.2  117.6  117.6   78.4   78.4   39.2   19.6    0.0    837
Total                          270.0  392.0  262.1  323.7  304.5  198.0  248.0  120.5   49.1    0.0   2168
OPERATION & MAINTENANCE (Y million of 1990)
WashedCoal                         4.8   23.5   44.8   58.2   78.4   91.8  104.3  109.2  110.1  110.1    735
Oil                                0.0    0.0    2.3    9.3    9.3    9.3   10.3   12.1   14.7   14.7           82
Labour for mains                           0.3    0.4    0.5    0.5    0.6    0.6    0.7    0.7    0.7          5
Electricity                        0.7    1.8    3.6    5.4    8.0    9.3   10.5   11.1   11.4   13.3          73
Other labour                       0.2    0.9    1.8    2.5    3.5    4.0    4.5    4.8    4.9    4.9           32
Other O&M                          6.1   15.4   21.6   29.2   36.2   40.7   46.4   49.2   50.3   50.3    345
Total                            11.9   42.0   74.5  105.1  135.9  153.6  176.6  187.1  192.1  194.2   1275
GandToal                       282.0  433.9  336.5  428.8  440.3  353.6  424.6  307.7  241.3  194.2
SHARE OF PEAK LOAD (MWt)
Small Heat Only Boilers             50    102    134    132    340    478    616    686    720    720
Beizhong                             0    140    140    140    140    140    140    140    140    140
Lugu                                 0      0    140    140    140    140    140    140    140    140
Shuangyushu                          0      0      70    280    280    280    280    280    280    280
Heat only boilers                  50    242    484    692    900   1038   1176   1246   1280   1280
Total                              50    242    484    692    900   1038   1176   1246   1280   1280
SHARE OF HEAT PRODUCTION (CJ)
Mediwn size HOBs                 405   1971   3751   4870   6559   7685   8731   9144   9216   9216
Shuangyushu                                     190    760    760    760    840    990   1200   1200
Total                            405   1971   3941   5630   7319   8445   9571  10134  10416  10416
FUEL CONSUMPTION
Coal (kton)                       23.1  112.1  213.4  277.1  373.2  437.2  496.7  520.2  524.3  524.3
Oil (kton)                         0.0    0.0    5.0   20.2   20.2   20.2   22.3   26.3   31.9   31.9
Electricity(OWh)                   2.8    7.1   14.4   21.6   32.2   37.1   42.1   44.5   45.8   34.1
ATMOSPHERIC EMISSIONS
TSP (kton)                        0.05   0.26   0.49   0.64   0.86    1.01    1.15    1.20   1.21    1.21
SOX (ton)                         0.26    1.26   2.41    3.20   4.28   4.99    5.67   5.95    6.03   6.03
Average lIcremetal Cost (AIC)    Y/GJ                  Average Incremental Cost (AIC)         YIOJ
HOBs                               7.3                Coal                                     10.7
Lines                              5.0                Oil                                       1.3
Substations                        1.9                 Electricity                              1.2
Secondary Network                  6.4                 Other O&M                                5.5
Subbl                           20.6                  Subtotal                               18.7
TOTAL AIC    39.3 Y/GJ



- 106 -
Annex 21
Page 7
CHINA
BEIJING ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT
Economic Analysis of District Heating Component
Small Boilers using Washed Coal - Alternative 3 (before Shadow Pricing)
PV.of coals (Y Million)            2782|
Years                             1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000    Total
INSTALLE)D CAPACITY (MWt)
Mediun size Heat Only Boilers        98    129    129    129    129    129    129    129    129    129
Beizhong                                   174    174    174    174    174    174    174    174    174
Lugu                                               174    174    174    174    174    174    174    174
Dispersed boilers                                  123    360    610    798    960   1048   1085   1085
Heat only boilers                  98    303    600    837   1087   1275   1437   1525   1562   1562
INVESTMENTS (Y million of 1990)
Medium size HOBs                   34.0   12.0                                                                   66
Beizhong                           66.6   22.2                                                                   89
Lugu                                       66.6   22.2                                                           89
Dispersed boilers                                 67.4  130.6  137.5  103.1   89.4   48.1   20.6    0.0    597
Subtotul HOBs                   120.6  100.8   89.6  130.6  137.5  103.i   89.4   48.1   20.6    0.0    840
Medium size HOBs' lines            10.8    3.4                                                                   14
Beizhong-Lugu line (7.7 lun)                                                     50.0   20.7                     71
.Subtotalliwc                    10.8    3.4    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   50.0   20.7    0.0    0.0           85
Substations (80)                   29.5   29.5    2.2    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0                 61
Secondary pipes                   105.0  105.0  105.0   90.0   90.0   60.0   60.0   30.0   15.0                 660
So                              134.5  134.5  107.2   90.0   90.0   60.0   60.0   30.0   15.0    0.0    721
Total                           265.9  238.7  196.8  220.6  227.5  163.1  199.4   98.8   35.6    0.0   1646
OPERATION & MAINTENANCE (Y million of 1990)
Coal for Medium & Large boilers     4.8   23.5   32.1   32.1   32.1   32.1   12.1   32.1   32.1   32.1    285
Coal for Dispersed boilers          0.0    0.0   20.3   46.2   73.4   93.8  111.5  121.0  125.1  125.1    717
Electricity                         0.7    1.8    3.6    5.4    8.0    9.4   10.6   11.3   11.6   13.5          76
Labour                              0.3    1.1    2.2    3.1    4.0    4.7    5.3    5.6    5.7    5.7           38
Other O&M                           7.3   13.7   19.1   25.3   31.6   36.2   41.7   44.4   45.4   45.4    310
Total                            13.1   40.1   77.4  112.0  149.2  176.3  201.2  214.4  219.9  221.9  1425.5
GRAND TOTAL                     279.0  278.9  274.1  332.7  376.7  339.4  400.6  313.2  255.5  221.9
SHARE OF PEAK LOAD (MWt)
Mediun size HOBs                     50    102    102    102    102    102    102    102    102    102
Beizhong                              0    140    140    140    140    140    140    140    140    140
Lugu                                  0      0    140    140    140    140    140    140    140    140
Dispersed boilers                     0      0      98    288    488    638    768    838    868    868
Total                               50    242    480    670    870   1020   1150   1220   1250   1250
SHARE OF HEAT PRODUCTION (Ti)
Medium size HOBs                    405   1971   2689   2689   2689   2689   2689   2689   2689   2689
Dispersed boilers                                 1216   2762   4389   5610   6667   7237   7481   7481                                )
Total                             405   1971   3905   5451   7078   8299   9356   9926  10170  10170
COAL (ktons) 
Medium & Large boilers             23.0  112.1  153.0  153.0  153.0  153.0  153.0  153.0  153.0  153.0
Dispersed boilers                   0.0    0.0   96.9  220.0  349.6  446.8  531.0  576.4  595.8  595.8
Total                             23.0  112.1  249.9  373.0  502.6  599.8  684.0  729.4  748.8  748.8
ELECTRICI1Y (OWh)                   2.8    7.1   14.4   21.6   32.2   37.7   42.5   45.1   46.2   54.1
ATMOSPHERIC EMISSIONS
TSP (kton)                         0.20   0.95    2.12    3.16   4.26    5.08    5.79   6.18   6.34   6.34
SOX (kton)                         0.26    1.26   2.80   4.18    5.63    6.72    7.66   8.17    8.39    8.39
Average Iscremental Cost (AIC)    Y/IOJ                Average Inemmental Cosd (AIC)           Y/OI
HOBs                                8.0                Coal                                     15.2
Lines                               0.7                Electricity                               1.2
Substations                         0.7                Other O&M                                 5.2
Secondary Network                   6.5                  Subtotal                               21.6
Subtotal                          16.0
TOTAL AIC   37.5 Y/GI



- 107 -                                        Annex 21
Page 8
CHINA
BEIJING ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT
Economic Analysis of District Heating Component
Small Boilers using Raw Coal - Alternative 4 (before Shadow Pricing)
|PVofeosat(YMillioss)               2531
Year                                1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   Total
INSTALLED CAPACrTY (MWt)
Medium size Heat Only Boilers         98    129    129    129    129    129    129    129    129    129
Beizhong                                     174    174    174    174    174    174    174    174    174
Lugu                                                 174    174    174    174    174    174    174    174
Dispersed boilors                                    123    360    610    798    960   1048   1085   1085
Heat only boilers                   98    303    600    837   1087   1275   1437   1525   1562   1562
INVESTMENTS (Y million of 1990)
Mediun size HOBs                    54.0   12.0                                                                     66
Beizhong                            66.6   22.2                                                                     89
Lugu                                        66.6   22.2                                                             89
Dispersed boilers                                   67.4  130.6  137.5  103.1   89.4   48.1   20.6    0.0    597
Suabtol HOBS                      120.6  100.8   89.6  130.6  137.5  103.1   89.4   48.1    20.6    0.0    840
Medium size HOBs' lines              10.8    3.4                                                                     14
Beizhong-Lugu line (7.7 kn)                                                        50.0   20.7                      71
Su,bosIIine.                       10.8    3.4    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   50.0   20.7    0.0    0.0             85
Substations (80)                    29.5   29.5    2.2    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0                    61
Secondary pipes                     105.0  105.0  105.0   90.0   90.0   60.0   60.0   30.0   15.0                  660
subtotal                          134.5  134.5  107.2   90.0   90.0   60.0   60.0   30.0   15.0    0.0    721
Total                            265.9  238.7  196.8  220.6  227.5  163.1  199.4   98.8   35.6    0.0   1646
OPERATION & MAINTENANCE (Y million of 1990)
Coal for Medium & Large boilers       4.2   20.2   27.6   27.6   27.6   27.6   27.6   27.6   27.6   27.6    245
Dispersed boilers                    0.0    0.0   17.4   39.6   63.0   80.5   95.7  103.8  107.3  107.3    615
Electricity                          0.7    1.8    3.6    5.4    8.0    9.4   10.6   11.3   11.6   13.5             76
Labour                               0.3    1.1    2.2    3.1    4.0    4.7    5.3    5.6    5.7    5.7             38
Other O&M                            7.3   13.7   19.1   25.3   31.6   36.2   41.7   44.4   45.4   45.4    310
Total                              12.4   36.8   69.9  100.9  134.2  158.4  180.8  192.6  197.5  199.5  1283.0
GrandTotal                        278.3  275.5  2667   321.5  361.7  321.5  380.1  291.4  233.2  199.5
SHARE OF PEAK LOAD (MWt)
Medium size HOBs                      50    102    102    102    102    102    102    102    102    102
Beizbong                               0     140    140    140    140    140    140    140    140    140
Lugu                                   0       0     140    140    140    140    140    140    140    140
Dispersed boilers                      0       0      98    288    488    638    768    838    868    868
Total                                50    242    480    670    870   1020   1150   1220   1250   1250
SHARE OF HEAT PRODUCTION (TJ)
Medium size HOBs                     405   1971   2689   2689   2689   2689   2689   2689   2689   2689
Dispersed boilers                                   1216   2762   4389   5610   6667   7237   7481   7481
Total                              405   1971   3905   5451   7078   8299   9356   9926  10170  10170
COAL (ton)
Medium & Large boilers              27.7  134.7  183.7  183.7  183.7  183.7  183.7  183.7  183.7  183.7
Dispersed boilers                    0.0    0.0  116.3  264.2  419.8  536.5  637.7  692.2  715.5  715.5
Total                              27.7  134.7  300.0  447.9  603.5  720.3  821.4  875.9  899.2  899.2
ELECTRICITY (OWl)                    2.8    7.1   14.4   21.6   32.2   37.7   42.5   45.1   46.2   54.1
ATMOSPHERIC EMISSIONS
TSP (kton)                          0.47    2.28    5.08    7.59   10.22   12.20   13.92   14.84   15.23   15.23
SOX (kton)                          0.44    2.15   4.80    7.17   9.66   11.52   13.14   14.01   14.39   14.39
Average Incremental Cost (AIC)      Y/GJ                 Average Incremental Cost (AIC)           Y/GJ
HOBs                                 8.0                 Coal                                      13.0
Lines                                0.7                  Electricity                               1.2
Substations                          0.7                 Other O&M                                  5.2
Secondary Network                    6.5                  &Sbtotal                                 19.4
SmuPotaA                           16.0
TOTAL AIC         35.4



- 108 -                                 Annex 22
CHINA
BEIJING ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT-
Selected Documents and Data available in Project File
Item No.                                Description
1.    Beijing - A General Survey. Beijing Publishing House. April 1987.
2.    HanJbook on Environmental Protection Laws and Regulations. Economic Management
Publishing Agency. October 1988.
3.    Appraisal Manual for Industrial Credit Projects. China Investment Bank. December 1989.
4.    Collection of Beijing's Master Plans. Beijing Municipal Environmental Protection
Bureau. September 1989.
5.    Focal Points of Work on Beijing Environmental Protection (1991 - 2000) (Draft for
Discussion). Beijing Municipal Environmental Protection Bureau. November 1989.
6.    Beijing Environmental Project for World Bank Loan. Project Office of Beijing
Environment. Report dated October 1990, Supplementary Materials dated February 1991.
7.    Feasibility Study Report on Beijing Shijingshan Heat and Power Generating Station
Heating Supp:y Project. Beijing Coal Gas Heat Engineering Design Institute, and the
Beijing District Heating Company. February 1991. (2 Volumes).
8.   Feasibility Study Report on Water Pollution Control in Beijing. Beijing Municipal
Engineering Design and Research Institute. Report dated September 1990,
Supplementary Report dated February 1991. (3 Volumes).
9.    Main Report on Feasibility of Beijing Urban Refuse Disposal Project. Beijing Municipal
Environmental Sanitation Bureau. February 1991.
10.   Beijing Municipality Urban Refuse Treatment Plan (draft). Beijing Municipal
Environmental Sanitation Bureau. February 1991.
11.   Feasibility Study Report on Beijing Asuwei Refuse Sanitary Landfill Project. Beijing
Municipal Engineering Design and Research Institute. Report dated August 1990,
Supplementary Report dated February 1991. (2 Volumes).
12.   Feasibility Study Report on Rotted Refuse Separation Line for Bei Shen Shu, Beijing.
Beijing Institute of Nuclear Engineering. December 1990.
13.   Feasibility Study Report on Beijing Environmental Project Development of Long Term
Least Cost Environmental Strategy. Beijing Municipal Environmental Protection Bureau.
February 1991.
14.   Feasibility Study Report on Beijing Industrial Hazardous Waste Management and
Disposal Project. China Armament Industry No. S Design and Research Institute.
December 1990.
15.   Study Report on Project for the Disposal of PCBs Hazardous Wastes (Third draft).
Beijing Power Supply Bureau. January 1991.
16.   Working Notes.



1435 1i7~~~~~~T 4h-g' , r.agik-,                                                                                                                      '\........igfCh-f,d0 oCenx
ASUWlEI LANDFILL SFE                              1 , , ,                             \                                                                                                                \T  Ce                                                      In CLnnpIL
MIYUN AQLREDUCT  '         . 
PROVINLE BOUNDARIES        2                                                                             /       ,                            j                       3                                                               ,
'EL,-                   - >-- 7 ---                                       QINqHE                                        BEiYUAN
7                                                 figh, ' N.  N w   i F
' * \       '               <            =            ;;                      '            T         A-                                                                      f                 l 'm,                                                       _ -  r
light  ~    ~ ~ 0DATUN ILL U
j@   -1                                          ,  Gil   ~ SR4  XfIYUA                                                                  R      ISSANHUAN |_1  1            . -.               - - I' --_
/X~~~ I-lytt                  '    1
X -     -                 j                   1        7~~~~~~~~~SZ5h'  -    -  -  -| .71   1bAN  NLh                                          t     i      i       ;be
*   1                t              1                .           .iv           g    '4   t-          i     li   |p            ''' <) A,npnrg t  \                     I
STiHAI  ANDNZANLINAN L
_   '   \  X  /i < | ENGTA - 4 | 31___- _ _  \EA  AEEILILANR  US
12~                    17
PR~~~~~~\   od,                                                                                                                                                                               _  _,      PNSAE AK,ADFRS
/   \\,j,\ , \ t., ' 9&3; . i 9 . \ I                                 P          R         O         P         O        S         E        D       LIANDUSTRL S U   .1,,            -t
________ ~        ~           ~                                     7,._.___ j/e .I n917                      ..{cp-rhiiL                       -   -'A
'X1,Q[j"do j | t \, NO ZANYUA    N ,   RL                                                                     AT                               IA
d o macos ilodMahinery                                             ,UR  CHIN
LANDNG     USE LU  FwE
~~~~~~                      K                              ~~~~~~~~68dg- i. INDSTRAL  ARA
Pud -in   -                                                                                                                                                                                         C   H  SORA N ARA
OPSIENTSPACE PARKAS, ANDIL FORES
A4      FOOE INDUSTRIA      L RE SUPPOET
ROADS
N A IN YUAN
.4nmmte,rn.tt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d  .   .                                                                     9' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RAILROADS
RIVERS
KIOMETERST            2         'I         6          P
________                                    .                                                                                                                          SEPT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SP



_______________________-  ORRI  -'                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ --I---0
MIYUN AGLEDUCT          II| I/l  A,,po,"
PROVINCE 5OUNDARIES . j    (
.       )r 'tX ,                                           \    -7'-.''''                                       /1                          7-
_ -J    r   \  IhP ,)  _,  INGHEDOONG LU        DATUN I   //                          -
BEISANHUAN  0ONG
[I ;
SKJINGSHAN LU ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    /     \'/ JU  ANOAO ,
\  ,             v    S  *   d ACK X r 13 F -T S   -   X RM'A RA 0 0                                                                 NONGZHANGUANNAN LU _  _
P o6    TOO E X                             S   f   W >n-,-CW,  .//'  ;O''
sy ys \\ X C _ z k S e t ~~~~~~~~BEIJING ENVIRONMENTAL PROJEC
/   \  >S     I FE GTA \  > . t    < --l - lij,>  \                                       -----;-~--su$X9---                WASTEWATER PROJECT COMPONENT
/7  T    ;9-3   <   |  t- ~~~~~~~~~~ =>  _    z     X      _ _   ._ __-)        \,e                      \S       ;                     EXISTING SEWER LINES~~~~~~~~~EX1TIN SEER INE
//,Ijiog,  olE                                                                              ITT AN                                                      _ _____  _    \    -        PROPOSED SEWER LlNeS
RE. -  IS                E ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  SO~~~~FTUESWE IE
sMo~oso.o, X\>                                       U, iu;SA PRAF HON(IRLU __I . S v U L                                                          EX15TING  WASTEWAtER  TREATMENT PLANTS
\E, lOSOLqTDO |   I                                                   .  ,               _p}                       X           . -q-                             PLANNED WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANTS
OR. S \  X    I  f   I,        -'                                        SEXISTING PUMPING STATIONS
CHUR PMINGSATIN
II. . -   <------------------- BE.IPOLUlNG  ENV INMENTERPRISES
WASTE WAE --    o5 ,LPROJECT A CNEAS
PROPOAD SWR $  E
-      AIL - --   ROADS
WS 2=   /1/  \ \     \   WV                      l                 {                                      \                               RIVERS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IVR
,,.,o/\  |\KILOMFILERS  X     W 4  6    8
/--  t F EdlliA9                   \  *  /       / rD ADDdin9                                    as                             To rlon/l*                        PLIEERS
G    SEEPAGE PITS~~~~~~SETE



_. -\ 1 7*                    rXZh Ajlokou\                                                                                                               r Chif+j              aoq'g                           r                      1
MIYUN AGLEDUCT                    .
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                                                               Ai2p 
.1
MI  2<                ,           X            l           l          -           G 7HE                                     B .EIYUAN
Doxin~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
SEi S ANHUAN. t   X   0NONG-HAGUA                                       L-
JIXIN   d                     INGOLuA
s. |e _  _ sS =  , _. o  [ _z                     .                                               t * * S:on iHP Pjing                                            CH-N
X   ,>  X   t -            -             -    4  2                    9                 e                S              <    $                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DISTRICT EAT INGPOJECT COM PRONENT
$- u \ \SH |           F       E       N       G      T       A             \              w             ~             _             \            X            /     \          E    EISTINGHEATINGSUPPLYLINES
-O PROPOSED  EATING SUPPLY LINES
I YONGDIN                                                 DISTRICT~~~~~~~~~ FUATUNREOHE CTIN   SUPPL     ONEI NT
;lF\EN r ,/           ,                                                        /     \  .                                                      *      EXISTING HEATING SUEPLANTS
N}_AN!U      W__                                                         _-                                                                    PROPOSED HEATING PLANT
5-91,, h-\ ' 9 . . | SOnp/oUbv CHP Plonl \                                       NEW HEATING PLANTS
PROPOSED PUMPING STATIONS
-    PROPOSED PEAK BOILERS
A     FUTURE PEAK BOILER
, |>      \         /NAYUAN|\                                                                                                                         - -- ROADS
~~~~I ~~~~~~~~K. ooja ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,&  I ~~~~~~~~~~~RAILROADS
*fo.7o     1 K   wy  \  t  \    /                 X                                              \      ,                                RIVERS
To occd=ingl                                              To /ood,g \                                                                                        T /n                KILOMETERS G         2        A         6         8         1,
SEPI/\h 



