Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 20670-CHA
CH-PE-3564
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
BEIJING ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT
(LOAN 3415-CHA/CREDIT 2312-CHA)
June 30, 2000
Urban Development Sector Unit
China Country Management Unit
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Name = Renminbi (RMB)
Currency Unit = Yuan (Y)
1991              $1 = Y5.28
1992              $1=Y5.43
1993              $1 = Y5.73
1994              $1 = Y5.80
1995              $1 = Y8.46
1996              $1 = Y8.32
1997              $1 = Y8.29
1998              $1 = Y8.28
1999              $1 = Y8.28
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB    -  Asian Development Bank
BDHC   -  Beijing District Heating Company
BDC    -  Beijing Drainage Company
BEMPS  -  Beijing Environmental Master Plan Studies
BEP2   -  Second Beijing Environment Project (FY2000)
BEPO   -  Beijing Environmental Project Office
BMEB   -  Beijing Municipal Engineering Bureau
BMEPB  -  Beijing Municipal Engineering Bureau
BMFB   -  Beijing Municipal Finance Bureau
BMG    -  Beijing Municipal Government
ICB     -  International Competitive Bidding
ICR     -  Implementation Completion Report
IPC     -  Industrial Pollution Control
IRR     -  Internal Rate of Return
JGF     -  Japan Grant Facility
RAP    -  Resettlement Action Plan
SAR     -  Staff Appraisal Report
WWTP  -  Wastewater Treatment Plant
Vice President    Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
Sector Director   Keshav Varma, EASUR
Country Director   Yukon Huang, EACCF
Task Manager      Songsu Choi, EASUR



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
CONTENTS .........................................................                                          I
PREFACE ........................................................ III
EVALUATION  SUMMARY .........................................................V
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ..................................1
A. Project Objectives and Description ........................................................l 1
B. Achievement of Project Objectives .........................................................    4
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project ................7
D. Project Sustainability ...............9.........................................9
E. Bank Performance ........................................................                     10
F. Borrower Performance ........................................................                 11
G. Assessment of Outcome ........................................................                13
H. Future Operation ........................................................                     13
Table 1: Summary of Assessments ........................................................          15
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits ........................................................        16
Table 3: Project Timetable ........................................................             16
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursement: Cumulative Estimate and Actual .......... 16
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation ....................................... 17
Table 6: Key Indicators For Project Operations .............................................. 17
Table 7: Studies included in Project ........................................................     18
Table 8a: Project Costs ........................................................                19
Table 8b: Project Costs ........................................................                 19
Table 8c: Project Financing ........................................................             19
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits ........................................................  20
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants ........................................................      21
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .......................... 22
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs (SWs/$000s) ................................... 22
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions ........................................................         23
Table 14: Physical Results of Industrial Pollution Control Component ......... 24
ANNEX A: SUMMARY OF BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE
ICR ........................................................                                              25
ANNEX  B: ICR  MISSION'S AIDE  MEMOIRE ................................................... 32
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



11  I .1 ...



- 111 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
BEIJING ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT
(LOAN 3415-CHA/CREDIT 2312-CHA)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Beijing
Environmental Project in the People's Republic of China, for which Loan 3415-CHA in
the amount of US$45 million equivalent and Credit 2312-CHA in the amount of SDR
60.1 million (US$80 million equivalent) were approved on November 19, 1991 and made
effective on March 2, 1992. Full amount of the loan and credit was on-lent to the Beijing
Municipality. The loan and credit were closed on June 30, 1999, two years after the
original closing date of June 30, 1997. The final disbursement took place on October 8,
1999 and brought the total disbursement of the loan to US$35,462,679 and total
disbursement of credit to SDR 59,128,327.
The project was also supported by a Japan Grant Facility, TF 025230, in the
amount of Full amount of Yen 225.6 million under an agreement dated December 1,
1991. The grant financed a large part of the master plan studies and associated
equipment. The Grant was fully disbursed by November 1998.
The ICR was prepared by Songsu Choi, George Plant, and Joanne Nickerson in
the Urban Development Sector Unit of the East Asia and Pacific Region (EASUR), and
was reviewed by Mr. Keshav Varma, Director, EASUR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision mission in
November 1998, and the ICR mission visited Beijing in May 1999. The ICR is based on
findings of these missions, materials in the project file, the beneficiary's contributions
and comments. The beneficiary, Beijing Municipality, provided an Operations Report
whose summary is included as Annex A to the ICR, and also extensive comments that
have been incorporated in the ICR.






- v -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
BEIJING ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT
(LOAN 3415-CHAICREDIT 2312-CHA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Background
1.    During the 1980s, the Government of China stepped up efforts to reverse the
environmental degradation that resulted from the past industrialization drives and to
minimize additional environmental strains from urban and industrial growths that were
accelerating then. These measures included a set of new environmental laws and
standards, requiring, for example, environmental assessment of major projects. Direct
investments by the government also played a major part, not only for normal public
services but also for energy and industrial sectors. The government allocated a large part
of the financial resources of its own as well as the banking system to enterprises for
industrial retooling, which usually resulted in cleaner production, as well as pollution
control facilities that it required. In short, China's enviromnental protection system until
recently can be characterized by a close blend of regulatory actions and financial supports
by the government. Most of these actions have been carried out by local governments,
under the general framework provided by the national laws and guidelines.
2.    Beijing Municipal Government (BMG) has been among the most active in China
in environmental protection and improvement partly due to its status as the national
capital but mainly due to the city's semi-arid climate that heightens the impact of air and
water pollution. The project was the first of the projects addressing a broad array of
urban environmental issues supported by the Bank group. It was followed by many
similar projects in China, and a Second Beijing Environment Project approved by the
Board in June 2000.
Project Objectives and Components
3.    The objectives of the project were (i) to assist BMG to improve its environmental
planning and management capabilities, and (ii) to plan and carry out specific pollution
abatement efforts for improving environmental conditions in the city. The project was
comprised of the following components, in the order of decreasing cost: district heating,
industrial pollution control, sewerage, solid waste management, technical assistance and
training for policy and institutional development, and hazardous waste management.
4.    The project closely followed BMG's environmental priorities at the time of
appraisal, financing important parts of existing investment programs of BMG bureaus.
Naturally, therefore, the borrower's ownership of the project was strong. The sectoral



- vi -
plans themselves, on the other hand, were undergoing major evolution along with the
rapid transition of the overall economy. The resulting uncertainties in the strategic and
sectoral frameworks were not amenable for quick and adequate resolution during project
preparation, especially given the range of sectors and issues involved, and given the fact
that this was the first Bank-financed project of the kind in China. In view of this, the
project appropriately made it the main project objective to improve the environmental
planning and management. The objective was supported by technical assistance, training,
and equipment for sector agencies, which were again derived largely from their existing
plans, as well as financial and institutional action plans for heating and sewerage utilities.
The main component to improve the environmental planning was a set of planning
studies for water, air, and solid waste sectors. In addition, the preparation and
implementation of the physical investment components were to serve as good practice
models.
5.    The project's effectiveness and limitations largely stemmed from these contexts.
By involving diverse components, the project helped BMG and the Bank to address
important environmental issues across sectoral boundaries and learn from the experience.
This on the other hand made the project complex since the components remained largely
disparate technically and institutionally, despite apparent attempts to integrate them with
a strong focus on policy, institutions, and planning. However, implementation risks
commonly associated with complexity were mitigated by strong competence and
commitment of implementing agencies. The more important drawback of the broad
project scope was that it did not allow the Bank to provide critical in-depth review and
assistance necessary for major technical and policy advances. It is doubtful, however, if
this would have been possible with the country-sector knowledge available at the time.
Implementation Experience and Results
6.    The project achieved most of its target outputs with some delays and minor
shortfalls and the resulting assets have been utilized well, as reviewed below by
component. Nevertheless, the city's overall environmental conditions did not improve
since the pollution abatement under the project, significant as it was, was overwhelmed
by the increases in pollution resulting from the rapid growth of the city's population and
economy. This confinns the importance of the project's main stated objective -
improving BMG's environmental planning and management framneworks. These
frameworks underwent significant improvements and structural changes during the
project period. The project made a substantial contribution to this change, but it is
difficult to evaluate the contribution precisely, again in the overarching transition of
overall institutional and economic systems including the environmental management
systems.
7.    The project experienced a delay of two years but it was mainly due to actions for
good purposes: suspension of a part of the district heating system construction pending
tariff increases, delay in the environmental master plan studies in order to ensure full
participation of sector agencies, and a delay in sewer construction to ensure completion of
satisfactory resettlement.



- vii -
8.    District Heating. The project financed heat transmission pipelines from a
cogeneration plant, built before the project, and a peak heat plant. These extended the
coverage of the integrated municipal heating system from 17 million m2 of building floor
space to an additional 15 million m2 serving some 1.2 million people, and replaced some
1050 scattered coal-fired boilers. The economic IRR is estimated to be about 13% p.a.,
compared with the appraisal estimate of 10.7%, mainly due to the savings in fuel
consumption and operating labor, whose costs increased more than projected. Low
heating and steam tariffs and the consequent non-compliance with the financial covenants
were the major issue for the project. However, the tariffs were eventually raised by over
100%, bringing the district heating company to financial health and setting a good
example for the country. The component also supported various measures to improve the
efficiency of the district heating system. Nevertheless, the experience under the project
revealed the limitation of district heating in terms of energy, pollution control, and
institutional efficiencies and indicated that an optimal solution is likely to be smaller,
market-based operations.
9.    Industrial Pollution Control. The project financed 10 industrial pollution control
subprojects for replacement of polluting production lines with cleaner ones, relocation of
polluting factories, and installation of waste treatment facilities. In all cases, the new
facilities have enabled the formerly heavy polluters to comply with the environmental
regulations. (See table 14 for a summary of the subproject achievements, and Borrower's
Operational plan for details). The component, however, presents a major detraction from
the project's sustainability for three reasons. First, at least three of the subproject
facilities are currently unused or underutilized for insufficient demand for the specific
product lines or for the borrowing enterprise as a whole. Second, these as well as other
four subloans are in serious arrears, putting a heavy fiscal burden for BMG. Third, even
without these financial problems, cost-effectiveness of such publicly-sponsored industrial
credits is low in terms of pollution control efficacy per public investment, as is the
demonstration effect.
10.   Wastewater. The project supported the construction of 25.3 kilometers of trunk
sewers and interceptors, as well as procurement of maintenance and monitoring
equipment. These large achieved the objectives of protecting two main urban streams
and a source of drinking water, and conveying wastewater to the city's main wastewater
treatment plant. Less sewers were built than the appraisal target, however, because of
cost increases and realignments, both mainly due to resettlement requirements that turned
out far more expensive and stringent than originally estimated. The cost of civil works
also increased more than general inflation. As a result, the actual IRR is estimated to be
lower than the appraisal estimates: about 8% for sewerage works in the south and 21%
for the northwest, compared with the appraisal estimates of 10% and 28% respectively.
11.   Under the project agreement, BMG established a Beijing Drainage Company
(BDC) to operate a part of sewerage and drainage service, in place of a Division of the
Beijing Municipal Engineering Bureau (BMEB). The Company initially was only a pro
forma corporate entity lacking financial and operational autonomy. In the final stage of



- viii -
the project, however, BMG increased sewerage tariffs significantly to cover full operating
costs and also increased the Company's business authority and autonomy, as a part of the
broad restructuring of the governmental organizations and public service pricing, and
partly as a result of discussions for the Second Beijing Environment Project (BEP2). The
project also financed equipment for river-course cleaning, sewer maintenance equipment
and wastewater monitoring instruments --all of which are being used as intended.
12.   Solid Waste. The project supported China's first sanitary landfill which was
commissioned in 1995. The site has an eight-year design period and continues to be
operated in accordance with the plan. A leachate problem developed in 1996 but was
resolved with an on-site wastewater treatment plant. This landfill has served as an
effective demonstration, for additional landfills in Beijing and in other cities in China.
13.   Hazardous Waste. The project financed an in-depth study of hazardous waste
management, a storage house, a weigh-bridge, and a small set of transportation and
monitoring equipment. The scope of the main physical components were reduced in view
of the overlapping component of a parallel project that Asia Development Bank (ADB)
approved in 1995. The study has been utilized for design of relevant regulations and the
design of ADB-financed facilities, which will be integrated with the facilities built under
the project.
14.   Environmental Master Plan Studies. A Japan Grant Facility and the credit
financed a set of large-scale studies and training for water, air, and solid waste
management. The studies were carried out with full participation of sector agencies. The
studies produced a set of long-term plans to 2015 for the respective sectors and in
particular broke new grounds in the study of air pollution issues linked with energy
consumption. Many of the results have been incorporated in Beijing's ninth Five-Year
plan for 1996 - 2000, and utilized for the preparation of BEP 2. However, they have not
been fully incorporated in the statutory urban plan nor have they been updated
systematically.
15.   Environmental Monitoring. The project financed equipment for air and water
quality monitoring as well as data analysis, as a part of the expanding environmental
monitoring system of Beijing Environmental Protection Bureau (BMEPB). The system
produces, for example, real-time air quality data in key spots in the city published in
newspapers.
Future Operations
16.   Operational plans (summarized in Annex A) have been submitted from the
various implementing agencies and found satisfactory. They generally focus on further
improvements planned for the future, outlined below:
(a) District Heating: programs to improve bill collection and staff capabilities; a plan
to broad heat metering.



- ix -
(b) Sewerage: organizational restructuring toward full autonomy and training for
increased efficiency; a major expansion of the sewerage system almost
quadrupling the treatment capacity by 2010; tariff increases for full cost recovery.
(c) Solid waste management: as the Asuwei landfill first section will fill in 2003,
construction of the adjoining section will start in 2000.
(d) Harardous waste management: training of staff while the ADB-financed disposal
facility is in progress.
(e) Environmental studies: utilization of the data and models for various planning
work.
17.      On the basis of the knowledge and mutual trust developed over the project, a
Second Beijing Environment has been prepared and a loan of $349 million and a GEF
grant of $25 million were approved in June 20, 2000. BEP2 would address air and water
pollution issues exclusively, first through conversion of scattered coal-fired boilers for
natural gas and energy conservation in heating, and the second through a construction of
a full sewerage system in the most neglected of four river basins within the city. These
have been identified as the two major priorities in the studies during the first project. By
directing the large resources in the two components, the project aims to bring a visible
and substantial improvement in the air and water quality, and establishing full cost
recovery and autonomy for sector institutions as outlined in 16 (b) above
Key Lessons Learned
18.   Achievements and shortcomings of the project provide the following key lessons:
(a) A broad and complex project provides a good opportunity to learn while supporting
the borrower's comprehensive programs, but limits the opportunity for significant
physical and institutional improvement and the Bank's contribution to them.
(b) Industrial pollution can most effectively be addressed with strictly market-based
financing focusing on commercial viability, and strong regulations and limited public
assistance focused solely on pollution control.
(c) Institutional development needs to be in step with the broader policy and governance
context and focus on performance, rather than form and structure.
(d) Energy, pollution control, and managerial efficiencies of district heating does not
necessarily increase with its size, indicating the desirability of smaller market-based
systems.
(e) To maximize the value of large-scale studies, clear policy motivation and an
institutional basis to maintain and update them are essential.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
BEIJING ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT
(LOAN 3415-CHA/CREDIT 2312-CHA)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
1.    Background. During the 1980s, the Government of China accelerated efforts to
reverse the environmental degradation that resulted from the past industrialization drives
and to minimize additional environmental strains from urban and industrial growths that
were accelerating then. These measures included a set of new environmental laws,
standards, and plans as well as environmental assessment requirements of major projects.
Direct investments by the government also played a major part, much more than in
market economies. Public investments were directed not only for such services as
sewerage, but also for energy and even industries. The government allocated a large part
of the fiscal resources, as well as most of the financing through the banking system, to
industrial investments. Most of industrial retooling resulted in cleaner production, and
the government also helped finance a large part of industrial pollution control facilities
that it required. In other words, the government did not stop at regulations but provided
financial and technical support necessary for meeting the regulatory requirements. Most
of these actions have been carried out by local governments, under the general framework
provided by the national laws and guidelines.
2.    Beijing Municipal Government (BMG) has been among the most active in
environmental protection and improvement in China partly due to its status as the
national capital but mainly due to the city's semi-arid climate that heightens the impact of
air and water pollution. Past development programs had located heavily polluting
industries in the midst of the city, ranging from textile to chemical and steel plants. BMG
therefore focused on reducing the industrial pollution, mainly through industrial
renovation programns financed by the central and municipal governments as well as the
banks, that also increased the efficiency and quantity of production. It also required and
assisted the enterprises to install waste pretreatment facilities. A later study found that
these programs as well as strict control of new pollution sources began to have significant
effects by the late 1980s, but industries as a whole still remained a serious and the most
visible source of sewage, air pollution, noise, and hazardous wastes.
3.    With an urban population of over 5 million that was incrcasing rapidly, domestic
wastes were becoming an increasingly important source of pollution. In particular, with
the almost exclusive dependence on low-grad coal, heating by scattered coal-fired boilers
turned the winter air quality seriously hazardous to human health, exceeding the national
air quality standard for industrial areas. To ameliorate the problem, BMG invested in a



- 2
large-scale district heating system that by 1990 met a little over 10% of the heating
demand of the city, and wanted to expand the system much further. BMG also built coal
gas production and distribution facilities and was initiating a program to bring in LPG
and natural gas, mainly as fuel for cooking.
4.    Water scarcity had been a perennial problem for Beijing, but heavy investments in
water resource development and industrial water reuse brought the supply in adequate
balance to the demand by the late 1980s. However, the city had practically no remaining
surface or groundwater resources that could dilute wastewater, turning most of the urban
streams into sewage canals. Sewerage systems mostly in the form of combined sewers
and a few minor treatment plants existed, but were falling rapidly behind the increasing
generation of wastewater from the population growing in size and affluence. BMG
therefore started building a large (500,000 m3/day capacity) wastewater treatment plant
in 1991. Municipal solid waste was on the rise similarly, which was collected efficiently
but was dumped in scattered unsanitary depositories. BMG therefore was planning to
establish a composting plant and a sanitary landfill.
5.    Objectives. The objectives of the project were to (i) assist BMG to improve its
environmental planning and management capabilities, and to (ii) plan and carry out
specific air, water and solid waste pollution abatement efforts for improving
environmental conditions in the municipality. The project was to strengthen the policy
and institutional framework required, and support the initial investments needed to start
the process.
6.    Description. The project's objectives were to be achieved through the following
components:
(a)   Wastewater: (estimated cost: US$44.2M) Construction of 8km of
reinforced concrete box culverts; 35km of circular sewers; procurement of
equipment to clean rivers and maintain sewers; procurement of a
monitoring system;
(b)   Solid Waste: (US$8.OM) Construction of a sanitary landfill of about 72 ha;
(c)   District Heating: (US$124.6M) Construction of 32km of heat
transmission pipeline; a 348MW oil-fired peak heating plant; two booster
pumping stations; equipment, installation of a computerized monitoring
system;
(d)   Industrial Pollution Control: (US$98.6M) A $45 M line of credit to
finance selected investments for industrial pollution abatement;
(e)   Hazardous Waste Management: (US$1.9M) Construction of an office and
laboratory space and a storage facility for highly hazardous waste with a
capacity of 650 tons per year for five years; and
(f)   Technical Assistance: Project support (US$10.7M) on detailed design,
procurement, management, construction supervision; capacity-building



- 3
support (US$3.3M) for training staff in environmental protection,
planning, research, monitoring; and policy development (US$7.4M) for
studies to develop a long-term integrated environmental master plan.
7.    Evaluation of Objectives. The project's objectives were appropriate for the needs
and plans of BMG at the time of appraisal. In particular, the second stated objective,
planning and implementing specific pollution abatement efforts, and the project
components were closely aligned with BMG's priorities. In fact, the project by and large
financed important parts of existing investment programs of BMG bureaus responsible
for respective sectors. Naturally, therefore, the borrower's ownership of the project was
strong. Such a close alignment of the project objectives and components with the
government programs was appropriate also for the first comprehensive urban
environmental project in China. Given the stock of knowledge in the environmental
sector available to the Bank at the time (the first sector work on general environmental
issues in China was completed in 1992), there was no solid ground to suggest a much
different alternative. It is interesting to note that SAR is careful not to promise specific
impact of the project on the city's ambient air or water quality.
8.    The relative lack of knowledge and certainties in the strategic framework was not
amenable to quick and adequate resolution during project preparation. Not only was the
Bank new to China's urban environment issues other than one sewerage project, but also
the sector was in a state of rapid transition along with that of the basic economic and
governance structure. The nature of major pollution issues were undergoing rapid
changes, for example from industrial to municipal pollution, and BMG was reviewing
options fundamentally different from what had been the norm before. In addition, the old
central planning and command control system was weakening, making it difficult to
establish a coherent strategic framework transcending the organizational boundaries
within the government.
9.    The primary emphasis given to the objective of improving the environmental
planning and management reflects the uncertainty of the strategic and institutional
contexts of the investment components of the project, as well as the critical importance of
the objective. It appears, however, that BMG did not fully agree on the relative
importance of the objective nor was the Bank able to articulate how various parts of the
project support this objective. Eventually the Bank was able to mobilize a sizable
Japanese grant to support the environmental master plan studies, which apparently helped
facilitate the participation of various sector agencies in Beijing in the integrated long-term
planning exercise.
10.   The project therefore remained a collection of several disparate components,
including the studies. Such complexity usually risks various difficulties in preparation
and implementation, but the competence and commitment of the BMG agencies
mitigated the risks. The project did not have quantifiable indicators at Board. It was
retrofitted with indicators in 1997, a little before project closing, mainly on the basis of
the component-by-component physical targets agreed at appraisal. Given the loose
structure the project, and even within individual components, it was not possible to



-4
retrofit a set of indicators that would have fairly represented the overall project
objectives.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Physical Objectives
11.   The project's physical targets were mostly met, with minor shortfalls and two-
year delay. The assets constructed under the project are functioning well. However, the
rapid increase in pollution has overtaken the pollution abatement benefits of the various
components, although the environmental quality would clearly have been worse without
the achievements. Details by component follow.
12.   Wastewater Management. Under this component, 7.9 kilometers of concrete
culverts, and some 17.4 km of sewers and interceptors were constructed. The actual
length of sewers constructed is less than was foreseen at appraisal because some minor
sewers were built by developers or BMG departments without the Bank fmancing, some
others could not be built as the complementary facilities such as the road were delayed,
and in the case of essential sewers, resettlement expenses induced realignmient of the
sewers. In addition, equipment for river-course cleaning, sewer maintenance equipment
and wastewater monitoring instruments was purchased --all of which are being used as
intended. The IRR at appraisal for the sewerage works in the south was 10% and 28% for
sewerage works in the northwest. Due to the increase in resettlement and civil works
costs, the actual IRR is estimated to be 8% and 21%, respectively.
13.   Solid Waste Management. China's first sanitary landfill was constructed under
this project and was commissioned in 1995. A leachate breakout problem developed in
1996 but was expeditiously resolved by building an wastewater treatment facility. The
site, 72 ha, has an eight-year design period at the rate of 2000 tons a day on average, and
continues to be operated in accordance with the plan. Regular groundwater monitoring
has indicated no negative impact. This landfill is considered best practice in China and
the Beijing officials have provided advisory assistance on design and operation to several
other Chinese cities.
14.   District Heating. Under this component, heat transmission pipelines and a 384
Megawatt peak heating plant were built to form a large district heating system around an
existing large power-heat cogeneration plant. The system provides heat to a total floor
space of 15 million m2 and some 1.2 million people (compared to the 18.5 million m2 and
1.5 million people foreseen at appraisal) as well as steam for industrial use. This almost
doubled the interconnected municipal heating system's coverage that stood at 17 million
m2 at appraisal. The additional capacity replaced approximately 1050 sets (operational
plan targets 1370 sets) of coal-fired scattered boilers. The differences between the
appraisal targets and actual outcomes were due to the exclusion of two residential areas
whose conversion into district heating was found to be uneconomical on detailed re-



-5.
evaluation. The Peak Heating Plant, that was to be oil-fired at appraisal, was redesigned
for natural gas when it became available.
15.   The economic IRR of the component is estimated to be about 13% a year,
compared with the appraisal estimate of 10.7%. This is mainly because the replacement
of scattered coal-fired boilers resulted in higher savings in fuel and operating labor,
whose unit costs increased more than projected, offsetting the cost increases of the
transmission pipelines. On the other hand, the benefits appear to be less than what could
have been achieved with consolidation of small boilers into medium-sized (20-50 ton per
hour capacity) district heating systems that can realize similar operating efficiency at less
capital and organizational costs. The component also supported technical assistance and
equipment to improve the heat control and monitoring system, and staff skills. Savings
from the reduction of conversion scope, of about US$6 million, were used for an
experimental program to install end-user heat control and metering implemented just
before the project closing.
16.  Industrial Pollution Control. This component financed 10 subprojects which
assisted heavily polluting local enterprises to comply with the environmental regulations
promulgated by BMG and the central government. The subloans financed such things as
replacement of production lines, relocations costs, technical renovations, safe disposal of
hazardous waste, adoption of pollution control measures, etc. These subprojects resulted
in substantial environmental benefits (see table 14 for a summary of the subprojects'
achievements, or see Borrower's ICR/operational plan for complete details). However,
the efficacy in terms of pollution reduction for the given amount of public financing is
much lower than that of public facilities, and the demonstration effect is also limited.
17.   Hazardous Waste Management. The main element of the component was a
hazardous waste management study which provided significant input for BMG's
hazardous waste management strategy and regulations, as well as a parallel component
under a Beijing Environment Project financed by Asian Development Bank's (ADB)
since 1995. Physical elements of this component were redesigned during implementation
for two reasons: (a) the amount of industrial hazardous waste requiring centralized
treatment decreased over time; and (b) an overlap with a similar component under the
ADB-financed project. The Bank eventually financed a pump station and a weigh-bridge
station, a storage house of reduced size, and renovation of an existing facility. The city's
first operating license for hazardous waste storage was obtained. The facilities are now
being used according to the revised plans, and are expected to see far higher activities as
soon as the facilities financed by ADB are completed.
Sector Policy Objectives
18.   Environmental Planning. The project deployed various measures to achieve the
project's main objective of improving BMG's environmental planning and management
capabilities. Of these, studies to improve the long-term planning were the primary means
applied to all major environmental sectors and were apparently given the most explicit
attention in project design. The most important of the studies were carried out under an
umbrella activity called the Beijing Environmental Master Plan Studies, assisted by an



-6
international consulting firm and financed largely by a Japanese Grant (TF025230).
These studies produced a broad assessment of water, wastewater, air quality, solid waste
management, and industrial pollution control issues as well as the respective sectoral
plans for the period up to 2015. The studies were carried out with an exceptionally high
level of participation by sector agencies, coordinated by the BMEPB. These studies were
supplemented by various training and overseas tours, an integrated environmental
modeling work and a hazardous waste management study.
19.   These studies were of high technical quality, generating very useful data and
models as well as invaluable plans and insights. For example, these studies have shown
the large and growing importance of non-point sources such as domestic wastewater,
scattered heating boilers, and motor vehicles. Due to the high quality and the strong
agency ownership, various policy and investment proposals from the studies were
incorporated in various municipal regulations and in the Municipal Ninth Five-Year Plan.
The study also provided a solid basis for design of follow-on projects financed by ADB
(from 1995) and the Bank (BEP2 approved in 2000).
20.   The SAR stipulated that recommendations of the studies should be incorporated in
official urban master plans and environmental regulations in consultation with the Bank.
This has happened only partially and gradually, but a much higher expectations would
only be unrealistic as the studies stand out among the best used. Their usefulness could
have been enhanced if more attention had been paid to the development and use of cost-
effectiveness evaluation for environmental planning, as the SAR specified. A trade-off
was apparently made between this aspect and the production of well-researched but static
sectoral plans.
21.  Institutional objectives. Substantial institutional development was achieved
during the project although institutional objectives were not defined precisely at
appraisal. Institutional objectives defined most explicitly for the sewerage sector, with a
covenant to establish a corporate entity. The Beiing Drainage Company (BDC) was set
up in December 1993 as a state enterprise. Although the SAR expresses an expectation
that it would develop as an autonomous self-financing enterprise, no concrete action or
performance measures were stipulated, and the Company initially little more than a
different form of the Drainage Division of the Beijing Municipal Engineering Bureau
with limited scope of business and autonomy. With an overall restructuring the
government functions and the progress of discussions on BEP2, BMG has greatly
enlarged the Company's business scope and autonomy as well as increasing sewerage
tariffs. At project closing, the Company has taken over the investment planning and
implementation as well as operation of WWTP.
22.   Another major area of institutional strengthening supported under the project was
that of the Beijing Environmental Protection Bureau and its affiliated institutes. Their
monitoring, analysis, and planning capabilities have been strengthened through
workshops, consultant interactions, better monitoring and analytical equipment and direct
involvement in the Environmental Master Plan Studies. These capabilities are proving
useful as BMG is stepping up enforcement of environmental regulations. The project
also supported upgrading of technical competency of BDC and the Beijing District



Heating Company (BDHC) through technical assistance and equipment for monitoring
and operation of the district heating and sewerage systems as well as staff training.
23.   Financial objectives were partially met. The project included two explicit
financial performance covenants related to the BDHC and the industrial pollution control
(IPC) subloans. Low heating and stearn tariffs and the consequent violation of the
financial covenants from 1993 to 1995 were the major issue for the project. After
suspension of the district heating components, however, the tariffs were raised in 1995
and 1996 by over 100% and brought financial health to BDHC as well as setting an
important example for the country. For example, steam tariffs jumped from Y10.6 to
Y30 in 1995, and to Y40 and Y 60 in 1996 and 1997.
24.   Achievement of the financial objectives of the IPC component, however,
remained negligible at project closing. Of the 9 subloans due, seven are in arrears. The
last subloan is not yet due but the prospect is cloudy given the counterpart financing
problem during construction. These bad debts present a serious fiscal risk for BMG, the
lender of record. To some extent the bad debts are due to the underlying lack of financial
viability of the subprojects. At least three of the facilities are currently unused or
underutilized for insufficient demand for the specific product line or for the borrowing
enterprise as a whole. This is partly the realization of market risks, which are common,
but also due to the arrangement for the component - ambiguous objectives of the
subloans and weak accountability. The subloans were supported partly for environmental
reasons by BMEPB, partly for commercial reasons by the borrower, and partly by Beijing
Economic Commission to preserve local jobs. The appraisal responsibilities were given
to the China Investment Bank, while the credit risk was taken by the Beijing Municipal
Finance Bureau which is not equipped to handle this type of operations. As a result, little
action has been taken against arrears even when the subborrowers or their parent
corporations have sufficient resources. After project closing consultant was hired by the
BMFB in accordance with advice and draft terms of reference provided by the Bank, and
is working to analyze the bad debts and prepare actions to collect them.
25.   Although specific financial objectives were not defined for the wastewater
services at appraisal, the tariffs have been nearly doubled over 1998 and 1999 to levels to
generate sufficient revenues to cover the existing operations and maintenance and
depreciation charges. With the large planned increase in the sewerage capacity in the
near future, BMG has committed to increasing the tariffs by about 200% in the next five
years.
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
26.   Major Factors Not Subject to Government Control. (In this Section, the
government refers to BMG, as it has nearly full control of most local environmental
matters under a broad guidelines of national laws; and implementing agencies refer to
individual units directly responsible for individual components.) The most important
factor only weakly under the government control was the rapid growth in population and
economy of Beijing, which outpaced the pollution abatement measures under the project
as well as others undertaken by the government and other entities. The rate of growth



-8.
and shift in the composition of pollution were not foreseen at appraisal, nor the inability
of the government to control them, as the economic growth and transformation were of
unprecedented pace and direction.
27.  In 1993, dramatic escalations in resettlement costs and to a slightly less extent,
civil works costs caused the BMEB to reconsider plans for various sewers. For example,
realigmnent of the Tonghui interceptor raised the civil works cost by about Y30 million
but saved land and resettlement costs by some Y200 million. BMEB made other
adjustments to limit the overall cost escalation but managed to build most of the essential
sewers. BDHC faced similar difficulties with heat transmission lines built at a late stage,
but was able to limit the project investments partly using the savings from ICB
procurement of equipment and from elimination of uneconomical portion of the planned
transmission line.
28.   Early in project implementation, after detailed technical and financial analyses
were conducted, inefficiencies in district heating over large distances became apparent.
(This still needs to be confirmed through systematic study.) Upon reaching this
conclusion, two residential areas, which were physically too far from the heating source,
had to be eliminated from the heating system because the heat losses would have been
significant. As a result of this experience, BMG is moving away from using this heating
arrangement.
29.   Major Factors Subject to Government's Control. On the other hand, the rapid
increase in pollution was partly due to the ineffectiveness of environmental regulation
and insufficient investments in environmental infrastructure by BMG. Few governments
would have been prepared for the rapid growth and structural change that rendered the
institutions and infrastructure ineffective. BMG, however, made quick adjustments, and
by the project closing, established a solid basis to contain and even reverse the
deterioration. This included much strengthened environmental regulation which forced
increased closure of polluting industries, natural gas pipelines and distribution network
under a new energy strategy, and plans for a great increase in sewerage capacity. In
modifying the relevant plans and regulations, BMG selectively adopted findings from the
studies and experiences under the project but did so within its existing procedures of
policy deliberation rather than as specified in the Project Agreement.
30.   The delay in heating tariff increases were mainly due to the BMG as well as the
central government's reluctance to raise public prices in the time of high inflation. BMG
instead chose to subsidize BDHC as needed, in violation of the project covenant. This
led to a 15-month suspension of the major part of the district heating component, a main
cause for the two-year delay of project completion.
31.   Major Factors Subject to the Implementing Agencies' Control. The implementing
agencies in general fully used the powers and technical expertise they have to carry out
their components and adapt to changes in external factors. BMEB and BDHC exercised
sound technical judgments to adjust their components when faced with large cost
increases and with a new evidence of questionable viability of heat supply in isolated
areas, respectively. The Environmental Sanitation Bureau resolved the problem of



-9
unexpectedly high contamination of the landfill leachate promptly and effectively.
BMEPB managed the BEMPS effectively and all the sector agencies participated
seriously in them and utilized the results effectively in their own planning. The only
major failing in this regard is BMFB's insufficient attention to the repayment problems of
IPC subloans, which can be partly explained by its limited involvement in selection,
appraisal, and supervision of the subprojects. Although belatedly, it started taking actions
to resolve the issue. BMFB's main role during implementation was to manage financing
of the overall project, which it has competently carried out.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
32.   Most of the project's achievements are likely to be sustained. However, questions
regarding the two major components - industrial pollution control and district heating -
present a large element of uncertainty. The framework of the IPC component and the
physical assets created under it are unlikely to be sustained; and the replicability of
district heating is likely to be limited. For the project as a whole, however, not only the
physical assets but also lessons learned and capabilities developed are likely to have
continued beneficial effect for the environmental management of Beijing and China. The
benefits and sustainability will be enhanced through the BEP2 approved in June 2000.
33.   Sustainability of the core environmental components - wastewater, solid waste,
and hazardous waste management - is highly likely. The physical assets have been well
utilized and have set off a great expansion of the respective environmental infrastructure
systems. While operation and expansion of these facilities are assured by BMG's strong
environmental orientation and fiscal strength (about Y 20 billion a year), BMG is taking
major steps to enhance their long-term financial and institutional sustainability. As
discussed earlier, BMG is proceeding to allow full financial and operational autonomy of
the sewerage services. Similar steps are being taken for solid and hazardous waste
management systems, which are now financed with both beneficiary and budget
financing.
34.   Similarly, knowledge and skills gained from various studies and technical
assistance as well as equipment have been fully utilized. A result has been an ambitious
new environmental improvement program of BMG that aims at a swift reversal of the
past environmental deterioration to meet all major enviromnental quality standards by
about 2005. BEP2 is intended to make an important contribution to this new BMG
program. A part of the program is to increase the quality and timeliness of the pollution
data in order to make them more useful for policy and regulatory actions.
35.   The existing district heating system is likely to be adequately operated and
utilized and its efficiency improved, due to the financial and technical improvements
during the project and further improvements planned by BDHC, such as in bill collection
and staff skills. Nevertheless, it is unlikely that such a large integrated system as
operated by a public monopoly would be an optimal heating system for the future in
Beijing. While larger systems exhibit superior efficiency in combustion and pollution



-10
control, they compare poorly with smaller system in transmission efficiency, the cost of
capital and land, and the organizational efficiency. These disadvantages of size are
accentuated as the fuel structure changes in favor of gas and oil. Therefore, replicability
of the large integrated heating system is likely to be limited.
36.   The large part of the modem production and waste treatment facilities financed
under the industrial pollution component is likely to be profitably utilized until they
become technologically obsolete, due to the strong regard paid to the economic viability
of the subprojects. However, a few of the underutilized facilities may prove to unviable
investments. Further, a large part of the subloans may have to be written off even after
strong collection efforts, imposing substantial fiscal losses for BMG. In general, the
experience under the project has served to reinforce the general transition toward
separation of the government and enterprise functions, and various levels of the
government in China and in particular BMG are discontinuing the practice of financial
support for industrial investments under most guises.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
37.  Identification and Preparation. The Bank's perfornance in identification was
satisfactory. The project was closely aligned with BMG's strategy and programs. The
Bank identified weaknesses in BMG's strategic plans and included appropriate
components to improve environmental planning. The amount of technical assistance
included under the project was appropriate given the institutional and policy development
needs. However, specific needs and counter measures were not sufficiently specific nor
integrated to provide a clear guide for these efforts. The Bank's performance in
preparation was satisfactory. Although the task team was changed significantly during
preparation, the change brought important improvements in communication and
preparation pace. The missions covered all major aspects (technical, financial, economic,
institutional, environmental) and brought substantial improvement in technical and
implementation planning. The Bank's successful mobilization of the Japanese grant
funds to finance the environmental studies was critical to the success of the overall
project.
38.   Appraisal. The Bank's performance in appraisal was satisfactory, with a well-
rounded team fielded. The project was ready for implementation at Board, with detailed
terms of reference prepared for the environmental studies, and most design work
complete. The mission correctly appraised BMG's commitment to the project's
objectives as high. The project's design was somewhat complex especially for a first-
time borrower, but BMG's high commitment and implementation capacity mitigated that
risk. The Bank helped eliminate questionable components such as a composting plant
and investments in textile industry. On the other hand, the Bank overlooked several
important risks, such as the uncertain prospect of BDHC's finances, the extent and cost
of resettlement, and the risks of the industrial pollution control component.
39.   Supervision. The Bank's supervision was highly satisfactory. The project was
supervised at regular six-month intervals, with well-rounded teams often composed of at
least one engineer, an economist and a financial analyst. Specialists in hazardous waste



-14
and solid waste management and resettlement also conducted limited supervision mission
in their respective fields. Team continuity was good with one engineer having been
involved from appraisal to completion, another engineer continuing for six years, and the
team leader and a main financial analyst serving for the last four and half years. The
resident mission in Beijing was,well utilized. Relations with the borrower's various
implementing agencies were generally very good. The Bank showed flexibility in its
approval of design modifications such as the conversion of the Peak Heating Plant from
oil to natural gas, or the sewer realignment to reduce resettlement along the Tonghui
River. The Bank allowed Loan savings from ICB procurement to renovate a secondary
heating system, to make further improvements to air quality.
40.   Bank supervision teams addressed three substantive issues over the course of
implementation. First was BDHC's non-compliance with financial performance
covenants for several years. The Bank highlighted this issue in correspondence with the
borrower, and finally downgraded the project to unsatisfactory in "development
objectives" in 1995. The Bank also suspended disbursements relating to the heating
component for 15 months until June 1996 when an action plan was agreed upon. The
Bank further informed the borrower that it would not proceed with preparation of the
follow-on project unless the action plan for BDHC to recover full costs from 1997 was
pursued satisfactorily. These actions prompted BMG to raise tariffs three-fold in 1995,
and this increase was followed by subsequent tariff increases in 1996 and 1997. These
actions brought BDHC back into financial health and the Bank upgraded the project to
satisfactory just over one year later. The second issue was resettlement whose greatly
increased cost presented a serious implementation contraint. The Bank took a position to
force the implementing agency to respect a new stringent resettlement regulation, at the
cost of considerable delay. The third issues was large arrears on the industrial pollution
line of credit. Late in recognizing the seriousness of the issue, the Bank provided an
initial analysis of the problems, suggested various alternatives to resolve the issues, and
on reaching an agreement on a course of action, provided draft terms of reference for
consulting services. The consultants were to help BMFB analyze and resolve the
problems. BMFB subsequently hired the consultants according to the recommended
TOR and the work is in progress as of this writing.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
4lPreparation. The borrower's performance in preparation was highly satisfactory. The
borrower's commitment to improving the environment was strong from the beginning.
By April 1989, Beijing Municipality had identified the key environmental sectors to
tackle with the Bank support, and had drawn up a list of 12 subprojects converging on the
theme of environmental improvement. These 12 subprojects were largely retained at
appraisal. The borrower's only notable oversight was in not including provision for
technical assistance and training which would be needed to strengthen local
environmental institutions, to enforce environmental protection regulations, and to plan
and implement clean-up programs with polluters. During project preparation, the various
implementing agencies responded in a timely manner to the Bank's requests for



-12
information and met processing deadlines. The project was ready for implementation at
Board. Detailed designs for all components, except the industrial pollution line of credit,
were complete, and one contract for a heating pipeline had been awarded and was
retroactively financed.
42.   Implementation. The borrower's overall performance in implementation was
satisfactory. BMG's actions for financial and institutional improvement of BDC and
BDHC were late, but in the end exemplary. An agency-by-agency summary is provided
below.
BEPO's coordination and monitoring of the project were excellent. BEPO staff
were highly motivated and competent. Following the 1994 devaluation of the
yuan, project cost estimates and disbursement projections were updated. Progress
reports were submitted on a timely basis and were thoroughly prepared. The
borrower's operational plan, which also contained its ICR, was coordinated and
executed with professionalism.
Beijing Municipal Engineering and BDC. The Engineering Bureau and BDC
successfully completed and tested the physical assets of the project. Some delays
resulted from realigning the sewers to avoid excessive resettlement and land
acquisition costs, and due to difficulties in obtaining approval for railway
underpasses.
Beijing Environmental Sanitation Bureau's performance in developing the
landfill site, operating it as a sanitary landfill, and resolving leachate problems
was highly satisfactory. The landfill serves as best practice for China.
BDHC performed satisfactorily in project implementation, but its overall
performance responds to its incentive system, as it depends mainly on the
government for pricing of its inputs and outputs and investment financing. It
tended to exaggerate its financial losses, keep excess cash, and relatively
unconcerned of the end-users' needs.
BMFB's performance was satisfactory in its main responsibility for arranging
counterpart financing and financial management of the project. However, its
perforrnance in collecting repayment of IPC subloans were deficient, mainly due
to its staffing constraints and limited involvement in upstream activities on the
subloans. It has, however, started pursuing the issue seriously.
BMEPB's efforts to manage the environmental studies were highly satisfactory.
A core study team composed of two dozen experts was set up shortly after Board
approval. BMEPB also organized 30 other departments and colleges to cooperate
for the study's tasks. Local staff exchanged ideas with foreign experts in a broad
field through brain-storming sessions, workshops. Advanced technology was
coupled with the local situation to the maximum benefit.



-13
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
42.   The overall assessment of outcome is satisfactory. The project substantially met
its physical objectives, and more importantly, its sector policy objectives of improving
management and planning. Financial objectives were partially met, and the improvement
would continue under the follow-on project. Although the project's individual
investments did not add up to a reduction in the city's overall ambient pollution due to
the great increase in pollution during the project implementation period, the reason for
this was beyond the control of the government or implementing agencies. Many of the
project's benefits are sustainable, and the great deal of learning and mutual trust was
developed during implementation. The Second Beijing Environment Project will build
upon these to achieve visible improvements in the city's environmental quality.
H. FUTURE OPERATION
43.   An operational plan has been submitted for the various implementing agencies
and found satisfactory. Important aspects of the operation plans of individual agencies
are summarized below, and details attached in Annex A to this ICR:
BDHC is moving toward setting up a standardized collection mechanism to
strengthen bill collection, and plans are underway to upgrade human resources
accordingly. Furthermore, BDHC would expand the experiment for heat metering
and control at the user-end and comply with a recent document issued by the
Ministry of Construction that encourages metering.
BDC is planning a major upgrading of its organizational structure and
staff capabilities in order to dispose of the greatly expanding sewerage service
scope and autonomy.
BMEPB is planning to organize a review and revision of the
recommendations of the BEMPS, covering: (a) a comparison of the original plan
and actual implementation to date; (b) a study a new environmental issues to
supplement the original study; and (c) organization of a new environmental
master plan study or preparation of a five-year environmental plan at the
appropriate time. BMEPB is aiming to develop a dynamic study, using the
technical approaches and tools developed under the study.
Beijing Environmental Sanitation Bureau has started preparation of a plan to
build the second stage of the Asuwei landfill, as the site's first phase, built under
the project would be filled in 2003.
44.   The project engendered a great deal of mutual learning by BMG and the Bank, as
well as mutual trust. These, along with considerable technical and institutional
achievements under the project, have provided a productive basis for a major cooperative
effort to reduce the serious pollution of the city, which has worsened despite effective



-14
partial solutions achieved under the project. During the project period, there have also
been significant changes in the economic and institutional framework in favor of different
and accelerated environmental improvement efforts: a rapid increase in personal income
in the city, a much increased demand among the population and leadership for better
environment, a greater reliance on market mechanisms, and availability of natural gas.
On this basis, a Second Beijing Environment has been prepared and a loan of $349
million and a GEF grant of $25 million were approved in June 20, 2000. BEP2 would
address air and water pollution issues exclusively, first through conversion of scattered
coal-fired boilers for natural gas and energy conservation in heating, and the second
through a construction of a full sewerage system in the most neglected of four river
basins within the city. In view of the lessons learned, a proposal similar to the first
project that would have directed the Bank support to a large number of components,
particularly to industrial and utility operations, was rejected in favor of the more focused
assistance. By focusing the large resources in the two components, and in conjunction
with a broader BMG program for environmental improvement partly facilitated in the
process of project preparation, the project aims to bring a visible and substantial
improvement in the air and water quality, and establishing full cost recovery and
autonomy for sector institutions.
I. Key Lessons Learned
45.   Achievements and shortcomings of the project provide the following key lessons:
(a) A broad and complex project provides a good opportunity to learn while supporting
the borrower's comprehensive programns, but limits the opportunity for significant
physical and institutional improvement and the Bank's contribution to them.
(b) Industrial pollution can most effectively be addressed with strictly market-based
financing focusing on commercial viability, and strong regulations and limited public
assistance focused solely on pollution control.
(c) Institutional development needs to be in step with the broader policy and governance
context and focus on performance, rather than form and structure.
(d) Energy, pollution control, and managerial efficiencies of district heating does not
necessarily increase with its size, indicating the desirability of smaller market-based
systems.
(e) To maximize the value of large-scale studies, clear policy motivation and an
institutional basis to maintain and update them are essential.



-1-5
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of Objectives        Substantial      Partial    Negligible    Not Applicable
Macroeconomic policies                                                                X
Sector policies                          X
Financial objectives                                   X
Institutional development                              X
Physical objectives                      X
Poverty reduction                                                                     X
Gender issues                                                                         x
Other social objectives                                                               X
Environmental objectives                 X
Public sector management                               X
Private sector development                                                            X
B. Project Sustainability                  Likely             Unlikely            Uncertain
x
C. Bank Performance                    Highly Satisfactory      Satisfactory        Deficient
Identification                                                      x
Preparation Assistance                                              X
Appraisal                                                           X
Supervision                                   X
D. Borrower Performance                Highly Satisfactory       Satisfactory       Deficient
Preparation                                    X
Implementation                                                       X
Covenant compliance                                                  x
Operation (if applicable)                      X
E. Assessment of Outcome         Highly         Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory       Highly
Satisfactory                                      Unsatisfactory
x



-16
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS
Year of
Loan/Credit Title    Purpose                                         Approval    Status
Shandong Envmt    Augmentation of water supply and alleviation of water    1996  Ongoing
pollution in Jinan through construction of water supply
reservoir and pipelines and major trunk interceptor
sewers, together with strengthening of water and
sewerage compamnes.
Tianjin Urban      A multi-faceted urban operation, including alleviation of   1992  Almost
Development and    water pollution through construction of trunk interceptor    Completed
Environment        sewers and major pumping stations.
Liaoning           Alleviation of water pollution through construction of  1993  Ongoing
Environment        trunk interceptor sewers and treatment plants in several
cities, alleviation of air pollution through expansion of
district heating
Second Beijing     Aims at a visible and sustained alleviation of air and  2000   Appproved in
Environment Project water pollution in Beijing by converting scattered coal-    June 2000
fired heating boilers to natural gas; promote energy
conservation; construct key wastewater trunk
interceptors and treatment facilities; and strengthen
environmental management institutions of Beijing
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in project cycle                               Date planned*            Date actual
Identification                                                                  04/89
Preappraisal
Appraisal                                               7/12/90                02/1991
Negotiations                                                               9/30/91 - 10/4/91
Board presentation                                      3/12/91               11/19/1991
Signing                                                                       12/16/1991
Effectiveness                                            2/92                  3/2/1992
Project completion                                    12/31/1996               6/30/1999
Loan closing                                           6/30/1997               6/30/1999
* dates per the Initial Executive Project Sunmary of 6/21/89
TABLE 4: LOAN/CREDIT DISBURSEMENT: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATE AND ACTUAL
(US$ million)
FY92    FY93    FY94    FY95    FY96    FY97    FY98    FY99    FY00
Appraisal        13.0     44       78.1    110.3   121.3    125.0
estimate
Actual           9.55    20.04    47.28    55.87    82.33    92.64    98.15    118.44   129.35
Actualas%of      73%      46%      36%     51%      68%      74%      79%      95%    104%*
adjusted estirate



-17
Date of last disbursement: October 8, 1999
* due to appreciation of US$/SDR rate.
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
The project did not have defined indicators, and data could not be obtained for the
indicators retrofitted
Estimated                                       Actual
Key                      1990                    1996                  Start             Complete
implementation
indicators m SAR
District Heating  Coverage = 17 million m2   35 million m2                             32 million m2
Revenue/Expenses = 91%    110%                                             106%
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATIONS
Insufficient data



-18
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
Study         Purpose as defined at Appraisal/Redefmed   Status       Impact of Study
Integrated     a) to produce an integrated plan for air quality,  Completed Many of the measures
Environmental  water quality, and urban reuse management in  in 1997    recommended for the initial
Management   Beijing to the year 2015, which would achieve            years were adopted in
Plan           environmental goals and objectives at least cost to    practice, such as specific
the region;                                            sewerage treatment options,
b) to modify sector development master plans and       natural gas conversions and
the urban development master plan to reflect the       vehicle emission standards.
environmental goals and objectives of Beijing          The study's
Municipality consistent with the integrated            recommendations for the
environmental management plan;                        latter years were approached
c) to propose measures and procedures for              with more caution.
integrating environmental planning within the more     Unfortunately this integrated
well established urban, economic, and infrastructure   forn of environmental
planning processes in Beijing;                         master-planning was not
d) to propose and provide training for the             sustained as regular practice
development of technical analytical, and               among planning bureaus,
institutional capabilities of key Beijing Municipality  mainly due to the specific
officials to undertake least-cost analyses of          purpose and one-time nature
environmental management and pollution control         of the exercise. However,
strategies, and to develop long-term strategic plans   BMEPB is now making
for environmental management in Beijing; and           plans to review and revise
e) to propose measures and procedures for              the studies to make them
strengthening environmental planning, moritoring,      living documents.
and enforcement in Beijing Municipality
2. Hazardous   (a) to survey hazardous waste generation and  Completed Provided a sound basis for
Waste          disposal practices in Beijing;              in 1996    proposing necessary
Management   b) to draft hazardous waste management                   management laws and
regulations;                                           regulations and for the
c) to plan optimal solutions for hazardous waste       preparation work for
disposal;                                              construction of treatment
d) to identify communal hazardous waste disposal       and disposal facilities,
methods and the location of disposal sites; and        which are being financed
e) to study the sustained operation of communal        by the ADB's project
facilities.



-19
TABLE 8: PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
Table 8A: Project Costs in RMB Yuan million
Appraisal estimate            Actual/latest estimate
Item                                 Local  Foreign    Total          Local Foreign      Total
Wastewater                           162.23   95.29   257.52          625.25   135.23    760.48
Solid Waste                           34.60   13.98    48.58           53.65    33.29     86.94
DistrictHeating                      423.85  306.19   730.04         1359.44   400.70   1760.14
Industrial Pollution                 306.80  256.72   563.52          458.38   364.49    822.87
Hazardous Waste                       12.62    6.69    19.31           12.37     7.77     20.14
Environmental Study                    6.56   30.31    36.87            9.85    24.15     34.00
ProjectOffice                         24.52    7.17    31.69            2.00     1.63      3.63
GRAND TOTAL                          971.18  716.35  1687.53         2520.94   967.26   3488.20
Table 8b: Project Costs in US$ million
Appraisal estimate            Actual/atest estimate
Item                                 Local  Foreign    Total          Local Foreign      Total
Wastewater                            28.61   16.70    45.31           75.33    16.69     92.02
Solid Waste                            6.08    2.53     8.61            6.46     4.11     10.57
District Heating                      76.64   54.00   130.64          163.78    49.46    213.24
Industrial Pollution Control          53.67   44.91    98.58           55.23    45.00    100.23
Hazardous Waste                        2.28    1.17     3.45            1.49     0.96      2.45
Environmental Studies                  1.17    5.44     6.61            1.18     2.98      4.16
Project Office                         4.29    1.25     5.54            0.24     0.20      0.44
GRAND TOTAL                          172.74  126.00   298.74          303.71   119.40    423.11
Table 8c: Project Financing
(US$ rnillion)
Appraisal estimate                Actual/late estimate
Source              Local      Foreign    Total         Local    Foreign    Total
IDA/lBRD                         0.6       124.4      125.0                    119.40    119.40
Japan Grant Facility            00           1.6        1.6                      1.60      1.60
Beijing Municipal Governnent     8.4         5.8      124.2         212.36              212.36
Enterpises                      53.7         0.0       53.7          55.23                55.23
Total                          172.7       131.8      304.5         267.59     121.00    388.59



-20
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
(1991 $ mnillion)
Component                                       Costs       Benefits      NPV        ERR (%)
Tonghui and South Moat Interceptors              49          42            - 7          8.2%
Northwest interceptors                           21          31            1 1         21%
District Heating                                183         202            19          12.5%



-24
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Cove-              Original    Revised
Agree-                   nant    Present  fulfillment  fulfillment
ment       Section      type     Status     date         date          Description of covenant     Comments
CREDIT    4.01 (c)          I         C                              Fumish audit within 6 months of
FY closing
PROJECT   3.01 (b)          I         C                              Fumish audit within 6 months of
FY closing
Schedule 1,    10        C                              Employ consultant satisfactory to
Section II                                              the Bank
Schedule 2,    5,10      C                              Maintain project office with
Part A, I                                               competent staff
Schedule2,     10       CD       12/31/94    12/31/95   Carryouttrainingprogramon
Part A, 2                                               schedule
Schedule 2,    10       CD       12/31/94    12/31/95   Carry out environmental study and   Completed 1997
Part A, 3                                               hazardous waste mgmt study with
TOR acceptable to Bank
Schedule 2,     7        C                              Carry out resettlement in        Carried out. Plan
Part A, 4                                               accordance with RAP satisfactory   revised to reduce
to Bank                         resettlement
Schedule 2,     5        C       6/30/94                Establish Beijing Sewerage       BSC established
Part B, I                                               Company as state enterprise      in Dec. 1993.
Schedule 2,     5        C                              Take actions to ensure consumer
Part B, 2                                               connections to district heating
system in accordance with time
schedule agreed with Bank
Schedule 2,    1, 2      C       6/30/93                Beijing District Heating Company
Part C, 2(c)                                            to fumish Bank with audited
financial reports within 6 months
of FY closing.
Schedule 2,     2       CD                              For each FY after FY92, BDHC to   Action plan
Part C, 3(b)                                            produce revenues equivalent to   agreed in March
not less than sum of (a) total   1994 to enable
operating expenses; (b) increases    BDHC to meet
in working capital other than cash;   covenant by
and (c) debt service requirements    FY96.
Schedule 2,     2       CD                              For each FY after FY94, BDHC     Action plan
Part C, 3(b)                                            should produce funds from        agreed in March
intemal sources equivalent to not    1994 to enable
less than 20% of the annual      BDHC to meet
average capital expenditures     covenant by
incurred.                       FY96.
Schedule 2,     9        C                              BDHC to prepare and fumish to
Part C, 3(c)                                            Bank before 9/30, starting 1992, a
copy of its review, based on
financial forecasts, on its ability to
meet the financial requirements
Schedule 3,     2        C                              Provide Bank the report of one
5                                                       annual audit of accounts and
financial statements for each
industrial enterprise within 3 years
from date of relevant subproject
approval.
Covenant Class:                                                                    Status:
I = Accounts/audits                 8 = Indigenous people                       C   = covenant complied with
2 = Financial performance/revenue    9 = Monitoring, review, and reporting      CD  = complied with after delay
generation from beneficiaries  10 = Project implementation not             CP  = complied with partially
3 = Flow and utilization of project      covered by categories 1-9
funds                         11 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral
4 = Counterpart funding                  budgetary or other resources
5 = Management aspects of the            allocation
project or executing agency    12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
6 = Environmental covenants             regulatory/institutional action
7 = Involuntary resettlement       13 = Other



-22
TABLE 1 1: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
There was no significant lack of compliance with an applicable Bank Operational Manual
Statement (OD or OP/BP)
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS (SWS/$OOOS)
FY             1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    Tota]
Prepn/Preapp    6.7    43.2    98.2                                                                                    148.1
19.5    95.5   250.6                                                                                   365.6
Appraisal                        44.4     7.1                                                                           51.5
122.3    24.8                                                                          147.1
Negotiations                              11.5                                                                           11.5
38.0                                                                          38.0
Supervision                               16.8    23.3    13.9    18.7    23.4    10.9    27.5    18.6                 153.1
56.5    71.7    39.8    55.7    68.2    42.7    83.7    63.7                 482.0
Completion                                                                                                      7.8      7.8
21.7     21.7
Totals (SWs)    6.7    43.2   142.6    35.4    23.3    13.9    18.7    23.4    10.9    27.5    18.6             7.8    372.0
(Costs)   19.5    95.5   372.9   119.3    71.7    39.8    55.7    68.2    42.7    83.7    63.7            21.7    1054.4



-23
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Performance rating
Specialized staff   Imple-   Develop-
Stage of project    Month/    Number of    Days   skills represented /a mentation    Ment         Type of
cycle              year       persons     in field                     status /b  Objectives      problems
Identification     4/89          5           7          DC, EN(4)
Preparation         9/89         4                         EN
Appraisal          2/91          10          ?        EC(2), EN(4),
FA(2), ID(2)
Negotiations       10/91         3           -         DO, EN, LC
(HQ)
Supervision 1      5/92          2           9            EN(2)          HS         HS    None
Supervision 2      11/92         2           7           FA, EN          HS         HS    None
Supervision 3      6/93          3           9           FA, EN          HS         HS    Procurement delays;
financial covenant not
met by heating company.
Supervision 4      3/94          2           7           FA, EN           S         HS    Financial covenant not
met by beating company.
Supervision 5      11/94         2           4           FA, EN           S         S      Noncompliance with
financial covenants, esp.
heating company;
Drainage company not
formally established.
Supervision 6      5/95          4           5        EC, FA, EN(2)       S         U      Tariff increases for both
heating and sewerage
companies insufficient
for self-sufficiency
Supervision 7      11/95         4           10       EC, FA, EN(2)       S         U      Low tariff leading to
poor financial
performance of 2 major
utilities
Supervision 8      5/96          4           8        EC, FA, EN(2)       S         S      Action plan to raise
tariffs agreed.
Supervision 9      11/96         6           7      EC, FA(2), EN(2),     S         S      Tariffs raised
ENV
Supervision 10     7/97          6           7      EC, FA, EN, ENV,      S         S      Implementation delays
EN (3)
Supervision 11     11/97         4           ?        EC, FA, EN(2)       S         S
Supervision 12     6/98          4           ?        EC, FA, EN (2)      S         S
Supervision 13     11/98         5           10       EC, FA, EN (3)      S         S      IP repayment;
implementation delays
due to resettlement
delays.
Completion         5/99          4           10       EC, FA, EN (2)      S         S      Industrial pollution
subprojects largely
completed with good
environmental results,
but financial difficulties
of borrowers and weak
collection efforts result
in poor repayment
record.
/a DC: Division Chief; DO: Disbursement Officer; EC: Economist; EN: Engineer; ENV: Environmental Specialist; FA: Financial
Analyst; ID: Industry Specialist; LC: Legal Counsel; 00: Operation Officer; RA: Research Analyst; RS: Resettlement
Specialist;.
/b HS: Highly satisfactory; S: Satisfactory; US: Unsatisfactory.



-24
TABLE 14: PHYSICAL RESULTS OF INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL COMPONENT
Subproject             Amount    Objectives                             Results
(Yuan M)
1. VAC Renovation in    375.8       1) Close calcium carbide furnace and    Contract monitoring indicators were met for
Beijing Organic                     adopt new process                   production capacity, quality of refined VAC
Chemical Works                      2) Construct WWTP and incinerator so   product, main raw material consumption
that water receives proper treatment and  index, and consumption of supporting
discharges comply with environmental   facilities.
standards;                         Established Commanding Post; institutional
3) Institutional strengthening     responsibilities of each section clarified;
management rules established and indicators
monitored regularly.
2. Renovation and      85.2         1) Relocate factory                 Quality of products meet national standards
relocation of Beijing               2) Introduce technical renovations and   and total production increased;
Steel Drum Factory                  adopt pollution control measures    Environmental quality meets national
3) Increase profitability          standards
Economic targets not met
3. Renovation of       119.9        1) Relocate workshop                With 2-step fermentation, quality of
Vitamin C Plant in                  2) Introduce 2-stage fermentation   discharged wastewater much improved; COD
Beijing Pharmaceutical              process and related equipment to reduce  levels decreased; safety issue involving
Works                               pollutants discharge                consumption of dangerous chemicals basically
eliminated.
4) Rubber Reclamation   51.53       1) Abate pollution caused by waste  Wastewater discharge decreased from 24,600
in Beijing Rubber &                 rubber;                            tons a year to zero;
Plastic Factory                     2) Utilize waste rubber as resource  Waste gas emission reduced from 240 tons a
3) Institutional strengthening     year to zero.
5) Renovation of       7.4         Introduce advanced production        Loss of final refined anthrance product greatly
Refined Anthrance                  technology to reduce harmful emissions  reduced and environment inside and outside
Equipment in Beijing                                                    workshop is improved.
Coking and Chemical
Works
6) Acrylic Acid        40.7         Construct new wastewater treatment  Wet catalytic oxidation was adopted in the
Wastewater Treatment               facility to treat high concentration  new wastewater treatment plan. This is an
of Beijing Dongfang                 acrylic acid and water wastewater in  advanced technology where high concentration
Chemical Works                      cooperation with incinerator.       wastewater can be treated in one step; no
chemicals are consumed; and no secondary
pollution is generated.
7) Renovation of       145.8        1) Introduce low alkali without water    The low alkali production method was
Polyvinyl Alcohol 17-88             process                            introduced. Product quality was improved
& 7-99 Process in                   2) Introduce advanced control system  while raw material consumption was reduced
Beijing Organic                     for safe and stable operation;      and pollution mitigated.
Chemical Works                      3) Treat wastewater to reduce discharge
of COD.
8) Electrolyzer        129.5        Renovate works to reduce emissions of  The original graphite electrolyzer plant was
Renovation of Beijing               dust, asphalt smog and asbestos, to  closed in 1996; an ion membrane electrolyzer
No. 2 Chemical Works                reduce pollution effects on surrounding   was imported to eliminate pollution. Discharge
plants and crops                    of 1.5 tons of dust containing lead, 7.3 tons of
asphalt smog and 0.8 tons of asbestos fiber
were eliminated.
9) Beijing No. 5 Paper    28.2      1) Relocate enterprise              The plant was relocated outside Beijing's
Mill Pollution Control              2) Make adjustments to production   urban area. Paper board production, which
and Relocation                      3) Import new equipment to improve  had high water and power consumption, was
capacity, variety, quantity of paper  curtailed. Advanced production lines for green
production                          package products and paper tableware
installed.
10) Rubber Mixing     47.6          Reduce discharge of dust and improve   Some equipment had been installed, but
Pollution in Beijing                environmental quality inside and    completion of the subproject was still pending
Tyre Factory                        outside the mixing workshop, as well as  at project closing.
I_____________ _  Ithe quality of the mixed rubber.



-25 -                      ANNEX A
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
BEIJING ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
(Ln. 3415-CHA, Cr. 2312-CHA)
ANNEX A: SUMMARY OF BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION
TO THE ICR
Introduction
The Beijing Environment Project was approved by the board of the World Bank
(the Bank) in November of 1991. The Loan Agreement was signed in December of 1991
and was declared effective in March 1992. Retroactive loan proceeds were used in 1991
for the construction of heating trunk pipelines under the District Heating Component.
The Project consists of five infrastructure components and 10 industrial pollution
control sub-projects. The total cost estimate is 3.243 billion RMB Yuan, including 125
million USD equivalent of the Bank's loan (SDR 80 million for infrastructure
components, and $45 million (IBRD) for the industrial pollution control sub-projects).
By the end of 1998, total investments of 3.04 billion RMB Yuan (93.7% of the total cost)
had been completed, including disbursements amounting to $98.32 million from the
Bank's loan, or 78.7% of the total approved Loan amount.
The original loan closing date stipulated in the Loan Agreement was June 30,
1997. It was postponed to June 30, 1999 due to various factors discussed below. Most of
the completed components and sub-projects have generated good social, environmental,
and economic benefits.
Component Review
District Heating Component
Objectives/Description. This component was to mitigate air pollution in Beijing by
developing a district heating system to reduce high seasonal S02 concentrations brought
about by coal-burning scattered boilers. It financed the construction of the 17.5km trunk
heating pipeline for Shijingshan Cogeneration Power Plant (SCPP), Shuangyushu Peak
Heating Plant (SPHP), including procurement of steel pipes, valves, boiler equipment,
pump station equipment and heating network monitoring and control system. The
Bank's loan financed $54 million, which was used for equipment and civil works.



-26 -                      ANNEX A
Implementation. Most of the material and equipment for this component was procured
at a price lower than the originally quoted price. As there were loan savings, the Bank
approved the use of $6 million to renovate the Secondary Heating System.
Construction of 5km of external pipeline started on March 15, 1991. Overall, from
construction start-up to completion and trial operations, implementation lasted eight
years, and experienced a two-year delay. Causes are: (a) as the financial position of the
BDHC did not meet the loan covenants, equipment procurement for SPHP was suspended
for 14 months from April 1995 to June 1996; (b) with natural gas becoming available in
Beijing, BMG decided to use natural gas instead of heavy oil as fuel for the SPHP to help
tackle the air pollution problem. This necessitated a fundamental revision in the
previously prepared technical bidding and design documents. By completion of this
component, a heating area of 15 million m3 was realized.
Financial Objectives and Outcome. According to the legal agreements, the Beijing
District Heating Company (BDHC) was required to achieve the following targets: (a)
starting from 1993, generate sufficient revenues to cover operating costs and
maintenance, working capital increases, and debt service; and (b) starting from 1995,
ensure that the sum of its internal cash would cover at least 20% of the average capital
expenditure made in a three year period (the year before the reference year, the reference
year, and the year after the reference year). As mentioned above, this covenant was not
met on time, but was complied with during 1996. To achieve compliance BMG and
BDHC adopted the following measures: (a) several rounds of adjustment on the heating
and steam tariff were carried out; (b) BDHC made efforts to conserve energy and expand
the heating area; (c) staff increases were strictly controlled to improve the per capita
service area.
Operational Plan. In the future, BDHC will: (a) strengthen training for its operation
and managerial staff to guarantee provision of smooth and safe heating service.
Financial objectives will be achieved in stages; (b) renovate the secondary heating
system. After renovation, it is projected to realize 15--20% energy saving, so the heat
saved will be able to heat an additional 1 million m2 of floor area; (c) monitoring
indicators including heating area, environmental indicators and financial indicators will
be used. (Details are given in the Borrower's Operational Plan.)
Wastewater Component
Objectives/Description. This component was designed to improve the water environment
quality through: (a) construction of wastewater interceptors in the southern part of the
urban area to collect and convey wastewater, generated by a population of 2.44
million, to the Gaobeidian Wastewater Treatment Plant; (b) construction of wastewater
sewers in the northwest part of the city to collect wastewater in the protection area of
No. 3 Water Works, which served a population of 1 million, to protect ground water
quality; (c) procurement of heavy equipment for river-course cleaning and sewer
maintenance as well as wastewater monitoring instrument; (d) establishment of a



-27 -                     ANNEX A
drainage company on an enterprise basis, staffed by managerial professionals and
having financial targets of which should meet the Bank's requirementS.
Implementation - Works. Construction of sewers on the south bank of Tonghui River
commenced on May 24, 1993. The originally contracted construction period was 36
month; however, the actual construction period was delayed because: (a) in
construction across the railway sections, the railway authority approved construction
only in stages as this work had high technical requirement and is extremely difficult;
(b) with changes in the resettlement policy by the government, the affected residents
were required to be resettled in a final dwelling place at one time, which resulted in
resettlement delays; (c) changes in land acquisition policy required longer time to go
through necessary formalities; and (d) counterpart local funding was not allocated in a
timely manner.
Implementation - Equipment. All together 17 items, including instruments and
equipment for river course cleaning machine, sewer maintenance equipment, and
wastewater monitoring, were procured through ICB. The bidding process was carried
out in 1994, and the total contract price totaled $4.76 million. By the end of 1996, all
17 items had arrived and were accepted. So far, most of the equipment and
instruments are in use and have generated the corresponding benefits.
Implementation - Institutional Building. According to the Loan Agreement, Beijing
Municipal Engineering Bureau (BMEB) was to set up a preparatory group to establish a
drainage company in May 1992. Approved by BMG, 5 million RMB Yuan of registered
capital was allocated and the Beijing Drainage Company (BDC) registered in Beijing
Municipal Industrial and Commercial Administration Bureau on December 28, 1993.
There are now 36 working staff in BDC. Appraised assets of BDC reached 1.14 billion
RMB Yuan. In 1995, assets confirmation was done by Beijing Zhongchang Audit Office.
The institutional structure is available in the full Operational Plan.
Financial Issues. Operation revenue of BDC mainly comes from wastewater treatment
charges. Currently, charging standards are: 0.30 RMB Yuan/m3 for industrial and
commercial customers and 0.10 RMB Yuan/m3 for residents. A financial subsidy is
allocated by BMG for maintenance costs of the storm water drainage system. Most of
the urban wastewater treatment charge is collected by Beijing Water Supply Company
and then transferred to BDC. BDC directly collects tariffs from customers with self-
prepared water supply wells and residents without tap water supply.
From September 1, 1995 to December 31, 1998, accumulated wastewater tariff revenue
of BDC totaled 285,387 thousand RMB Yuan. Expenses of BDC during the
corresponding period were 372,675 thousand RMB Yuan, management and financial
costs added up to 16,252 thousand RMB Yuan. From 1995 to 1998, total losses of
BDC totaled 87,288 thousand RMB Yuan including the 16,252 thousand RMB Yuan in
management and financial costs.



- 28 -                     ANNEX A
Operational Plan. For sewers, (a) wastewater discharge on along southeastern moat in
the upstream of Tonghui River will be controlled; (b) after the sewers on the south
bank of Tonghui River are put into use, cleaning of the accumulated sludge in the river
bed of Tonghui River will be significant for improving the water; (c) as completion of
the sewers on the south bank of Tonghui River have been delayed, it was suggested to
extend the monitoring period for water quality monitoring in the upstream area of the
Tonghui River by one year to July of 2001 to have a full idea of the real water quality
during period C (the beneficial year) and to obtain complete monitoring results of water
quality in Tonghui River upstream. GOC's operational objectives for BDC are: to
allow BDC to obtain its operation revenue from wastewater treatment charge; to
transfer necessary power, equipment and staff to BDC to enable it to manage, maintain
wastewater and storm water network, and play a larger role in wastewater and storm
water construction and investment decision-making.
Solid Waste Component
Objectives/Description. This component was to construct a sanitary landfill of an area of
about 72 ha, and capable of treating 2,000 tons of refuse per day over a period of about 10
years. The total investment of the first phase was 79.55 million RMB Yuan, including $4
million of the Bank's Loan. The landfill site has a service life of eight years, and has
been operating smoothly since its completion in 1995.
Implementation. Originally, the leachate treatment system for the landfill site was
planned to be constructed in the second phase of landfill site development. However,
trial operations of the landfill found that storm water and leachate had accumulated in the
landfill cell and had affected normal operations. In addition, discharge of untreated
wastewater also threatened surrounding villages. The Bank approved a request to
construct the leachate treatment system in June 1996. The total cost was 8.7 million
RMB Yuan. Also following trial operations, it was found that the monitoring instruments
procured in the first phase could not meet the operational demands of the system. The
Bank approved the procurement of additional instruments which arrived in 1998. By the
end of 1998, an accumulation of 3,489 thousand tons of waste had been treated.
Institutional Arrangements. There are now 99 full time staff at the landfill site. Operators
at all positions have received specific training. The site has been running smoothly since
1998.
Operational Plan. The landfill site has a comprehensive set of monitoring and
assessment indicators as elaborated in the Borrower's full report. Its budget is allocated
by BMG via Beijing Municipal Environment Sanitation Bureau in line with the treatment
load and variable operational costs. In the most recent years, the variable operational cost
has been around 13 RMB Yuan (not including transportation costs). In general, the site is
providing harmless treatment for the solid waste generated in Dongcheng and Xicheng



- 29 -                     ANNEX A
districts. In its four years of operations, groundwater monitoring has not found any
significant pollution, operations are smooth, and sound environmental and social benefits
have been realized.
Beijing Environmental Master Plan Studies Component
Objectives. The purpose of the studies was to strengthen capacity for formulating and
implementing an environmental plan in Beijing. It included a series of master plan
alternatives in the fields of air and water quality management and solid waste control up
to the year 2015. The Beijing Environmental Master Plan Application System and
procurement of monitoring instruments were also part of the component, as well as
training and consulting services for motor vehicle pollution control.
Implementation Results.
* The capability of the planners were improved. After the overseas training, working
with foreign experts and using advanced models, the latest concept and technology
in the field of environmental protection made a positive impact on all the planners.
e The master planning scenario in air and water quality management and solid waste
pollution control up to the year 2015 was raised in the project. Scientific research
and experience in the field were integrated into the work. The studies had some key
characteristics as follows. They were integrated - various environmental problems,
different environmental media and their relationships were considered. They were
advanced - the work was based on mathematical models, and comparisons of
alternatives were made. They focussed on economic principles - the principle of
least-cost was applied in the study, and methodologies such as cost-benefit analysis,
alternative economic analysis, investment requirement-capacity analysis were used
and the corresponding incentive policies were recommended. They were practical -
by applying alternative comparison and mathematical models, and consideration of
economic, institutional and legislative conditions, the conclusions and suggestions
matched the actual situation in Beijing.
* The planning scenarios defined in the study were conducive to updating and
developing the environmental plan. The program and components of the study, as
well as the organization, funding, sub-project design and modeling were valuable
reference tools for other large studies.
*  The ability to use the advanced planning technology is much improved. The
planners understand the situation and tendencies of environmental plans in foreign
countries.
*  These achievements have been used adequately to provide reference for the macro
decision-making, sector plan adjustment and the implementation of pollution control
measures.
Future Application. Although the studies are based on data from the early 1990s, the
outputs will be useful in the future as they are based on solid study and scientific



- 30-                      ANNEX A
planning methodology. Some studies' outputs are being used for reference, including
preparation of the Bank's Second Beijing Environment Project. Some other research
projects have absorbed the essence of its outputs, such as the study on urban air
pollution emission control and the preparation of five-year environmental plans. The
monitoring equipment has enhanced local capacity in inspecting the pollution situations
for both air and water.
Industrial Hazardous Waste Management Study Component
Objectives/Description. This component consisted of three parts: (a) purchase of a site
for the Beijing Industrial Hazardous Waste Management Center and procurement of lab
equipment; (b) construction of a temporary storage house for industrial hazardous
waste; (c) technical assistance.
Implementation. Sixteen different sorts of laboratory instruments and equipment were
purchased and in place by June 1995. With the advent of an industrial waste project
financed by the Asian Development Bank (ADB), it was found that the originally
planned storage facility was over-planned. Finally, a pump station and weigh-bridge
were kept unchanged; the existing 440 m2 storage structure was renovated. Trial
operations began in late 1997.
Institution Building. The TA for this component covered the following: (a) drafting
necessary laws and regulations for hazardous waste management; (b) investigating
hazardous waste generation information and data; (c) investigating existing treatment
facilities for industrial hazardous waste in Beijing and their operational status; (d)
developing information and data processing software; (e) studying least-cost strategy
for industrial hazardous waste management; and (f) studying price, financial and
economic incentives. In addition, some 28 hours of training were conducted for over
100 participants, and study tours to the USA and Canada were conducted.
Operational Plan. The final consultant report provided a sound basis for proposing the
necessary management laws and regulations, and the preparation work for construction
of treatment and disposal facilities. Construction in ongoing under the ADB Loan and
is expected to be completed in 2002.
Storage Unit. Upon completion of the temporary storage unit, trial operations were
successfully conducted, and the unit began receiving waste which is sampled and
analyzed to determine the right treatment scheme. The unit has applied for an
operational license to start as the "Beijing Jinghuan Industrial Waste Disposal Service
Station". Regular training has been organized for managerial staff.



-31-                               ANNEXA
Industrial Pollution Sub-projects Component
Ten industrial pollution sub-projects were financed by the project, per the table below.
Name                    Amount               Achievement
1) VAC Renovation in    375,846 T RMB Yuan  Indicators met for production, quality of refined
Beijing Organic Chemical                     product; main raw material consumption;
Works                                        consumption of main supporting facilities
2) Renovation and       85,190 T RMB Yuan   Quality of products meets national standards; quality
Relocation of Beijing Steel                  inside and outside meets national standards;
Drum Factory                                 economic targets not met because of market
conditions and limnited working capital
3) Renovation of VC      119,937 T RMB Yuan  Workshop relocated; pollution eliminated and
Workshop in Beijing                          environment improved; discharge of wastewater
Pharmaceutical Works                         decreased; safety improved
4) Rubber Reclamation in   51,530 T RMB Yuan   Environmental benefits achieved, especially
Beijing Rubber & Plastic                     wastewater pollution control; significant
Factory                                      achievement in waste gas treatment
5) Renovation of Refined    7,356 T RMB Yuan    Advanced production technology and multifunction
Anthrance Equipment in                       filtering drying equipment and flat crystallizing
Beijing Coking &                             equipment imported. Loss of final refined anthrance
Chemical Works                               greatly reduced and environment inside and out
improved.
6) Acrylic Acid          40,738 T RMB Yuan   West catalytic oxidation adopted in new wastewater
Wastewater Treatment of                      treatment plan. High concentration wastewater
Beijing Dongfang                             treated in one step and does not consume chemicals
Chemical Works
7) Renovation of Polyvinyl  145,862 T RMB Yuan  High alkali with water alcoholysis creation replace
Alcohol Process in Beijing                   by low alkali without water process. Product quality
Organic Chemical Works                       improved while raw material consumption reduced
and pollution mitigated
8) Electrolyzer Renovation   129,446 T RMB Yuan  Ion membrane electrolyzer plant imported to replace
of Beijing Chemical Works                    original graphite electrolyzer plant for production of
alkali to eliminate pollution
9) Beijing Paper Mill   (total not provided)    Relocate mill; adjust product structure; cancel paper
Pollution Control and                        board production; ; import production equipment to
Relocation                                   improve capacity, variety, quality; import advance
production line for green package products
10) Rubber Mixing       47,570 T RMB Yuan   Mechanized and automatic operations, conveying of
Pollution Control in                         material and rubber mixing process in hermetic
Beijing Tyre Factory                         environment to improve environmental quality,
rubber mixing capacity. Work remained incomplete
at project closing.



- 32 -                     ANNEX B
ANNEX B: ICR MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE
CHINA
BEIJING ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT
(Loan 3415-CHA, Credit 2312-CHA)
FINAL SUPERVISION AND IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION MISSION
May 5-15, 1999
AIDE MEMOIRE
A. General Matters
1.          A World Bank mission consisting of Songsu Choi, Roger Heath, George
Plant, Jaehyang So, Dawn Vermilya and Heinz Unger conducted the final supervision and
implementation completion mission for the first Beijing Environmental Project. The
mission's findings and agreements regarding the supervision are summarized in this aide
memoire. The mission appreciates cooperation and hospitality of officials of the Beijing
Municipal Government (BMGG) and the implementing agencies.
2.          Bank's View of Project mnplementation. The project has been effectively
implemented, with some important environmental gains made in solid waste, wastewater
and air quality management. The Masterplan study was also highly participatory and
effective, leading to the adoption of many environmental policies and investments by the
Beijing government. However, with pollution rising rapidly in recent years, it
overwhelmed individual benefits of various components, leaving only marginal overall
improvements. Heating tariff issues have been, and remain, a continuing concern;
repayment problems continue to plague the industrial pollution sub-loans and will require
continuous and organized efforts to overcome in the future.
3.          Borrower's View of Project Implementation. Implementation and
operation were thought to be basically satisfactory. Except for a few components which
were not completed as scheduled due to financial and other factors, most were completed
as scheduled and have realized good environmental, social, and economic benefits. The
Bank supervision missions and RMC officials were thought to have provided necessary
support and effective help in project implementation. Advice and instruction were given
in a timely manner for preparing the contribution of the borrower and implementation
agencies to ICR.
4.          District Heating construction. The Shuangyushu Peak Heating Plant
(SPHP) successfully completed the four day test run on April 1, 1999. The mission
congratulated BDHC on the completion of this project as scheduled. The equipment for



- 33 -                     ANNEX B
the technical renovation is due to arrive in June 1999. Three residential areas totaling 1.4
million m2 have been identified and confirmed, and it is expected that a total floor space
of 3 million m2 will have been renovated by the end of 1999. BDHC will send the Bank
a report by June 1999 detailing the program for the completion of the technical
renovation project.
5.          The current practice of the Bank is to keep the loan account open for up to
a maximum of four months after the closing date to allow settlement of payments that are
due on or prior to the closing date. The mission explained to BDHC that after the loan
closing on June 30, 1999, no expenditures for goods delivered and services that are
completed after the closing date would be eligible for financing from the loan account,
including any retention payments on contracts that may be completed after the loan
closing date.
6.          BDHC Finances.    BDHC presented their actual financial performance
for 1998 to the mission. They reported a net income loss of Y 4.8048 million before PUTF
rebate, which with full PUF rebate would give a positive net income of Y 64.485 million,
thereby meeting the 1998 financial covenant. Major reasons for low net income
generation in 1998 were: (i) the Gaobeidian heat network investment, valued at Y 700
million was transferred to BDHC; (ii) Zoujiazhuang converted to natural gas which
increased working capital requirements by Y 60 million; and (iii) steam revenues dropped
by 25%, which is earlier than expected, due to a decline in industrial demand. BDHC has
committed to providing the Bank updated financial projections and a calculation of the
financial covenant for 1999 by June 15, 1999.
7.          Sewerage Finances and Institution. The mission was informed of BMGG
plans to implement a Y 0.20 per m3 tariff increase on its wastewater tariffs before the end
of this calendar year. This would raise the average tariff from about Y 0.1 8/m3 to Y
0.33/m3, which would be sufficient to cover the existing sewerage operations and
maintenance and depreciation charges annually. Individually, the industrial/commercial
tariff would rise from Y 0.30/nm3 to Y 0.50/m3. With the completion of all sewerage
investments, BMGEB plans to commence transferring all completed assets and loan
repayment responsibilities, documents and accounts, and BEP I project office staff to
BDC. Under the follow-on environmental project, BMGG plans to strengthen BDC's
autonomy, let it retain its own revenues, and transfer all related assets and personnel to
BDC.
8.          Industrial Pollution Control Subprojects. For the Beijing Tyre Factory, all
equipment financed under this last remaining subproject was delivered onto site, and the
project was scheduled to be completed in December 1998. However, counterpart
financing to complete the building and equipment installation is not available. The
enterprise and the Municipal Finance Bureau are making efforts to secure financing, as
yet they have been unsuccessful. These efforts will continue.



-34-                       ANNEX B
9.          Subloan Repayment. Since the November 1998 mission, the Municipal
Finance Bureau has made additional efforts to clarify the repayment capabilities of the 8
subproject sponsoring enterprises under the industrial pollution component. Of the eight,
seven are still in arrears and the situation of at least 3 of the enterprises (steel drums,
vitamin C, rubber reclaim) is unpromising. In the case of the other enterprises the Bureau
considers that the repayment problems will eventually be overcome, but was unable to
provide the mission with any analysis to support this view. Although the Finance Bureau
has made contact and re-negotiated terms with each of the 7 sub-borrowers, proposed
repayment for the renegotiated loans will not begin until at the earliest the end of 1999.
Some sub-borrowers have also suspended interest payments on the loan, and the Finance
Bureau was not able to administer any legal or other action to enforce increased
repayment. Therefore, while some agreements have been reached according to the report
by the Finance Bureau, there have been no concrete discernible improvement in financial
management.
10.         It was agreed that the loan repayment situation represents a major failure
in achieving the financial sustainability objectives set for these projects. Furthermore,
that the Finance Bureau has neither the time nor the specialist staff to ensure that all
possible measures are taken to encourage and assist the enterprises to repay the loans.
The mission proposed, and the Finance Bureau accepted, that the mission would draft
terms of reference for specialist consultants to assist the Finance Bureau in analyzing the
ability of the enterprises to repay and in designing and supervising measures to assist in
repayment (see Attachment 4). The Mission also suggested that the finance bureau learn
about the improvement in performance of the Tianjin Industrial Pollution project, which
has taken drastic action on repayment.
11.         Environmental Master Plan. The primary objective of this component was
to identify sound and cost-effective environmental management investments and policies
for years 2000 to 2015. Many of the measures recommended for the initial years were
adopted in practice, such as specific sewerage treatment options, natural gas conversions
and vehicle emission standards. The study's recommendations for the later years have
been approached with more caution, possibly due to the inaccuracies of long range
projections. Unfortunately, this integrated form of environmental masterplanning was
not sustained as regular practice among planning bureaus, mainly due to the specific
purpose and one-time nature of the exercise.
12.         Operational Plan and Implementation Completion Report. The mission
provided specific comments to the draft Operational Plan provided by the Project Office.
Generally speaking, the draft document contains a lot of useful information that
summarizes the implementation of the project, and as such should be transferred from this
document to the Borrower's Evaluation. The Operational Plan is a forward looking
document that should discuss what will happen after the project close. That is, looking



- 35 -                    ANNEX B
into the next 5-10 years what are the major problems and opportunities that the agencies
expect to face in operating the project assets, what expansion plans and organizational
changes are anticipated, etc. Additional topics for inclusion in the Operational Plan are
detailed in Annex 1. The revised plan should be received by the Bank by November 30,
1999. The mission provided guidance to the Project Office on preparation of data to
support the ICR and the Borrower's Evaluation. These data requirements for ICR
preparation are attached in Annex 2. The data should be received by the Bank by
November 30, 1999.



- 36 -                      ANNEX B
Annex 1
Additional topics for Operational Plan
Sewerage Components: (i) financial projections through 2006 (this will be provided
during the preparation of BEPII); (ii) a summary of the major institutional changes for
BDC and the sector (summarized from the draft IDP to be provided as part of the
preparation under BEPII); (iii) expansion plans.
District Heating Components: discuss (i) the decrease in industrial sales and how this
will affect BDHC; (ii) the decrease in the collection rate from 80% to 70% and plans to
improve this in the future; (iii) plans for how and when BDHC will convert from
charging for heat on a m'2 basis to a heat metering basis; (iv) expansion plans and how it
will be financed; (v) whether the technologies, policies, or practices developed under this
project have been replicated elsewhere throughout BDHC or in other organizations; (vi)
institutional changes, such as more autonomy for BDHC, and government plans for this;
and, (v) financial projections for 2000 to 2004.
Industrial Pollution Control: discuss (i) plan for collecting loan repayments; (ii) Jae So
will draft a TOR for a consultant to work with BMGFB to appraise the industries and
work out a realistic repayment schedule; (ii) for uncompleted industrial investments, how
the investment will be completed; and (iii) plans for completion of the last subproject,
and the actions that the Finance Bureau will take, including the use of specialist
consultants, to maximize repayment of the subloans. It should also include any necessary
follow-on by BEPB to ensure that the environmental benefits from the projects are
sustained.
Environmental Master Plan: discuss: (i) plans to maintain or evolve the EMP; and (ii)
how the EMP will be made use in future planning.
Hazardous Waste: discuss: (i) how ADB's future project will integrate or support our
project.
Solid Waste: discuss: (i) how the leachate production, collection and treatment
operational issues will be dealt with; (ii) how the operation of the landfill will be
managed given that the solid waste load is about 50% higher than originally anticipated;
(iii) how the land fill site will be operated to maximize site capacity; and, (iv) once filled,
how the site will be safely closed to maintain safety.



- 37 -                     ANNEX B
Annex 2
Data Requirements for ICR Preparation
General Project Tables: prepare (i) a table of project costs for each component broken out
by major subcomponent items, showing the original estimates versus the actual costs in
RMB Yuan; (ii) a table showing cumulative disbursements by year, estimate versus
actual; (iii) a table showing the top 10-12 implementation milestones in each component,
estimated versus actual; (iv) a table showing the financing plan, estimated versus actual;
and (v) major reasons for variances noted in items (i), (ii), (iii) and (iv).
Sewerage Components: (i) show Tonghui River water quality current monitoring levels.
Industrial Pollution Control: prepare: (i) a table showing original pollutant reduction
targets vs. actual reduction levels.
Hazardous Waste: prepare: (i) a summary of the inventory of hazardous waste (prepared
by ENE) and compare this to the actual experience on the types of hazardous waste
generated.
Solid Waste: prepare: (i) a table showing the estimate tons per day of waste vs. the
actual tons per day of waste being delivered to the landfill for the last 4 years.



