Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2312 CHA
(Beijing Environmental Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated December 16, 1991
CREDIT NUMBER 2312 CHA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 16, 1991, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B)
the Borrower has also requested the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development (the Bank) to provide additional assistance towards the financing of 
the Project and by an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the 
Bank (the Loan Agreement), the Bank is agreeing to provide such assistance in an 
aggregate principal amount equivalent to forty-five million dollars ($45,000,000) (the 
Loan);
(C)
the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent practicable, that 
the proceeds of the credit provided for in this Agreement (the Credit) be disbursed on 
account of expenditures in respect of the Project before disbursements of the proceeds 
of the Loan provided for in the Loan Agreement are made; and
(D)
the Project will be carried out by Beijing Municipality (Beijing) with 
the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make 
Page  2
available to Beijing the proceeds
of the Credit as provided in this Agreement and the proceeds of the Loan as provided 
in the Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith among the Association, the Bank and Beijing;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"BDHC" means the Beijing District Heating Company, a state enterprise 
established under the laws of the Borrower and operating in Beijing;
(b)
"Beijing" means Beijing Municipality;
 
(c)
"BSC" means the Beijing Sewerage Company, a state enterprise to be 
established and operated under the laws of the Borrower;
(d)
"Industrial Enterprise" means an enterprise to which Beijing proposes to 
extend or has extended a Subloan;
(e)
"Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith between the 
Borrower and the Bank for the Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to 
time; and such term includes the "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, as applied to such agreement, and all 
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Loan Agreement;
(f)
"Planning Commission" means the Beijing Municipal Planning Commission and 
any successor thereto;
(g)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement among the Association, the Bank 
and Beijing Municipality (Beijing) of even date herewith, as the same may be amended 
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to 
the Project Agreement;
(h)
"Project Office" means the Beijing Environmental Project Office, 
maintained in accordance with paragraph A.1 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement;
(i)
"Renminbi" means the currency of the Borrower; 
 
(j)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(k)
"Subloan" means a loan extended or proposed to be extended by Beijing out 
of the proceeds of the Credit or the Loan to an Industrial Enterprise for a 
Subproject;
(l)
"Subproject" means a specific pollution control project to be carried out 
by an Industrial Enterprise utilizing the proceeds of a Subloan;
(m)
"Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between Beijing and BDHC pursuant to paragraph C.1 (a) of Schedule 2 to the Project 
Page  3
Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes any schedules to the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement; and
(n)
"Transfer and Operation Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between Beijing and BSC pursuant to paragraph B.1 (b) of Schedule 2 to the Project 
Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to sixty million one hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 60,100,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement:
(i)
for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to 
be made) in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services 
required for Parts A, B and D 
of the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit; and
(ii)
for amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be 
paid) by Beijing on 
account of withdrawals made by an Industrial 
Enterprise under a Subloan to meet the 
reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for the Subproject in respect of 
which the 
withdrawal from the Credit Account is requested.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a bank and on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Association, including
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1997 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the 
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of 
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Page  4
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
February 15 and August 15 commencing February 15, 2002 and ending August 15, 2026. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on August 15, 2011 shall be 
one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment 
thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, 
subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the 
Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's 
economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due 
until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by 
the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some 
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at 
an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Development 
Credit Agreement, shall cause Beijing to perform in accordance with the provisions of 
the Project Agreement all the obligations of Beijing therein set forth, shall take and 
cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services 
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Beijing to perform such 
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent 
or interfere with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit available to Beijing 
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by 
Beijing pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Page  5
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with sound accounting 
practices, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures for which payments are 
made out of the Special Account;
(b)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(c)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year the report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested, including a separate 
opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during 
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals; and
(d)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Beijing shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that Beijing will
be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in paragraph 
(a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the 
Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower's State Council has approved the Development Credit 
Agreement; and
(b)
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement shall 
have been fulfilled, other than those related to the effectiveness of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association namely, that the Project Agreement has 
been duly authorized or ratified by Beijing, and is legally binding upon Beijing in 
accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Page  6
ARTICLE VII
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Zhao Xixin
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Gautam S. Kaji
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit 
Page  7
and of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
financed in each Category:
                     Amount            Amount
                     of the            of the
                     Credit             Loan            % of
                    Allocated         Allocated       Expendi-
                   (Expressed        (Expressed        tures
                     in SDR           in Dollar        to be
     Category      Equivalent)       Equivalent)      Financed
(1) Goods                                             100% of
                                                      foreign
    (a)  under      4,430,000          3,300,000      expendi-
         Part A                                       tures,
         of the                                       100% of
         Project                                      local
                                                      expendi-
    (b)  under     15,910,000         11,900,000      tures
         Part B                                       (ex-factory
         of the                                       cost) and
         Project                                      75% of local
                                                      expenditures
                                                      for other
                                                      items pro-
                                                      cured
                                                      locally
(2) Civil works                                       42%
    (a)  under      5,180,000          4,000,000
         Part A
         of the
         Project
    (b)  under      7,130,000          5,300,000
         Part B
         of the
         Project
(3) Consultants'                                      100%
    services and
    training
    (a)  under      1,660,000          1,300,000
         Parts A
         and D
         of the
         Project
    (b)  under        380,000            200,000
         Part B
         of the
         Project
(4) Subloans under 19,370,000         14,500,000      100% of
    Part C of the                                     amounts
    Project                                           disbursed
(5) Unallocated     6,040,000          4,500,000
                    _________          _________
         TOTAL     60,100,000         45,000,000
                   ==========         ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
Page  8
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed SDR 
9,400,000, may be made in respect of Categories (2) and (3) on account of payments 
made for expenditures before that date but after March 1, 1991; (b) expenditures in 
respect of Categories 1 (b); (2) (b) and (3) (b) until the Subsidiary Loan Agreement 
has been entered into in accordance with paragraph C.1 (a) of Schedule 2 to the 
Project Agreement; and (c) expenditures in respect of Category (4) until the contracts 
with China Investment Bank and Beijing Municipal Engineering Consulting Corporation 
have been concluded in accordance with paragraph 3 of Schedule 3 to the Project 
Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist Beijing Municipality in planning and 
implementing pollution abatement  measures to improve environmental conditions in 
Beijing.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Waste Management
 
1.
Improving wastewater management through: (a) construction of culverts and 
circular sewers for wastewater removal; and (b) provision of equipment for cleaning 
river courses, sewer maintenance and wastewater system monitoring.
2.
Improving solid waste management through construction of a sanitary landfill 
site.
3.
Improving hazardous waste management through: (a) construction of facilities for 
the Beijing Industrial Hazardous Waste Management Center; (b) construction of an 
interim safe storage facility; and
(c) provision of equipment for hazardous waste management.
Part B:
District Heating
 
Providing cleaner energy for heating and hot water supply through: (a) 
construction of a heat transmission pipeline system and an oil-fired peak-heat plant; 
(b) provision of pumping and storage
equipment; and (c) installation of a computerized monitoring and control system.
Part C:
Industrial Pollution Control
 
Financing of Subprojects to reduce pollutants discharged by Industrial 
Enterprises and safely dispose of wastes generated by Industrial Enterprises.
Part D:
Technical Assistance
 
1.
Supporting institutional development, through provision of consultants' services 
and training: (a) in environmental protection, planning, research, monitoring and 
waste management; and (b) for
project management, implementation and supervision.
2.
Undertaking, through the provision of consultants' services: (a) a study to 
develop an environmental master plan for air and water quality and solid waste 
management; and (b) a study to assess hazardous waste management institutional and 
Page  9
regulatory requirements, and safe treatment and disposal of hazardous wastes.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1996.
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for Parts A, B and D of the Project and 
for Subprojects to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit or the Loan allocated 
from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $7,600,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account or the Loan Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account or the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account or the Loan Account 
and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall 
have been shown by said documents 
and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
Special 
Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account or the 
Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
Page  10
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of the Development Credit Agreement or from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.02 of the Loan Agreement and Article V of 
the General Conditions applicable thereto; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and the Loan allocated to 
the eligible Categories for the Project, less the amount of any outstanding special 
commitment entered into by the
Association or the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the respective General Conditions 
with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account and the Loan Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories for 
the Project shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to 
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making 
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association or the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the 
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association or the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association or the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special 
Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association or the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), 
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account or the Loan 
Account, as the case may be, for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of the Development Credit Agreement or the 
Loan Agreement, including the General Conditions applicable thereto.
