CREDIT NUMBER 2312 CHA
LOAN NUMBER 3415 CHA
Project Agreement
(Beijing Environmental Project)
among
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BEIJING MUNICIPALITY
Dated                , 1991


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2312 CIA
LOAN NUMBER 3415 CRA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated    -,4  '      /6             , 1991, among
INTERNATIONAL    DEVELOPMENT   ASSOCIATION   (the    Association),
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and
BEIJING MUNICIPALITY (Beijing).
WHEREAS: (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between People's Republic of China (the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to sixty million
one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 60,100,000), on the
terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement,
but only on condition that Beijing agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this
Agreement;
(B)   by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
People's Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank
has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to forty-five million dollars ($45,000,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but
only on condition that Beijing agree to undertake such obligations
toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
WHEREAS Beijing, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
and the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the Loan
Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Beijing declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and environmental
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required
for the Project.
(b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Association, the Bank and Beijing
shall otherwise agree:
(i)    Beijing shall carry out Parts A, B and D of the
Project in accordance with the Implementation
Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement; and
(ii)    Subloans shall be made in accordance with the
procedures and terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants'
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Beijing shall carry out the obligations set
forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the
General Conditions applicable to the Development Credit Agreement
and in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General
Conditions applicable to the Loan Agreement (relating respectively
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules,
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition) in respect
of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) Beijing shall, at the request of the
Association and the Bank, exchange views with the Association and
the Bank with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance


﻿-3-
of its obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating
to the purposes of the Credit and the Loan.
(b)   Beijing shall promptly inform the Association and the
Bank of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere
with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes
of the Credit and the Loan, or the performance by Beijing of its
obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Beijing shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of Beijing responsible for carrying out the Project or any
part thereof.
(b)   Beijing shall:
(i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent   auditors    acceptable   to   the
Association and the Bank.
(ii)   furnish to the Association and the Bank as soon
as available, but in any case not later than six
months after the end of each such year, the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association and
the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)   furnish to the Association and the Bank such
other information concerning said records and
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association
and the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request.


﻿-4
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, Beijing shall:
(i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)    retain, until at least one year after the
Association has received the audit for the fiscal
year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)    enable  the Association's representatives to
examine such records; and
(iv)    ensure  that  such  records and accounts are
included in the annual audit referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which both the Development Credit Agreement and the
Loan Agreement become effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and the Bank and of Beijing thereunder shall terminate
on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)    the date on which both the Development Credit
Agreement and the Loan Agreement shall terminate
in accordance with their terms; or


﻿-5-
(ii)    the date 20 years after the date of this
Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement or the Loan
Agreement or both of said Agreements terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this
Section, the Association and the Bank shall promptly notify Beijing
of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions applicable to the
Development Credit Agreement or the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
partles contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notie or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified
or at such other address as such party shall have designated by
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                 Telex:
INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)


﻿-6-
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                 Telex:
INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For Beijing:
Beijing Municipality
Beijing Municipality Finance Bureau
8 Che Gong Zhuang Street
Beijing, 100044,
People's Republic of China
Cable address:                 Telex:
0981 Beijing              222477 DDH CN
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of Beijing, or by Beijing on behalf of the
Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan
Agreement, may be taken or executed by the Mayor or Vice Mayor or
such other person or persons as the Mayor or Vice Mayor shall
designate in writing, and Beijing shall furnish to the Association
and the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
Section 5.04. As long as the Bank has not given notice to the
contrary to Beijing and so long as the Development Credit Agreement
shall not have terminated prior to the termination of the Loan
Agreement:


﻿-7-
(a)   the obligations of Beijing to consult with, and to
furnish information, documents, plans, reports, records and
statements to, the Bank shall be satisfied to the extent performance
in respect of such obligations is rendered to the Association;
(b)   the obligations of the Bank to consult with, and to
furnish information to, Beijing shall be satisfied to the extent
such obligations are fulfilled by the Association; and
(c)   all actions taken (including the giving of approvals or
granting of waivers) by the Association pursuant to the Development
Credit Agreement shall be deemed to be taken pursuant to both the
Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement, and in the name
and on behalf of both the Association and the Bank.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
BEIJING MUNICIPALITY
Authorized Representative


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.    Bidders for civil works contracts to be awarded in accordance
with paragraph A.1 above shall be prequalified as provided in
paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines.
3.    To the extent practicable, contracts for works shall be
grouped into bid packages.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in China may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Preference for Domestic Contractors
In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, Beijing may grant a margin of pre-
ference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Items or groups of items for civil works for Parts A and B of
the Project, estimated to cost the equivalent of $10,000,000 or less
per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $21,000,000,
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in ac-trdance with procedures satis-
factory to the Association and the tank.


﻿- 9 -
2.    Items or groups of items for equipment and materials for Parts
A and B of the Project estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000
or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$4,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association and the Bank.
3.    Items of groups of items and equipment for Subprojects under
Part C of the Project estimated to cost the equivalent of $2,000,000
or less per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers from at least three different countries eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association and the Bank.
Part E:     Review by the Association and the Bank of Procurement
Decisions
1.    Review of prequalification:
With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided
in Part A.2 hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With respect to each contract under Parts A and B of
the Project for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of
$3,000,000 or more and for equipment estimated to cost the
equivalent of $200,000 or more, and with respect to each contract
under Part C of the Project for equipment estimated to cost the
equivalent of $2,000,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. When
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association and the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Association and the Bank prior to the making of
the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of


﻿- 10 -
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. When payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association and the Bank pursuant to said paragraph
3 shall be furnished to the Association and the Bank as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to
the Development Credit Agreement.
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account and the Loan Account are to be made on the basis of
statements of expenditure.
3.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II: Employment of Consultants
In order to assist Beijing in carrying out Part D of the
Project, Beijing shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association and the Bank. Such consultants shall
be   selected  in  accordance   with  principles  and  procedures
satisfactory to the Association and the Bank on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
A.    General
1.    Beijing shall maintain the Project Office, with competent
staff in adequate numbers, and with functions and responsibilities
acceptable to the Association and the Bank.
2.    Beijing shall carry out the training under Part D.1 of the
Project in accordance with a training program agreed with the
Association and the Bank.
3.    Beijing shall: (a) carry out the environmental management
study and the hazardous waste study under Parts D.2(a) and (b) of
the Project in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to
the Association and the Bank by December 31, 1994 and December 31,
1993, respectively; (b) upon completion, review the findings of each
study with the Association and the Bank; and (c) thereafter,
implement the recommendations of each study, acceptable to the
Association and the Bank.
4.    Beijing shall carry out resettlement of persons affected by
the Project in a manner and according to a schedule satisfactory to
the Association and the Bank.
B.    Waste Treatment and District Heating
1.    Beijing shall: (a) by December 31, 1993, establish BSC as a
state enterprise with financial and operating policies acceptable
to the Association and the Bank; and (b) conclude a transfer and
operation agreement with BSC providing for the transfer of assets
to BSC and its rights and obligations, on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association and the Bank, by June 30, 1993.
2.    Beijing shall take all actions necessary to ensure that
consumer connections to the district heating system under Part B of
the Project shall be made in accordance with a time schedule agreed
with the Association and the Bank.
C.    Financial Arrangements
1.    (a)   Beijing shall relend the proceeds of the Credit and the
Loan allocated to Part B of the Project to BDHC under a subsidiary


﻿- 12 -
loan agreement whose terms and conditions shall have been approved
by the Association and the Bank, which shall include: (i) interest
at the variable rate applicable from time to time under Section 2.05
(ii) of the Loan Agreement plus a spread of one and a half percent
(1-1/2%) per annum; (ii) repayment by BHDC within fifteen years,
including a period of five years of grace; and (iii) the foreign
exchange risk between the dollar and Renminbi to be borne by BDHC.
For purposes of determining the foreign exchange risk between the
dollar and the Renminbi, the amounts onlent shall be denominated in
dollars, with the principal amount onlent being the dollar
equivalent of the amounts disbursed from the Credit Account and the
Loan Account on account of such onlending, valued at the respective
dates of withdrawal.
(b)   Beijing shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Association and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Credit and the Loan, and except as the Association and the Bank
shall otherwise agree, Beijing shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive any provision of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement to affect the
provisions of subparagraph (a) above.
2.    Beijing shall cause BDHC, under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement,
and BSC, under the Transfer and Operation Agreement, each to:
(a)   maintain procedures and records adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition;
(b)   have its records, accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association and the Bank;
(c)   furnish to the Association and the Bank as soon as
available, but in any case not later than six months after the end
of each such year, (i) certified copies of its financial statements
for such year as so audited and (ii) the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and
(d)   furnish to the Association and the Bank such other
information concerning said records, accounts and financial


﻿- 13 -
statements as well as the audit thereof, as the Association and the
Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
3.    Under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, Beijing shall cause BDHC
to meet the following financial requirements:
(a)   BDHC shall produce in each of its fiscal years after
December 31, 1992, total revenues equivalent to not less than the
sum of its: (A) total operating expenses; (B) increases in working
capital other than cash; and (C) debt services requirements.
(b)   BDHC shall produce, for each of its fiscal years after
its fiscal year ending on December 31, 1994, funds from internal
sources equivalent to not less than 20% of the annual average of
its capital expenditures incurred, or expected to be incurred, for
that year, the previous fiscal year and the next following year.
(c)   Before September 30 in each of its fiscal years, BDHC
shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by BDHC and satisfactory
to the Association and the Bank, review whether it would meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (b) in respect of such year and
the next following fiscal year and shall furnish to the Association
and the Bank a copy of such review upon its completion.
(d)   If any such review shows that BDHC would not meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (b) for its fiscal years Lovered
by such review, BDHC shall take promptly all necessary measures
(including, without limitation, adjustments of the structure or
levels of its rates) in order to meet such requirements.
(e)   For the purposes of this Section:
(i)    The term "funds from internal sources" means the
difference between:
(A)   the sum of revenues from all sources
related to operations, consumer deposits
and consumer contributions in aid of
construction, net non-operating income and
any reduction in working capital other than
cash; and
(B)   the  sum  of  all  expenses  related  to
operations,   including   administration,
adequate maintenance and taxes and payments


﻿-14-
in lieu of taxes (excluding provision for
depreciation and other non-cash operating
charges), debt service requirements, all
cash dividends and other cash distributions
of surplus, increase in working capital
other than cash and other cash outflows
other than capital expenditures.
(ii)    The term "net non-operating income" means the
difference between:
(A)   revenues from all sources other than those
related to operations; and
(B)   expenses, including taxes and payments in
lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation
of revenues in (A) above.
(iii)    The term "working capital other than cash" means
the difference between current assets excluding
cash and current liabilities at the end of each
fiscal year.
(iv)    The term "current assets excluding cash" means
all assets other than cash which could in the
ordinary course of business be converted into
cash within twelve months, including accounts
receivable, marketable securities, inventories
and pre-paid expenses properly chargeable to
operating expenses within the next fiscal year.
(v)    The  term   "current  liabilities"  means   all
liabilities which will become due and payable or
could under circumstances then existing be called
for payment within twelve months, including
accounts payable, customer advances, debt service
requirements, taxes and payments in lieu of
taxes, and dividends.
(vi)    The term "debt ,ervice requirements" means the
aggregate amount of repayments (including sinking
fund payments, if any) of, and interest and other
charges on, debt.


﻿- 15 -
(vii)    The  term  "capital   expenditures"  means  all
expenditures on account of fixed assets,
including interest charged to construction,
related to operations.
(viii)    The term "total revenues" means the sum of total
operating revenues and net non-operating income.
(ix)   The  term  "total  operating   revenues"  means
revenues from all sources related to operations.
(x)   The term "total operating expenses" means all
expenses   related  to   operations,  including
administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and
payments in lieu of taxes, and provision of
depreciation on a straight-line basis at a rate
of not less than 3% per annum of the average
current gross value of BDHC's fixed assets in
operation, or other basis acceptable to the
Association and the Bank, but excluding interest
and other charges on debt.
(xi)    The average current gross value of BDHC's fixed
assets in operation shall be calculated as one
half of the sum of the gross value of BDHC's
fixed assets in operation at the beginning and
at the end of the fiscal year, as valued from
time to time in accordance with sound and
consistently maintained methods of valuation
satisfactory to the Association and the Bank.
(xii)    Whenever for the purposes of this Section it
shall be necessary to value, in terms of Renminbi
debt payable in another currency, such valuation
shall be made on the basis of the prevailing
lawful rate of exchange at which such other
currency is, at the time of such valuation,
obtainable for the purposes of servicing such
debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the
basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the
Association and the Bank.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Terms and Conditions of Subloans
1.    (a)   The financial terms and conditions of Subloans shall
include:
(i)    interest on the principal amount withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time, at the variable
rate applicable from time to time under Section
2.05 (ii) of the Loan Agreement: (a) plus a
spread of 1.5% per annum provided that the
Industrial Enterprise bear all foreign exchange
risks; or (b) plus a spread of 2.0% per annum
with the Industrial Enterprise bearing the
foreign exchange risk between the dollar and
Renminbi. For purposes of determining the foreign
exchange risk between the dollar and the
Renminbi, the amounts onlent shall be denominated
in dollars, with the principal amount onlent
being the dollar equivalent of the amounts
disbursed from the Credit Account and the Loan
Account on account of such onlending, valued at
the respective dates of withdrawal; and
(ii)    repayment periods for Subloans shall not exceed
10 years, including an appropriate period of
grace of not more than three years.
(b)   Each Subloan  shall not finance more than     70% of
Subproject cost and shall not exceed, together with all other
Subloans for such Subproject, the equivalent of $11,000,000.
2.    Beijing shall prepare and furnish to the Association and the
Bank for approval a Subproject proposal for each Subproject proposed
to be financed under Part C of the Project. Subprojects shall be
appraised and approved according to criteria acceptable to the
Association and the Bank.
3.    In order to assist in the appraisal and administration of
Subprojects and Subloans under Part C of the Project, Beijing shall
enter into a separate contract, each on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association and the Bank, with: (a) China
Investment Bank, providing for the financial and economic appraisal
of Subprojects proposals and coordinating their technical


﻿- 17 -
appraisals, and the administration of disbursement and repayment of
funds under Subloans; and (b) Beijing Municipal Engineering
Consulting Corporation, for the tcbnical appraisal of Subprojects.
4.    Subloans shall finance only contracts for equipment and
related installation costs for Subprojects. No expenditures for
equipment required for a Subproject shall be eligible for financing
out of the proceeds of the Credit or the Loan, unless the Subloan
for such Subproject shall have been approved by the Association and
the Bank and such expenditures shall have been made not earlier than
ninety days prior to the date on which the Association and the Bank
shall have received the Subproject proposal required under paragraph
2 above.
5.    Beijing shall provide to the Association and the Bank the
report of one annual audit of accounts and financial statements for
each Industrial Enterprise within three years from the date of the
relevant Subproject approval, audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association and the Bank, in such form and in such
detail as the Association and the Bank shall have reasonably
requested.
6.    Subloans shall be made on terms whereby Beijing shall obtain,
by written contract with the Industrial Enterprise or by other
appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests
of the Association and the Bank and Beijing, including the right to:
(a)   require the Industrial Enterprise to carry out and
operate the Subproject with due diligence and efficiency and in
accordance with sound technical, financial and managerial standards
and to maintain adequate records;
(b)   require that: (i) the goods and services to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Loan shall be procured in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(ii) such goods and services shall be used exclusively in the
carrying out of the Subproject;
(c)   inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives c!
the Association and the Bank if the Association and the Bank shall
so request, such goods and the sites, works, plants and construction
included in the Subproject, the operation thereof, and any relevant
records and documents;


﻿- 18 -
(d)   require that: (i) the Industrial Enterprise shall take
out and maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against
such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound
business practice; and (ii) without any limitation upon the
foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and the Loan to the place of use or
installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a
currency freely usable by the Industrial Enterprise to replace or
repair such goods;
(e)   obtain all such information as the Association and the
Bank or Beijing shall, reasonably request relating to the foregoing
and to the administration, operations and financial condition of
the Industrial Enterprise and to the benefits to be derived from
the Subproject; and
(f)   suspend or terminate the right of the Industrial
Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of the Credit and the Loan
upon failure by such Industrial Enterprise to perform its
obligations under its contract with Beijing.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development and th-
International Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


