RESTRICTED
Report No. S.M1 22280
rDA Report No. 7788-WSO
This Report has been prepared for 
ASIAN  DEVELOPMENT BANK                      the exclusive use of the Bank.
-~~~~~~~~
GRz RO3/-WUSo
APPRAISAL
OF THE
SECOND TELECOMMTNICATIONS PROJECT
IN
WESTERN SAMOA
MAY 1989
_   | ,   I  Z~~~~~~~~~



CLAENOY EQUIVALENTS
(As of 30 April 1989)
Currency Unit                 Western Samoa Tala (WS$)
WSS1.00             :         USS0.4479
US$1.00                       W WSt2.2325
(i)  The value of the tala in terms of the NMew Zealand dollar (the
intervention currency) is determined by reference to a basket of
currencies. Exchange rates for the currencies are established on the
basis of their daily rates against the New Zealand dollar.
(ii)  In this report, an exchange rate of W5S2.00 = US$1.00 is used. This was
the approximate rate prevailing during appraisal.
ABBREVIATIONS
DP:6      -   Government of Wesern Samoa: Sixth National Development Plan
1988-1990
IDA       -    International Development Association
FlU       -    International Telecouurnication Union
JICA      -   Japan International Cooperation Agency
PTE       -   Posts and Telecommunications Department
PMO       -   Project Management Office
UNDP      -   United Nations Development Programme
NOTE
(i)  The Fiscal Year (FY) of the Government, the Executing Agency and the
Implementing Agency ePMs on 31 December.



GLOSSARY
Cali Attempt                     An attempt to place a telephone call.
Channel                          A path for transmitting electrical signals,
usually speech.
Circuit                          A mesns of both way coiuamicaticn between two
points.
DEL                              Direct  exchange  lines,  a  telephone  line
connecting the,subscribers terminal equipment
to the public switched network and which has
a dedicated port in the telephone exchange
equipment. Also known as a main or working
line.
Digital                          The digital system (Where information is coded
and processed as on-off pulses so that it is
immune from electrical noise) envisaged for the
switching and transmission will ensure superior
quality of service in urban as well as rural
areas, and will involve low maintenance but high
reliability.
Duct                             A pipe of around lOOtm diamter buried in the
gruund to allow telephone cables to be hauled
through it.
Encoder                          A  device  used  to  produoe  a   digital
representation of an analog signal.
Exchange line                    Subscriber lines connected to an exchange.
Expressed Demand                 The registered number of applications for
telephone and telex services.
HF                               High Frequency (Radio Waves)
ITU                              International Teleconmunications Union
ISD                              International Subscriber Dialing
Manual Exchange                  EXchange were the switching or connections are
carried out under the control of operators.
Outside Plant                    Denotes the commuunication cables that connect
telephone exchanges to the telephone subscribers
and the public call offices. The term refers
to cables, poles conduits, undergrounl ducts,
and all other materials required to connect
subscribers to the local exchange.



2
PAMX                             Private automatic branch exchan.ge equLipment,
normally located within the prem  s of a large
subscriber having a large numbez -,f internal
lines (typically 10 or more) and coinnected to
an Exchange with one or more trunks.
PTD                              Post and Telecommunications Depertment
PCO                              Public call office often referred to as a public
call box or coin operated telephone available
to the public.
PSC                       -      Public Service Commission.
SCPC                             Single channel per carrier. A method of multi-
plexing used on satellite systems for small
routes.
Standard B Earth                 An Intersat standard earth station used by
countries  with  a  small  requirement  for
international circuits.
Subscribers                      The telephone administrations end customer
whether business or residence. The subscriber
is the entity directly reasonable for generating
the administrations revenLe.
Switching                        An expression used for telephone exchange
equipment, whether step by step crossbar or
SCPC.
Trunk                            A circuit connecting two exchanges - may be
local or long distance.
Trunk Calls                      Telephone calls charged at trunk rates.
UHF                              Ultra High Frequency
VHF                              Very High Frequency



PROJECT FOCUS. DESIGN4 AND RATIONALE
In late 1986 the International Telecommmuication Union (ITU) completed
a Master Plan study of the telecocmunication system of Western Samoa. In the
course of conducting, the study ITU fouLd the telecommunication system was
*inadequate for the country's current and future development needs. The principal
telephone exchange at Apia has insufficient capacity to support current
requirements adequately or to provide for future traffic growth. The subsidiary
exchanges at Faleasiu, Asau and Salelologa are totally outdated, unreliable and
are no longer able to be properly repaired. Much of the outside plant and
transmission equipment has reached the limit of its capacity and cornsists of a
variety of technologies from a large number of difi,rent manufacti2-ers.
The objective of the proposed Project is to provide a cost-effective
upgrade of the country's telecommunications system. This will allow sufficient
capacity to be installed to meet current and medium-term demand and to provide
a basis for low-cost incremental expansion over the longer term. A further
objective is to simplify and standardize much of the country's telecommunication
equipment and thereby reduce the ongoing costs of spares parts inventories and
maintenance logistics.
The total cost of the Project is estimated at US$16.3 million, of which
the foreign exchange cost is US$12.1 million and the local currency cost
(including applicable taxes and duties) is US$4.2 million equivalent. The Bank
will finance US$7.4 million of the foreign exchange cost and the International
Development Agency (IDA) will provide US$4.6 million. The remaining foreign
exchange cost amounting to US$100,000 will be provided as a grant from the
International Teleconmunication Union (ITU7 to finance one component of the
consulting services. The foreign exchange cost is approximately 74 per cent of
the total Project cost, with the share of the Bank, IDA, and rru being 45 per
cent., 28 per cent, and 1 per cent respectively. The Government will finance all
of the local currency costs which represents 26 per cent of the total Project
cost.
The proposed Project conforms to the country's overall development
objectives as contained in the Sixth National Development Plan (1988-90) and is
within the scope and objectives of the telecommunuications Master Plan.
The Project proposes the introduction of modern technology which would
provide superior service with minimun maintenance requirements and maximm
reliability. The flexibility of the Project will enable it to meet the country's
telecommunications requirements until the year 2000. Beyond the year 2000, by
having the facility to add new circuit boards and other minor items of equipment.
the proposed digital telecommunications technology being recommended for the
Project can be inexpensively upgraded as and when required.
The benefits from the proposed Project will reach most sectors of the
country's economy. The proposed Project will: (i) enhance the delivery of
Governmert services to the community; (ii) mobilize substantial domestic
resources from the revenues generated by the Project; (iii) contribute to the



earxing of foreign exchange; (iv) provide the needed infrastucture support for
private sector developrxi-nt, and; (v) facilitate technology trarLsfer ad htuzar.n
resource development. The EIRR of the Project is estimated a6 33.8 per z-ent and
the FII st. 27.3 per cent. There are no significant risks associated with the
Project.
Advisory technical assistance is proposed to be given in conjunction with
"the  Project  for  strengthening  and  commercializing  the  Posts  and
Telecommunications Department, the ix..lementing agency for the Project.



(i)
TABLE OF CONTEWrS
MaP     -   Westernx Samoa - Project Area                           vii)
I       INTRODUlCTION                                                 1
.11     BACKGROUND                                                    2
A.  The Economy                                               2
B.  The Transport and CommuLnications Sector                  2
C.  The Telecommunications Sector                             3
D.  Government Sector Objectives, Policy and
Strategy                                                 S 5
E.  External Assistance to the Telecomuunicatioos
Sector                                                   6
III.    THE PROJECT                                                   8
A.  Objectives                                                8
B.  Project Area                                              8
C.  Project Description                                       8
D.  Cost Estimates                                            9
E.   Financing Plan                                          10
F.  Environment and Energy Consideratiors                    11
G.   Impact of Natural Disasters                             11
IV.    PROJCT DTLEMENTATION                                          13
A.   Implementation Arrangements                             13
B.  Implementaticn Schedule                                  13
C.  Consultant Services                                      13
D.  Procurement                                              14
E.  Operation and Maintenance                                15
F.  Reports, Accotmts and Audit                              15
G.  Project Monitoring                                       15
V.      DMPLEMENTDNG AGENCY                                          16
A.  Background                                               16
B.  Organizational Issues                                    .6
C.  Organizational Restructuring                             17
D.  Management and Staff                                     20
B.  Training and Human Resource Development                  21
F.   Finanmial Management                                    22
G.  Billing and Collect-.on                                  23
H.  Tariffs                                                  23
I.   Past Financial Performance                              24
J.  Financial Projections                                    26
K.  Advisory Technical Assistance                            27
VI.    FINANCIAL AND EOONCM[¢C EVALUATION                            29
A.  Financial and Econonmic Benefits                         29
B.  Financial Bvaluation                                     29
C.  Econosmic Evaluation                                     30
D.  Pro.ject Risks                                           30
VII.   CCNCLUSIONS                                                   31
APPENDflR                                                    33



I. INR=ON
1. *A Master Plan for the future developnent of telecoummnications in
Western Samoa was completed in 1986 by the International Telecomnunication Union
(ITU), financed by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). The Master
Plan was formally adopted by the Government s the basis of  ta strategy for
telecommunications developnent under the Sixth Developument Plan v.L988-1190; DP:6)
and in aocord. nce with a statement on telecommunications policy (Policy
Statement) issued in December 1988. Both DP:6 and the Policy Statement recognized
that the existing telecommurications system poses a constraint on further
economic and commercial caevelopment, besides hin"ering Government administration
and social development.
2.          Following the recommendations of the ITU report, the Government
requested Bank assistance for improving the country's telecommunications system.
A Fact-Finding Mission visited Western Samoa in October/November 1988 and
formulated a telecomunications project. Later, an Appraisal Mission comprising
M. McDonald (Financial Analyst/Mission Chief), Y. Takano (Project Engineer), B.
Zebua (Country officer), R. Clendon (Counsel), and P. Booth (Staff
Consultant/Telecommunications Expert) visited the country from 11 January to 24
January 1989. The Mission was also joined by Mr. A. Hu (Operations Officer) from
the International Development Agency (IDA), which has agreed to co-finance of
the proposed Project.
3.          This report is based on the Mission's findings, discussions with the
concerned Ministries and Departments of the Government, private and public sector
users of the telecommunications system, and on a review of reports on this
subject and field visits.



2
II.   BACKGROUND
A.   The Economy
*4.         Western Samoa comprises nine islands of the Samoan group in
Polynesia. The two largest islands, Savaii and Upolu, make up almost all of the
country's land area of 2,R40 sq km. Total population in 1988 was estimated at
162,000 people of whom 35,000 (22 per cent) live either in, or within the
vicinity of, the capital, Apia. The natural rate of population growth averaged
2.8 per cent during the 1970s declining to 1.7 per cent during the 1980s. During
the 1970s and 1980s heavy emigration, mostly to New Zealand, Australia and the
United States of America, reduced theanet population growth rate to an annual
average of about 0.6 per cent.
5.          Agriculture is the mainstay of the economy, accounting for about one-
half of GDP and about 90 per cent of all export earnings. The agriculture sector
supports more than 65 per cent of the population and most agricultural production
is conducted on a subsistence basis. Although the bulk of agricultural output
is intended for on-farm consumption, during the last decade there has been a
substantial increase in the quantities of marketed output for both domestic
consumption and export. Small-scale processing industries, oriented t:.-wsrds the
export market, have also been developed for a -number of agricultural ;,.o-ducts.
The country has also developed a small-scale manufacturing sector principally
for the domestic market.
6.          Since independence in 1962, the Government has placed considerable
emphasis on economic development as a means of improving welfare in the country.
Despite substantial economic development that has occurred, the economy still
remains fragmented and heavi'y dependent on external development assistance and
private remittances from Samoans livinLg abroad.
7.          The economy experienced a number of severe economic imbalances during
the early 1980s resulting in a deterioration in the balance of payments,
declining domestic demand and inflation. During 1983-1985 the Government
implemented an adjustment program st-pported by the International Monetary Fund.
The program aimed at restoring economic stability and alleviating structural
weaknesses.
8.          The adjustment program, together with an improvement in the terms
of trade and increased capital inflow, resulted in real GDP growth reaching 6.0
per cent in 1985. During 1986 and 1987 adverse movements in the terms of tr4de
and a decline in agricultural production slowed economic growth to less than 1
per cent. The worst effects of these adverse movements were however offset by
increased activity in the construction and service sectors, particularly in
tourism.
B.   The Trans'ort and Communications Sector
9.          Western Samoa's small population and relative geographical isolation
from its principal markets place severe natural constraints on its developmental
efforts. Distance from its major markets often relegates the country to the role



3
of being a marginal producer which in turn acts to exaggerate the impact on its
economy of cyclical movements in the prices of its principal commodity exports.
As a consequence, the country's econcmnic performance has been below its capacity
growt:a rate. Therefore, one key factor in enhancing the competitiveness of the
economy lies in minimizing the adverse effects of isolation and distance. The
tountry, like many of its South Pacific neighbors, must therefore place a greater
than normal emphasis on the development of transport and comunications.
10.         Over the past 18 years the Government has been making substantial
investments in. roadworks. As a result there is no acute problem in land
transportation. The road network is now esqtimated at 2,100 km, compared with
about 871 km in 1970. With bilateral assistance from the Governments of Australia
and Japan the international airport was upgraded under a four year program that
was completed in 1987. The airport is now capable of sustaining Boeing 747
operations.
11.         While the road network and the airport have sufficient capacity for
present and future requirements, the principal port at Apia and the
telecomnunications system are in need of rehabilitation and expansion. Bilateral
assistance for the port upgrading is being sought from Japan. The Government has
requested   Bank   assistance   for   the  upgrading   and   improvement  of
telecommunications.
C.   The Telecommunications Sector
1.   The Present System
12.        The present telecommxraications system contains a mixture of often
incompatible equipment of varying ages and capabilities. Further, the capacity
of the system is limited and barely adequate for current needs with no scope for
expansion. The only fully automatic telephone exchange is located in Apia. This
cross bar exchange was commissioned in 1977 with 2,124 connected direct e-change
lines (DELs). By January 1989 the number of connections had increased to 4,335
representing 98 per cent of the installed capacity of the exchange whichi is in
excess of the accepted industry standard (of about 85 per cent) for such a
system. As a consequence of the very 'nigh level of capacity utilization,
accidental disconnection, service breakdowns and interruptions are frequent. One
indicator of this has been the increased incidence of complaints. Complaints
*          haven risen from an average of 8.8 for every 100 subscribers a month in early
i          1988 to 11.6 for every 100 subscribers in December 1988. Over the same period,
the average duration of faults for every 100 subscribers has risen from two days
to seven days. Since the design of the exchange does not provide for further
expension of its capacity, service difficulties will continue until additional
new capacity is installed.
13.         Services to the country's other main population centers are based
on three manually operated exchanges. These exchanges are located at Faleasiu
on the island of Upolu and Salelologa and Asau on the island of Savaii (see Map).
The capacity of these exchanges is 68, 90, and 63 working DELs. This equipment
has an average age of over 30 years, and spare parts are no longer available.



4
Improvised repairs have to be made which can some times lead to service
interruptions of up to three weeks. These exchanges are connected to the Apia
exchange through a simple star network.
14.         The outside plant network consists of: (i) 6,500 meters of duct
routes with 34 jointing chambers and associated cable ducts; (ii) 29,000 meters
of armored subscribers cable, and; (iii) 38,500 meters of armored junction and
radio station trunk cables. The outside plant has been procured from a variety
of manufacturers and is of varying age and quality. Cable congestion is
particularly severe around Apia and cannot bealleviated unless major cable
works are undertaken.
15.         As  pcinted  out  by  -the  ,LTU  consultants,  the  existing
telecommunications system is inadequate for the country's current and future
development needs. In particular, the key telephone excharge at Apia had no
capacity to adequately support current requirements or to provide for future
traffic growth. The subsidiary exchAnges at Faleasiu, Asau and Salelologa were
totally outdated, unreliable and could no longer be repaired owing to the non-
availability of spare parts. The outside plant and transmission equipment had
reached their capacity limit and were in need of total replacement.
2.    Organization and Operations
16.         Telecommunications is the responsibility of and under the control
of the Posts and Telecommunications Departaent (FrD), which is under the overall
control of the Ministry of Post Office, Telecommunication, Civil Aviation,
Airport Authority, Marine, Shipping, Transport and Fire Services (Ministry of
Posts). The scope of PTD's activities, its responsibilities and obligationse are
defined by the Post Office Act 1972 (the Act), its administration being the
responsibility of the Ministry of Posts. By owning all telephone exchanges,
cables, transmission equipment, and the international satellite aocess, PTD
performs the common carrier function for both domestic and international
telecamnunications traffic.
11.         While the teleconwtumications sector is largely within the public
domain, some private sector involvement has emerged. The private sector provides
an alternative source of supply for some types of telecomnmunication equipment,
particularly PABX and facsimile machines. Further, private sector competition
has emerged in the provision of maintenance services and some over-the-counter
data and message services. Interconnection of privately owned telecommunication
equipment is also permitted on application to the Ministry of Posts.
18.         It is the Government's objective to develop further the private
sector  initiatives  in  the  telecoumiunications  sector,  including  the
commercialization of PM. However, before proceeding with this objective the
Government is mindful of the need to strengthen its teleccmmunications policy
and regulatory framework. Outside the rather limited scope provided by the Act,
all decisions of a regulatory nature are made by the Minister of Posts on a case-
by-case basis. In order to ensure that future development of the sector,
including private sector participation, is undertaken in a consistent manner,



5
and in the public interest, the Government has requested technical assistance
(see pera. 103) for devising and implementing a suitable regulatory and policy
framework.
19.        The telecommunications sector plays an important role in the
country's economy. TotWl revenue in the telecommunications sector for FY1988
amounted to nearly WS$12 million. Estimated value added by this sector is
approximately 4 per cennt of total GDP.
20.         Profits from telecoamunications activities play a uajor role in the
mobilization of domestic resources. Telecommunications is the third largest
source of Government revenues, exceeded only by income taxea and customs and
excise duties, and contributed in excess of 9.4 per cent of total Government
revenues for FY1988. Over 76 per cent of total telecommunications revenue is
derived from international calls. Through the international settlements system
and as a consequence of there being a larger volume of inbound as against
outbound calls, the sector is also a net earner of foreign exchange for the
country. During FY1988 the sector earned a net US$4.0 million in foreign
exchange.
D.   Government Sector Objectives, Policy and Strategy
21.         The Government's sector objectives are presented in the Western Samoa
Sixth Development Plan (1988-1990; DP:6). Under DP:6 the Government seeks to:
(i)  ensure the provision of telecommunications facilities to complement
the country's overall development objectives;
(ii) improve postal and telecom urications services to rural areas;
*            (iii)   provide reliable services at an economical price, and;
(iv)   seek a long-term reduction in the sector's dependence on foreign
assistance.
22.         The Government's sector policy was issued in December 1988 and it
is primarily aimed at addressing institutional issues. The policy has five main
*        themes:
(i)   encouraging greeter autonomy in telecommunications operations;
(ii)   providing for the separation of regulatory and operating functions;
(iii)   developing effective sector regulation to oover operating standards,
pricing, tariffs, and the role of the various participants in the
sector;
(iv)   supporting the introduction of private sector copetition in such
areas as equipment supply and installation, and private line
servicest particularly where competition fosters greater efficiency,
and;



6
(v)   n.intaining a regulated monopoly oi all local and international voice
services.
23.         The proposed strategy of the Government for achieving the sector
objectives involves:
(i)  expanding.the telephone exchange capacity at Apia;
(ii)   replacing obsolete manual exchanges a" Falessiu, Asau and Salelologa
with small digital switching exchanyes or remote digital switching
units;
(iiit   installing a smll digital switching exchange, or remote digital
switching unit at Lufilufi;
(iv)   replacement of existing analogue interconnecting radio link capacity
wLth higher capacity digital equipment;
(v)   improving the institutional capability of the sector and PID through
a program aimed at:
(a)  reorganizing PTD along coommercial lines;
(b)   separating regulatory and operating functions, and;
(c)  enhancing the human resource capabilities of PMD through
effective training and manpower development.
(vi)  enhancing rural telecommunications through improved radio links or
land lines where appropriate.
E.   External Assistance to the Telecommunications Sector
1.   Bilateral aid and ITU assistance
24.         The existing telecommutications system has been developed with the
assistance provided by the Bank !/ and several bilateral agencies. However, the
expansion in the telecomuunications system provided in the past has tended to
lag behind growth in demand. The Bank-financed Project was too smli a nd
bilateral assistance had often proceeded in an uncoordinated usy without
reference to a strategy or master plan. In early 1986 ITU undertook a study to
prepare a Mster Plan for future telecommxunications development and completed
it in November 1986.
25.         CoordinaiLion of external assistance is the responsibility of Treasury
Department within the Ministry of Finance. All offers of assistance are
channelled through Treasury and assessed against the requirements of the national
XJ    Loan No. 11O-SAM(SF): Western Samoa Telecommunications Project; 1oei- of
$2.6 million was approved in November 1972. The Project was completed in
December 1978.



7
Development Plan. Priority in the allocation of bilateral grant essistsnee  as
given to the social, educational and health sectors. Revenue earning activities,
such as e';.eutric power generation and telecommunications are encouraged to seek
loan   financing. The principal exceptions to these guidelines occur where
bilateral assistance is offered for specific technical areas, for exmple,
telecommmnications training or highly specialized equipment.
26.         Besides the Bank, a number of bilateral aid agencies have assisted
a B development of the telecommurLications sector. ITU provides an ongoing
m of training and technical support together with the provision of a
dist maintenance service. Australia, New Zhaland and Japan also assist in
rovision of technician training (see pares. 80-83) and specialist support
ie radio network and the Apia telephone exchange. During 1987 arnd 1988 the
aan Development Fund financed an expansion of the satellite earth station
isisted in the provision of international subscriber dialling facilities.
-lia recently provided two multi channel ultra-high frequency (UHF) trunk
__  svstems. Since 1980 the total value of aid involvement in the sector,
outside the Bank, has amounted to about US$4.5 million of which about US$3.0
million was for hardware.
2.    Bank Assistance
27.         In November 1972 the Bank approved a loan of US$2.6 million to assist
telecomuaiications development in Western Sa . The Project was the first large
telecommunications development undertaken by the country. It involved: (i) the
replacement of an outdated 900-line manual telephone exchange with an automatic
cross bar exchange with an initial capacity of 3,800 DELs (subsequently expanded
to 4,420 DEs); (ii) installing high-grade links for international traffic, and
(iii) introducing a telex service. Owing to a rapid rise in the cost of
telecomunuications equipment in 1974 and the consequent need to find a co-
financier, the implementation of the Project was delayed.
28.         The Project was completed in 1978 and the PPAR (October 1982)
concluded that the Project was generally well conceived and that its satisfactory
completion was a creditable achievement for PMD, given that it was the first
major external assistance provided to the sector. The PPAR stated that the demand
forecasts prepared at the time of Project appraisal had considerably under-
estimated the actual growth in traffic and that as a consequence, a larger
project would have been warranted. Factors accounting for the larger than
forecast traffic levels were: (i) an underestimation of suppressed demand, and;
(ii) a rapid rise in international traffic following the comissioning of a
reliable satellite link. The PPAR foundl however, that PTD was slow in adopting
new financial and admir-istrative controls.



8
III. THE P0JECT
A.   Objectives
29.         The principal objectives of the proposed Project are to providf
Western Samoa with an-appropriate and cost-effective solution for its immedikte
and medium-term telecoununication requirements and provide a low-cost lncremental
expansion path for its longer-ternm telecomaunication requirements. Specifically,
the Project will:                             ,,
(i)   upgrade the telecoamunications system between the country' s principal
population and commercial-centers;
(ii)   improve the international gateway access through the provision of
100 international lines,
(iii)   replace obsolete equipment that is no longer practicable to maintain;
(iv)   introduce modern and appropriate technology that is less maintenance
intensive than existing equipment.
(v)    provide basic infrastructure for the subsequent development of rural
telecomnuxications; and
(vi)    provide sufficient capacity on the national and international network
to remove bottlenecks and ensure that capacity is in place to handle
forecast traffic growth.
30.         The scope and objectives of the proposed Project are in acoordance
with  the  developmental  objectives  outlined  in  DP:6,  the  Gove:nment' s
telecomuunication sector strategy and policy and the recocmndLations of IIU.
B.   Project Area
31.         The Project exea consists of the capital Apia, and the country's four
other major urban centers, two on the island of Upolu and two on the island of
Savaii. (see Map).
C.    Project Descrintion
32.         The Project envisages the financing of priority investsents necessary
for the implementation of the Government's telecommnication strategy. the
Project will comprise:



9
(i)  supplementing the existing Apia telephone exchange with a digital
stored program oontrcl (SPC) 1/ excLange with an initial installed
caacity of 3,000 subscriber liznes (incliing 100 international
lines), and a final capacity of 10,000 subscriber lines;
(ii)  replacing the manual telephone- exchanges at Faleasiu, Salelologa,
and Asau with small-sized independent exchanges, or digital remote
switching' units, with initial installed capacities of 700, 700, and
250 subscriber lines, respectively, and final capacities of 1,200,
1,200 and 400 subscriber lines, respyctiveiy;
(iii)  installing at Lufilufi a new  m--l1-sized  independent digital
exchange, or a digital remote switching unit, with an initial
installed capacity of 250 subscriber lines and a final capacity of
40'J subscriber lines;
(iv)   providing digital microwave links between Apia and the other four
locations indicated in (ii) and (iii) above;
(v)   upgrading  and  expanding  subscriber cable  networks, telephone
instruments, and public ooin-operated telephones in each of the
above-mentioned exchange areas;
(vi)  constructing and equipping a facility for the training of technical
and m-nagenemt staff of PMh;
(vii) supplying vehicles, computing equipnent, training aids and mechanical
equipment.
D.   Cost EstimEtes
33.        The total cost of the Project is estimated at US$16.3 million, of
which about US$12.1 million or about 74 per cent is the foreign exchange cost,
including US$0.19 million for service charges during construction. Local currency
costs are US$4.2 million equivalent, or about 26 per cent inclixiin' taxes and
duties of about US$3.7 million. The oost estimates also include provision for
physical contingencies as well as price escalation. The Project cost estimates
are given in detail in Appendix 1 and a summary is in Table 1.
~/   An SPC exchange uses computer control for its operations. With electronic
cxxponenta, it is more resilient and reliable than the earlier generation
exchanges with electromechanical components. An SPC exchange would allow
a drastic reduction in the size of the equipoent and will, above all,
enoourage the use of digital technology in swithching calls.



10
Thble .1:   SunmeFy of Project Cost Estimates
(US$'000)
Foreign       Local
Exchange    Currency      Total
Gomiponents
I.      Basic Cost
a)  Telephone Exchange Equipment        4,570         885         5,455
b)  Microwave Radio Equipment             828%        223         1,051
c)  Outside Plant                       3,770       1,612         5,382
d)  Telephone Instruments                 357          71           428
e)  Mechanical Plant and Vehicles         682         853         1,535
f)  Spa-re Parts and Inter-exchange
Trunk,,;s    .w                                  20           180
g)  Couputer Equipment and Peripherals    92           17           109
h) Training Center and Training
Equipment                            90         118           208
i)  Consulting Services
- Bank-financed                       195          10           205
-  ITU-financed                        84           0            84
Sub-total        10,828       3,80G        14,637
II.     Contingencies
Physical Contingencies  a/            538         193           731
Price Contingencies  W/               548         198           746
Sub-totxl        11,914       4.200        16,114
III. Service Charge During
Construction                          186           0           186
Total Project Cost            12,100       4.200        16,300
a/   Calculated at 5 per cent.
k/    Calculated at 5.3 per cent for 11 months.
E.    Financing Plan
34.         It is proposed that the Project be financed from a Bank loan of
US$7.4 million. Uwier a paralUel co-financing arrangement, the International
Development Agency (IDA) will finance foreign exchange costs amounting to US$4.6
million. The proposed Bank loan and IDA credit total 73 per cent of total Project
cost. The remaining foreign exchange cost of US$100,000 is being provided as a
grant by the ITU to cover the costs of consulting services for contract
preparation and bid evaluation. The Government wiU finance all local currency
costs, wiich are estimated to amount to US$4.2 million equivalent, inclidiing
taxes and duties of US$3.7 million equivalent. The financing plan is outlined
in Table 2.



11
Table 2:    Financing Plan
(USSS '000)
Foreign       Local                  Per Cent
Exchange     Currency      Total        of
Cost         Cost        Cost    ro.iect Gost
Bank             "           7,400                      7,400        45
IDA                         4,600                       4,600        28
ITUJ                           100                        100         1
Government                                  4:200       4.200        26
Total           12.100 -        4,200       16,300       100
35.         The Bank loan will be made f rom the Bank's Special Funds resources
under the standard tenns aed conditions. The IDA Credit will be made under the
standard terms and conditions applicable to such credits.
36.         The Borrower will be the Independent State of Western Samo. Since
teleooemunications are managed by a Government department, the on-lending of the
Bank loan is not applicable. However, should PID become a sepsrate corporate
entity, the Government would at that stage re-lend to the corporate entity, on
ternns that are not less than the applicable oCR rates, the outstanding amount
of the loan withdrawn from the loan acoount. 'he corporate entity would bear the
foreign exchange risk of the loan. _/
F.   Environment and Energy  Considerations
37.         Since a large portion of the Project involves the rehabilitation of
existing facilities, there is hardly any environmental impact of the Project.
The telephone exchanges to be installed urier the Project will be located within
existing buildings or new buildings to be constructed in accordance with accepted
building standards.   The expended capabilities of the telecoommmications
facilities will reduce physical. transport requirements. Although difficult to
quantify, there will be some savings in ener6y requirements as a result of the
Project. No staff will be displaced as a conse-quence of any technological change
associated with the Project.
G.    Imrfict of Natural Disasters
38.         Western Samoa is subject to cyclonic conditions and torrential rains.
The Project has several features that would minimize the risks to the Project
facilities fron these potential weather related factors: (a) the principal
telepihone exchange at Apia is located on an elevated and well-drained site and
the exchange building is a double-walled structure; (b) the subsidiary exchanges
planned for Lufilufi and Faleasiu are to be of the containerized type with the
1/    Loan Agreement Schedule 6, pars. -13.



12
containers mounted on an elevated concrete platform, the other subsidiary
exchanges will be within existing solid-wall structures; (c) standby electrical
power by way of diesel generators and storage batteries have been incluied within
the scope of the Project; (d) all cable reticulation will be underground, and;
(e) all microwave transmission towers will be constructed to meet accepted
standard international wind resistance indices.



13
IV.  PROT DPLEMENTPION
A.    Implementation Arrangements
39.         The Treasury Department will be the Executing Agency for the Project
w-ith PMD under the Ministry of Posts being the Implementing Agenoy. PTD, under
the Director of Posts an . Telecommunicatious, will be responsible for the general
supervision and coordination of the Project, monitoring progress achieved and
resolving difficulties in implementation.
40.         Prior to loan effectiveness, a Project Mnagement Offioe (PMD) t
will be established by -'M to -supervise the day-to-day implementation of the
Project, including planning, tendering, procurement, monitoring of progress,
liaising with consultants, and the preparation of progress reports. The PMO will
be headed by a full-time Project tanager who will be a consultant to be financed
under the loan. The Project Manager will be responsible to the Deputy Director
of PTD.
41.         PTD will ensure that the PMO is adequately staffed with suitably
qualified administrative and secretarial personnel, and will also ensure that
suitable technical staff are made available to assist the Project Manager as
required. Z/
B.    Implementation Schedule
42.         The Project will be implemented within a period of three years. The
bulk of the Project will be implemented withiLA two years beginning in January
1990 with only the installation of subscriber equipment in Apia extending into
the third year. The Project is expected to be completed by June 1992 (see
Appendix 2).
43.         The poor state of existing telecoommnictions facilities coupled with
the extreme shortage of capacity in the system has created an urgent need for
the Project. To facilitate timely Project implementation the Government has
sought and obtained consultant services from ITU (December 1988) and bid
preparation will begin in April 1989. Since these services will conuence prior
to the establishment of the PMD, the consultants will initially report directly
to the Deputy Director of PTM and thereafter to the Project Mbnager. As shown
in Appendix 2, issuing of tenders is planned for July 1989 with contract award
being planned for January 1990.
C.   Consultent Services
44.         Consultant services required for implementation of the Project
comprise: (i) finalization of specifications and tender preparation and
evaluation, and; (ii) supervision of installation, project uenajement, and
asceptanoe testing. Consultant services to assist PTM in. the finalization of
I/    Loan Agreement Schedule 6, pera. 2.
gy    Loan Agreement Schedule 6, pea. 2.



14
specificatios, tender preparation and evaluation are being provided to PID on
a grant basis from ITU. As indicated in par. 43, the ITlJ consultants has been
recruited and are acceptable to the Bank. Ihe termns of reference for the IIU
consultants (see Appendix 3) has been reviewed by Bank staff and found to be
acceptable. A total of 15 nmn-onths will be provided. Instructions and smple
documents relating to procurement under Bank loans have been issued to ITU. 'NJ
has indicated that it.has understood the prooedures and would ocmply with them.
The consultant (Project Mnager) who will supervise the installation, provide
overaaU project management, and supervise the aoceptance testing, is to be
financed under the loan and will be selected ar4 engaged in acoordance with the
Bank's Guidelines on the Use of Consultants. A total of 13 man-months will be
required for the Bank financed consultant. Draft terms of reference for the
consultants financed by the Bank are shown as Appendix 4.
D.   Procurement
45.         All procurement to be f inanced by the Bank will be made in accordance
with the Bank's Guidelines on Procurement. Those iteas to be financed under IDA's
parallel co-financing arrangement will be procured using World Bank guidelines.
The proposed method of contract packaging (which is detailed in Appendix 5) is
to award one single contract each for the supply of: (i) the five digital
telephone  exchanges,  operator  positions,  training  equipment,  telephone
instruments (including installation); (ii) digital microwave equipment and
outside plant (including installation); (iii) mechanical equipment; (iv)
vehicles; (v) computer equipment and peripherals; (vi) spare parts and inter-
exchange trunks for the existing cross bar telephone exchange (including
installation). Contract (vii) is for civil works for building additions to house
a training center and improvement of the access road to the Mbmut Vaen microwave
site.
46.         Bank-financing is proposed for contract (i) and oontracts (iii)
through (vi). IDA will finanoe oontract (ii) and the Government will finance
cnntract (vii). Of the Bank-financed contracts, contract (i) will be awarded
under the terms of international Competitive bidding (ICB) and contracts (iii)
through (v) will be awarded un-e- internstiOna,l shopping (IS). To ensure
technical compatibility, onatract (vi), estimated at USS180,000, is proposed for
direct purchase from the original supplier of the existing cross bar telephone
exchange. Contract (vii) will be awarded under local             procedures.
47.         The Goverment has agreed that the Bank's Domestic Preference Scheme
will not apply to procurement unier contracts (i) to (vi) as there does not exist
in Western Samoa manufacturing capacity or experience capable of providing the
minimum value added to the goods intended to benefit from the preference.
Coordination of the contracts and their award will be undertaken by the Project
Mbnager. IDA has ensured that the equipment to be financed under the IDA credit
will be compatible with the Bank-financed coponents.



15
E.   Operation and Maintenance
48.         PTD will be responsible for the operation and maintenance of the
Project facilities. To ensure that the staff are properly trained to operate and
maintain the new facilities, provision has been made in the cost estimates for
icntract (i) for the suppliers to give extensive training during the installation
and first year of operation of the equipment. To ensure that facilities are well
operated and maintained, provision has been made in the cost estimates for
sufficient quantities of test equipment, spare parts and vehicles to be procured
under the Project. Also, there is a provision unde,r contract (i) for the supplier
to provide complete systems maintenance for the first year of operation. PID's
pest performance in operating and maintaining its existing equipment has been
adequate in most instances and completely satisfactoi.y in the case of the
equipment financed under the first Bank project.
F.   Reports. Aocounts and Audit
49.         During Project implemexitation, PTD has agreed to prepare and submit
to the Bank quarterly progress reports on the status of the implementation of
the Project. To facilitate post-evaluation of thie Project, PTD will also furnish
to the Bank, within three moriths after physical completion of the Project, a
Project completion report covering the execution and initial operation of the
Project facilities.
50.         The Government will have its acoounts for the Project, and the
financial statement that represent the operations of PTD, audited in aocordance
with satisfactory auditing and aooounting principles by aiditors acceptable to
the Bank. The audited financial statements shall be submitted to the Bank not
later than nine months after the end of the related fiscal year.
G.   Project Monitoring
51.         A  set  of performance  indicators,  that  establish  acceptable
performance standards for the telecomuanications system after completion of the
Project, has been prepared in consultation with PTD and the Bank. The indicators
are based on performance expectations that are reasonable and acceptable in the
context of neighboring South Pacific countries. Details of actual performance
against these standards will be submitted annually to the Bank. l/  The
performance indicators are detailed in Appendix 6.
jf    Loan Agreement, Schedule 6, para. 15.



16
Y.   IMPL C.Wh AGECY
A.   8ackground
52.         PTM is a Government department under the control of the Ministry of
Posts. P.M provides the country's postal and telecommunications services. Postal
services  account for about  15 per cent of PMD's annual revenues with
telecommunications accounting for the remaining 85 per cent. PMD's revenues and
expenses form part of the National Budget of WesAern Samoa and its operational
surplus is the Government's third largest source of revenue.
53.         Since independence in 1962, PTD has operated and maintained the
country's telecomununications system ir, an acceptable manner and successfully
implemented a previous Bank-financed Project. The principal telephone exchange
at Apia, which was financed by the Bank, has been well maintained and is expected
to continue in operation until 1996, completing its originally envisaged 20-year
physical life.
54.         With a ratio of woriking expenses to revenue of about 36 per cent,
nearly 64 per cent of gross revenue is returned to the Government as operating.
surplus. Therefore, by any reasonable stanuiard of financial performance, PTD is
a profitable concern.
B.   Organizational Issues
55.         Throughout the world, telecommunications have improved global access
to information with benefits to business, government and consumers alike.
Telecoamunications have become an integral part of modern business,
administrative and social practices. Worldwide many telecommunication entities
are, or have previously been, government departments. However, a departmental
structure often restricts the ability of the entity to respond quickly to
customer needs and the needs of the entity itself. For example, in recruiting
and appropriately remunerating its staff, a government department generally has
to conform with public service pay scales and staff ceilings.
56.         In both developed and developing countries, telecommunications
entities are looking at restructuring. PTD is no exception to the problems faced
by a telecctumicatios entity that operates as a Government department.
57.         Despite   having   maintained   and   profitably   operated   the
telecommunications system, PTM lacks a commercial focus and is unable to respond
quickly to market needs. PTM's budget is totally defined within the context of
the National Budget. As a consequence PTD has limited flexibility in its
operational plsan  and staffing practices. For example, since PTD's staff are
employed under public servioe salaries and conditions it can be argued that a
significant volume of PTM's costs are understated in terms of their likely market
rates. On the revenue side, tariffs are generally low and given that the
opportunity costs of other forms of communication such as road, sea or air travel
are relatively much higher, users should be prepared to pay a higher price for
telecoumznications services.



17
68.         Both costs ard revenues need to be restructured. While such a
restructuring of costs and revenues may not in fact alter the overall level and
volune of profits earned by PTD, the resulting costs would more closely match
market rates, and rvenues would more closely approximate what users are wilIin
to pay. This would improve the usefulness of Pll)'s cost and revenue data for
PMD's own operational decision making and for general Government planning in
relation to the role of telecommunications in the national economy.
59.         However, a   adamental realignment of costs and revenues can be
undertake. only if PTD's status is changed from that of a Government department
into a separate entity operated on fully commercial lines.
60.         For some time the Government has supported the objective introducing
a corporate structure not only for telecommunications but also for other
Government business activities. For example, in 1984 the Government proposed a
Telecommunications Act which would allow for the transfer of PID's activities
to a corporation. However, the proposed act was deficient in a number of
funlamental ways and never became law. For example, the proposed Act failed to
allow for appropriate mechanisms to protect Government revenues; nor did it
clearly define the role of PTD in the telecommunications sector vis-a-vis other
telecommunications activities such as private interconnection and the sales and
servicing of telecommunications equipnent.
C.   Orgarizational Restructuring
61.         The Government's intention is to restructure and refor-m PTM and the
Telecommunications Act proposed in 1984 is an example of this intent. A study
undertaken in 1986 I/  supported the coocept of transferring PID frcm  a
Government Department to a corporation. However, this study did not identify how
a corporate structure should be evolved.
62.         Given that the existing institutional environment is essentially the
same as the one prior to independence in 1962, change, though obviously needed,
will have to be undertaken in an incremental way.   Such incremental, or
evolutionary change is typical of the nature of institutional development in the
telecommnmicaticos sector in both the developed countries as well as developing
oountries where key institutional, structural and regulatory refonrm have
generally been done in stages in line with increased investment in the physical
system.
63.         In April 1988, a Bank Staff Cxzsultant 2/ was fielded to conduct a
review of the existing PTD organization and to assist the Government in
identifying a program of institutional reform that would lay the initial ground
work for the transition of PTD from a Government department to a corporation.
I/   TA No. 788-SAM: Rationalization and Privatization of Selected Government
Activities and Public Corporations.  Approved 5 August 1986.  Study
Consultants were Arthur Young & Co., Washingtoa D.C., USA.
aJ    Peter J. Booth of Wesoon Ccaummications, Vancouver B.C., Canada.



18
The Staff Consultant's report ooncluded that several changes and reforms were
needed to make the Government's corporete objective operational. The consultant
also identified a number of near-term requirements for improving the operations
of PTD. The requirements, (see pera. 64) would need to be addressed as a
precursor to any move to make PTD a corporation and, in any event, should be
'addressed prior to undertaking major investments. The longer-term reforms such
as setting in train the legislative, structural and policy reforms for making
PIM a corporation sh,auld be done concurrently with the proposed Project, in view
of the shortage of telecommunications capacity.
1.    Near Term Objectives               "
64.         A program of immediate institutional reforms wes subsequently agreed
to between the Goveniment and the Bank. It was further agreed that these
organizational reforms would be in place prior to the appraisal of the Bank loan.
This program covered:
(i) redesigning the organization structure along commercial lines with
clearly defined roles, responsibilities and reporting relationships;
(ii) obtaining Government approval, through the Public Service Comaission,
to create the required management positions;
(iii) obtaining from both local and bilateral aid sources, funding to fill
all of these positions;
(iv) forming an interdepartmental steering committee from Government
departments    to    coordinate   resource    requireaents    for
telecommunications  developient,  preparing  briefs  for  Cabinet
consideration, and assisting in the process of organizational and
institutional reform of the telecommunications sector.
65.         At the same time, the Government was to issue a policy statement on
the telecoomunications sector, and to identify the future role of PFM in the
sector. This was issued in December 1988 (see para. 22).
66.         The efforts by the Government and PFM to implement the program have
been commerxable. By November 1988 PFM had implemented a new organization
structure (see Appendix 7). By aligning operating and technical activities under
the supervision of the Chief Engineer and by creating a new section under the
Chief Manager, Commercial Operations to deal with all. aspects of custmter
service, the new structure reflects appropriate telecommunication practices.
67.         Given the human resource constraints faced byr the country there is
a critical need to manage h.man resources prudently, particularly to ensure that
human resources planning and adequate training is undertaken. The position of
Chief Manager, Human Resources, has also been created within PFM for this
purpose.
68.         Having established a new organization, PTD obtained approval for a
number of additional management positions to fill the newly created areas in the
organization. PTD and the Government are mindful that several of these positions



19
would need, for the foreseeable future, to be fi Ued by foreign experts.
Bilateral financing was secured in October 1988 for most of these positions with
the Government undertaking to fund the remainder from their own sources.
Recruitment of persons for the key management positions will be completed by the
*        time of loan negotiations with the remainder to be recruited by August 1989.
69.         PID's nesi organization is now consistent with the objectives of:
(i)  introducing commercial accounting;
(ii)  placing more emphasis on customer services;
(iii)  providing appropriate divisional autonomy for operating decisions;
(iv)  clarifying lines of responsibility and reporting;
(v)  ensurirg overall coordination and integration of its activities, and;
(vi)  providing an initial platform for corporatization.
70.         The final immediate objective was for the Goverment to create an
interdepartmental Telecommunications Steering Committee. This was formed during
December 1988. The committee  comprises the. Director of PTD, the Financial
Secretary from the TreasurW, and the Attorney General. The principal objective
of the committee is to assist Cabinet in identifying and izplementing the
required steps to transform P1D into a corporate entity.
71.         The Committee's terms of reference includes, among other things:
(i)   preparation of Cabinet submissions on sector policy;
(ii)   acting as the central reference point for the consultants under the
proposed Bank technical assistanoe;
(iii) reviewing and making recomamndations on legislative and regulatory
reforms necessary for the transformation of PMT to a corporation,
and;
(iv)  liaise with other relevant Government departments, such as the
Department of Lands and the Public Service Cotmission as required.
72.         The interdepartmental nature of the Committee should facilitate the
achievement of a Governmental consensus on the directiors and scope of needed
institutional reforms beyond what could be achieved by PMT alone.
2.   Action Plan for a Cornorate Structure
73.         To give direction and timing for future institutional development
and to consolidate those reforms already undertaken, an Action Plan (aee Appendix
8) was prepared and agreed to between the Government and the Mission during
Project appraisal. The Action Plan identifies key organizational and
institutional milestones and their timing. The Action Plan also serves as: (a)



20
a linkage between those reforms alady undertaken and those proposed for the
future, and; (b) provides a means of ensuring that the proposed technical
assistance is closely integrated with an agreed program of reform.
74.         The Actior. Plan identifies four time-bound developmental stages and
bontains four corresponding milestones. These four stages are:
(i)  Prior to Loan Negotiations: when a number of personnel, finaacial,
and administrative actions aimed. at consolidating existing reforms
need to be undertaken;             ,
(ii)  BY 1 August 1989: when recruitment of aU  remaining umnagement
positions shall have been-completed;
(iii)  By 31 January  1990:   when the various prelird.nary steps to
corporatization, including draft legislation, tariff review, and
organizational and policy reforms, are to be prepared;
(iv)  By 1 January 199 1: when the final decision and implementation program
for corporate structure is required.
75.         Parts (iii) and (iv) of the Action Plae  will be undertaken in
conjunction with the proposed technical assistance. A more detailed discussion
of the scope and content of these parts of the Action Plan is included in the
discussion on the technical assistanme (see paras. 103-108).
D.   Management and Staff
76.         As of January 1989 PTD had a total of 128 staff positions of which
64 are technical and 59 are administrative staff. Five persons are undergoing
full-time technical training in Papua-New Guinea and Fiji. Table 3 inxicates the
number of telecommunications staff per 1,000 direct exchange lines (DELs) for
Western Samoa and some neighboring countries.
Table 3: Employees per 1,000 Direct Exchange Lines
1985 a/             1986 a/        1987
Western Samoa kl                   32                   30              30
Venuatu c/                         29                   26              26
Fiji                               22                   22             n.a.
Soloomn Islands                    33                   31             n.a.
Papua New Guinea                   59                   57             n.a.
Australia                           14                  14             n.a.
a/    Souroe:  ITU Yearbook of Common Carrier Teleccmmusications
Statistics, 1988.
kf Source: PMD.
c/    Source: Posts & Teleccmnunications Department, Vanuatu.



21
77.         Wbile ful. comparati've figurfs for 1987 are not yet a.ilable, Table
3 indicates that PDM's performance in this area is broadly acceptable. However
the racio of employees per 100 Dmis could be impoved, particularly since the
expansion of the system under the proposed Project would generate some econmies
of scale. A set of performance targets aimed at improving this ratio has been
prepared (see par-a. 51).
78.         PTD will continue to require the services of foreign staff for the
foreseeable future, particularly in the areas of engineering and finance.
Assistance towards meeting the cost difference between foreign salaries and local
salaries is provided under a number of ongoihg bilateral and multilateral
programs.
79.         Operating within the Public Service guidelines has limited the
ability of PTD to attract and retain staff. While the turnover currently averages
about 25 per cent per annum it is expected that this will faU to a much lower
level when PT becomes a corporation. This expectation is based on the experience
of the Western Samoa electricity authority. Operating outside the purview of the
Public Service Wgidelines, the newly established Electric Power Corporation was
able to offer adequate staff salaries and incentives and the staff turnover fell
from about 20 to 25 per cent to less than 10 per cent.
E.   Training and Human Resource Development.
80.         PrM's staffing numbers and capabilities are adequate for current
needs. However, given the human resource constraints faced by the country, even
the staff turnover reductions expected with the corporate structure will not
ensure sufficient and suitable staff for PTD for its future needs. Traffic growth
and the introduction of digital switching technology will require both additional
staff and the introduction of new skills to operate and maintain the system.
81.         Discussions between Bank staff, the Public Service Commission (PSC)
and Treasury from April 1988 to November 1988 resulted in the following training
and human resources strategy to ensure a sufficient supply of trained personnel:
1.   Professional Technic3. Training
(i)  five Bank-financed overseas scholarships for degree and
certificate training have been allocated by PSC;
(ii)   five persons are currently enrolleed in cou.ses in Papua New
Guinea and Fiji with this number being increased by an
additional seven persons by 1991;
2.   Overseas Specialist Technical Training
(i)  seven fellouships have been approved for engineering training
in Japan;
(ii)  Telecom Australia has proposed a program covering a wide
variety of courses supporting 90 technicians over a 1-2 year
period.



22
3.   In-Service Training
4-i)  PM, in cooperation with Treasury and PSC has initiated a two-
year tecxical and management training plan;
(ii)   a progran of short-term administrative and technical courses
will be funded by Treasury and the Hans Seidel Founlation of
the Federal Republic of Germany;
(iii) ITU will provide ongoing assistance in the areas of computer
services and data processing trnining;
(iv)   PMD has created the position of Chief Manager, Human Resources
and Training.
82.        Further support for training is likely to come from the Japan
International Cooperation Agency (JICA). JICA has indicated its support in
principle for several technical training programs. Within the region, the South
Pacific Bureau for Economic Cooperation has recently appointed a training
coordinator and this should act as a catalyst for the strengthening of long-term
training planning and co-ordination.
83.        Training support has also been provided under the proposed Project
as follows:
(i)  a training component in the supply and installation contracts
for Project equipiment;
(ii)  the construction of a training center and the provision of
training equipment.
84.        Finally, the technical assistance will also materially help in the
development of ski] Is in commercial aconmting and corporate planning. The soope
and coverage of the proposed training are given in detail in Appendix 9.
F.   Financial Managenent
85.        As a Governiet department, the financial marngement and operations
of PTD are subject to Governmt acoounting policies and procedures and its
revenues and expenses form part of the National Budget. Revenues are paid
directly into general Government funds and provision for operating expenses are
made available through budgetary allocation. The accounts of PMD are mEintained
on a cash basis maning that no allowance is made for depreciation of fixed
assets. The surplus of revenue over cash operating expenses is treated as part
of general Government funds. Placed within the context of a oummercial
'terprise, the absence of depreciation has meant an erosion of PTD's capital
base (see parm. 98). The introduction of a charge for depreciation will begin
fran 1 January 1991. i
2/   Loan Agreement, Schedule 6, para. 4.



23
G.   Billing and CoUection
86.        The past perfonnance of PID in the mnanagement and operation of
accounts receivable has been less than satisfactory. Subscriber billing is done
monthl.y with payment required within 14 days of receipt of the acacx:t. Given
'delays in the postal system, the practical billing period is about 28 days from
issuing the account. However, an analysis of the acoounts receivable indicated
that more than 30 per cent of subscribers are more than 30 days overdue. The
outstardig subscribers represent only 5 per oent of revenues and are therefore
not a mejor revenue problem.                    
87.         Two reasons can be found for this situation. First, even though the
accounts receivable system is computerized using the ITU-developed Telman
software, the computing equipment is slow and insufficient to allow for timely
processing and follow-up. Provision has been made under the proposed Project to
remedy this hardware-related problem.  The second issue relates to PTM's
processes and procedures.
88.         In August 1988, Telecom Australia (International) undertook a review
of PMD's billing procedures and mued several reoommendations for improvement,
including finmer action when an account becomes delinquent. A professionally
qualified financial controller took office in Janusry 1989 and these
recoa-nendations are being implemented.
89.         A sensible target for PMD is for the balance of accounts receivable
not to exveed more than the equivalent of 45 days billings. This target can be
achieved from 1 January 1990. I
H.    Tariffs
90.         Tariffs on domestic servioes were increased from 1 January 1989 by
an average of 100 per cent. Tariff adjustmnats were also nede to equipment
rentals, PABX and private line services.
91.         Despite these adjustamts, tariffs for domestic telephone calls are
anong the least expensive in the region. Table 4 compares charges in Western
Samoa with those in neighboring countries.
1/   Loan Agreement, Schedule 6, para. 4.



24
Table 4: Dmwstic (all       es and Telepone Rentals
(as at January 1989)
(US$)
Cost per       Annual Subscriber
%                                     1,0cal. Call          Rental
Western Samoa                             0.06                 80
Vanuatu                                   0.12                120
Fiji                                      0.07                140
Solomon Islands                           0.07                 70
Papua New Guinea                          0.14                 90
Australi *a  0.17                                             140
92.         At present tariffs and charges are adjusted on an ad hoc basis
without reference to economic tariff setting principles. The Government is aware
of the limitations of current tariff practices and has requested advice on this
as a part of the proposed technical assistance.
93.         International tariffs are expected to decline in real terms by an
average of about 2.5 per oent per annum for the next ten years. This decline will
arise fron cost reductions for satellite servioes that will aocrue from the
introduction of the Demand Assigned Mltiple Access (DAMA) satellite system to
replace the more costly existing system of a fixed satellite assignment.
94.         By 1 Janumry 1992, PTD will charge tariffs adequate to generate
sufficient revenue to meet its operation and maintenance costs, depreciation and
debt serviCe obligations and yield a minimLn annual rate of return on net
revalued fixed assets in service of 8 per oent per annum. /
I.   Past Financial Performance
95.         Since only limited information can be obtained from P&T's existing
cusb ased acoouts, a set of notional commercially based financial statements
were prepared by the Mission (see Appendix 10). These statements were prepared
from: (i) statemets of PMD's capital expenditure; (ii) an engineering assesanent
of the remaining useful life of the fixed assets; (iii) site inspections; (iv)
a review of the past cash-based acooumts of PID, andx; (v) the National Accounts
of Western Sam. While these statements cannot purport to be accurate, they are
nonetheless a mewns of assessing the general magnitude and direction of the past
finacial perfoziinoe of PTD's telecommuications operations. A summary of the
key indicators derived from these statemits is shown in Table 6.
1/    Loan Agreement Schedule 6, para. 6.



25
Table 5:   Summary of Past Financial Performance 1985-1988
(WS$ '000)
1985         1986         1987         1988
Operating Revenue              5,518        6,533         8,014       9,307
Working Expenses    -.         1,939        2,296         2,362        3,385
Estimated Depreciation           620          852           951        1,059
Operating Income               2,959        3,385         4,701        4,862
Working Ratio (X)               35.1         31.1          29.1         36.4
Operating Ratio (X)             46.4         48.2          41.3         47.8
Rate of Return (%)              41.9         38.4          48.7         51.0
96.         Table .5 shows strong financial performance on all of the key
financial indicators. However, the figures for rate of return on net fixed assets
need to be interpreted withini the context of the age and obsolescence of PID's
asset base. With the exception of the Apia telephone exchange and the recently
commissioned satellite earth station, a large portion of the remaining asset
base is almost at the end of its useful working life with virtually no book
value. This would imply that the rate of return figures are overstated cocpsred
with an asset base that contains more modern equipner.t.
97.         The capital structure of PFM is summarized as Table 6.
Table 6: Capital Structure of PT) Teleco.wunications Operations
(WS$ '000)
1985         1986         1987         1988
ASSE
Net Fixed Assets (Estimated)  7,057         8,819        9,658         9,539
Current Assets                 1,146        1.325        1,590          1.813
8,203       10,144       11,248         11,352
EQUI   AND LIABILrrE
Contributed Capital            8,129       10,743       12,533        13,473
Petained Earnings              (620)       (1.390)      (2.209)        (3.186)
Net Equity                     7,509        9,353       10,324        10,287
Current Liabilities              694          791          924          1.065
8,203       10,144       11,248         11,352
98.         Overall, the net innoom  performuance of PT)'s teleoouDications
operations has been quite sound. This good performance has been assisted by the
relatively high proportion of international calls and the relatively low level
of salaries. As indicated in para. 85, the Government's accoumting practices
are structured on the use of cash-basis accouating. One coesequence of this'is



26
that PqM's  entire cash surplus is paid into general Government funds with no
retention of funds within PTD to corpensate for asset use. Again, by putting this
within the context of a comnercial enterprise, Table 6 shows that this practice
has resulted in an erosion in the estimated net equity of PrD.
'J.    Financial Projections
99.         The financial projections for PTD's telecommunications operations
are shown in Appendix 11. The projections have been based on the traffic growth
forecasts contained in Appendix 12, capital expenditure projections (including
the Project), cost escalation for anticipated' inflation, the maintenance of
domestic tariffs in real terms and an average decline, in real terms, of 2.5
per cent for international tariffs (see para. 101).
100.        The financial projections are summarized in Table 7.
Table 7: Summary of Pro.jected Financial Performance
1988    1990     1992    1994    1996   1998
(Actual)             P r o J e c t e d      )
Rate of Return (X)               51.0    19.1.    13.6     9.1    12.2   12.5
torking Ratio (%)                36.4   42.6    43.8    41.7    40.6    40.2
Operating Ratio (%)              47.8    62.5     73.0    73.2   69.4   64.9
Accoounts Receivable (days)      46.0    44.3    44.2   44.3   44.5   44.8
101.        For the forecast period, total operating revenues ar ' expected to
grow at an average annual rate of 7 per cent in current Tala. Although this
growth rate is less than the growth rate experienced by PTD between 1985 and 1988
it is consistent with known data on the expected growth in real GDP per capita
and the impact of emigration on the demand for international calls (see Appendix
12). Should the actual growth rate in revenue exceed this forecast, the Project
equipment has the capability of being expanded in tailored increments beyond the
initial installed capacity. Consistent with expected prodcbtivity improvements
attributable to the new equipment, but excluding such improvements associated
with a corporate structure, working expenses are expected to grow at a slower
rate than the rate of revenue growth. Acoounts receivable should decline with
the implementation of integrated computer billing, new computing equipment and
new procedures for managir' accounts receivable. From the beginning of FYl990,
PTM has agreed that average accounts receivable should not exceed 45 days from
the date of billing i.
102.        PTD's telecoamunications operations should continue to yield a
healthy level of profitability with cash generation adequate for debt service
and future investment needs. Further, and as a consequence of institutional
j/    Loan Agreement Schedule 6, para. 5.



27
reforms that have been achieved and proposed, the perfonrmnce is expected to be
achieved in a more structured, efficient and commercial manner than before.
K.    Advisors Technical Assistance
i103.        In line with the implementation of the Government's sector policy
and strategy (see paras. 21-23) the Government has requested technical assistance
for the provision of advisory services to PTD. The principal objectives of the
proposed advisory technical assistance (ADTA) aee twofold: (i) to strengthen
PTD's financial and operational systems and practices, and; (ii) to assist the
Government in securing the orderly transfer of PM's assets and operations from
a Government department to a corporation.
104.        This will assist in making PTD more accountable for its operations
and investments and enhance its capability to respond to market needs. Outputs
from the ADTA are planned to coincide with the Action Plan for institutional
strengthening. Given the twofold objectives of the ADTA two distinct components
are proposed.
(a)   Component One: Commercial Systems and Procedures
105.        Under this component, a firm of consultants is to be engaged to
analyze and review PMD's existing systems qf accounting, customer service,
physical asset management (including plant and equipment oaintenance), and
financial management.
106.        The consultants will then recomnend procedures in each of these areas
that are consistent with:
(i)   efficient and acceptable commercial practices;
(ii)   the scale and environment of PM's operations, and assist PTM
with the implementation the recomamended procedures.
(b)   Convonent Two: Institutional and Oroanizational Reform
107.        Under this component, a firm of consultants will be required to
develop a detailed set of recomsenitions for the restructuring of PTD and
specification of the necessary sector policies and regulations for the efficient
and profitable operation of the telecommunications system. The specific
objectives are:
(i)   to provide a comprehensive appraisal of the couatry's eoonomic
and social objectives over the next five to ten years and the
role of telecammications within these objectives;
(ii) provide an economy-wide assessment of the impact of
telecommunications development;
(iii) develop a comwprehensive sector policy for telecommunicatirns;



28
(iv)   define regulations and draft legislation consistent with part,3
(i) to (ii) above that identifies the role, responsibilities
and accountability of the telecommunioations entity;
(v)   develop a comprehensive long-term human resources and training
plan;
(vi)  make recommendations for the appropriate form of the new
entity, (for example, wholly Government-owned corporation,
partly privatized corporation, Government corporation under
private management contract, or other feasible options as may
be identified by the consultants), and;
(vii)   providing ongoing advice on the process of facilitating the
orderly transition of PTD's operations and assets to a new
corporate entity.
108.        The proposed technical assistance will be gi-en in conjunction with
the loan. The consultants will be assisted in carrying out the ADTA by the
Government's Telecommunications Steering Committee. The consultants will be
recruited in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines on the Use of Consultants.
The estimated total cost of the ADTA is US$484,(00, made up of about US$190,000
for Component One and US$294,000 for Component Two. Total foreign exchange cost
is approximately US$440,000 with local costs of about US$44,000 equivalent. The
entire foreign exchange cost of US$440,000 and US$20,000 equivalent in local
cvxrency will be financed on a grant basis from the Japen Special Fund (JSF).
The Government will finance the remaining local costs of IB$24,000 equivalent.
A detailed terms of reference for the ADTA are given in Appendix 13.



29
VI.  FINANMCLAL A-ND ECONCMIIC EVALUATION
A.   Financial and Economic Benefits
.l09.       Be±df-its from the proposed Project will reach most sectors of the
Western Samoan economy. A direct benefit will be the increased efficiency and
productivity of the telecoamunications sector achieved through a program of new
investment, sector commercialization and institution building of the operating
entity.
.,
110.        For the private sector of the economy, improved telecommunications
will enhance management efficiency, improve the coordination of economic
activities and so facilitate increased business productivity. The proposed
Project will provide needed infrastructure support for the financial intermediary
sector, tourism, airline operations and shipping: sectors that are highly
dependent on the availability of efficient and reliable c3munications systems.
Manufacturing  industry  and  agriculture  will  also  benefit.  Improved
telecommunications will enhance access to information for planning and logistics
purposes and thereby assist in the realization of productivity improvements.
111.        For the Government itself, the proposed Project will provide four
main benefits. First, the proposed Project will enhance the efficiency of
Government administration and the delivery-of Government services to the
community. Second, improvements in PID's tariff structure, associated with the
ADrA, will improve efficiency in resource allocation within the sector. Third,
the revenues generated from the Project Lnvestments will mobilize substantial
domestic resources for the Government at a time of growing budgetary constraints.
Fourth, the Project will contribute to earning significant foreign exchange
earnings by: (i) facilitating overseas money transfers through the banking system
thereby aiding the inflow of private remittances, and (ii) enhancing the capacity
of the telecomnuxications system to earn net inflows from the international
telecommunications settlements system.
112.        Other benefits accruing from the Project are in the areas of
technology transfer and assistance for human resource development. In the latter
area, the Project directly provides direct training assistance as well as acting
as a focal point to co-ordinate training assistance available from other sources.
113.        Each of the expected Project benefits is consistent with the
country's planning objectives as outlined in DP:6 and with the priority areas
targeted for Western Samoa during the 1988 Third Round Table Meeting.
B.   Financial Evaluation
114.       The capacity of the existing telephone exchanges has already been
reached and growth above the existing level cannot be readily handled by the
existing equipment. Therefore, most of the growth in revenues that is forecast
1/    Western Samoa, Third Round Table Meeting, October 1988, Geneva,
Switzerland.



30
to oocur after the facilities are completed, which inclue the backlog in demaid
(see Appendix 12) between 1989 and 1992, caLn be attributed to the Project.
Following the scheduled removal of the existing Apia telephone equipment exchange
in FY1996, all telecommunications traffic is assumed to be handled by the Project
equipnent.
115.        From Fl1989 onwards, it has been assumed that domestic tariffs will,
on average, be maintained in real terms. International tariffs have been assumed
to decline in real terms by an average of 2.5 per cent per annum in line with
productivity gains and re-adjustments to the international aocounting rates. The
financial costs of the Project include the capital costs of the Project ard
incremental operating costs and incremental revenues attributable to the Project.
Since the new digital electronic equipnent is less maintenance-intensive than
the electro-mechanical equipment it is replacing, operating and maintenance costs
are assumed to grow more slowly than revenues. On the basis of the estimated
benefits and costs, the FIRR of the Project is estimated at 27.3 per cent (see
Appendix 14).
C.   Economic Evaluation
116.        There is a difficulty in quantifying many of the economic benefits
attributable to the Project by means other than the demonstrated willingness of
consumers to pay a price established by PID, and projecting this over the likely
demand, for the service. Therefore, in formulating and calculating the economic
internal rate of return (EIRR) of the Project, assumptions similar to those
used in the financial evaluation were used, except that taxes and duties on the
Project equipment were excluded. The EIRR of the Project is estimated at 33.8
per cent (see Appendix 15). Several tests were carried out to determine the
sensitivity of the EIR to changes in the base case assumptions. The results are
summrized in Table 8.
Table 8:   Sensitivity Irniicators
Assumuption                                    EIRR 4%)              SI
Base Case                                      33.8                 n.a.
Capita]l costs increased by 10 per cent        31.5                 0.7
Benefits decreased by 10 per cent              30.4                 1.0
A delay of one year during implementation      31.9                 0.8
Costs increased by 10 per cent and
benefits decreased by 10 per cent            28.3                 1.6
D.   PRoiect Risks
117.        The Project is inot subject to any major or unmuual risks*. Given the
demand-supply imbalance, there is little risk of under utilization of the Project
equipment. The risk of delay in Project implementation has been reduced since
PTF has already recruited the ITU-financed consultants who will assist PMD in
the preparation and evaluation of tenders.



31
VII . OONCLEIO)NS
118.        A combination of geographic ard deographic factors, and the limited
scope of the country's physical transport infrastructure make Westem Sama
heasvil  dependent on telecoamunications. The existing principal telephone
exchange at Apia has reached the limit of its capacity. Purther, the remaining
manually operated exchanges are operating at the limits of their capacities, are
technologically obsolete, and spare parts are no longer available. Service
interruptions and breakdowns, particularly attributable to the manual exchanges
and the outside plant, are becoming unacceptably frequent.
119.        Financed by UNDP, ITU undertook an evaluation of the feasibility of
upgrading the country's telecommunications system. The principal recomnendations
and strategy for telecognunications devel.opment suggested by ITU were adopted
by the Government ard formed the basis of the proposed Project.
120.        The principal objectives of the proposed Project are to provide
Western Samoa with an appropriate and cost-effective solution for its immediate
and medium-term telecommunication requirements and provide a low-cost incremental
expansion path for its longer-term telecomuxunication requirements.
121.        The scope anc objectives of the pzoposed Project conform with the
developnental objectives outlined in DP:6, the Government's telecorzmmication
sector strategy and policy and the recomnendations of the 1'U.
122.        The Government has also requested an Advisry TecniLcal Assistance
oovering the provision of a& isory services to PID. the objectives of the ADTA:
(i) strengthen PTM's financial and operational systems and practices, and; (ii)
assist the Government in securing the orderly transfer of PM's assets ana
operations from a Government department to a corporation.
123.        In addition to the standard provisions and requirement under bank
lending, the following specific assurances have been obtained:
(a)   Prior to 1 January 1991, Pll) shall introduce a system of commercial
acoounting aooptable to the Bank (Loan Agreement Schedule 6, prem.
4)
(b)   From 1 January 1990, the balace of outstanding accounts receivable
of the telecommunications operation of PTM shall not exceed the
equivalent of 45 days billings (Laan Agreement Schedule 6, pFra.5)
(c)   Commencing 1 January 1990, the Government shaIl I al- PTM to retain
funds (either in the form of approved deposits or as a credit against
general Government funds) equivalent to a reasonable allowance for
depreciation on aU of its building, vehicles plant, and
telecommunications equipment and facilities (loan Agreement Schedule
6, para. 4)



32
(d)   Comencirng    January  1992, PTD shall set tariffs at a level
sufficient to earn a rate of return of at least 8 per cent per annum
on net revalued fixed assets in service (Loan Agreement Schedule 6,
Pra. 6)
(e)   Prior to 31 January 1990, the Government, in conjunction with the
consultants to be engaged under the ADTA, shall have uniertaken an
appropriate review of the organization, institutional and policy
environment of PTD together with a fundamental review and necessary
revision of tariffs (Loan Agreement Schedule 6, paras. 6 and 9)
(f) Prior to 1 January 1991 the Government shall make its final decision
on the re-organization of PM and the orderly transfer of its assets
and responsibilities (including the on-lending of the Bank loan) to
a oorporate entity (Loan Agreement Schedule 6, peras. 10 to 13)
(g)   Reports and achievements against agreed performance indicators will
be prepared and submitted to the Bank annually (Loan Agreement
Schedule 6, para. 14)



33
AP:
No.                                                          p
1          Prcject Cost Estimates       9                        34
2           Implementation Schedule                              41
3          Outline Terms of Reference for IIU                    42
financed Engineering Consultarrts
4          OuXtline Terns of Reference for Project               45
Manager
5           Proposed Contract Pakages                            47
6           Telecammunications Performance Iniicators            48
I           Organization Chart for PMl's                         49
Teleccanications Operations
8           Action Plan for Institutioal Development             50
9           Training Activities                                  53
10          Past Finanial Perforunnoe                             54
11          Finncial Projections                                  57
12          Traffic Forecasts                                     60
13          Outline Tern  of Referenoe for                        66
Consultant Services for Institutional
Strengthening of the Posts and
Telecounications Deprtment
14          Financial Internal Rate of Return                     73
Incluaing Underlying Assu ptions
15          Econanic Internal Rate of Return                      76
ncluding Underlying Assumptios



34.
Appendix  I
Page I
SUHW4ARY OF PROJECT COST ESTtMATES
CUSS '000)
Components                      Foreign    Local    Total
Exchange Currency      Cost
Cost     Cost
A.                BASE COST
I TeLephone Exchange Equipment                  4,570       885    5,455
it Microwave Radio Equipment                        828      223    1,051
III Outside Plant                                  3,770    1,612    5.382
IV Telephone tnstruments                            357       71      42S
V Mechanical Plant & Vehicles                      682      853    1,535
VI Spare Parts & Inter-Exchange Trunks              160       20       180
VIt  Computer Equipment & PeripheraLs                 92        is      110
VI:  Training Center & Training Equipment             90       118      208
tX Consulting Services                              279       10      289
Subtotal                        10,828    3,809   14,637
S.             CONTINGENCIES
Physical Cnntingencies                           538      193      731
Price Contingencies                              548      198      746
11,914    4,200   16,114
C.   SERVICE CHARGE OURING CONSTRUCTION               186                186
Total Project Cost                   12,100    4,200   16,300
Taxes and duties represent USS3,730,600.
(Reference in text page 9, para 33)



35                                       .f. "
Aopetdix I
Page 2
0ETAtL COST ESTIMATES
-(i' USS '000)
COMPONENT 1: TELEPHONE EXCHANGE EQUIPMENT
Item                Quantity    Unit   For Ex    Taxes    Local    Total
FEC     Cost & Outies      Cost      Cost
1.01 Five Oigital Exchanges at:
Apia TLS (Subscribers)                 3,000     0.45    1,350         20Z
(Int'L & Domestic Trunk lines)
Fateasiu LS (Subscribers)                700     0.70       498        20X
Saletotoga LS (Subscribers)              700     0.70       490        20X
Asau LS (Subscribers)                    250      1.00      250        20X
Lufi Lufi LS (Subscribers)               250      1.00      250        20X
2,830                566    3.396
1.02 New ManuaL Operators Positions
at Apia fCordLess Type)                   13    11.00       143        201       29      172
1.03 Echo Cancetlor                           100      0.20        20       201        4       24
1.04 AirconditionerslUPS                         1   250.00      250        20X       50      300
1.05 Spare Parts                                 1   324.00      324        20X       AS      389
1.06 Land & Buildings: New at Faleasiu,
Asau, Lutitufi. Rennovated
at other sites                             1   100.00                           100      100
1.07 Freight & Insurance                         1   357.00      357        201       71      428
1.08 Overseas Training (8 men X 2 mths)        16      6.00       96                           96
1.09 Local training by supplier's
instructors (2 men X 1 month)              2    15.00        30                           30
1.10 InstaLLation (mqn months)                 40    10.00       400                          400
1.11 Maintenance Contract with supplier        12    10.00        120                          120
COMPONENT I SUS TOTAL                                  4,570                885    5,455
1/. Rurs'. exchanges witt be container
type, but wilt require ro ing.
2/. Taxes and Duties represent USS785,000



Apoendix  I
Page  3
OETAIL COST ESTIMATES
-           (in USS  a000)
COMPONENT tI: MICROUAVE RADlO
,............................................ .............................. ............................................
Item               Quantity    Unit   For Ex   Taxes    Local    Total
FEC     Cost & Duties     Cost      Cost
2.01 Microwave Equipment 411 GHz, 34 Mb/s)
in hop Apia- Mt Vaea                     1   120.00      120       20X       24      144
2.02 microwave Equipment (1.8 Ghz, 8 Mb/s)                       1
Nops between Mt. Vaea and
Salelologa, Lepiutai-Asau, anod
Luftilufi.                               5    30.00       ISO       20X      30       180
2.03 Alarm status reporting unit
Mt Vaea                                  1    15.00        15       20X       3        18
2.04 Mux Equipment                             1    40.00       40       20X       8        48
2.05 UPS Equipment inc Generator at
Lepiutai.                                1    68.00       68       20X       14       82
2.06 Spare Parts                              1    39.00        39       20X       8        47
2.07 Test Equipment                           1   65.00         65       201      13        78
2.08 Towers (45 meters at Mt Vaea,
Fatessiu, Lufilufi)                      3    20.00       60       20%       12       72
2.09 F&I                                      1    56.00        56       201      11       67
2.10 overseas Training (5 men 2 mths)        10     6.00        60                         60
2.11 Local Training by Supplier
(one man X one month)                    1    15.00       15                          15
2.12 Installation (maronths)                 14    10.00       140                         140
2.13 Access Road Improvement
(Mt Vaea and Lepiutai)                                                      100      100
.........         ................ ............... ....
COMPONENT I -SUO TOTAL                                828                223    1,051
1/. New Asau Exchange to be located at Auala next
to the radio station.
2/. Taxes and Duties represent USS123,000



37
Aooendix  I
Page 4
OETAIL COST ESTIIATES
(in USS '000)
COGPONENT [it: OCJTSIOE PLANT
..  ________... ... _.. .... .. _..............___. .......  __......... .. .  __... ....... .... .. ..
Item              Quantity   Unit   For Ex    Taxes    Local    Total
FEC     Cost & Outies     Cost     Cost
3.01 Subscriber cables and accessories
- Apia, 3,000 subs                      1  1400.00    1.400
- Faleaseau, 500 subs                   1   170.00      170
- Salelotoga, 500 subs                  1  230.00       230
- Asau, 150 subs                        1   40.00        40
- Lufilufi, 150 subs                    1   60.00        60
1;900       50     950    2,850
3.02 Conduit (70 km)                          1  650.00       650       502     325      975
3.03 Manholes                                                                   140       140
3.04 Sand for compaction of conduit                                              20        20
3.05 Spare Parts                              1   128.00      128       50       64       192
3.06 Cable test equipment                     1    15.00       15       20S       3        18
3.07 Cable storage building                                                      70       70
3.08 Freight & insurane  IO per cent)         1   79.00        79       502      40       119
3.09 Installation by suppliee Cm/months)
- A>.. a      (expat)                  48     9.00      432                         432
(loceL)                 360     0.20       72                         72
- Faleaseau   (expat)                  12     9.00      108                         108
(Local)                 90      0.20       18                          18
- salelologa  (expae)                  12    9.00       108                         108
Alocal)                 102     0.20       20                          20
* Asau        (expat)                  12    9.00       108                         108
(local)                 60      0.20       12                         12
- Luftilufi    (expet)                 12    9.C0       108                         108
(local)                 60      0.20       12                          12
COMPONENT tIt SUS TOTAL                            3.770              1,612    S,382
1/.  Taxes and Outies represent USSI,3a4.000



38 .. _
Appendix I
Page 5
OETAIL COST ESTIMATES
(in USS '000)
COEPONENT IV: TELEPHONE INSTRUMENTS
.. __.......................................................................... ..........
Item               Quantity    Unit   For Ex    Taxes    Local    Total
FEC     Cost & Outies     Cost      Cost
4.01 Subscriber telephones                 7000     0.04       245       20X      49      294
4.02 Public telephones                       50     1.00        50       2OX      10        60
4.03 Spare parts (10 per cent)                1    30.00        30       20S       6       36
4.04 Freight and insurance                    1   32.00        32        20X       6       38
COMPONENT tV SUS TOTAL                                357                 71      428
COMPONENT V: MECHANICAL PLANT AND VEHICLES
............. .......................... .. ............ ...................... ..... ........ .   ..............   ..... .. .....  
Item               Ouantity    Unit   For Ex    Taxes    LocaL    Total
FEC     Cost & Duties     Cost      Cost
5.01 Mechanicat plant:
- Trenching machine                      1    75.00       75
- Front end loader                       1   60.00        60
- Air conpressor                         1    12.00       12
- Water pump                             1     5.00        s
- Cable carrier                          1    12.00       12
164      125X     205      369
5.02 Vehicles                                20    20.00      400       125X     500      900
5.03 Spare parts t5 per cent)                 1    56.00       56       12SX      70      126
5.04 Freight and insurance                    1   62.00        62       125X      78      140
COMPONENT V SUO TOTAL                                 682                853    1,535



39
Appendix I
Page C
DETAtL COST ESTIMATES
(in USS 000)
COMPONENT VI: SPARE PARTS AND TRUNKS FOR EXISTING EXCHANGE
Item               Quantity   Unit   For Ex   Taxes    Local    Total
FEC    Cost & Duties     Cost    Cost
*------------__---*   *-----_*I-------------------------------------------------------------------................. _ 
6.01 Spare parts & inter exchange
tunks                                   1  100.00       100       202      20      120
It
6.02 Installation of inter exchange
trunks by supplier (man months)         3    10.00       30        0X       0       30
6.03 Local re-training by suppliers
instructors (man months)                2    15.00       30        0%       0      30
COMPONENT VI SUB TOTAL                               160                20      180
COMPONENT VII: COC*PUTER EQUIPMENT & PERIPHERALS
Item               Quantity   Unit  For Ex   Taxes    Locat   Total
FEC    Cost & Duties     Cost    Cost
7.01 File server, including 2 H/byte memory
120 mi/byte fixed disk, software,
LAN card, manuals and training.         1   20.00        20       20S       4       24
7.02 Terminals                               7    4.00        28       20S       6       34
7.03 Printers                                5     2.50       13       20S       3       15
7.04 CPU                                     7    3.00        21       202       4       25
7.05 UPS and other peripherals and software       10.00       10       202       2       12
CONPONENT VII SUB TOTAL                               92                18      110



40
Apoendix I
Page 7
OETAIL COST ESTIMATES
(in USS '000)
COMPONENT VIII: TRAINING CENTER & TRAINING EaUIPMENT
.... ..... _._.............. __._.............__. ... .. _...................... .__..............__. ._.__.
Item                   Quantity      Unit    For Ex       Taxes      Local       Total
FEC      Cost * Outies         Cost        Cost
_.__._._ .... ._.. .. .. ._.     ._.. ._._._.. ............... .. .._. ._ _ __.____..___..._.
8.0t Buitding and Furniture                             I                                         100        100
(Assuming tand atready ownd)
8.02 Training Equipment                            1                        96         20a         18        108
COMPONENT VII SUB TOTAL                                           90                   118        208
COMPONENT IX: CONSULTANCY
....................... ........................................................ . ............__.. .....
Item                   Quantity      Unit    For Ex       Taxes      Locat       Totat
FEC      Cost & Outies         Cost        Cost
9.01 Project nanager (man months)                      13     1S.00        195          0X         10        205
9.02 ITU experts (u.n months)                          15      5.60         84          0X          0         84
(ITU Grant Financing)
C_PNN  . S           .... ...TOTA  _ 1  2
CtFIPOYENT Vt SUB TOTAL                                          279                    10        289



IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
,:  t.r                    .                         l~~       ~       ~      ~~~       ~       ~      ~~~       ~        ~      ~~~~9B9  1990  .J91199
; ., ; <          ~MAIN ACTIVITIESJF    A_JJ_S tD_F   ;;;   |;1;    Wi                                                  ||;|   |;     ___|I|SONI
S       . :~bANKS BOARO APPROVAL TOEFFtCTIVENESS              t:m: :          
.                                       .. CONSULTANTS-
- ITU Experts
:,                                                           t-     nj nott- Project Manager          .    T         I
EXCIANOES
*             S~~~~UILbINGS (1)
OUTSIDE PLANT/MICROWAVE RADIOP
X'
SUBSCRIBER INSTALLATIONS
-Apia                                                                                                           V
-Falessiu, Salloloioa, Asau, Lufiltii
TRAINING BY SUPPLIERS
(exchanges and radio)
t.J,
TRAINING CENTER
IMPROVEMENT OP ACCESS ROADS
TO MT. VAEA ANO LEPIUTAI RADIO
STATION 41dn    rAoo!q  s,naisrlot Itnalne,         C - Contract award                                 - Preperslion of bld documents
*exceniese. Renovation in othor sites..                0 -  Detign                                    S-Supervision and eccept tesling
*(2) Traininig on niew operator iiWti:fons.               E -Bid eveiuaiioet                           Ifn  -Installation stid gradual ready for service
I-  instalielion                              It -  Ready lot service
M - manul.ciurlnglconstrucion and delivering,    T -  Tendering



42
ApregflxLx 3
Page 1
OJTLINE TERMS OF REFER$NCE FOR ENGDNEERDNG CON5ULTANTS
(To be financed on a grant basis by the International Teleconmxunications Uhion)
I. INTRODUCTION
1.     The Government of Western Samoa is implementing a Telecommunications
project to provide telephone exchanges and other plant with assistance from the
Asian Developnent Bank and the InternationaliDevelopment Association. The
implementing agency for the Project will be the Posts and Telecommunications
Department (PTD) who will be assisted by a Project Manager to be provided under
the proposed Project. Consulting services are required for the site survey,
necessary detail design (especially for outside plant) preparation of the bid
documents (commercial conditions and technical specifications), coordination with
the bidders, evaluation of the bids. The Government of Western Samoa is
requesting consultant services from ITU, as thif4 would complement the work
already carried out by ITU in developing the Telecoammunications Master Plan on
which the project is based.
II.     SCOPE OF THE SERVICES
2.     Three areas of expertise wiU be requiTed:
1.  Switching expert
2.  Outside plant expert
3.  Radio transmission expert
3.     The ITu experts will be required to carry out the following duties
working in close cooperation with the Western Samoa Posts and Teleconnunications
Department. : -
1.  The experts are required to carry out a site survey and
necessary detail design for:
(a)  Five new telephone exchange sites, and detenmine for
the smauler locations whether to introduce smal
independent exchanges or remote switching units controlled
by the main Apia exchange.
(b) External plant materials for the five exchanges.
(c) Radio path survey for new tranmission routes and/or
spans .
2.  Prepare tender documents (Commercial Conditions and
Technical Specifications) for:
(Reference in cext page 13, para. 44)



43
Page 2
(a) /    Five telephone exchanges (with the four smller
exchanges !n transportable containers), operator positions,
associated equipment and installation.
(b) i/    Outside plant materials, telephone instruments
and installation.
(c) /    Radio transmission equipment, towers and
associated test equipment.
(d)      Mechanical plant and vehicles%
3.  The experts will co-ordinate the bidders during late stages
of bidding; in particular, tiey will clarify specific matters that
bidders may raise on technical details of the specifications.
4.   During the evaluation of bids, the ITU experts will be
required to prepare an independent evaluation report for PTD and assist
in making recorrendations on offers to be accepted.
4.      PTD will engage a Project Manager under the Loan to supervise the overall
project implementation.  The IrU experts will be required to work in close
cooperation with the Project Manager who will be r- sponsible for coordinating
all aspects of the project. --
5.      The overall authority for the project will rest with the Deputy Director,
PTD. During bid evaluation and acceptance testing the ITU experts will report
directly to the Project Manager.
6.      AU  bid documentation and bid evaluation will be carried out in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under Asian Develoiment
Bank Loans. The Bank will provide documentation to the ITU experts setting out
its practices and pc:icies and the handbook Policies, Practices and Procedures
Relating to Procurement under Asian Development Bank Loans is to be used to
ensure that all documentation and evaluation is carried out in accordance with
the Bank's guidelines. Bidding will be open to all eligible source countries of
the Asian Development Bank and the International Development. Association.
7.      Procedures to be followed:
1.  The basis for the technical details of the Project will be.
contained in ITU Telecommunications laster Plan (1.986).
2. All bid documents will follow as closely as possible the
format provided in the Bank publication Samvle Biddina Documents - Procurement
of Goods- (June 1986) and Samvle Bidding Documents - SumD1y. Delivery  and
Installation of Goods - July 1986.
jj (a), (b) and (c) should be under one turn-key oontract.



.44
Page 3
3.  Bid evaluation will follow the guidelines set out in the Bank's Handbook
on Guide to Bid Evaluation.
.III.   THE SCHEDULE
8.      With a view to completing the Project as scheduled, the following time
table is suggested for the bidding and testing activities:
1.  Completion of Bid prepration ror Bank #pproval end of
July 1989.
2.  Co-ordination with bidders ixi'September 1989.
3.   Evaluation of bids in November 1989.
IV.    MAN MNTH-REP      RE=r
9.      A total. of approximately 15 man-months will be required for all
consulting work.



45
A&wendja 4
Page 1
cUrLIE TE  OF REFECE FO PR  rMAN
1.     The implementing agency for the Telecommincations Project will be the
Department of Posts and Telecciammications (PTD) who will be assisted by a
Project Manager to be provided under the Bank loq for the ProJect.
2.     The Project Manager will be an experienced teleccmmunications engineer
who has had wide experience in the installation of large telecommunications
projects.  The Project Manager will also need to have access to suitable
expertise in all fields which are involved in the Project.
3.     The Project Manager will be based in Apia and will be reqTired for t-,;
periods. The first will be during the bid evaluations which is expected to take
about three months, and the second during the actusl construction pbase of the
Project which is expected to take about ten months.
II.     SCOPE OF THE SFRVICES
4.     The Project is to provide five new Digital Stored Progrm Control
exchanges in five locations, provide and install digital microwave radio link
between Apia and the other four exchange locations and provide and irstall the
associated external plant required. Maximu use is to be made of PTD staff in
the izplenentation of the Project suh that training benefits are fully realized.
It is expected that the PTD personnel will work together with the Project
contractors. Formal training will also be carried out both in the oountry and
at other locations that may be suitable for the particular item of plant
involved.
5.     The Project Manager will:
1.  assist the ITU experts in the evaluation of bids for exchanges,
external plant, transmission equipment, mechanical plant and
vehicles during bid evaluation;
2.  supervise receipt and stora^t of materials and plant supplied
for the Project;
3.  supervise the acceptanoe testing of all plant installed at the time
of oompletion of the exchange and transmission equipment;
4.  supervise the overall Project impletation;
5.  liaise between the ITU experts, contractors and PTD on all
matters related to the Project including installation, training and
aooeptance testing;
6. perform other related duties as required by the Director and/br
Deputy Director PTD, and;
(Reference in text page 13, para. 44)



46
AR2~i 4
Page '2
7. assist ini the professional development of the local counter
part staff to be assigned.
6.      In undertaking his tasks the Project Marager will:
1.  report directly to the Director through the Deputy Director, Pr)
on all matters relating to the Project;
2.  be assisted by a senior PTD staff &sber who will be
Assistant Project Manager;'
3.  attend the Project Management Committee comprising the Director and
Deputy Director of PM!, Project Manager, Assistant Project Manager,
and other relevant technical staff from PTM as may be required by
the Director of PTD, =nd;
4.  make regular progress reports to the Bank and PTM Management.
The reports to the Bank will be at three monthly intervals and the
reports prepared for PTD will be at monthly intervals.
III.    ACCCMMODATION AND TRANSFORr
7.      The Government of Western Samoa  will provide transport for official
duties and office spece for the Project team but r.ot private auoommodation.
IV.    TIMIG
8.      The Project Manager will be required to begin duty in Western Samoa as
soon as the bids are closed. This is expected to be about the end of September
1989. It is expected that bid evaluation will take about three months. He will
then be required again for about ten months beginning one month prior to the
arrival of plant and materials in Western Samoa and oontinue until about one
month after the sucoessful cut-over of the exchanges.



PROPOSBO COMTBACt PACKAGING
Contract                   tltea                         uantity    Base Cost (1)                Bid Contract Cometnce  Comaiss- Procursent  Proposed
Musber                                                              Poreign      Local  Invitation        Award  Instal-       ioning    mlethod source of
('000)   I'000)                              lation                             Pinance
*                   lil       supply I Installation of:
- Digital Exchanges                             5 units                                                   10190
*D                            - Operators positions                       13 positions    5,011         974       1/89        1/90                  3/91        IC0           Bank
- telephone Instruments                     1,755 sets
T- Training I training Bqp't
x                    ~~~~~~- llaintenance
0-                   (ii)     Supply & Installation of:                                                                                   6
°Q                             - Digital Microwave 8quipeent                     I lot      4,598     1,835       7/89        1/90                  3191        ICe            IDA
- Outside Plr'                                    I lot
(iii    Mechanical Plant i Spares                       5 units        198        248      1/89        1/90       7/90    (Delivery)       1S          Bank
t'                   (iv)     Vehicles I Spares                              20 unite         484       605       1/89        1/90      7/90    (Delivery)    1              Bank
Yi                   (v)      Spare Parts and Supply and
Insltallation of Inter Exchange
trunks for. the Crossbar Exchange                 I lot        160         20 (Oirect purchase ftrom original sufplierl    DP                  Bank
(vil    Computer equipment and peripherals                  I lot        92         18      7/89        10/89      12/89  (Delivery)        Is          Dank
(vii)   Building and Access Road Improvement                I lot          0       370      71/89       1/90       1/90        9/90        DPP    Governeent
[CB: Intetnational Cospetitive Bidding
IS: International Shopping
DP   Direct Purchase
DPP: Domestic Procurement Procedures



48
Appendix 6
TELECO4WJUN ICATIONS PERFORMANCE
INDICATORS
(a)  STAFFtNG         -              --------- Actua       -    --- Target ---
1986    1987    1988      .992      1993
Staff per 1000 Direct
Exchange Lines                   32      32       32       29         29
(b)  WORKING 0IRECT EXCHANGE LINES ---------Actuat--------    --- Target
1986  *1987    1988      1992       1993
Apia                            4,127   4.253   4,095    4,791       5,585
Fateasiu                                   6c       56       66         78
Saletotoga                         88      87       98      116        137
Asau                               61      63       61       72         85.
Lufitufi                                                     55         84
4,276   4,468   4,310    5,100      5,;70
(c)  COMPLAINTS PER 100 STATIONS PER ONTh
---------Actual-- ---    --- Target -
1986    1987    1988     1992       1993
Apia                              8.8     9.1    12.3       7.0        5.0
Faleasiu                          n/a     5.0      8.5      5.0        4.0
Saletotoga                        5.2     5.9      7.2      5.0        4.0
Asau                              4.9     5.7      5.8      4.0        3.0
Lufitufi                          n/a     n/a      n/a      4.0        3.0
(d) FAULTS PER 100 STATtONS PER MONTH
---------Actual--------    --- Target ---
1986    1987    1988     1989       1990
Apia                              7.9     8.9    10.2       6.8        5.0
Fatessiu                          n/a     4.3      6.1      4.0        3.0
Satetotoga                        5.1     4.4      7.0      4.0        3.0
Asau                              4.7     4.0      5.0      3.0        3.0
Luftlufi                          n/a     n/a      n/a      3.0        3.0
(e) AVERAGE OURATION OF FAULTS (DAYS)
---------Actual--------    --- Target --
1986    1987    1988     1989       1990
Apia                              2.0     4.0      7.0      2.0        2.0
faleasiu                          n/a     2.0      3.0      2.0        2.0
Satetologa                       17.0    17.0    17.0       3.0        3.0
Asau                             21.0   21.0    21.0        3.0        3.0
Lufilufi                          n/a     n/a      n/a      2.0        2.0
(Reference in text page 15, para. 51)



POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEPARTMENT
DIRECTOR
is
TELECOMMUNICATIONS ACTIVITIES                           POST OFFICE AC.TIVITIZS
is                                                      TELECOMs
CONTROLLER
F'
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
0x        I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
0                 ~~~~~~~~CHIEF                                                                               CHIEF MANAGER                                    GI FA?4AO
ENGINEER                                                                                         Commercial                                    mumnRome
u   EngSIneetrs
b'       AAntaIulent    Super|nIenEmnl Senoen   Superintendent supeunntendenl  superlntenden              Manager         Manager M|nger  1               TecM             Traning
Engineert     Llne * Cabhe      Telegreph         Radto         Telephone        Selelelte     Trott. & OPs.   Soles * ServIce  Ots Proelsl     Accowntent      Coordinatoe,
Senor Eng       supervisors     Chief Tech.     Chiht Tech.     Chief Teeh.     Chief Tech.      AAslsani         Asuist nI       Aeselaent     Acctreau          A.. |
t)fIcer                        OftIter         Officer         Officer         Offier        Manager          Manrger         Monagt        Accnagerot
[ EngIneerlng   1  Overera    rsenior Tech.    Senior Tech.    Senior Tech.    Senior Tech.        Senior          Sbn|or          Senior          Clenrcafl   I 
Of ice,,   1 1        "   1 1   Offcter                          OfOlfer   O      ffier   OIflc   Supervlsor,  SupervIs rs     Opereaor         Officers
Foremen   |   Techntcaci        Technical       Technlcal       Technuical        Shifl          Cieti|cal       Assi|tent
Ottlcr          Offiert         officer         Oficer        Supervisors       Ofikceers       Operator  
|lInesmein  ||Technicians  ||Technician,     TechnicIan,2   TechnkicIns ||Opefalorl                Cierils        opetorCIO   |



so
.Appendix 8
Page 1
ACTION PLAN ON ORGANIZATIONAL
AND INSTIIUTIONAL DEVELOPR1r Tm BE UNDERT9K41
BY THE GOVERNMENT OF WESTERN SAMOA
IN CONJUNCTION WITH R{  PROCESSING AND 1fPLEM4TATION OF
THE SECOND TELECOMIUNICATIONS    JECT
I. INI140DWrION
The Memorandum of Understanding from the October/Novenber 1988 Fact
Finding Mission outlined a number of actions, to strengthen and rationalize the
institutional structure of telecommunications  in general and the Posts and
Telecommunications Department in partficular. To date the Government has made
significant progress in satisfying the requirements contained in the initial
requests. At this time several issues have been identified which are deemed
essential to the successful implementation and completion of the Proposed
Project.
II.     OBJECTIVES
The proposed action plan specifies a program to assist the Government
for long term policy development and institutional strengthening of the
telecommunications sector.
III.    PRIOR TO LOAN NEOTIATIONS
A. STEERING CCMMIITEE
The newly established steering committee shall finalize its terms of
reference, membership, agenda, function and mandate. The committee shall, among
other things, include within its terms of reference the following:
(i)  the coordination of those activities necessary to insure the conditicns
outlined in III.B to III.D are fulfilled prior to loan negotiations, and;
(ii)  the provision of recommendations to Cabinet for policy and regulatory
changes based on the findings of the Technical Assistance program.
B.   PERSONNEL ACTIONS
1.   Confirm the appointment of the Director (replacement) of PTD.
2.   The following management positions shall be fully budgeted and approved
for recruitment (Budget amounts are approximately Tala 400,000 per
annum):
(i) Senior Engineer
(ii) Chief Manager: Human Resources and Training
(iii) Chief Manager: Comnercial Operations
(iv) Telecommunications Accountant
(v) Assistant Engineer
(Reference in cext page 19, para. 73)



5 l
Page 2
C.   FINANCIAL MANAC$MENT
1.  PIT  shall identify and remove from the accounts receivable ledger all
uncollectible subscriber accounts.
2.   Provide an action plan for managing at an acceptable level, bad and
doubtful debts, such that by 1 January 1990 the average balance in
accounts receivable does not exceed the equivalent of 45 days billings.
This action plan should highlight:
(i)  specification and publication of disconnection,
re-connection and crelit policies;
(ii! amendments to the Post Office Act, as required;
(iii) policies for dealing with long terms bad debts and
write-offs of uncollectible accounts.
D.   LAND ACQUISITION
1.   Agreement in principle shall have been reached with the owners of the
proposed site for exchange and transmission equipment to be located at
Lufilufi for the sale or lease of the said site to the Government.
2.   Confirmation shall also be given to the Bank at the time of, or prior
to, loan negotiations that the acquisition by the Government of the
parcel of customary land selected for the site for the exchange at
Ralieasiu is proceeding smoothly.
I\'.    BY 31 AUGUST 1989:
A.   PERSONNEL
1.   Selection of suitable candidates for the following position shall have
been completed:
(i)  Chief Engineer;
(ii) Telecommunications Controller;
(iii)  Telecommunications .Accuitant; and
(iv) Data Processing Manager
V. BY 31 JANUARY 1990:
A. POLICY AND REGULATION
1.  The Government, in conjunction with the consultant engaged to carry out
the Technical Assistance shall have:
(i)  completed  a  systematic  review  of  the  organizational  and
institutional structure of PT3;
(ii) developed policy statements and drafted necessary
legislation and proceaures for:



52
Appendix 8
Page 3
(a) the corporatization of PTD;
(b)  economic-based tariffs and adjustment methods; and
(c) the structural regulation of the telecommunications sector.
B. TRAINING
1. The Government and PMD shall adopt and begin implementation of the
training program and manpower development plan to be defined with the
Technical Assistance activities.
VI.     BY 1 JANUARY 1991:
A.   REORGAuNIZATION
1.   The Government's  final decision with respect to any proposal  to
reorganization P1D shall be made as soon as possible aftcr the conclusion
of the Technical Assistance and in any event no later than 1 January
1991.
B.   ACCOUNTING AND OPERATIONAL SYSTEMS
1.   In conjunction with the recommendations of the Technical
Assistance, PTD   adopt and  implement systems,  acceptable to  the
Government and the Bank, for:
(i) Commercial Accounting;
(ii) Supplies, Maintenance, Stores, Fault Detection and Repair;
(iii) C-nputerized data processing; and
(iv) Customer accounts and servicing.



inuSAi        M sum       Ut m IOu AND MINIING
FoPusa      Objective                                                               Acitivity Description                                                      Iht It011
training                                                        Psanalunt          L.tionl           Activity         Activity         Matel          It-            lm   t
traiing        training           Objective         beipiest            arget        h. ot        training           venwl             Duration         Schle            tnain.t                 bit.       ha
It..   Focus           Ilewd             or lvisaed-  tIil                    Grop           traine       Activity           triners          :o'Us)
a ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~............. ................ . _. ... ... .. . ... . ... ... . ._...... .. ._. .. .. . . __ ........ _ ....... .. ..... ..... ._........ . .. .._. ................. _
1      I      Institutios   on-the-job           lm e             Pot I              PtD               4         PracLicl            WesterA              6               IO               24     CukWt   21              i0
tra:niag          corprate            lecom-           a emant                     trining             SnAoA                                                         ectivities
plaing,          mication             a  Vad                    in all
r  financial,      eprteat          ambinistrative              apets
sal              o119               staff                       .f corpote-
X                                    e~~~~~~~~pnsticul                                                eui
eV                                                  il                                                            piumin
x                                    l ~~~~~~~sills                                                   Finance
a                                                                                                                 operational
*                                                                                     s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ystess
;       2       Technical         -               Iprove                             Teleco-              I        Practkal            Yestern                              Is1               35    I-eb e                 231
skils in                            mnications                  traising            Sa   nd                                                       la tati
iubtliatio                         technicim                   is islAllAtio       overea                                                         i
and   inteace                                                    nd  aitea  
o4                                                of digital                                                      practice
telephon
10    HlI
...... ........... . ........ .............. ............................................................................................ _               . _     .   . .
1/ lelud it tvipeat pttuot colr cle



54
Aooend.i x  10
?age I
POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEPARTMENT
TELECOMMUNICATIONS OPERATIONS
PAST INCOME STATEMENTS
(WSS '000)
REVENUE SREAKDOUN                       1985   1986   1987   1988
Numiber of Subscribers               4,419  4,438  4,476  4,564
X Inc in Subscribers             0.0%   0.0%   0.8%   1.9°
Itnationat Paid Minutes                559    761    976  1,026
REVENUE COMP0SitON
Rental                                 380    421    4'6    455
Metered Calls                          390    432    469    797
Inland To(ls                            19    22      25     37
Overseas Calls                       3,678  4,450  5,747 6,044
Tetegrams                              110    119    123    147
Telex Rental                           120    135    145    160
Telex Calls                            471    549    613  1,042
Miscellaneous                          350    405    446    625
TOTAL REVENUE                          5,518  6,533  8,014  9,307
WORKING EXPENSES:
General Working Expenses             1,939  2,296  2.36Z  3,385
..... ....... .. .. . ......
Total Working Expenses                 1,939  2,296  2.362  3,385
REVENUE AFTER WfRKING EXP:             3,579  4,237  5.652  5,921
Oepreciation  1/.                      620    852    951  1,059
.. ... .... ..... ........ .....
OPERATING INCOME                       2,959  3,385  4,701  4,862
Working Expenses/Revenue                35.1S  35.1%  29.5X  36.42
Operating Expenses/Revenue              46.42  48.2%  41.32  47.8%
Return on Net Fixed Assets              41.92  38.4X  48.7%  51.02
Accounts ReceivabLe (Days)              51.0   49.0   47.0   46.0
Average Annual Growth Rate:                         1985-88
Revenue                                             19.0%
Expenses                                            20.4%
__ ........... .. ..........................
1/. Based on estimated asset values.
(Reference in cexc page 24, para. 95)



55
Aooendix 10
Page 2
POSTS ANO TELECOMMUNICATIONS OEPARTMENT
TELECOMMUNIcAArIONS OPERATtONS
COMPARATIVE SOURCES AND APPLtCATIONS OF FUNDS
(USS ' 000)
SOURCES:                                        1986   1987   1988
From Operations:
Operating Income                             3,385  4,701  4,862
Add: Depreciation,                             852    951  1,059
Net Ch in Uork Capital                         (82)  (132)   (82)
Totat from operations                     4.155  5,5205,839
Other Sources:
Grants & Govt Invest                         1,114  1,790    940
Loan from ASO/IOA
Total from other sources                  1,114  1,790    940
TOTAL SOURCES:                               5,269  7,310  6,779
USES:
Payments to Gov't: Oividend                  4,155  5,520  5,839
Payments to Gov't: Loan Repay
Capital Expenditure                          1,114  1,790    940
TOTAL USES                                   5,269  7,310  6,779
SOURCES minus USES                                 0      0       0
ADO: Cash at Segining                              0      0       0
CASH AT ENO                                        0      0       0



56
Aooentdix  10
?age 3
POSTS ANO TELECCNMUNMCATICOS 0E?ARTrH=4T
TELECOMMUNICATIONS OPERA ICNS
COMPARATIVE NOTIONAL BALANCE SNEETS
(WSS '000)
CURRENT ASSETS                            1985   1986   1986   1988
Cash                                       0      0       0      0
Accounts Receivable                      771    877  1,032  1,173
Spare Parts                               99    121    157    175
Suppties                                 276    32?    401    465
total Current Assets                 1,146  1.375  1,590C1,813
NON CURRENT ASSETS
guildings                              3,500  5,000  5,000  5,000
Less: Accun Oenrec.                      640    907    974. 1,141
2,860  4,193  4,026  3,859
Plant & Equipment  1/.                 4,925  6,039  7,829  8,769
Less: Accum Oeprec.                      725  1,413  2,197  3,089
.............................
4,197 4,626 5,632 5,680
TOTAL ASSETS                             3,203 10,14!. 11,248 11,352
CURRENT LIABILITIES
Accouncs Payable                         655    745    877    997
Accrued Expenses                          39     4S6    4i      68
694    791    924  1,065
NON CURRENT LIABtLITIES
TOTAL LIABILITtES                          694    791    924  1,065
IMPLIEO GOVERNMENT EQUITY
Contributed Capital                    8.129 10,743 12,533 13,473
Net Income                             2,959  3,385  4,701  4,862
Less: PaYments to Govt                 3,579  6,155  5,520  5,839
Income Retained in PTO                  (620)(1,390)(2,209)(3,186)
.............................
7,5C9 9,353 10,324 10,287
TOTAL ECUITY 8 LIABILITIES               8,203 10,144 11,248 11,352
1/. Based on estimated asset values.



Appendix  I I
Page I
POSTS AND TELECOHM11NICATIONS OXEPMTtENT
-.     TELECOWGICATIONS OPERATIONS
PROJICTED INCO1 STAThIEMTS
(CS  '000 in current tem)
REVEO   &EAMIN                  1968    1969   1990   1991   1992   1993    1994   199s   1996   199?   199    1999   290m
Nutber of Sstcribers         4,56   '.,736 4,736  4.736  5,766   6,179   6.319  6.596  6.60  T.169  7.464  7,765   7,935
I'netiamia  Paid Minutes     1,026*  1,095  '.211  1,309  1,424   1,SSS   1.629  1.731  1,836  1,94S  2,057  2,1S9   2,248
Percent Tariff Increase:
Dometic                        0   100.0.- S.01   S.O   S.01    S.01    5.01   s.01   5.0o   S.01   S.01   S.01    S.01
intereiam l                    0     2.5s   2.S   2.SX   2.51    2.S  % 2.sx   2.5   2.S   2.5   2.51   2.5S    2.51
Rentat                         45S      86   932    932  1,136   1.216   1,244  1.296  1.354  1,411  1,469  1,526  1,562
Netered Colts                  797   1.554  1,631  1.631  1.621   2,08s   2,375  2,717  3,109  3,55S  4,055  4,611   s,197
Intland Totts                   37      72     75      7s     84      96     110    126    144    164    187    213      240
overseas Cat4s               6,044   6,452  7,311  7,905  8,594   9,385   9,63S 10,451 11,067 11,743 12,421 13,033  13,571
Telegras                       147     287    302    302    317      333     349    367    385    104    424   446       468
Tetex Rental                   160     311    327    327    343      360     378    397    417    438    460    43       so?
Telex Calls                  1,042   2,032  2,134  2,134  2,241   2,353   2,470  2,594  2,724  2,860  3,003  3,1S3   3,310
Niscetllaous                   62S   1,219  1,280  1,280  1,344   1,411   1,461  1,5S5  1,633  1,71S  1,800  1,690   1,985
....... .................. ... ... .................................... .......................................
TOTAL REVENE                   9,307  12,81S 13,992 14,S86 15,879  17,239  18,243 19,504 20,853 22,291 23,820 25,356  26,841
UORKIN6 EXPENSES:
Gewal Working Expenses    3,385   4,545  4,838  4,918  5,220   5,525   S,701  s,942  6,353  6,791  7,27S  7,726  8,176
Nanagent Costs 1/.                     883    928    974  1,023   1,074   1,127  1,184  1,243  1,30S  1,370  1,439   1,511
Naintenance 2/.                               200   400    714       7o      787    627    U8    911    "T  1.00S   1,0ss
. ..... ...... ...................................        .. .....      ..........           ..  ...
Total working Expene         3,365   5,428  5,966  6,292  6,956   7,349   7,615  7,953  8,464  9,006  9,585 10,169  10,43
REENUE AFTER W ING EXP:  ,s921   7,367  8,026  8,295  8,922   9,891  10,626 11,1SS  12,3809 13,283 14,236 1s,167  16,097
Depreciatian                 1,059   1,447  2,760  4,140  4,639   4,S54   4,S36  4,477  4,422  4,367  4,313  4,252   4,177
Financing Costs                                                            1,203  1594  1,S81  1,566  1,550  1,S33   1,51S
...............................................................................................
OPERATING INCOME               4,662   S,940  5,246  4,155  4,283   5,317   4,6    5,480  6,386  7,350  8,373 9,402  10,405
Working Expene/Revm             36.4S   42.41  42.6X 43.1X 43.8S 42.6X 41.7X  40.81  40.61  40.41  40.22  40.11  40.01
Oerating Expenses/Revenue       47.82   53.71  62.S  71.51  73.01   69.21   73.21  71.9x 69.41  67.01  64.91  62.91   61.22
Return an Net Fixed Assets    '51.01   3S.72  19.11  12.92  13.61   13.01    9.1X  9.72  12.22  10.51  12.5%  14.61   16.71
Accounts Reeoivabte (Days)      46.0   44.6  44.1   44.7  44.4   44.5   44.S'  44.8   44.4   44.9  44.O   4.2    44.2
Average Amal Growth Rate:                            1989-2000
Revnue                                                7.01
Expenses                                             6.41
1/.   [ncrementat  _gement costs *ttributable to reorganization
2V.   tncreetal mintunce casts attributable to Project
(Reference  in  text page 26, para. 99)



58                                     Aope-diK  11
Page 2
POSTS ANO rELEcOMMUNICATIONS DEPARTMENt
*  .       TELECOMUNICAWIOMS OPERATIONS
PROJECTED BALANCE SHEETS
(uSS '000 in current terms)
C-URRENT ASSETS                   1988    198-s46  90   4991   1992    1993    1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999    2000
Cash                               0 0      0  2,780  6,920 11,559  11,917  12,325 12,643 12,942 13,219 13,473 13,863  14,211
Accoumts Receivabte            1,029   1,567  1,691  1,78S  1.933   2,100   2,226  2,396  2,537  2,742  2,872  3,074   3,252
Spare Parts                      175      173    603    603    603       603      603    603    603    603    603    603         603
Supplies                         465      641    700    729    794        862     912    975  1,043  1,1i5  1,191  1.268   1,342
Total Current Assets         1,813   2,381  5,774 10,037 14,889  15,482  16,066 16,617 17,125 17,679 18,139 18,808  19,408
NON CURRENT ASSETS
Buildings                      5,000   s,000  5,578  5,578  5,578   5,578   5,578  5,578  5,578  5,578  5,578  5,578   5,578
Less: Accum Deprec.            1,141   1,308  1,494  1,680  1.866   2,052   2,238  2,424  2,610  2,796  2,982  3,168   3,354
...........................................I....................................................
3,859   3,692  4,084  3,898  3,712   3,526   3,340  3,154  2,968  2,782  2,596  2,410   2,224
Ptant S Equipment              8,769  17,334 30,328 39,299 43,219  57,259  61,228 65,165 69,053 89,184 92,976 96,555 100,083
Less: Accum Oeprec.            3,089   4,369  6,963 10,917 15,370  19,758  24,108 28,399 32,635 36,816 40,943 45,009  49,000
...............................................................................................
5,680 12,965 23,36S 28,382 27,849 37,501 37,120 36,766 36,418 52,368 52,033 51,546 51,083
TOTAL ASSETS                    11,352  19,038 33,223 42,317 46,450  56,509  56,526 56,537 56,511 72,829 72,768 72,764  72,7;5
CURRENT LIABILITIES
Accounts Payabte                 997   1,332  1,437  1,517  1,643   1,785   1,892  2,037  2,156  2,331  2,441  2,613   2,764
Accrued Expenses                  68      109    119    126    139        147     152    159    169    t80    192    203         215
1,065   1,441  1,556  1,643  1,782   1,932   2,044  2,196  2,325  2,511  2,633  2,816   2,979
NON CURRENT LIABILITIES                   6,332 15,938 22,570 25,468  25,468  25,309 25,087 24,852 24,601 24,335 24,052  23,751
TOTAL LIABILITIES                1,065   7,773 17,494 24,213 27,250  27,400  27,353 27,283 27,177 27,112 26,968 26,868  26,730
IMPLtED GOVERNMENT EOUtTY
Contributed Capitat           13,473  15,706 19,672 22,011 23,033  23,033  23,033 23,033 23,033 23,033 23,033 23,033  23,033
Asset Revaluation Reserve          0        0       0      0       0   9,824   9,824  9,824  9,824 26,116 26,116 26,116  26,116
Net Income                     4,862   5,940  5,246  4,155  4,283   5,317   4,888  5,480  6,386  7,350  8,372  9,402  10,405
Less: Payments to Govt         5,839   7,195  4,748  4,119  4,209   5,232   4,824  5,399  6,306  7,259  8,289  9,306  10,316
Income Retained in PTD        (3,186) (4,441)(3,943)(3,907)(3,833) (3,748) (3,684)(3,603)(3,523)(3,432)(3,349)(3,253) (3,164)
..................................I.............................................................
10,287 11,265 15,729 18,104 19,200 29,109 29,173 29,254 29,334 45,7 7 45,800 45,896 45,985
TOTAL EQUITY & LIABILITIES    11,352  1t,038 33,223 42,317 46,450  56,509  56,526 56,537 56,51s  72,829 72,768 72,764  72,715
X,============ =====f========== 2=ttU25S=~=3=======T=========   ====



59                                  At,oendi%
Page 3
POStS ANO TELEC0CM4MIUCATbONS OEPART14ENT
TELECOMMUNICATtOWNS OPERATIONS
PROJECTED SCURCES AMC APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
cuSs '000 in current terms)
SOURCES:                       1988   1989  1990  1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997  1998   1999   2000
From Opeeations:
Operating tncome            4,862   5,940  5,24c  4,155  4,283   5,317  4,888  5,480  6,386  7,350  8,373  9,402  10,405
Add: Depreciation           1,059  .1,447 2,780  4,140  4,639   4,574   4,536  4,477  4.422  4,367  4,313  4,252   4,177
Net Ch in Work CapitaL        (82)  (192) (498)   (36)  (74)   (85)   (64)  (81)   (80)   (91)  (84)  (96)   (89)
----- -.-.- -......- . .   .  -.-.. -    -- . ---- . ---- ---   ---_   _  _  _  .  - --_-.. --- ---.- ---.
Total fran operations    5,839  7,195  7,528  8,259  8,848   9,806  4,360  9,876 10,728 11,626 12,602 13,558  14,493
Other Sources:
Grants & Govt tnvest          940  2,233  3,388  2,339  1,022
Loan from A80/10A               0  6,332 9,606  6,632  2,898
Totat from other sources  940  8,565 12,994  8,971  3,920        0       0      0       0      0      0     0       0
TOTAL SOJRCES:              6,779  15,760 20,522 17,229 12,768   9.806   9,360  9,876 10,728 11,626 12,602 13,558  14,493
USES:
Payments to Gov't: Oividend 5,839   7,195  4,748  4,119  4,209  5,232  4,824  5,399  6,306  7,259  8,289  9,306  10,316
Payments to Gov't: Loan Repay                                              159   222    236   251    266   283    301
Capital Expenditure           940  8,565 12,994  8,971  3,920   4,216   3,969  3,938  3,887  3,839  3,792  3,579   3,528
... .. .......... ................. ... ... ....... ................... .....................................................................
TOTAL USES                  6,779  15,760 17,742 13,089  8,129   9,447  8,952  9,5S8 10,429 11,349 12,347 13,168  14,145
S')!RCES minus USES               0       0 2,780  4,140  4,639      358    408    318    299    277   254   390    348
ADO: Cash at Begining             0       0      0 2,780  6,920  11,559  11,917 12,325 12,643 12,942 13,219 13,473  13,863
CASH AT hNO                       0       0  2,780  6,920 11,559  11,917  12,325 12,643 12,942 13,219 13,473 13,863  14,211
====fs=:uss =z===== s=S2=tf===S=S =SSs_s=sfS 3s            S ==w=a=s======S=t~ = =5:=S=saass=t=Ss



t_60
Apoendix 12
Page 1
-       TRAFFIC FORECASTS
A. Forecasting Methodology
4.           The preparation of forecasts for telecommunications development in
Western Samoa presents some difficulties as there is only limited available
historical data for past demaLnd that can be adopted as -q guide to predicting
future demand trends. The absence of historical data has meant that more reliance
has had to be placed on the use of cross-sectional analyris of the available
data.
2.           The preparation of demand forecasts focused on the two key factors
affecting the viability of the country's telecommunications system:
(i)  the Project will increase the number of connections or Direct
Exchange Lines (DELs) by 4,900 DELs, and;
(ii)  international traffic accounts for a very high proportion of total
system usage (aver-aging about 77 per cent of total revenue)
Accordingly, detailed forecasts have been prepered for telephone connections and
for the volume of international traffic.
3.      The forecast for revenue on the domestic system (domestic call revenues,
rental charges, and other domestic services) is based on a much simpler approach.
The e.xisting level of revenue per connection is e.xtrapolated over the forecast
for total conrrections. Based on experience in other countries this assumnption
is conservative since average revenue per connection often expands with expansion
in the scope of the network.
B. Forecast for Telephone Connections
4.           Population projections have been developed by the Government. Since
the demographic factors underlying these population projections have been -ioundly
developed, they can be considered to provide a reliable basis, in +he absence
of other data, for predicting the demand for new DELs (connections). Therefore,
a demographic rather than economic basis has been adopted for forecasting the
demand for new DELs.
5.           The projections for population have been derived from  birth rate
assumptions in both gross and net terms. Gross population growth has been assumed
to be in the order of 1.8 to 2.5 per cent per annum with a net rate of about 0.6
per cent. The difference between the gross rate and the net rate is accounted
for by expected emigration.
6.           Telephone density indicates the number of household telephone sets
per lOC persons. An improvement in this measure will, other things being equal,
lead to an increase in the dewand for connections. As indicated in Table 9, at
present Western Samoa has one of the lowest telephone densities in the South
Pacific region.
(Reference in texc page 26, para. 99)



61
Ampen&dix 12
Page 2
Table 9: Comparative Telephone Density
Residential Lines /100 Perso is .
Western Samoa(overall)                              1.81
- Apia                                             8.30
- Remainder of Upolu                               0.03
- Savaii                                           0.15
Vanuatu (overall)                                   1.50
- Port Vila                                        6.80
- Luganville                                       0.80
- Norsup                                           0.20
- Isangel                                          0.02
Fiji (overall)                                     7.50
PNG  (overall)                                      3.73
Tonga (overall)                                    2.50
7.           By the year 2000, residential telephone density per 100 persons is
assumed to be as follows:
Western Samoa (Overall)                           3.08
- Apia                                            9.90
- Remainder of Upolu                              1. 0
- Savaii                                          1.00
Viesed within this context, the forecast demand for connections is conservative.
(the details of these estimates are shown in pages 4 and 5 of this Appendi'x).
8.           Estimates of future demand in the business and governmert sectors
are based on population trends and the expectations for economic development
contained in the country's Sixth Development Plan (DP:6) and other reasoned
assessments of the possible future economic direction of the country.
9.           The existing unsatisfied demand backlog of about 1,000 DELs, is
assumed to be satisfied between the initial commissioning of the Project
facilities in late 1991 and through to 1993. The total additional line capacity
to be provided under the Project of about 3,S00 lines is expected to be fully
utilized by the year 2000. Since the Project equipment is capable of low cost
incremental expansion up to an eventual total of about 13,000 lines, sufficient
capability exists within the Project equipment to handle:
jj  Source:  International Telecomnunication Union
Yearbook of Common Carrier Statistics 1987



62
Appendix 12
Page 3
(i) the planned retirement of the existing 4,000 line Apia exchange in about
1996-97;
(ii)  likely demand beyond 2000 up to about 2010 without major equipment
replacement, and;
'(iii)  any unforseen increase in demand between now and the year 2000.
C. Forecast for International Traffic
10.          International traffic accounts for in excess of 70 per  cent of
PTD's total revenue. While nearly one third of in'ternational trafCfic is business
related, the other two thirds is derived from calls to and from the very large
Western Samoan population residing in-other countries. Further, an analysis of
past traffic data suggests that there is a very high correlation between the
level of personal international traffic and business related international
traffic. For example, a personal international phone call is often associated
with a request, offer or follow-up on a private remittance from a Weste-n Samoan
living abroad to family still residing in Western Samoa. This offer or request
for a private remittance then leads to a telegraphic or computer transfer of
funds to the country thereby generating revenue for PTD from the business sector.
In other instances, overseas orders placed by Samoan businesses require a phone
call, facsimile or telex transmission. The foreign exchange that permits the
ordering of such imports has often come from a. private remittance.
11.          The correlation between private and business international calls
therefore means that it is not unreasonable to assume that a forecast of total
international traffic can be derived from a forecast on the volume of personal
traffic. The forecasts prepared for international traffic are shown on page 6
of this Appendix.
The forecasts assume:
(i) a continuation of the nistorical level of net emigration from Western
Samoa of about 3,500 to 3,700 persons per annum;
(ii) an expatriate Western Samoan population of about 85,000;
(iii) an average propensity per expatriate Western Samoa to make an annual
average of 10.7 minutes per annum in international calls to Western
Samoa.
12.          Based on these forecasts, the volume of international traffic should
grow to about 2.2 million international paid minutes by the year 2000 from
current levels of about 1.03 million, an average growth of about 7 per cent per
annum.
13.          The forecasts for international traffic are most likely to be on
the conservative side. Though about 85,000 Western Samoans are living abroad,
the number actually maintaining contact with. the country is much lower. This
implies that the average propensity to call is much higher than 10.7 minutes per
person. Projecting a higher propensity-to-call estimaste over the forecast level
of emigration would lead to a higher forecast for international traffic.



63                                    .ooec.d .x  I!
?age A
APIA TELEPHONE EXCHANGE AREA
Forecast Oenand for Subscriber Connections
.. ._ _. ......... ......................... .................... .
Year   Pou-   Lines Resid- Susines  Govt  Total
tation    per endial
(COOs)     100  OELs   OELs   DELs   OELs
1985    34.1    8.2  2,784    954    462  4,200
1986    34.3     8.1  2,736   967    464  4,217
1987   34.4     8.1  2,797    988    468  4,253
1988    34.6    8.3  2,860    998    477  4,335
1989    34.9    8.4  2,982  1,040    482  4,504 '
1990    35.1    8.5  3,185  1,123    486  4,795
1991    35.3     8.6  3,250  1,196    491   4,937
1992    35.5    8.8  3,316  1,268    496  5,080
1993    35.8     8.9  3,383  1,331    501  5,216
1994    36.0    9.0  3,452  1,385    506  5,343
1995    36.2    9.2  3,523  1,440    511   5,474
1996    36.5    9.3  3,594  1,498     516  5.608
1997   36.7    9.4  3,668  1,558    522  5,747
1998    37.0    9.6  3,7'3  1,620     527  5,889
1999    37.2    9.7  3,820  1,685    532  6,036
2000    37.4    9.9  3,898  1,752    537  6,187
. ...----    ......  .-....---..-.............................................. ..... 
Average Annual Growth
(1989-2000)          2.6X   4.82   1.82   3.0%
REMAINOER OF UPOLU
Forecast Oemand for Subscriber Connections
Year   Popu-   Lines  Resid- Business  Gavt   Tocal
',cion    per  entiaL
(OOCs)     100   CELs    OELs   OELs   OELs
................... ...................................... ................... ......
1985   81.8    0.03      24      35      12      71
1986   82.2   0.03       23      36      13      72
1987   83.0   0.03       P       39      13      7'3
1988   83.4   0.03        '1     41      14      76
1989   83.9   0.02        19     42      15      76
1990   84.3   0.02       44      70      16    130
1991    84.7   0.10     135      74.    17    225
*            1992   85.2   0.30      306      78      18    401
1993   85.6    0.50    478       81      19    578
1994   86.1    0.50    480       86      20    586
1995   86.5   0.60    569        90      21    680
1s96   87.0   0.70      659      94      23     776
1997   87.4   0.80      749      99      24    872
1998    87.9   0.90     841      104     25    970
1999   88.3    1.00     933    W19       27   1,069
2000   88.8   1.00    938        11'     28   1,081
.  _........ ................. . . .. ...    ...... . .
Average Annual Grouth
(1989-20O0)           37.2%    8.9X   6.1X   24.82



64
Avoerdix  12
?age 5
SAVAII ISLAND (INCLUtING ASAU & SALELOLOGA)
forecast Oemand for subscriber Connections
............ ........................ .... ...... _...... ........ . ....
Year  Popu-   Lines  Resid- Business   Govt  total
lation     per ential
(000s)     100    OELs   OELs    OELs   OELs
~~~. ....... ......................... .... .......... .....
1985    44.2    0.16      71      65       12    148
1986   .44.4    0.15      66      68       is     149
1987   44.8    0.15       66      69       15     150
1988    45.0    0.15      68      69       16     153
1989    45.3    0.15      68      72       16     156
1990    45.5    0.15      93       75      16    185
1991    45.8    0.18     132      79       17     228
1992    46.0    0.30     188      8i       17     287
1993    46.3    0.50     281      86       17    385
1994    46.6    0.50     283      90       17     390
1995    46.8    0.60     331      94       18    443
1996    47.1    0.70     379      98       18    496
1997   47.3    0.80      429    .103       19     549
1998    47.6    0.90     478      107      19    604
1999    47.8    1.00     52S      112      19    659
2000    48.1    1.00     531      117      19    667
.. ...................... .... ...... ..........................
Average Annuat Growth
t1989-2000)            18.7X    4.5X    1.5X   i3.1X
TOTAL uESTERN SAMOA
Forecast Demand for Subscriber Connectiors
. ............................. ...... ........... ...... ....
Year   Popu-  Resid-  Resid- Business   Govt   Totat   Total
lation ential ential
(OOOs) DEL/100    DELs    OELs    OELs    DELs DEL/100
........... .................... . . .. ... ......     ....
1985  160.01    1.80   2,879   1,054      486   4,419    2.76
1986  160.90    1.79   2,875   1,071      492   4,438    2.76
1987  162.20    1.78   2.884   1,096      496   4,476    2.76
1988  163.10    1.81   2,949   1,108      507   4,564    2.80
1989  164.01    1.87   3,069   1,154      513   4,736    2.89
1990  164.92    2.01   3,323   1,269      519   5,110    3.10
1991  165.84    2.12   3,517   1,349      525   5,391    3.25
1992  166.76    2.28   3,810   1,428      531   5,768    3.46
1993  167.69    2.47   4,143   1,499      537   6,179    3.638
1994  168.62    2.50   4,215   1,560      544   6,319    3.75
1995  169.56    2.61   4,422   1,624      550   6,596    3.89
1996  170.50    2.72   4,633   1,690      557   6,880    4.03
1997  171.45    2.83   4,846   1,759      564   7,169    4.18
1998  172.40    2.94   5,062   1,831      571   7,464    4.33
1999  173.36    3.05   5,281   1,906      578   7,765    4.48
2000  174.33    3.08   5,367   1,984      585   7,935    4.55
....... ............ ... ...._. . .............. .. ...............
Average Annuat Growth
(1989-2000)             5.1X    5.0    1.2X    4.72



63
Apoendix  12
Page 6
TOR-CAST OF OEMANO FOR INTERNATIONAL PAID NINUTES
Year  NaturaL ResuLtant        Net    Estim Internat      Demand Cumutative     Demand
Increase Increase      Annuat   TotaL  Minutes    without    Network         with
Emigration   Living    /Year    Network Itfprovement   Network
Abroad          Improvement    Effect Inprovement
1985    163.0   160.0          3.0    85.0       6s6      558.8         0.0%     ss5.a
1986    164.3    160.9         3.4    88.4       8.6      763.4         0.0%     763.4
1987    165.2    162.2         3.0    91.5      10.7      982.6         0.0%     982.6
1988    166.6    163.1         3.5    94.9      10.7    1,015.9         1.0%   1,026.1
1989    167.5    164.0         3.5     98.4     10.7    1,053.3         4.0%   1,095.5
1990    168.4   164.9          3.5   102.0    10.7    1,091.0          11.0%   1,211.0
1991    169.4    165.8         3.5   105.5    10.7    1,128.8          16.0%   1,309.4
1992    170.3    166.S         3.6   109.1    10.7    1,166.8          22.0S   1,423.6
1993    171.3   167.7          3.6    112.6    10.7    1,205.1         29.0%   1,554.6
1994.   172.2   163.6          3.6    116.2    10.7    1,243.6         31.0X   1,629.1
1995    17,.2    169.6         3.6    119.8    10.7    1,282.2         35.0X   1,731.0
1996    174.1    170.5         3.6    123.5    10.7    1,321.1         39.01   1,836.4
1997    175.1    171.4         3.7   127.1      10.7    1,360.2        43.0X   1,945.2
1998    176.1    172.4         3.7   130.8    10.7    1,399.6          47.0%   2,057.4
1999    177.1    173.4         3.7    134.5   -i0.7    1,439.1         SO.O%   2,158.7
2000    178.0   174.3          3.7   138.2       10.7    1,478.9       52.0%   2,247.9
Average Annual Growth
(1989-2000)                                                     6.81
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



66
Appendix 13
Page 1
OUTLINE TERMS OF PETRENCE FOR CONSULTANT SERVICES FOR INSTTTlYFONAL
STRENGTHENING OF POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEPARTMENT
'A. OBJECTIVES
1.           The Technical Assistance seeks to address the near term need to
improve accounting records and financial and operational control, and the more
longer term  objective of -ass!bbb  the Governpent in the formulation of an
appropriate   regulatory   and   institutional   environment   for   future
telecommunications development. Accordingly, the Technical Assistance will
consist of two complementary components:
(i)  Component One will be concerned with assisting PTD with the introduction
of a full commercially based and computerized system of accounting and
internal control.
(ii)  Component Two will provide assistance and advice to the Government in
the areas of:
(a)  tariff setting policy and practice;
(b)  regulatory and institutional reform;
(c)  setting  of  broad  economic  and  financial  goals  for  the
telecommunications system;
(d)  preparation of a strategy and action plan for the eventual
corporatization or privatization of PTD.
B. COMPONENET ONE: IMPROVING FINANCIAL AND OPERATION CONTROL
(a) Terms of Reference
2.           This component will consist of two parts. Under Part A, termed the
Investigation and Recommendation Stage, a firm of Consultants will be required
to conduct a field study of PTD's requirements and prepare a report of findings
and recommnendations together with an implementation schedule. The report will
then be reviewed by the Government and the Bank prior to proceeding to Part B,
the Implementation Stage.
3.           Under Part A  the Ccnsultants will, among other things, need to
undertake the following:
(i)  Assist PrD to compile, as far as it is practicable to do so, a register
of all telecomwunications fixed assets as at 31 December 1988.
(ii)  Compile an inventory of and value, as of 31 December 1988, all PMT's
telecoununications assets at their estimated current market replacement
cost, realizable value, or historical cos+hich ever is the most
appropriate given the ages and degree of technological and economic
obsolescence each asset in question and its expected future life.
(Reference in cexc page 28, para. 108)



67
APpesrxL- 13
Page 2'
(iii)  Recommend an appropriate schedule of depreciation for fixed assets
including appropriate write off estimates for assets that are of no
further economic use to PMh.
(iv)  Designing an.appropriate system of full accrual based
commercial accounting for the telecommunications operations of PTD and
a related system of internal control. Both the accounting system and
related internal control system should conform with generally accepted
accounting and auditing principles. In undertaking this, specific
attention will need to be directed towards the following areas:
(a)  accounts receivable recording and management;
(b) cash control and management, including collections and bad debts
management;
(c) provision for O&M foreign exchange procurement and spare parts
inventories;
(d)  recording and management of systems assets.
(v)   Prepare a strategy and action plan for the computerization of the
proposed accounting sy-stem utilizing the existing computer harztare
resources of PTD. The strategy and action plan should, where possible,
make use of standardized computer software developed by the International
Telecommunication Union for small scale telecommunications systems. All
other software recommendations should be set within the context of a
generally  accepted  fourth  generation  applications  development
tool.
4.           Part B, the Implementation Stage, will be undertaken after the Bank
and the Government have reviewed and commented on the recommendations made under
Part A. Included under Part B will be:
(i) Creation and installation on computer system of:
(a) customer data base;
(b) assets register;
(c) spare parts inventory;
(d) accounts receivable;
(e) exchange and outside plant details, and;
(f) customer faults reporting, recording and follow-up.
(ii) Training local staff in use and operation of systems and procedures.
(iii)  Preparation of documentation and manuals for computer
systems, and accounting procedures.
(iv) Developing, where needed, appropriate couputer applications using an
accepted fourth generation applications development tool.
(v) Developing procedures to facilitate the easy translation of the
commercial accounts to the required Government reporting and contfol
formats for submission to Treasury.



68
Appendix 13
Page 3-
5.           In carrying out these tasks the Consultants will need to take into
consideration other recent studies (such as the ITU Master Plan Study ooaipleted
in 1986, and the Rationalization and Privatization Study undertaken by Arthur
'Young & Co. (Washington D.C.) in 1987).
(b) Reports
6.           The Consultants will be required to submit progress reports at
various stage of the work (at intervals yet to be determined). This will include
a report at the completion of Part A, that will be finalized after a tripartite
meeting between the Government, the Bank, and the Consultants to be held in
Western Samoa, and a final report at the conclusion of Part B.
(c) Timing
7.           The work will need to be carried out over a 12 month period
beginning in July/August 1989.
C.      COMPONENT ThO: INSTITIIIONAL AND ORGANIZATIONAL REFORM
(a)  Terms of Reference
8.           The main objective of this part of the technical assistance is to
provide the government of Western Samoa with expertise in the areas of
institutional analysis, policy formulation, regulation, tariffs and long range
planning.   Long range planning includes organizational reform, operational
assessment, human resources and training.
9.           The purpose of the Technical Assistanee is to study the situation
and then develop a detailed set of recoumendations for the Government concerning
structural and operational changes required for Western Samoa's telecommnunication
services. This will include proposals for restructuring the telecommunications
Department and specification of the necessary sector policies and -regulations
for its operation, long term develoa3ment and financial viability.
10.          A  detailed  sector  analysis  focusing  on  the  operational,
institutional and management practices and the policies and regulations for
telecommunications was conducted in April 1988 and again January 1989.  These
reports will be made available to the Consultants.
(b) Specific Objectives
11.          The specific ob,ectives of the technical assistanoe activities are:
(1) To focus on, and identify, the role of telecoamnunications within the
context of Western Samoa's national development plans and planning
objectives.



69
Appendix 13
Page 4
(2) To assist the government in determining the economic and social impact
of teleconuunication investments nationally and within specific sectors.
This will provide measures of the economic benefits derived from the
telecommunications investment program.
(3) To assist the Government to develop sector policies which define the
technical,  economic,  structural,  institutional  and  organizational
objectives for telecommunications.
(4)  To define regulations, consistent with the defined policies, which
facilitate the efficient and equitable operation of Western Samoa's
telecommunications services within a given institutional structure.
The structure could be:
(a)  a Government Department; or
(b) a corporation (either wholly Government owned or with a mixture of
Government and private equity); or
(c) a management contract.
(5) To develop a comprehensive training and human resources plan in co-
operation with the government and PID. The plan will detail the short-
term  (2 years), medium-term  (5  years)  and  long-term  (10 years)
requirements. Included will be: a manpower forecast, training needs,
funding requirements and sources of expertise.
(6) To provide on-going advice and management expertise to PTD on
organizational issues, operating procedures, processes and long-term
planning.
(b) Tasks
12.          In undertaking the above, the consultants will need to complete:
(1) An appraisal of the country's economic and social objectives will require
the review of the most recent five year plans, examination of ongoing
sector activities and collection of relevant economic and social
indicators.
(2) An assessment of economic impact that will consider the relationship of
the activities within the telecommunications sector to those of the
national economy.
(3) An assessment of the goals and objectives for the sector and
consideration of the prevailing Government position vis such factors as
privatization and corporatization.
(4) The development of a training and manpower plan requires a detailed
review of the existing situation, assessment of the type of training now
available, its quality and relevance to Western Samoa, discussion with
bilateral and multilateral donors and determination in co-operation with
PTD, PSC and Treasury of a long-term plan.



70
..
Aimer..x 13
Page 5
13.          The development of policies should take full account of the overall
character of the telecommunications services, from a technical, economic and
performance perspective.  Policies are required to address the full scope of
,technical, economic and performance requirements, among them:
(i) technical standards;
(ii)  franchising and licensing;
(iii)  privatization and corporatization;
(iv)  investments and return on investment;
(v) tariffs, rates and cross-subsidization;
(vi)  interconnection, international services;
(vii)  private networks, reselling;
(viii)  spectrum management;
(=x) service performance and standards;
(x) manpower and human resources, and
(xi)  long range planning.
14.          The setting of Policies will require consideration of new regulatory
structures and procedures.  The tasks include developing; based on the specific
policies and proposed strategies:
(1)  A regulatory structure which provides a degree of autonomy for a
commission or commissioner.
(2)  The terms of reference for the regulator, methods of appointment,
review and adjudication.
(3)  Specific adjustments to the existing regulation(s) which make them
consistent with new government sector policies.
(4)  Assist the government to define regulations consistent with the
establishment of a Telecommmnications Corporation.
(5)  Define the required rate adjustment and tariff setting procedures.
(6)  Assist,  in  cooperation  with  the  telecommuunications  steering
committee, in the overall restructuring of the telecommunications
sector.
15.          The institutional strengthening, setting of policies and definitions
of regulations are primarily sector activities. Complementing that activity is
the need to set policies and procedures for the telecommunications department.
These policies and procedures must be consistent with those of the sector and
to a great extent are determined by regulations. In the context of Western Samoa
the future nature or character of the telecommunication department remains to
a large extent indeterminate. However it is likely the services will reimein
either a government department or they wilI be corporatized. At present the
possibility for other alternatives is somewhat remote but this could include for
example:
(i) a management contract; or
(ii) privatization of international services/public monopoly for
domestic services.



7 1
Auvendix 13
Page 6
16.          The  technical  assistance  should  provide  support  to  the
telecommunxications department for:
(1)  Development of policies for operations, procedures and technical
standards;
(2) Determination of Rates and Pricing for services;
(3)  Setting Performance Standards;
(4) Improvements in Customer Services and Quality of Services;
(5) Development of a man-power and huma.n resources plan;
(6) Determination of an organizational structure consistent with the
public or private sector character of the telecommunications
operations; and
('f) Assistance in the possible transition from a government department
to a corporation.
17.          At present the methods used to set tariffs and the adjustment
procedures are largely ad hoc. Technical assistance is required to develop new
approaches for tariff setting and adjustments.  This should ex,amine procedures
which consider long-term investment requirements, costs, economic efficiency,
distribution of services and broad sector and departmental policies. Other
principal concerns are:
(1)  Cross-subsidization between business and residence services.
(2) Rate-balancing - long distance/local services.
(3)  Rural/urban cross-subsidization.
(4) Usage sensitive pricing.
18.          Technical assistance is also required to develop a long term
training and manpower plan for the telecommunications sector which takes account
of the overall sector objectives and national policies. Specific requirements
include:
(1) Development, in conjunction with the PTD, Treasury and PSC of a
manpower and human resources policy statement for the sector.
(2)  Appraisal of the countries, education system and resources aid areas
where technical training for telecommnunications could be enhanced.
(3) To determine, in cooperation with the PMT and PSC, the local and
overseas training requirements. To identify where training could
be obtained, funding sources and the nature of bilateral and
multilateral assistance.
(4)  Develop qualifications and skills requirements for the technical
and management positions needed for the telecommunications sector
in the short and long term.
(5) Assist PTD's Chief, Human Resources and Training, to define the
requirements for the new telecommunications training facility. This
would include, equipment, course materials, instructors, bWigets
and support staff.  (Non-instructor based services should also be
considered).



72
.Appendix 13
Page TN
(6) Develop a long-term Hhmn Resources and Manpower plan incorporating
the various components and requirements which considers alternative
institutional structures for the telecommunications services.
19.          The technical assistance team will work with the Telecommunications
Steering Committee (TSC) and the management of PTD to define the draft policy
statements.   The TSC (composed of representatives from Treasury, Attorney
General's and PrD) will co-ordinate the activities between the Technical
Assistance Team, various ministries and Cabinet'.
(c) Timn
20.          Overall timing for the technical assistance program would be
approximately 15 months. The activities should commence in the third quarter 1989
and proceed to approximately third quarter 1990. The timing of consultant
activities will be set in accordarnce with the timing of the Government's Action
Plan for Institutional Strengthening.
(d) Reports
21.          The Consultants will be required to submit progress reports at
various stage of the work (at intervals yet to be determined). This will be
followed by a completion report that will be finalized after a tripartite meeting
between the Government, the Bank, and the Consultants to be held in Western
Samoa.



73
Aroendix 14,
Page 1.
FINANCLAL INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN INCLUDING UNDERLYING ASSUMPTIONS
1.      The FIRR was estimated using a  "with" and "without" the Project
comparison. The major assumptions are:
(a)  The FIRR calculations reflect constant November 1988 prices.
I
(b)  Capital costs include all incremental capital expenditures associated
with the Project but exclude JIDC and price contingency provisions.
(c)  Incremental revenue estimates are based on forecast incremental
traffic growth. Given that the system is at the effective limit of its
capacity, all traffic growth has been ascribed to the Project from FY1992
to Ff1996. From FY1996, when the existing cross bar exchange at Apia is
retired, all traffic is ascribed to the Project facilities. Domestic
tariffs are assumed to be maintained in real terms. International tariffs
are assumed to be reduced by an average of 2.5 per cent per annum in real
terms owing to lower costs from operating the international access
arising from the introduction of the DAMA satellite system.
(d)  Incremental cost estimates are based on estimates of the additional
staffing and other costs that are attributable to the Project after
allowance has been made for improved productivity and reduced maintenance
co3ts associated with the new equipment.
2.      As indicated, the FDRR for the Project is 27.3 per cent.
(Reference in cext page 30, para. ll5)



74
Aopendix 14
Page 2
FINANCIAL INTERNAL RATE OF RETURNN
(USS 000 in constant 1989 values)
FIRR  =          27.32
REVENUE ANALYSIS:               1989    1990   1991   1992   1993    1994    1995   1996   1997   1998   1999    2000
Number of Subscribers        4, n6   4,736  4,736  5,768  6,179   6,319   6,596  6,880  7,169  7,464  7,765   7,935
I national Paid Hinutes      1,095.  1,211  1,309  1,424  1,555   1,629   1,731  1,836  1,945  2,057  2,159   2,248
Percent Real Tariff Increase:
Domestic Tolls              95.02    0.02   0.0X   0.02   0.02    0.01    0.01   0.02   0.02   0.02   0.02    0.02
International TolLs         0.0X    0.0X   0.01   0.02   0.02    0.02    0.02   0.02   0.02   0.0X   0.02    0.02
Rental                         8S8     888    888  1,081  1,158   1,185   1,237  1,290  1,344  1,399  1,456   1,488
Metered Calls                1,554   1,554  1,554  1,734  1,986   2,262   2,587  2,961  3,386  3,862  4,391   4,950
Intand Tolls                    72      72     72     80     92      105     120    137    157    179    203      229
Overseas Calls               6,451   7,133  7,712  8,385  9,156   9,595  10,196 10,816 11,457 12,118 12,715  13,240
Telegrams                      287     237    2S7    302    317    333       349    367    185    404    424      446
Telex Rentat                   311     311    311    327   343       360     378    397    417    438    460      483
Telex Calls                  2,032   2,032  2,032  Z,134  2,241   2,353   2,470  2,594  2,724  2,860  3,003   3,153
Misce4laneous                1,219   1,219  1,219  1,280  1,344   1,411   1,481  1,555  1,633  1,715  1,800   1,890
........ ............. ................. ................................... .. ........... ........... ..............-.. .......  . .......... . ...
TOTAL REVENUE                 12,815  13,495 14,075 15,322 16,637  17,603  18,818 20,117 21,502 22,974 24,452  25,8-3
General Working Expenses    4,318   4,596  4,672  4,959  5,249   5,416   5,645  6,036  6,452  6,895  7,339   7,769
PTD's OPERATING SURPLUS        8.497   8,899  9,403 10,363 11,38S  12,187  13,173 14,082 15,050 16,080 17,112  18,109
Project Portion                  02      02     02    852    98Z    1022    1112   1202   1002   1002   100%    1%00
............. ......................... ......... ................. .. ......... ................ ...._
GROSS INFLOU FROM PROJECT:       nil     nil    nil  8,766 11,129  12,456  14,633 14,082 15,050 16,080 17,112  18,109
Incremental Staffing:         883      883    883    883    883     883      883    883    883    883    883     883
Incremental Maintenance:      nil      200    400    714    714     714      714    714    714    714    714      714
NET INFLOW FROM PROJECT:        (883) (1,083)(1,283) 7,169  9,532  10,859 13,036 12,484 13,453 14,482 15,515  16,512
Project Capital tnvestment:         17,136  8,568  Z,856                                                      t11,424)
NET CASH FLOW FROM PROJECT      (883)(18,219)(9,851) 4,313  9,532  10,859  13,036 12,484 13,453 14,482 15,515  27,936



75
Appendix '1.5
Page 1
ECCNOMIC INMKAL RATE OF RSTURN INCLUDING UNDERLYING ASSUMTIONS
1.      For the reasons cited in the text, the EIRR analysis has been based on
the same forecast traffic and tariff levels assumed for the FIRR calculation
while the costs have been based on the financial costs of the Project but
excluding taxes and duties.                    s
2.      The estimated EIRR for the Project is 33.8 per cent.
3.      Standard conversion factors have not been used to adjust financial costs
to economic costs arising from the freely tradeable nature of the local currency.
(Reference in cext page 30, para. 116)



76                                       A1ecd-          5
Apgkn 2
ECONOMIC INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN
fItR R                33.8X
._   ... ...... ...... ............................................................ __..-
Year Incremwntal Incrementat  Incremental  Incremental  Incremental
Capitat    Staffing  maintenance   Gross Cash           Net Cash
Costs        Costs          Costs        Inflow         tnflow
. .  _ ........ _ ., .. . ............_...........................,................... ...._..... .. .
1989                        883                                        (883)
1990       12,966           8S3           200            *         (14,049)
1991        6,483           883           400                       (7,766)
1992        2,161           883           714          8,766         5,008
1993                        883           714         11,129         9,532
1994                        883           714         12,456        10.859
1995                        883           714         14,633        13,036
1996                        883           714         14,082        12,484
1997                        883           714         15,050        13,453
1998                        883           714         16,080        14,482
1999                        883           714         17,112        15,515
2000       (8,64)           883            714        18,109        25,156
1/.   Excluding taxes and duties.



