Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2034 WSO
                   (Telecommunications Project)
                              between
                INDEPENDENT STATE OF WESTERN SAMOA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                       Dated August 2, 1989
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2034 WSO
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated August 2, 1989, between INDEPENDENT STATE OF
WESTERN  SAMOA  (the   Borrower)   and  INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project;
     (B)  the Borrower intends to  obtain  from the Asian Develop-
ment Bank (the ADB) a loan  (the  ADB Loan) from the ADB's Special
Funds resources in various  currencies equivalent to seven million
four hundred thousand dollars  ($7,400,000) to assist in financing
the Project on the  terms  and  conditions  to  be set forth in an
agreement between the Borrower  and  the  ADB (the ADB Loan Agree-
ment);
Page  2
     (C)  the Borrower also intends to obtain from the ADB a tech-
nical assistance grant (the TA Grant) up to the equivalent of four
hundred sixty thousand dollars  ($460,000)  to assist in financing
the Project on the  terms  and  conditions  to  be set forth in an
agreement between the  Borrower  and  the  ADB  (the ADB Technical
Assistance Agreement);
     (D)  ADB and the Association  intend  to enter into an agree-
ment a copy of which  agreement  will be furnished to the Borrower
(the Administration Letter),  making  arrangements  for the ADB to
process  applications  for  withdrawal  of  the  proceeds  of  the
financing to be provided severally  by the ADB and the Association
and regulating certain other matters of common interest in connec-
tion with such financing;
     (E)  the Borrower has  obtained  from the International Tele-
communications Union (the ITU) a  grant  for the equivalent of one
hundred  thousand  dollars  ($100,000)  for  the  purposes  of the
Project; and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Condi-
tions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02. Unless  the    context  otherwise requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "PTD" means the  Posts and Telecommunications Department
within  the  Ministry  of  Post  Office,  Telecommunication, Civil
Aviation, Airport Authority, Marine,  Shipping, Transport and Fire
Services of the Borrower, and any successor or successors thereto;
     (b)  "ITU Grant" means a grant  referred to in Recital (E) of
this Loan Agreement to be  provided  by  ITU for financing part of
the consulting services under the Project;
     (c)  "Governing Laws" means the  Post  Office Act of 1972 and
such other Act or Acts  as  enacted  or  as  may be enacted by the
Borrower concerning  PTD's  responsibility,  inter  alia,  for the
operation of the System and  such  other laws or regulations which
may govern at any time the operation of the System;
     (d)  "Implementing Agency"  means  PTD,  which is responsible
for the implementation of the Project;
     (e)  "Project Executing Agency" means the Treasury Department
of the Borrower, which is responsible  for the carrying out of the
Project;
     (f)  "Project Facilities" means  the  equipment and materials
provided or to be provided under the Project; and
     (g)  "System"  means  the  assets  and  facilities  presently
operated by PTD and includes the Project facilities.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
Page  3
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to in the
Development Credit  Agreement,  an  amount  in  various currencies
equivalent to three million  six  hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 3,600,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be  made) in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to  this  Agreement  and  to  be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower may, for the  purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in dollars a special  account  in a bank on terms and
conditions satisfactory  to  the  Association.  Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special  Account  shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date  shall be December 31, 1992 or
such  later  date   as   the   Association  shall  establish.  The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a)  The  Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge  on  the  principal  amount  of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment  charge  shall  accrue:  (i)  from a date
sixty days after the date of  this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit  Account  or  cancelled;  and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June  30 immediately preceding the accrual date
or at such other rates as may  be set from time to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above.   The  rate  set as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied  as  of  the  next payment date in that
year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of  any  kind  imposed  by,  or  in  the  territory  of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in  the  currency  specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section  4.02  of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency  or  currencies  as  may from time to
time be designated or selected  pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
     Section 2.05. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semi-annually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable  on  each  May  1  and November 1
commencing  November  1,  1999  and   ending  May  1,  2029.  Each
installment to and  including  the  installment  payable on May 1,
2009 shall be one percent (1%)  of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
     (b)  Whenever (i) the  Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
Page  4
by the  Executive  Directors  of  the  Association  and  after due
consideration  by  them  of  the  development  of  the  Borrower's
economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments under para-
graph (a) above  by  requiring  the  Borrower  to  repay twice the
amount of each such  installment  not  yet due until the principal
amount of the Credit shall  have  been  repaid. If so requested by
the Borrower,  the  Association  may  revise  such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all  of the increase in the amounts of
such installments,  the  payment  of  interest  at  an annual rate
agreed with the Association on  the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the
judgment of the Association,  such  revision  shall not change the
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modifi-
cation.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08. The currency  of  the  United States of America
is hereby  specified  for  the  purposes  of  Section  4.02 of the
General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall  carry out the Project with due
diligence  and  efficiency  and  in  conformity  with  appropriate
administrative, engineering, environmental, financial and telecom-
munications practices, and shall  provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and  other  resources required for the
Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and  except  as  the  Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the implementation program set forth in Schedule 6
to the ADB Loan Agreement. References  to the ADB in such Schedule
shall be read, for the purpose of this Agreement, to be references
to the Association.
     Section  3.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Credit shall be governed by
the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The Association may, by notice to the Borrower,
delegate to the ADB under  an administration letter, for the dura-
tion of such period  as  may  be  set  forth in the Administration
Letter, any or  all  of  its  functions and responsibilities under
Articles II, III and IV  of  this Agreement and the Borrower shall
comply with the provisions of the  said  Articles as if the ADB is
substituted for the  Association  therein.  The  obligation of the
Borrower to  comply  with  said  Articles  II,  III  and  IV shall
continue in force  and  effect  notwithstanding any termination or
suspension of such delegated functions and responsibilities to the
ADB under the Administration Letter.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures in  respect  of  the  Project  of  the departments or
Page  5
agencies of the Borrower responsible  for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a) of this  Section  including those for the
               Special Account for  each  fiscal  year audited, in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association,  as soon as available,
               but in any case  not  later  than nine months after
               the end of each such  year, a certified copy of the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in such  detail  as the Association shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said  records,  accounts  and  the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request, including without limitation on
               the foregoing  its  unaudited  accounts  as soon as
               available, but not  later  than  three months after
               the end of each such year.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least  one year after the Associa-
               tion has received the audit  for the fiscal year in
               which the last  withdrawal  from the Credit Account
               was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures and internal controls  involved in their pre-
               paration, can be relied upon to support the related
               withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified, namely,
that:
     (a)  (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
                (A)  The right  of  the  Borrower  to withdraw the
                     proceeds of the ADB Loan, the TA Grant or the
                     ITU   Grant   shall   have   been  suspended,
                     cancelled or terminated in  whole or in part,
                     pursuant  to  the   terms  of  the  agreement
                     providing therefor, or
Page  6
                (B)  the  ADB  Loan  shall  have  become  due  and
                     payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
         (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this  paragraph shall not apply
               if the Borrower establishes  to the satisfaction of
               the   Association   that:   (A)   such  suspension,
               cancellation,  termination  or  prematuring  is not
               caused by the  failure  of  the Borrower to perform
               any of its  obligations  under  such agreement; and
               (B) adequate funds for the Project are available to
               the  Borrower  from  other  sources  on  terms  and
               conditions consistent with  the  obligations of the
               Borrower under this Agreement.
     (b)  The Governing Laws or  any  provision thereof shall have
been repealed, suspended or  amended  in  any  manner which in the
reasonable opinion of the Association will or may adversely affect
the carrying out of the  Project  or  the operation of the Project
facilities.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) the event specified in  paragraph  (b) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur; and  (b)  any events specified in paragraph
(a) (i) (B)  of  Section  5.01    of  this  Agreement shall occur,
subject to the proviso of paragraph (a) (ii) of that Section.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  6.01.  The  following   event  is  specified  as  an
additional  condition  to  the  effectiveness  of  the Development
Credit Agreement within the  meaning  of  Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions, namely, that  all  the conditions precedent to
the effectiveness of the ADB  Loan, other than conditions relating
to the effectiveness of this Agreement, shall have been fulfilled.
     Section 6.02. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The  Minister  of  Finance  of  the Borrower is
designated as representative of  the  Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Treasury Department
          Government of Western Samoa
          P.O. Box 3017
          Apia, Western Samoa
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                FINSEC                           233 TREASURY SX
                Apia
                                              Telecopy:
                                                 (0685) 21 312
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
Page  7
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                INDEVAS                          440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective  names  and  delivered at the principal
offices of the Bank, as of the day and year first above written.
                          INDEPENDENT STATE OF WESTERN SAMOA
                          By /s/ Robin Mauala
                                         Authorized Representative
                          INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          By /s/ Amnon Golan
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Cable, wire and          2,700,000         100% of foreign
     materials associated                       expenditures
     with the telephones
     outside plant
     (including
     installation)
(2)  Radio transmission         542,000         100% of foreign
     equipment (including                       expenditures
     installation)
(3)  Unallocated                358,000
                              _________
     TOTAL                    3,600,000
2.   For the purposes of this  Schedule the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures  in  the  currency  of any country other
than that of the Borrower for  goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower.
Page  8
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objective of the Project  is  to modernize and expand the
telecommunications system of the Borrower.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
     Supplementing the  existing  Apia  telephone  exchange with a
digital stored program control  exchange  with an initial capacity
of 3,000  subscriber  lines  (including  100 international lines),
expandable up to 10,000 lines.
Part B:
     Replacing the manual  exchanges  at  Faleasiu, Salelologa and
Asau with small-sized  independent  digital  exchanges, or digital
remote switching units, with  initial  line capacities of 700, 700
and 250 subscriber lines, respectively.
Part C:
     Installing at Lufilufi a  new small-sized independent digital
exchange, or a  digital  remote  switching  unit,  with an initial
capacity of 250  subscriber  lines  and  a  final  capacity of 400
subscriber lines.
Part D:
     Providing digital microwave links  between Apia and the other
four locations indicated in Parts B and C above.
Part E:
     Upgrading and expanding  subscriber cable networks, telephone
instruments, and public  coin-operated  telephones  in each of the
above exchange areas.
Part F:
     Constructing and equipping  a  facility  for  the training of
technical and management staff of PTD.
Part G:
     Supplying vehicles,  computing  equipment, training equipment
and mechanical equipment.
                           *   *   *   *
     The  Project   includes   consulting   services  for  Project
implementation  and  training  programs,  for  the  management and
technical staff of PTD.
                           *   *   *   *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1992.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Procurement of Goods
Part A:  International Competitive Bidding
Page  9
     Goods shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with procedures consistent with those  set forth in Sections I and
II of the "Guidelines  for  Procurement  under  IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:  Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to each  contract for goods, the procedures
set forth in paragraphs 2  and  4  of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply. Where payments for  such  contract are to be made out
of the  Special  Account,  such  procedures  shall  be modified to
ensure that the two conformed  copies  of the contract required to
be furnished to the Association  pursuant  to said paragraph 2 (d)
shall be furnished to the  Association  prior to the making of the
first payment  out  of  the  Special  Account  in  respect of such
contract.
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the  Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, said
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said para-
graph 3 shall  be  furnished  to  the  Association  as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to  paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized  withdrawals  from  the  Credit Account on the
basis  of  statements  of  expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall be
retained in accordance with  Section  4.01  (c)(ii) of this Agree-
ment.
2.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories"  means the Categories set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed  out  of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated  from  time  to  time  to  the  eligible  Categories  in
accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to SDR 350,000 to  be  withdrawn  from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account  pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account  has  been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and  subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
Page  10
     (a)  For  withdrawals  of   the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish to  the  Association  a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount
of the Authorized  Allocation.  On  the  basis  of such request or
requests, the Association shall, on  behalf of the Borrower, with-
draw from the Credit  Account  and  deposit in the Special Account
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)   (i)  For  replenishment  of  the  Special  Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
                for deposits  into  the  Special  Account  at such
                intervals as the Association shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the  time of each such request, the
                Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Association the
                documents and other  evidence required pursuant to
                paragraph 4 of  this  Schedule  for the payment or
                payments  in  respect  of  which  replenishment is
                requested.  On the basis of each such request, the
                Association  shall,  on  behalf  of  the Borrower,
                withdraw from the Credit  Account and deposit into
                the Special Account  such  amount  as the Borrower
                shall have requested and  as shall have been shown
                by said documents and  other evidence to have been
                made  out  of  the  Special  Account  for eligible
                expenditures.
All such deposits shall be  withdrawn  by the Association from the
Credit Account under  the  respective  eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to  the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such  payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, the Association shall  not  be  required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time,  the  Association shall have determined
that all  further  withdrawals  should  be  made  by  the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions
of Article  V  of  the  General  Conditions  and  paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
     (b)  once  the  total   unwithdrawn   amount  of  the  Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories,  less the amount of any out-
standing special commitment entered  into  by the Association pur-
suant to Section 5.02  of  the  General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Credit  allocated  to  the  eligible
Categories shall follow such  procedures  as the Association shall
specify by notice to the  Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall
be made only after and  to  the  extent that the Association shall
have been satisfied that all  such amounts remaining on deposit in
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized
in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the  Special  Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount  not  eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule;  and  (ii)  was  not  justified  by the evidence
furnished to the  Association,  the  Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Association:  (A) provide such additional evidence
as the Association may  request;  or  (B) deposit into the Special
Account (or, if the  Association  shall  so request, refund to the
Page  11
Association) an amount equal to the  amount of such payment or the
portion  thereof  not  so  eligible  or  justified.    Unless  the
Association shall  otherwise  agree,  no  further  deposit  by the
Association into  the  Special  Account  shall  be  made until the
Borrower has  provided  such  evidence  or  made  such  deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any  portion  of the funds on deposit in
the Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this  Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account  for  subsequent   withdrawal   or   for  cancellation  in
accordance  with  the  relevant    provisions  of  this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
