Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20243
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(LOAN 37000; 3700A; 37020)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$211 MILLION
TO THE
NATIONAL POWR CORPORATION AND
THE PHILIPPINE NATIONAL OIL COMPANY
FOR THE
LEYTE-CEBU GEOTHERMAL PROJECT
MARCH 31, 2000
Energy and Mining Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective as of March 20, 2000)
Currency Unit = Philippine Peso (P)
P1.00 = US$ 0.024
US$ 1.00 = P40.95
Average Exchange Rates during Project Years
1993  US$1= P27.12
1994  US$1= P26.42
1995  US$1= P25.71
1996  US$1= P26.22
1997  US$1= P29.47
1998  US$1= P40.89
1999  US$1= P39.06
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB          Asian Development Bank
BOO          Build-Own-Operate
BOT          Build-Operate-Transfer
DENR         Departrnent of Environment and Natural Resources
EIA          Environmental Impact Assessment
EOIS         Efficiency and Operational Improvement Study
ERB          Energy Regulatory Board
ESP          Energy Sector Plan
IDC          Interest During Construction
lPP          Independent Power Producer
LLGP         Leyte-Luzon Geothermal Project
NPC          National Power Corporation
PDP          Power Development Program
PNOC         Philippine National Oil Corporation
PNOC-EDC   PNOC Energy Development Corporation
PPA          Power Purchase Agreement
PTRP         Power Transmission and Rehabilitation Project
ROW          Right-of-Way
TGRP         Transimission Grid Reinforcement Project
Vice President:   Jemal Kassum
Country Manager/Director:   Vinay Bhargava
Sector Manager/Director:   Yoshihiko Sumi
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Selina Shum



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Philippines
Leyte-Cebu Geothermal Project
Loans No. 3700; 3700A; 3702
CONTENTS
Page No.
1.     Project Data ........................................................1
2.    Principal Performance Ratings .......................................................I1
3.     Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry .......................I
4.     Achievement of Objective and Outputs .................       .......................................3
5.     Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome ........................................................9
6.     Sustainability .......................................................                    11
7.     Bank and Borrower Performance .................................................. .... 13
8.     Lessons Learned .......................................................                   14
9.     Partner Comments ....................................................... 15
10.   Additional Information .......................................................             16
Annex 1: Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix .17
Annex 2: Project Costs and Financing .19
Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits .21
Annex 4: Bank Inputs .24
Annex 5: Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components .25
Annex 6: Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance .26
Annex 7: Key Performance Indicators: Energy Sector Plan .27
Annex 8: Key Performance Indicators for NPC .32
Annex 9: PNOC-EDC Financial Indicators .34
Annex 10: Economic Value of Installed IPP Capacities           ........................................ 35
Annex 11: PNOC-EDC Financial Rate of Return on Project Components   .              .37
Annex 12: ICR Mission Aide Memoire                 ..39
Annex 13: Borrower's ICR: PNOC-EDC                   ..45
Annex 14: Borrower's ICR: NPC                  ..56
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P004584                                       Project Name: LEYTE CEBU GEOTHERMAL
Team Leader: Selina Wai Sheung Shum                       TL Unit: EASEG
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: March 31, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: LEYTE CEBU GEOTHERMAL                             LIC Number: 37000; 3700A; 37020
Country/Department: PHILIPPINES                                          Region: East Asia and Pacific
Region
Sector/subsector: PT - Thermal
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  10/16/89                                 Effective: 11/12/96           07/18/94
Appraisal:  04/13/93                                  MTR:
Approval:  02/03/94                                Closing: 06/30/98             09/30/99
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: NPC AND PNOC / NPC AND PNOC-EDC
Other Partners: BOT Private Power Generation Contractors; Nordic Investment Bank/Nordic
Development Fund
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jemal Kassum                              Gautam S. Kaji
Country Manager:     Vinay K. Bhargava                          Callisto E. Madavo
Sector Manager:      Yoshihiko Sumi                             Vineet Nayyar
Team Leader at ICR:   Selina Wai Sheung Shum                    Claudio Fernandez
ICR Primary A uthor:   Selina Wai Sheung Shum; Mikio
Matsumura
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: U
Sustainability: UN
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        U
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The objectives of the Project are to, inter alia, (a) improve the efficiency and overall performance
of the energy sector; (b) assist the Borrower in meeting the rapidly increasing demand for electricity power
in Cebu province, by expanding the geothermal power generation capacity and reinforcing its related power



transmission system; (c) strengthen the Borrower's financial viability and institutional capabilities to enable
it to undertake its long-term investment program; and (d) promote private sector participation in geothermal
power generation projects in the Philippines.
The project objectives were consistent with the countrys priorities and the Bank's Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) prevailing at the time of project preparation/loan approval (1989-94).
Specifically, the CAS aimed at assisting the country to regain a sustainable high growth path led by the
expansion of an internationally competitive private sector through such priority measures as improved
policy and project implementation as well as provision of infrastructure. The project design is directly
relevant towards achieving the above objectives.
Overall Energy Sector Performance. In agreement with the Bank, an Energy Sector Plan (ESP)
was developed by the government to lay out policies and define improvements in all areas of concern in the
sector as well as their completion schedule. Implementation of the ESP was supported by a series of Bank
operations in the sector, including this Project.
Power Transmission and Promotion of Private Power Generation. In response to the power crisis
and the consequent opportunity cost of economic losses in the early 1 990s, the project objectives relating to
the physical components were directed at ensuring the successful implementation of the Government's "fast
track" Build-Operate-Transfer (BOT) private power program. In particular, they were essential to achieve
the interrelated project objective of promoting private sector participation in geothermal power generation
projects by transmission of the power generated.
Strengthening the Finances of NPC and PNOC-EDC. The ESP noted above included actions
directed at strengthening the finances of sector institutions, including the National Power Corporation
(NPC) and Philippine National Oil Corporation - Energy Development Corporation (PNOC-EDC). The
planned measures included privatization of the two institutions as well as various other actions (e.g. tariff
adjustment, equity infusion) to enable NPC to achieVe financial viability. The minimum financial
performance targets agreed with NPC and PNOC-EDC were incorporated in the financial covenants.
Strengthening the Institutional Capability. The Project included a component for technical
assistance and training to strengthen project implementation, enhance operational efficiency and power
sector investment planning/reform.
3.2 Revised Objective:
3.3 Original Components:
I . PNOC-EDC's Components comprised the following: (i) development of a 185 MW Geothermal steam
field, including steam collection and power interconnection system (PNOC-EDC); (ii) carrying out a
BOT Contract between PNOC-EDC and private sector companies to construct and operate 185 MW
geothermal power plants; and (iii) technical assistence for project implementation.
2. NPC's Components comprised the following: (i) construction of an overhead transmission line in Leyte
(about 77 km at 230 kV) and another in Cebu (about 93 km at 230 KV, and about 27 km at 138 KV);
(ii) installation of submarine cables (about 32 km at 230 kV) linking the Leyte and Cebu lines; (iii)
upgrading of NPC's existing 138 kV and 69 kV power transmission facilities in Cebu; (iv) provision of
goods under the Energy Sector Project (to cover the impact of the Yen revaluation under the Bank's
- 2 -



special commitment for irrevocable letters of credit); and (v) technical assistance consultancies for the
design and preparation of tender documents for two hydro projects (totalling about 400MW);
institutional support consultancies to implement the Project, NPC's Power Development Program
(PDP) and the recommendations of the Efficiency and Operational Improvement Study (EOIS).
3.4 Revised Components:
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Overall, quality at entry is rated as marginally unsatisfactory, with the PNOC-EDC components
rated as satisfactory and NPC components rated as unsatisfactory. In hindsight, the project implementation
schedule in the SAR proves to be overly optimistic in its critical assumption that NPC could successfully
address the long standing implementation problems of tardy procurement and the right-of-way (ROW)
issues.
*   NPC's implementation delays. At the time of project appraisal, the risks of NPC's tardy procurement
procedures were considered to have been mitigated by the reorganization of NPC and all the key bids
were underway. Further, NPC and PNOC-EDC had appointed high-level project directors to
coordinate all project activities. The satisfactory implementation performance of PNOC-EDC's
components confirmed their readiness for project implementation. By contrast, the substantial
implementation delays encountered by NPC reflected, in part, its inadequate readiness for project
implementation at the time of loan approval, particularly in regard to the resettlement action plan.
Indeed, the project appraisal failed to identify the substantial risks related to ROW issues which had
contributed to delays in the implementation of NPC's projects.
* Risk Assessment. In light of the substantial uncertainties of the operating environment, it is not clear if
a sufficiently rigorous risk analysis had been performed to avoid overly optimistic expectations of the
project outcome related to NPC's finances and its project components, paying particular attention to the
following: (i) the risks related to fixed obligations under the "take-or-pay" provisions of the BOT
contracts, taking into account potential implementation delays, market risks and mismatch in currencies
between the revenues and liabilities of the project entities; (ii) the risks of delayed and lower power
tariff adjustments; (iii) the impact of competition from new IPPs and self-generation by industrial
users; and (iv) the impact of combination of adverse factors on the project economics and entities'
finances.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4. 1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
This Project is one in a series of recent operations through which the Bank supported the
implementation of the aforementioned ESP and reduction of bottlenecks in power transmission to promote
economic growth. In particular, the Bank loan for the Power Transmission and Rehabilitation Project
(PTRP) was approved six months prior to this Project and the Implementation Completion Report for the
PTRP (dated April 1998) set a precedent for evaluating the outcomes of this and other subsequent projects
in the series.
Despite the achievement of physical objective. the overall project outcome is rated as
unsatisfactory mainly because (i) NPC has maintained its precarious financial situation and the objective of
strengthening the financial viability of the project entities has not been achieved; and (ii) the high cost of
- 3 -



meeting the Project's physical objective was a contributing factor to this situation, and consequently a
negative net present value (NPV) is currently estimated for the economics of the Project. NPC's financial
viability was seen as critical for the improved performance of the power sector, since the Corporation's
financial problems and consequent under-investment were considered to have been one of the key
contributing factors leading to the power crisis. Hence, ensuring the sustainability of the Project's physical
objective to eliminate the power crisis was also dependent on achieving the longer term financial objective.
Sectoral Improvement Objective. Although many of the actions in the ESP have been implemented
(Annex 7), a major issue of concern is the protracted delays by Congress in the passage of (i) a power
sector restructuring bill; and (ii) a geothermal bill to increase financial incentives for investment in
geothermal development. The current fiscal regime for geothermal development does not allow for a level
playing field with competing imported fossil fuels (which are taxed at a much lower rate) and hinders
private sector investment in the sector.
Financial Objective. The legal agreements under this Project included the following financial
performance covenants: (a) for NPC, a minimum of 8% rate of return (ROR) on revalued net fixed assets
and a minimum debt service coverage ratio of 1.3 times; and (b) for PNOC-EDC, a maximum debt/equity
ratio of 70/30, a current ratio of not less than 1 time and a minimum debt service coverage ratio of 1.25
time.
BOT Obligations and Financial Ratios. At the time of project appraisal, BOT obligations were
considered operating costs in the financial forecasts of both NPC and PNOC-EDC. On the other hand, the
legal agreements did not make explicit reference to the treatment of BOT obligations in the definition of
financial ratios, while the term " debt" was defined as "any indebtedness" of the Borrower maturing by its
terms more than one year. Subsequently, the Commission on Audit (COA, state auditor in the Philippines)
issued accounting guidelines on the BOT schemes which are considered capitalized lease and part of the
liabilities of the project entities. In the case of a subsequent Bank-financed project for NPC, the Loan
Agreement was amended to define "debt service" to include, inter alia, the BOT lease obligations, which
was consistent with the approach of the co-financier, Asian Development Bank (ADB). However, in the
case of PNOC-EDC, no such action was taken. Thus, notwithstanding the "take-or-pay" provisions in the
BOT contracts and the above accounting treatment stipulated by COA, PNOC-EDC's calculation of the
debt service coverage ratio has not taken into account the cash payment for BOT obligations, based on its
interpretation that "the BOT arrangement is a mere provision of services whereby payment is contingent to
the delivery of services". As such, this is a substantial deviation from the SAR approach (with internal
cash generation net of BOT obligations) and that of the NPC (with debt service including BOT
obligations). Similarly, the PNOC-EDC calculation of debt/equity ratio has excluded the liabilities for
fixed BOT obligations. Consequently, the ICR mission initiated discussions with PNOC-EDC regarding
the above issues; these will be followed up by the supervision mission of the Leyte Luzon Geothermal
project. In hindsight, given the significant impact of the BOT obligations on the finances of the project
entities, the legal agreements should have made explicit reference to the treatment of such obligations.
(a) NPC. Despite the valiant efforts made by the NPC, the Corporation had not complied fully
with the financial covenants for some years even prior to the Asian financial crisis (Annex 8). The
precarious finances of NPC are largely due to factors beyond its control, including its under-capitalization
and inadequate tariff adjustments. To meet its liquidity needs, NPC has incurred huge liabilities which, in
turn, expose the Corporation to expensive debt service and "take-or-pay" obligations under IPP contracts.
Its financial difficulties have been exacerbated by the recent regional financial crisis, particularly the
impact of local currency devaluation (54% by end- 1997), lower energy demand and over-capacity in
power generation.
-4 -



Power sector restructuring, recapitalization and privatization of the NPC lie at the heart of the
Corporation's recovery program. In particular, passage of the Electricity Industry Reform Bill would
enable various measures to put NPC on the path to financial sustainability, including (i) the government to
convert a substantial portion of its debt to equity; (ii) privatization of the NPC; and (iii) recovery of a
portion of the stranded costs of NPC (including IPP obligations) through a universal levy on all electricity
consumers. However, there are considerable uncertainties related to the timing of the passage of the Bill.
In the absence of adequate remedial measures, NPC's finances will deteriorate further. In the interest of
partnership, the ADB is taking the lead in power sector restructuring and privatization. It is understood
that ADB has indicated to the government the need for a task force comprising the government, ADB and
NPC officials to agree on an acceptable financial recovery action plan; the Bank will continue to coordinate
closely with the ADB on this matter.
(b) PNOC-EDC. Until 1997, PNOC-EDC had consistently complied with all of the above financial
performance covenants (Annex 9). However, in its ICR (Annex 13), PNOC-EDC noted that it is ironic
that the BOT scheme which helped in financing the power plant has required PNOC-EDC to seek external
financing in order to pay part of the BOT obligations, due to the mismatch between electricity revenues (25
years sales contract with NPC) and BOT payments (10 years contract) and operating expenditures as well
as the negative effect of the currency crisis affecting the Asian region. Consequently, PNOC-EDC reported
noncompliance with (a) the current ratio covenant in 1997 and 1998; and (b) the debt service coverage ratio
in 1998.
Based on PNOC-EDC's unaudited financial statements in 1999, prior to the inclusion of the BOT
lease obligations, its debt service coverage ratio was 1.5 times, current ratio at 1.7 times and debt/equity
ratio at 55/45. On the other hand, if these financial ratios were to include the BOT obligations (as in the
case of NPC), its debt service coverage ratio would have been reduced to 0.7 times, current ratio at 0.6
times and debt/equity ratio at 78/22.
Over the medium term, PNOC-EDC's latest financial forecast indicated its expectation of
improvement in profitability. However, even before the inclusion of BOT obligations, its debt service
coverage ratio is projected to fall below 1 time in 2001, mainly due to the bullet repayment. After the
inclusion of BOT obligations, the financial ratios would be weakened considerably. Thus, the financial risk
noted above would need to be closely monitored and managed by PNOC-EDC.
Physical Objective and Project Economic Rate of Return. The Project substantially achieved the
objective of meeting the increasing demand for power in Cebu using indigenous and environmentally
superior geothermal energy resources. Compared to the early 1990s, when the country was suffering from
power shortages, consumers are unequivocally better served. However, this achievement came at a high
cost (in 1999, average production cost of NPC plants was P1.76/kWh, whereas the average cost for NPC's
contracts with the IPPs was P 2.66/kWh, of which the geothermal plants cost P 2.8/kWh) and the current
estimate of the NPV is negative for the economics of the Project.
Promotion of Private Geothermal Power Generation Projects. This objective was substantially
achieved by the Project, although the actual cost is substantially higher than the appraisal estimate. This
Project is the first phase of the Leyte Geothermal Project; together with the second phase Bank-financed
Leyte Luzon Geothermal Project, geothermal power accounted for about 80% of the total power generation
in the Visayas system in 1999.



4.2 Outputs by components:
Physical Components
I. PNOC-EDC's components
(a) Development of a 202 MW geothermal steam field (which is higher than the SAR estimate of 185
MW), comprising the drilling of 12 production and reinjection wells (which are significantly higher than the
appraisal estimate of 8 development wells), the construction of the fluid collection and disposal system, and
the construction of a 230 KV interconnection system and switching station. Overall, implementation was on
schedule and within budget and the output is rated as highly satisfactory.
(b) Carrying out two BOT contracts with private companies to construct and operate geothermal power
plants (Upper Mahiao and Malitbog Unit 1, totaling 202 MW). Achievement of the physical objective has
come at an expectedly high cost (65% higher than appraisal estimate). Overall, output is rated as
satisfactory.
The PNOC-EDC components were completed on schedule, with the commissioning of the BOT
plants in July 1996. These power plants are owned by a private company and will be transferred to
PNOC-EDC after ten years under the present BOT contract.
II. NPC's components
(a)    NPC constructed 48.7 km 230 kV and 5.8 km 138 kV transmission lines in Leyte, and 90.8 km
230 kV and 16.7 km 138 kV transmission lines in Cebu. This component was energized in July 1997,
which was 12 months behind the appraisal schedule. Overall, output is rated satisfactory.
(b)    NPC installed 4 X 32 km of 230 kV submarine cables (cross sectional area is 630 square mm
each) between Tabango (Leyte) and Talisay (Cebu). This component was completed in November 1997,
representing a 17 months delay from the effective date (July 1996) for its power purchase agreement (PPA)
with PNOC-EDC. This was mainly attributable to delays in procurement activities and accidental damage
of the submarine cable when fiber optics cables were laid for a telephone company. Overall, output is rated
satisfactory.
(c)    Cebu Grid Reinforcement: This component included installation of 26.9 km 138 kV transmission
lines, a 100 MVA 138/69 kV substations, and additional transformers in three existing substations in Cebu.
Implementation of this component has been delayed significantly mainly due to difficulties in right-of-way
(ROW) issues and consequent need for changes of project sites. Thus, despite extension of the original
loan closing date by 15 months (to September 30, 1999), one section of the transmission lines (currently
under expropriation procedures) and a substation subcomponent have not yet been completed. Completion
of these two subcomponents are scheduled for the second quarter of 2000 and April 2002, respectively.
The incompletion of this component and the related output is rated as unsatisfactory.
Institutional Component
I. PNOC-EDC's component
Technical assistance for project implementation. During all phases of the project, PNOC-EDC
- 6 -



was assisted by consultants with extensive experience in geothernal development. The output of this
component is satisfactory.
II. NPC's components
Technical assistance and institutional support for NPC. Major output included the following: (i)
TA for the hydro projects included completion of final configuration of the scheme, documents for
tendering, environmental assessment, and financial & economic viability of the project; and (ii) NPC was
assisted by consultants for project implementation, especially tower design and submarine cable
installation. NPC acquired an Integrated Resource Planning (IRP) software package for NPC's power
development program and the supplier provided a training course on the software. NPC's system planners
were able to enhance their capacity in conducting system analysis and planning. Various consultants
assisted NPC to implement the EOIS recommendations including training for project management. The
overall output of this component is satisfactory.
Environmental/Resettlement Component
I. PNOC-EDC's component is rated as highly satisfactory.
PNOC-EDC prepared a detailed Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) for the geothermal
development. The Department of Environment and Natural Resources (DENR), based on its own
evaluation, issued an Environmental Compliance Certificate approving the project implementation subject
to protective measures during construction and operation. PNOC-EDC implemented the protective
measures properly. A multi-sectoral task force composed of the DENR, NGOs, Local Government Units
and PNOC regularly monitors compliance with relevant standards. PNOC-EDC has so far had no
violations pertaining to air and water quality.
Overall, the environmental/resettlement component of the PNOC-EDC's component is rated as
highly satisfactory. The Corporation designed and implemented a resettlement program for families
affected by the geothermal development. The program included (a) protection of residents from potential
health hazards; (b) relocation of the residents from the project area; (c) assistance for the relocated
community in regaining their standard of living prior to relocation; and (d) facilitating the formation of
community institution and self reliance. The total number of households affected by the Leyte Geothermal
Project was 106 and the resettlement program was successfully implemented, with about half of the
affected households transferred to the newly constructed relocation site.
II. NPC's resettlement component is rated as highly unsatisfactorZ. There have been significant delays in
compensation payments by NPC, particularly for land acquisition, which are partly beyond the control of
NPC in such cases as missing or incomplete documentation of some landowners. As of December 31,
1999, compensation payments remained only at 77%. Under the Resettlement Recovery Action Plan
agreed in October 1999, NPC is committed to the completion of all the compensation payments by June
2000, except for cases where NPC has no control and cannot expedite payment due to incomplete
documentation by affected landowners. Meanwhile, under the agreed action plan, NPC has established an
escrow account for all the outstanding compensations, except for cases under expropriation (for which
NPC has already provided provisional deposits). Further, the preparation of deeds of sales for land
acquisition increased to 99% by February 2000. Implementation of the Resettlement Recovery Action Plan
will continue to be monitored closely by the mission through NPC's monthly progress reports to the Bank.
- 7 -



4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
During the power crisis in the country, the project was designed to meet the rapidly increasing
demand for power in Cebu using indigenous and environmentally superior renewable energy resources.
However, the current estimates of the economic benefits are sharply lower than the appraisal estimates
(Annex 3). This is attributable to a combination of factors, including (a) significantly lower power sales in
the initial years of operation (about 47% of full capacity production in 1998 and 1999) mainly due to lower
than expected demand growth and delayed project completion; (b) significantly lower tariff levels than the
appraisal estimates; and (c) total costs (including BOT lease obligations) were higher than the appraisal
estimate.
Least Cost Analysis. Based on the actual/latest cost data, and the assumptions of fuel oil and
diesel prices (in constant 1993 price terms) at about $14/bbl and $19/bbl, respectively, the economic costs
of the power investment program with the Leyte Cebu project were compared with those of the alternative
program of isolated development for Visayas. The results indicated that at an NPV discount rate of less
than 14% (as compared with the appraisal estimate of 29%). this Project is part of the least cost solution
for the Visayas svstem. Based on a discount rate of 12%, the NPV of the savings associated with the
program that includes this Project is currently estimated at $19 million (in constant 1993 price terms),
which is significantly lower than the appraisal estimate of $165 million. However, one of the critical
factors affecting the least cost analysis is the movement of petroleum product prices which is historically
volatile. The results of sensitivity analysis indicated that a 20 % increase of the prices of fuel oil and diesel
prices from 2000 onwards would result in about 2% increase in the break-even NPV discount rate (to 16%)
between this Project and the alternative program of isolated development. According to PNOC-EDC's
estimate, the competitiveness of geothermal energy to oil would only be affected if crude oil price is
reduced to an average of $16/barrel from the present levels.
Economic Rate of Return (ERR). The appraisal estimates of the ERR and NPV (at 12%
discount rate) were about 16% and $89 million, respectively. Given the substantial uncertainties in the
operating environment, the expected ERR could vary significantly under a wide range of scenarios. Based
on NPC's latest financial projection to increase the average revenues to P3.54 /kWh (or US 4 cents/kWh,
in constant 1993 price terms ) by 2004, the results of sensitivity analysis indicated that the ERR would be
increased to (i) about 3 % in the event NPC's average revenues were to remain at the 2004 level for the
balance of the project life; and (ii) 8 % in the event NPC's average revenues were to be the same as the
appraisal estimate of US 7.1 cents/kWh from 2005 onwards. The overall project ERR is estimated to be
negative if NPC's future average revenues were to remain at its 1999 level of P 2.34/kWh or US 6
cents/kWh (in current price terms). In summary, the current estimates of the ERR under a range of
scenarios are significantly lower than the appraisal estimate and the NPV is expected to be negative. On
the other hand, as in the case of the appraisal estimates, the current estimates of ERR are conservative
since the unit benefits assumption has not captured other benefits to the economy encompassed in the
consumers' surplus and the positive environmental impacts associated with geothermal development.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
The overall financial rate of return (FRR) for PNOC-EDC's components and the BOT power
plants are currently estimated at 9.8% (in real terms), which is close to the appraisal estimate of 9.5%,
despite the significant divergence between the latest estimates and appraisal assumptions for selected key
factors (Annex 11). In particular, due to the non-passage of the long delayed Geothermal Bill, the financial
incentives (including royalty/tax holiday) anticipated earlier for geothermal development did not
materialize. Consequently, the actual/latest estimate of power rate is P1 .65/kWh (in constant 1993 price
- 8-



terms), which is 18% higher than the appraisal assumption of P1.4/kWh.
It should be noted that the base case FRR estimated in the SAR has included sunk costs incurred
by PNOC-EDC; this is useful for assessing whether the original decision to proceed with the project was
well founded. However, consistent with standard Bank practice for ERR/FRR calculations, for the purpose
of deciding whether to proceed with the incremental investment at the time of project appraisal, the sunk
costs should have been excluded from the calculation of the FRR, as in the case of the ERR estimate in the
SAR. With the exclusion of sunk costs, the overall FRR is currently estimated at 16.8 % based on the
current contracted power price to NPC (as compared with the imputed appraisal estimate of 16.3% had the
sunk cost been excluded).
However, it should be noted that NPC received long delayed approval (in December 1999) for less
than full cost recovery (P 1 .45/kWh) on the basis of "avoided cost" documented by NPC. In response,
NPC has planned a two pronged approach to (i) apply to the Electricity Regulatory Board for full cost
recovery with the requisite documentation requested by ERB, including the higher than expected contract
price due to the nonimplementation of tax/royalty holiday noted above; and (ii) renegotiate the contract with
PNOC-EDC. The results of sensitivity analysis indicated that if the power price were to be reduced to
P1.45/kWh (in constant 1993 price terms) from 2001 onwards, the FRR would be reduced to 14% without
sunk costs, and 7.9% with sunk costs.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Overall, the institutional development impact is rated as moderate. Achievement of this objective
has been partial in the case of NPC. Specifically, the technical assistance subcomponents for the design of
two hydro projects was implemented satisfactorily. However, further improvement is still required with
respect to project management, most notably in procurement and resettlement aspects, as well as the need
for closer integration between financial and non-financial planning within NPC. In the case of
PNOC-EDC, the objective of institutional development has been substantially achieved. With the
assistance of consultants with extensive experience in geothermal development, the Company demonstrated
its competence by the satisfactory completion of the project in a timely and cost-effective manner.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
3 Asian financial crisis was a significant external factor beyond the control of the government and the
implementing agencies. Consequent sharp devaluation of the peso and slowdown of power demand
growth contributed to the unsatisfactory outcome of this Project, both in terms of project economics
and the objective to ensure the financial viability of NPC and PNOC-EDC.
* BOT Power Plant Costs: The bargaining power of the government/PNOC-EDC to secure the best
contractual terms from private investors (in 1993) was severely limited where there were power
shortages and the country was rated as "non-investment" grade. Consequently, the substantial cost
overrun for the BOT plants is attributable, in part, to a high risk premium required by the investors.
* The submarine cables were accidentally damaged when fiber optics cables were laid for a telephone
company. This has, in turn, contributed to substantial project implementation delays, higher project
cost and lower project economics.
* There have been significant delays in compensation payments by NPC, particularly for land
acquisition, which are partly beyond the control of NPC in such cases as missing or incomplete
documentation of some landowners
-9-



5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Pace and scope of energy sector reform
* In the wake of the power crisis, the Executive Order 215 in 1990 repealed the Marcos decree on NPC's
monopoly on power generation and allowed for private sector development of power plants and
infrastructure facilities. In addition, development and implementation of the Energy Sector Plan by the
government also contributed positively to the realization of this Project.
* Ironically, introduction of competition from new IPPs contributed to NPC's loss of market share and
exacerbated its financial difficulties.
* The protracted delays in the passage of the power sector restructuring bill have, in turn, hampered the
implementation of financial recovery action plan by NPC.
*   The levels and timeliness of power tariff adjustments fell short of the appraisal expectation, thus
contributing to the unsatisfactory outcome in terms of the finances of NPC, project economics and
sustainability.
* The delayed passage of the Geothermal Bill has, in turn, affected adversely the finances and
sustainability of PNOC-EDC and their components under this Project.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Project Management, including among others, coordination among the relevant departments,
procurement procedures and resettlement policies, has a significant impact on the performance of project
implementation.
5.4 Costs and financing:
The total financing requirements (including interest during construction) amounted to $612.98
million, which were $154.08 million or 34% higher than the appraisal estimate of $458.9 million (Annex
2). The BOT power plants accounted for the lion share ($112.8 million or 73%) of the cost overrun, while
the balance was attributable to NPC's cost overrun. On the other hand, the Bank loan, totaling $193.11
million, was 8% lower than the original loan amount, mainly due to (i) co-financing with the Nordic
Investment Bank/Nordic Development Fund subsequent to Bank loan approval for NPC's components; and
(ii) higher amount of financing by PNOC-EDC's own internal cash generaton for geothermal development.
(a) PNOC-EDC's Components
PNOC-EDC's total financing requirements, including interest during construction (IDC) of $4.03
million, amounted to $ 92.04 million, which is close to appraisal estimate of $91.3 million (including IDC
of $7.5 million). This is mainly due to higher than expected engineering and administrative costs (including
well drilling costs not accounted for in the SAR, well development, geoscientific investigation and reservoir
engineering costs) which were largely offset by the cost savings in well drilling.
Of the original Bank loan ($64 million) to PNOC, which in turn onlent the proceeds to its
subsidiary, PNOC-EDC, $53.03 million were disbursed, and the undisbursed balance ($10.97 million)
canceled. The loan was closed on schedule in June 30, 1998. Under-utilization of the Bank loan was mainly
due to PNOC-EDC's use of in-house rigs for well drilling which were not eligible for reimbursement under
the loan.
- 1 0 -



(b) BOT Power Plants
The total cost of the two contracts with private power producers amounted to $287.5 million,
which was 65% higher than the appraisal estimate.
(c) NPC's Components
The total financing requirements of NPC's components amounted to $233.5 million (including IDC
of$ 23.5 million), representing an 21% cost overrun against the appraisal estimate of $192.9 million
(including IDC of $16.5 million). This is mainly due to (a) the submarine cable contract ($95 million)
which was 39% higher than the appraisal estimate ($68.6 million); and (b) the aforementioned accidental
damage of the submarine cables which resulted in an additional cost of $15.9 million for repair as well as
an additional $5.6 million for embedment.
Upon the bid opening of the submarine cables contract which was substantially higher priced than
the appraisal estimate, NPC secured co-financing from the Nordic Investment Bank/Nordic Development
fund of $15.0 million. When the submarine cables were damaged, NPC secured additional co-financing
($25 million) from the Nordic Investment Bank. Further, financing of the subcomponent for reinforcement
of the 138/69 kV substations ($4.8 million) was transferred to the ongoing Transmission Grid
Reinforcement Project. Of the total Bank loan of US$ 147 million, US$ 140.08 million were disbursed.
The loan was closed on September 30, 1999 after a 15 month extension, and a grace period (up to
February 10, 2000) was granted for loan disbursement against eligible expenditures incurred before the
loan closing date. As of February 10, 2000, undisbursed balance of US$ 6.9 million were canceled.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Overall, the prospects for project sustainability are uncertain in light of the considerable
uncertainties of the operating environment, including the protraced delays encountered in the passage of
enabling legislation critical for the financial recovery of NPC.
In terms of responding to the power crisis, the Project has contributed to making it unlikely that
"tpower crisis" will happen again in the country in the foreseeable future. In fact, rather than suffering from
undercapacity, NPC now experiences a high reserve margin. Moreover, subsequent projects, including
Leyte Luzon Geothermal and Transmission Grid Reinforcement projects, continue to improve the
robustness of NPC's transmission network.
However, meeting the Project's physical objectives came at a high cost, and has contributed to the
perpetuation of NPC's already poor financial position and significant weakening of PNOC-EDC's liquidity
position until the expiry of the BOT power purchase agreement (in 2006). Thus, one of the project
objectives to strengthen the financial viability of NPC and PNOC-EDC have not been achieved.
Since the financial viability of NPC is critical to ensuring an effective and efficient power sector,
this means that the Project's sustainability as a whole is uncertain, taking into account the following
factors: (i) general sectoral uncertainty caused by the protracted delay in the passage of an enabling
legislation for power sector restructuring and the Geothermal Bill which would reduce the high royalty
imposed on the geothermal industry and level the playing field with nominally cheaper but more polluting
- 11 -



fossil fuel; and (ii) the current overcapacity in power generation is expected to continue over the medium
term, coupled with the fixed take-or-pay IPP obligations of NPC, has an adverse impact on the
Corporation's finances.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
(a) Transition Arrangements for the project's future operation
The steam supply system of PNOC-EDC as well as interconnection connecting the developed
power plants to PNOC-EDC Central switching station are operated by PNOC-EDC Leyte Geothermal
Production Field Office. The Field Office is in charge of operation and maintenance of PNOC-EDC
facilities in Leyte geothermal area, including production plan and coordination with the BOT power plants.
It includes adequate experts including geologists to operate the geothermal steam system. PNOC-EDC has
formed a Power Department in the Field Office to monitor the maintenance and operation of these BOT
plants and will institute training program for PNOC-EDC staff. The BOT plants will be transferred to
PNOC-EDC in the year 2006 under the current contract. The BOT contracts further provide PNOC-EDC
personnel with training one year prior to the formal turn-over of the plants.
Upon commissioning of the Leyte-Cebu interconnection of NPC as well as other transmission
systems installed under the Project, the operation of these systems was transferred from the NPC Cebu
Engineering Project Office, which was in charge of the construction, to Visayas Regional Center of NPC.
Adequate maintenance would be provided to the facilities based on NPC's guidelines for maintenance.
Special tools, instruments and boats for patrol and maintenance of the submarine cables are equipped with
in switching stations at the both end terminals of the cables.
(b) Performance indicators
The following indicators will be monitored annually through the existing data acquisition systems
from the Leyte Geothermal Production Field Office of PNOC-EDC and the Visayas Regional Center of
NPC: (i) actual available energy and sales transferred to NPC Leyte-Cebu system from geothermal plants
in Leyte; (ii) percentage of geothermal energy among energy sources for power generation in Visayas
system; (iii) energy transferred from Leyte to Cebu through Leyte-Cebu interconnection; (iv) system
reliability of the Visayas system; (v) system losses in Visayas system; and (vi) frequency deviation in the
Visayas system.
(c) Follow-up by the Bank
The Bank has helped finance the second phase of the Leyte geothermal development project under
the Leyte-Luzon Geothermal Project (LLGP, Loan 3746/3747-PH). The NPC transmission network has
also been developed and reinforced under the LLGP and Transmission Grid Reinforcement Project (TGRP,
Loan 3996/3997-PH). NPC has installed HVDC interconnection between Luzon system and Visayas
system under LLGP and Northwestern Luzon 500 kV transmission lines under TGRP. TGRP has also
included the establishment of a National Load Dispatch Center, which will allow for the operation of the
interconnected transmission systems (Luzon, Visayas and Mindanao) in the country, once the planned
Leyte-Mindanao interconnection is installed in the future. Under the TGRP, it was agreed with NPC that
the Bank would monitor similar system performance indicators mentioned above for the three transmission
systems.
- 12 -



7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The overall Bank performance in project identification, preparation and appraisal is satisfactory,
with substantial inputs having been provided by Bank staff on both the policy front and extensive project
preparation. However, selected aspects of the Bank's assessment had limitations, including (i) NPC's
resettlement policy and action plan and the risks of right-of-way issues; (ii) the interrelated aspects of
project entities' finances, BOT contracts and risk analysis of the Project and entities; (iii) inconsistencies in
selected assumptions for the calculation of ERR and FRR. Moreover, the monitoring and evaluation
indicators were oriented toward project output rather than outcome.
7.2 Supervision:
*   The overall Bank performance in supervision of this complex project, with two implementation
agencies, is rated satisfactory.
3   Supervision of the procurement activities was generally satisfactory. However, there were inadequate
follow up actions with NPC on resettlement issues during most of the project implementation period.
Nevertheless, after the substantial completion of NPC's physical components, supervision efforts
intensified on both the project level and country portfolio management level.
*   Exceptionally frequent changes in task manager and team members hampered the continuity and
effectiveness of the supervision efforts.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
On balance, overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory. The above assessment of Bank
performance is consistent with the comments by NPC and PNOC-EDC in their ICR (Annexes 13 and 14).
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Overall, the performance of both NPOC-EDC and NPC during extensive preparation for this
complex project was rated satisfactory. Both corporations were committed to the Project and undertook the
necessary upfront actions to meet all the Bank's conditions of Board presentation (conclusion of BOT/BOO
contracts) and disbursement (effectiveness of BOT contracts for PNOC-EDC loan and implementation of
demand charges for NPC loan). However, as noted above, the protracted delays encountered by NPC in
the implementation of the resettlement action plan reflected its inadequate preparation and is rated highly
unsatisfactory for this component.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Many of the actions in the ESP have been implemented and substantial progress has been made in
reforming the energy sector (most notably in the full deregulation of the downstream oil industry).
However, protraced delays in the passage of power sector restructuring bill and geothermal bill, as well as
the levels and pace of power tariff adjustments, have significant adverse impact on the finances of the
implementation agencies, project economic viability and sustainability. Nevertheless, it should be noted
- 13 -



that the executive and legislative branches of the Philippine Government are independent of each other.
While the executive branch can make several commitments to the Bank regarding policy (such as certifying
a proposed bill), the passage of legislation is not within its sole control. Overall, the performance of the
government is rated satisfactory.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
On balance, the overall performance of the implementation agencies was rated as satisfactory.
Project implementation by both entities was marked by many contracts being completed satisfactorily and
within budget for most of the components. PNOC-EDC is rated as highly satisfactory for implementing the
project on schedule and largely within budget. On the other hand, as noted above, NPC's procurement
activities were tardy and its delayed implementation of the resettlement action plan is rated unsatisfactory.
NPC's performance was hampered, in part, by changes in management and staff working on the Project.
Separately, the financial objective of the Project was not achieved. However, as noted above (Secticns 4
and 5), a number of the critical factors contributing to this result were outside the direct control of NPC
and PNOC-EDC during the project implementation period.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
On balance, overall Borrower performance is rated satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
9   While "fast-track" BOT projects have proved crucial in alleviating power shortages, the economic
efficiency of individual private investments should be improved with due consideration for (a) a
cohesive sectoral approach, with special attention to prudent investment planning and financial
management as well as risk management; and (b) rationalization of prices and risk sharing
arrangements within a competitive and transparent framework.
v   It may not be realistic to expect power projects developed with private funds under the "fast-tracked"
Independent Power Producer (IPP) Program to be least cost in the "traditional"sense; the additional
cost over the hypothetical "least-cost" alternative is the price to pay for mobilizing resources that would
otherwise not be available to the sector/country.
= The high cost of the IPP Program has been a contributing factor to the failure of the Project to meet its
financial objective and has adversely affected the project economics. Such an outcome indicates the
need for sufficient risk analysis/management in a highly uncertain operating environment, particularly
in a sector undergoing major structural reform.
*   Conventional economic rate of return analysis is poorly suited to an environment where higher-cost,
sub-optimal investments are required to eliminate power shortages. In the case of NPC, the
transmission investments to bring power from higher-cost plants are likely to be underutilized now that
the power crisis is over. The main economic benefits were reaped in the first few years when power
was scarce and the value of avoiding outages was very high. The quantification of benefits and the
estimation of the economic rate of return is therefore critically dependent on the estimated value of
unserved energy.
* The use of a "rate of return on assets" target for financial performance is inappropriate for a
company/sector with a very large and lumpy investment program.
*   In cases where such obligations as BOT contracts have significant impact on the entities' finances, the
legal agreements should made explicit reference to the treatment of such obligations in the definition of
financial covenants.
*   Quality at entry is a critical success factor for project implementation. In particular, for the
- 14 -



resettlement component, resolution of the right-of-way (ROW) issue and completion of compensation
payment is one of the pre-conditions prior to project construction. Moreover, an adequate risk analysis
is essential for realistic expectations of project outcome.
* In its ICR, NPC noted that as in the case of previous transmission line projects of the Corporation, the
perennial ROW problem should be given top priority in terms of adequate policies and guidelines
acceptable to affected landowners; adequate and qualified personnel to handle negotiations and
expropriation cases; secure full support of other government agencies involved in the processing of
ROW documents including speedy court decisions. These actions are vital in solving ROW problems of
similar projects in the future.
* In its ICR, PNOC-EDC noted that although the BOT scheme ensured the availability of private capital,
there is a need to plan for possible funding deficits resulting from imbalance between project revenues
and project operating and financing costs.
* The complications associated with two implementation agencies (in different subsectors) under one
project should be taken into account in the design of future projects. Indeed, in light of the diverse
performance of the two project entities, the rating of project performance and outcome could be
different if there had been two separate projects.
* There are no short cuts to a successful complex operation; above-average inputs of Bank resources and
broad staff skill mix for project design, appraisal and supervision are required.
* Frequent changes of task manager and team members are not conducive to efficiency and effectiveness
of the Bank's inputs. On the other hand, synergies may be achieved by a series of Bank interventions
with the same project team.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Both NPC and PNOC-EDC provided data and comments which have been largely incorporated in the ICR,
except for selected comments by PNOC-EDC which are summarized below:
* Revision of the rating for "quality at entry" from marginally unsatisfactory to satisfactory since the
rating is based on hindsight observations which were unforeseeable at the time of appraisal. Given the
relatively positive economic environment and optimistic projections at the time of appraisal, the
decision of PNOC-EDC to proceed with the Project would have been made even if sensitivities had
been run up to the extreme downside the Philippine economy has seen in the past 2 years, simply
because these conditions, at the time of appraisal, were unlikely.
* The BOT setup was recommended by the Bank as an integral component of the project. Contrary to
the Bank and the Company's initial expectations, the BOT setup was not the optimum way by which
the project could have been implemented since this resulted in the short term funding gap as well as
substantial VAT outlays.
* Revision of the rating for financial objective for PNOC- EDC from unsatisfactory to satisfactory, the
financial gap that PNOC-EDC is subject to is only short-term (1997-2006).
* The ICR calculations of the estimated ERR of the project are largely pessimistic; the ERR calculations
should include the impact of benefits to the economy not considered or not present during the time of
appraisal, such as (a) avoided fuel importation brought about by higher fuels prices; (b) positive
environmental impacts associated with geothermal development; and (c) reduced dependence on
expensive power purchased or generated by diesel and gas turbines. From a macro perspective, the
value of approximately $4.8 billion of power plant investments has been more than offset by an
accompanying increase in GDP growth of $8.44 billion (Annex 10).
* Deletion of IRR without sunk costs as it is irrelevant since the FRR inclusive of sunk costs, at 9.8%, is
- 15 -



already viable. Similarly, deletion of reference to price adjustment which would only result in
exacerbating the liquidity squeeze currently experienced by PNOC-EDC.
*   The unsatisfactory project outcome is only temporary and if viewed in the long term, the projected
outcome will still be satisfactory.
(1) Cofinanciers:
Draft ICR was provided to the Nordic Investment Bank and its comments incorporated in the final ICR.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
- 16 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
I. Leyte-Cebu Project
- Energy transferred to NPC Leyte-Cebu  - 1,370 GWh per year (1997-98) based on   - 660GWh per year (July 1997- June 1998)
system from geothermal plants in Leyte  PPA
- NPC: Percentage of geothermal energy for - not available                   - 69.95% in 1998 (compared with 52.08% in
power generation in Visayas system                                           1995)
- NPC: Energy transferred from Leyte to  - not available                     - 843 GWh in 1998
Cebu through the interconnection system
- NPC: System reliablity in Visayas system   - not available                 - 99.79% in 1999 (compared with 99.60% in
1995)
II. Overall NPC Operation
Total NPC Energy Sales (GWh)          -35,730 GWh in 1997                    - 36,442 GWh in 1997 and 37,321 GWh in
1998
Power Sold/Total Pop. (kWh/person)    -- 504 kWh/person in 1998              -- 508 kWh/person in 1998
- Sales per Oper. Employees (MWh)     -- 2,926 MWh in 1997                   - 3,152 MWh in 1997 and 3,143 MWh in
1998
-- % Total Energy Losses & Plant Use  -- 6.9% in 1997
-- 6.50% in 1998
Ill. Financial Ratios
- NPC's rate of retum on revalued net fixed  8% in 1997                       7.2% in 1997 and 3.20% in 1998
assets no less than 8%
- NPC's debt service coverage no less than  1.3 times in 1997                 0.96 time in 1997 and 1.18 times in 1998
1.3 times
- PNOC-EDC's debt service coverage ratio  1.7 times in 1998                   0.7 time in 1999
no less than 1.25 times
- PNOC-EDC's debt/equity ratio no more    41/59 in 1998                      78/22 in 1999
than 70/30
- PNOC-EDC's current ratio no less than 1  3.9 times in 1998                 0.6 time in 1999
time
I/ SAR did not identify monitoring indicators for the Leyte Cebu Project per se; appraisal estimates for specific indicators for
overall NPC operation and financial ratios are shown under the last PSR column. Further details of appraisal vs. actual are
shown under Annexes 9 & 10.
- 17 -



Output Indicators:
PNOC-EDC to develop 185MW steamfield  202MW steamfield developed             202MW steamfield developed
- NPC to (i) construct 50km 230kV and 7km  - 48.7km 230kV and 5.8km 138kV    - 48.7km 230kV and 5.8km 138kV
138kV transmission lines in Leyte;    transmission lines constructed in Leyte  transmission lines constructed in Leyte
- NPC to (ii) construct 93km 230kV and  - 90.8km 230kV and 16.7km 138kV      - 90.8km 230kV and 16.7km 138kV
27km 138kV transmission lines in Cebu;    transmission lines constructed in Cebu  transmission lines constructed in Cebu
- NPC to (iii) construct 32km submarine  - 4x32km 230kV submarine cable (cross    - 4x32km of 230kV submarine cable (cross
cable linking Leyte to Cebu;          section: 630 square mm each) constructed  section: 630 square mm each) constructed
beteween Tabango (Leyte) and Talisay   beteween Tabango (Leyte) and Talisay
(Cebu)                                 (Cebu)
- NPC to (iv) reinforce/upgrade existing Cebu - 26.9km 138kV transmission lines to be  - The transmission line will be completed in
transmission system                   constructed, but one secton still not  the second quarter of 2000.
completed due to RoW problem.
construction of a 100MVA 138kV substation  - 100MVA substation site finalized. The
and installation of three additional  completion of the substations will be in April
transformers in existing substations not yet  2002.
commenced due to RoW problem for the
1 OOMVA substation.
- PNOC-EDC to engage in TA consultancy  - TA successfully implementsed       - TA successfully implemented
for project implementation
- TA for project implementation and PDP
sucessfully implemented.
Recommendations of EOIS partially
implemented.
- NPC to: (i) engage in TA consultancy for   - TA for project implementation and PDP    - TA for project implementation and PDP
implementation of project, PDP and    sucessfully implemented.               sucessfully implemented.
recommendations of EOIS                Recommendations of EOIS partially      Recommendations of EOIS partially
implemented.                           implemented.
- NPC to: (ii) engage in TA consultancies for - TA successfully implemented, but Pulangi - TA successfully implemented, but Pulangi
Agbulu and Pulangi V hydro projects   V hydro project has been dropped out from   V hydro project has been dropped out from
system development plan.               system development plan.
- PNOC-EDC to enter into BOT contract for - BOT contracts were awardea in    - BOT contracts were awarded in
185 MW power plant                    August/September 1993. The BOT plants  August/September 1993. The BOT plants
(Upper Mahiao and Malitbog #1) were   (Upper Mahiao and Malitbog #1) were
commissioned in July, 1996.            commissioned in July, 1996.
End of project
- 18 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
A. PNOC Geothermal Development
Goods and Equipment                                     33.30           39.95          120
Works                                                   35.80           32.23           90
Technical Assistance & Others                            5.70           15.82          278
B. BOT Power Plant                                       157.80          287.48          182
C. NPC Transmission System
Overhead Trans. Lines and Substations                   65.60           62.60           95
Submarine Cables                                        59.00           95.00          161
Submarine Cable Repairment and embedment                  0.0           21.50
Cebu Grid Reinforcement                                  9.80            7.40           76
Contracts under Energy Sector Loan                       4.90            4.30            88
Right-of-Way and Compensation                            3.80           12.00          316
Institutional Development                               12.30            7.20           59
Total Baseline Cost                                      388.00          585.48          151
Physical Contingencies                                  24.60
Price Contingencies                                      22.20
Total Project Costs                                     434.80          585.48           135
Interest during construction                            24.10           27.50          114
Total Financing Required                                458.90           612.98          134
* Submarine Cable Repairment and embedment costs were not foreseen at the time of project appraisal
- 19 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                        31.00           10.00          0.00           3.30           44.30
(24.80)        (4.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (28.80)
2. Goods                        175.40          0.00           16.50          0.00           191.90
(150.20)        (0.00)        (15.00)         (0.00)        (165.20)
3. Services                      0.00           0.00           18.40          0.00           18.40
(0.00)         (0.00)        (17.00)         (0.00)        (17.00)
4. Compensation &                0.00           0.00           0.00           5.60            5.60
Administration
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
5. BOT Plant                     0.00           0.00           0.00          174.70          174.70
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                        206.40          10.00          34.90         183.60         434.90
(175.00)        (4.00)        (32.00)         (0.00)        (211.00)
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies
2'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
I              [                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PCrCentage Of APPraiSal
Component              APPraisal Estimate      [    Actual/Latest Estimate
Bank    PNOCINPC    CoF.       Bank    PNOC/NPC    CoF.    Bank  PNOC/NPC  CoF.
PNOC Geothermal DevI.    64.00      19.70               53.03      34.98              82.9  177.6   0.0
IDC (PNOC)                          7.50                           4.03                0.0   53.7   0.0
0.0    0.0    0.0
BOT Power Plant                               174.70                        287.48    0.0    0.0   164.6
0.0    0.0    0.0
NPC Transmission         147.00     29.50               140.08     24.32     40.00    95.3   0.82    0.0
IDC (NPC)                           16.50                          23.50               0.0   142.4   0.0
0.0    0.0    0.0
TOTAL                    211.00     73.20     174.70    193.11     86.83     327.48    91.5   118.6  187.5
Note: Co-financiers included BOT power plant contractors, Nordic Investment Bank/Nordic Development
Fund
- 20 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Least-Cost Expansion with Leyte-Cebu and with the Second-best Solution (in Constant 1993 Prices)
US $ Million
LEYTE-CEBU LEAST-COST SOLUTION        ISOLATED SYSTEMS - SECOND BEST
Total                 Energy  TOTAL    Total          O&M   Energy  TOTAL     NET
Year Investment Fuel Cost O&M Cost  Not  SYSTEM  Investment Fuel Cost  Not  SYSTEM  SAINGS
Cost                  Served   COST    Cost                  Served   COST
1993    59.48   22.86   24.52   0.00   106.86    38.10  22.86  24.52   0.00    85.48   -21.38
1994    22.95   23.46   23.88   0.00    70.29    14.88  23.46  23.88   0.00    62.22    -8.07
1995    58.35   31.05   25.80   0.00   115.20    69.21  31.05  25.80   0.00   126.06    10.86
1996   154.65   56.46   45.62   0.00  256.73    42.87  56.46  27.12   0.00   126.45  -130.28
1997     6.00   57.88   70.00   0.00   133.88    53.28  54.93  53.68   0.00   161.89    28.01
1998    55.27   36.22   76.60   0.00   168.09    83.22  44.34  48.74   0.00   176.30    8.21
1999    12.03   21.53   80.26   0.00   113.82    88.93  29.57  47.47   0.00   165.97    52.15
2000    55.39    8.91   87.16   0.00   151.46    48.96  31.59  44.39   0.00   124.94   -26.52
2001    80.74   14.70   84.65   0.00   180.09    63.07  36.50  46.79   0.00   146.36   -33.73
2002   132.81   26.26   84.65   0.00   243.72    88.91  49.53  51.32   0.00   189.76   -53.96
2003   126.16   35.42   86.94   0.00   248.52   163.34  60.44  55.40   0.00   279.18    30.66
2004    90.73   43.09   89.23   0.00   223.05   165.81  84.12  55.27   0.00   305.20    82.15
2005   191.39   59.09   97.72   0.00   348.20   247.90  100.27  58.95   0.00   407.12    58.92
2006   146.50   79.55   99.31   0.00   325.36   162.96 108.07  65.65   0.00   336.68    11.32
2007   230.95  103.00   57.00   0.00   390.95   307.29 118.60  75.40   0.00   501.29   110.34
2008   313.72  117.05   64.17   0.00   494.94   414.14  137.53  83.23   0.00   634.90   139.96
2009   374.28  132.50   71.08   0.00   577.86   489.96  161.16  94.95   0.00   746.07   168.21
2010   375.28  150.24   83.87   0.00   609.39   339.08  178.44 105.90   0.00   623.42    14.03
2011   353.64  169.94   93.92   0.00   617.50   298.66  176.25 118.89   0.00   593.80   -23.70
2012   360.51  177.09   99.40   0.00   637.00   270.41  196.94 129.16   0.00   596.51   -40.49
2013   280.44  191.09  112.23   0.00   583.76   345.91  222.62 144.11   0.00   712.64   128.88
2014    73.61  211.47  128.38   0.00   413.46    89.73 256.57 158.66   0.00   504.96    91.50
2015     0.00  237.86  145.69   0.00   383.55    0.00 288.22 177.36   0.00   465.58    82.03
2016  -2482.90  237.86  163.27   0.00 -2081.77 -2814.51  288.22 177.36   0.00 -2348.93  -267.16
Present Values
10%   713.41  514.21  593.68   0.00 1,821.29   745.24 634.62 486.28   0.00  1,866.14    44.84
12%   619.28  409.66  492.56   0.00 1,521.50   641.69 503.75 394.90   0.00  1,540.35    18.85
15%   502.48  303.11  382.64   0.00 1,188.23   512.29 369.55 299.14   0.00  1,180.99    (7.24)
18%   412.19  234.25  305.90   0.00   952.34   411.96 282.30 235.09   0.00   929.34   (23.00)
IRR:     14.0%
- 21 -



Internal Economic Rate of Return
Year                 Cost                    Unit    Generation 13 Benefit      Net Benefit
Investment  O & M 11    Total    Benefit /2                0t1993 prices)
(US$million) (US$million) (US$million) (Usc/kWh)  (GWh)    (US$million) (US$million)
1993      21.38                 21.38                                               -21.38
1994       8.07                  8.07                                                -8.07
1995      34.77                 34.77                                               -57.82
1996      21.00      20.06      41.06                                              -162.69
1997       2.99      47.87      50.86                                               -53.20
1998       3.06      49.86      52.92        4.05        588.79         23.86       -31.82
1999                 49.86      49.86        4.15        588.79         24.45       -25.42
2000                 49.86      49.86        4.74       1,008.80        47.79        -2.07
2001                 49.86      49.86        4.48       1,098.04        49.22        -0.65
2002                 49.86      49.86        4.40       1,261.00        55.51         5.64
2003                 49.86      49.86        4.16       1,267.50        52.78         2.92
2004                 49.86      49.86        4.01       1,267.50        50.78         0.92
2005                 49.86      49.86        4.01       1,267.50        50.78         0.92
2006                 49.86      49.86        4.01       1,267.50        50.78         0.92
2007                  9.21        9.21       4.01       1,267.50        50.78        41.58
2008                  9.21        9.21       4.01       1,267.50        50.78        41.58
2009                  9.21        9.21       4.01       1,267.50        50.78        41.58
2010                  9.21        9.21       4.01       1,267.50        50.78        41.58
2011                  9.21        9.21       4.01       1,267.50        50.78        41.58
2012                  9.21        9.21       4.01       1,267.50        50.78        41.58
2013                  9.21        9.21       4.01       1,267.50        50.78        41.58
2014                  9.21        9.21       4.01       1,267.50        50.78        41.58
2015                  9.21        9.21       4.01       1,267.50        50.78        41.58
2016                  9.21        9.21       4.01       1,267.50        50.78        41.58
2017                  9.21        9.21       4.01       1,267.50        50.78        41.58
2018                  9.21        9.21       4.01       1,267.50        50.78        41.58
2019                  9.21        9.21       4.01       1,267.50        50.78        41.58
2020                  9.21        9.21       4.01       1,267.50        50.78        41.58
2021                  9.21        9.21       4.01       1,267.50        50.78        41.58
Internal Economic Rate of Return        3.3%
NPV @ 12 %           -168
Notes: /1 Estimates only (at 1.5% of the investment cost).
/2 1998-2000 are actual tariffs (by NPC to customers) while 2001-2004 are projected by NPC.
/3 Net of 2.5% transmission loss
/4 Assumptions for (a) P/US$ exchange rate: 41 in 2000; 42 in 2001; 43.5 in 2002; 45 in 2003; 46.5 in 2004;
(b) local inflation rates: 7% in 2000; 5.5 in 2001; 4.5 in 2002; 4.0 in 2003; 3.5 in 2004; and
(c) foregn inflation rates: 2.4% in 2000-2004.
-22 -



Year         ~~Cost               Unit    Gnrto 3 Benefit   Net Benefit
Investment 0 & M 11   Total    Benefit /2          (M1993 prices)
(US$million) (US$million) (US$million) (Usc1kWh)   (GWh)   (US$million) (US$million)
1993     21.38              21.38                                        -21.38
1994     8.07                8.07                                         -8.07
1995     34.77              34.77                                        -57.82
1996    21.00     20.06     41.06                                       -162.69
1997     2.99     47.87     50.86                                        -53.20
1998     3.06     49.86     52.92      4.05       588.79       23.86     -31.82
1999              49.86     49.86      4.03       588.79       24.45     -25.42
2000              49.86     49.86       4.85     1,008.80      47.79      -2.07
2001              49.86     49.86      4.25      1,098.04      49.22      -0.65
2002              49.86     49.86       3.49     1,261.00      55.51       5.64
2003              49.86     49.86       5.16     1,267.50      52.78       2.92
2004              49.86     49.86      4.06      1,267.50      50.78       0.92
2005              49.86     49.86       7.10     1,267.50      89.95      40.09
2006              49.86     49.86       7.10     1,267.50      89.95      40.09
2007               9.21      9.21      7.10      1,267.50      89.95      80.75
2008               9.21      9.21       7.10     1,267.50      89.95      80.75
2009               9.21      9.21      7.10      1,267.50      89.95      80.75
2010               9.21      9.21      7.10      1,267.50      89.95      80.75
2011               9.21      9.21      7.10      1,267.50      89.95      80.75
2012               9.21      9.21       7.10     1,267.50      89.95      80.75
2013               9.21      9.21      7.10      1,267.50      89.95      80.75
2014               9.21      9.21       7.10     1,267.50      89.95      80.75
2015               9.21      9.21      7.10      1,267.50      89.95      80.75
2016               9.21      9.21       7.10     1,267.50      89.95      80.75
2017               9.21      9.21      7.10      1,267.50      89.95      80.75
2018               9.21      9.21      7.10      1,267.50      89.95      80.75
2019               9.21      9.21      7.10      1,267.50      89.95      80.75
2020               9.21      9.21      7.10      1,267.50      89.95      80.75
2021               9.21      9.21       7.10     1,267.50      89.95      80.75
Internal Economic Rate of Return   8.1%
NPV@12%            -96
-23 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle              No.of PersonsadSpeciat                   Perforrmance Rating
=(e.g. 2Economists, : fF, etc.)    Implementaton      Develment
00L  t> Month/Yearf   0 Count  Specialty                  P307 70020; 0^70i ft ;)rogress  Obiactive
Identification/Preparation        5   1 FA, 2 PE., I EA and I Ec..
March 1992
July 1992               4   1 FA, I EA., I PE. and 1 PA.
December 1992           8   1 PE, I EA, I Eg., 2 FA, I EEc.
and I Lw
Appraisal/Negotiation
April 1993              6   2 FA, I PE. and I RS, I Lw,
I DO
Supervision
June 1994                4  I Ec., 1 PE, I RS and I FA           S                 S
September 1994           3   1 EA, I PE. and I RS                S                 S
February 1995            7  1 Pr., I Ev., 2 FA, I PE, I RS, I    S                  S
Cp
December 1995            4   1 EE, 2 PE and I ES                 S                 S
July 1996                2  I ES and I FA                        U                 S
August 1997              3  2 ES and I PvA                       S                  S
February 1998            4  2 ES., I FS and I Rt.                S                  S
December 1998            2   1 ES., 1 OP                         S                  S
June 1999                1  1 ES                                 U                 S
ICR
November 1999           4   1 FA, I PE, I SI Spec. and,          U                 U
I OP
January 2000            3   1 FA, 1 PE and I OP                  U                 U
NOTE: FA = Financial Analyst; PE = Power Engineer; EA = Energy Advisor; Ec.= Economist; PA =
Procurement Advisor; EEc = Energy Economist; Eg. = Engineer; Lw = Lawyer; RS = Reservoir Specialist;
DO = Disbursement Officer; OP = Operations Officer; SI = Social Impact Specialist; ES = Energy
Specialist; Pr. = Procurement; Ev. = Environmentalist; Cp. = Compensation; EE = Environmental
Engineer; PvA = Privatization Advisor; Rt = Resettlement; SI Spec. = Social Impact Specialist;
Missions for this Project were combined with those of other projects
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                   ActaULatestEstimate
Identification/Preparation              102.6                       225.3
Appraisal/Negotiation                    43.6                       104.9
Supervision                              80.9                       210.6
ICR                                      15.1                        50.2
Total                                  242.2                        591.0
- 24 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Z Macro policies                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
3 Sector Policies                         O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Z Physical                                O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
[3 Financial                              O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
Z Institutional Development               0 H  O SUO M  0 N  0 NA
Z Environmental                           O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Social
Z Poverty Reduction                O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Z Gender                           O H OSUOM O N * NA
M Other (Please specify)           O H  OSUOM  ON  O NA
Resettlement
2 Private sector development              0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
Z Public sector management                0 H  O SU O M  * N  0 NA
E Other (Please specify)
- 25 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
El Lending                                           OHS OS   OU  OHU
al Supervision                                       OHS OS  OU  OHU
L Overall                                            OHS *OS  O  U  O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
E Preparation                                        OHS OS   OU  O HU
E Government implementation performance              0 HS O S   0 U  0 HU
a Implementation agency performance                  0 HS 0 S  0  U  0 HU
E Overall                                            OHS OS   O  U  O HU
- 26 -



Key Performance Indicators - Energy Sector Plan Implementation Status
[ Issues/Areas of Action                     Required Action                            Implementing Agency/Schedule                Status (by March 2000)
A. GENERAL/INSTITUTIONAL
I) Energy Sector Coordination              Establish the Department of Energy (DOE)    President/Congress, December 1992.          Done.
Formalize DOE organization.                DOE Secretary, March 1993.                  Done.
2) Privatization                           Propose clear congressional policy statement  ECC/President                             Done.
on private sector involvement in energy
projects.
a) NPC/Power Sector                       Complete OEA-commissioned study of         OEA-Price Waterhouse, November 1992.        Done.
privatization options
Submission of privatization plan.          DOE, NPC, September 1993.                   Done.
Approval of privatization plan.            Cabinet, March 1994.
Continue BOT approach for new projects;    NPC, June 1993.                             1000 MW Sual Coal Fired Plant in Luzon -
conduct bidding and come up with short list for                                        Energy Conversion Contract Signed in 1994;
the 900 MW and 200 MW BOT coal plants for                                              plant commissioning in 1999
Luzon and Mindanao, respectively.
200 MW Mindanao Coal Fired Plant deferred--
commissioning in 2006
Complete evaluation of bids.               October 1993.                               10 contracts for 2300 MW already signed with
the private sector. Other than the ABB BTO's
Awarding of contracts.                     December 1993.                              (600 MW) all are BOT contracts.
3) Oil Industry Deregulation               Congressional policy statement on oil industry    President/Congress, December 9, 1992.  Done (DOE Law).
deregulation.
Complete ERB Energy Pricing Study.         ERB/IDP, June 1993.                         Final study issued in March 1993.
Complete industry cost structure study.    DOE/K&M, August 1993.                       Draft report submitted March 1993.
Recommend presidential endorsement of bill  DOE/ERB/OP, September 1993.                Done.
amending OPSF's law to effect automatic price
adjustments.



Key Performance Indicators for Project Operation - Energy Sector Plan Implementation Status (continued)
Issues/Areas of Action                     Required Action                               Implementing Agency/Schedule    Status (by March 2000)                           j
Set maximum oil industry rate of retum.       ERB/Oil Companies, September     Done. ERB set a 10.6% average ROR for Oil
1993.                           Companies (April 16, 1993)
Submit program for oil decontrol and other    DOE, 1996.                       Republic Act No. 8180, Oil Deregulation Law
deregulation activities.                                                       approved on March 29, 1996, but the law was declared
unconstitutional by the Supreme Court on November 5,
1997, and is therefore invalid. Congress approved a
new and more competitive deregulation law in
February 1998.
Approval of deregulation program.             Cabinet, 1996.                   - do -
Recommend presidential endorsement of ERB     ERB/OP, 1996.                    - do -
charter to allow decontrol of oil prices.
Deregulate dealership activities (deregulation  DOE, 1996.                     - do -
measures non-price related would be advanced
whenever feasible).
Remove inter-fuel price subsidies.            DOE/ERB, 1996.                   - do -
0o                                                   Draft bill rationalizing the tariff tax component of    DOE/ERB/OP, 1996.       - do -
petroleum product prices.
Recommend presidential endorsement of draft bill.   DOE/OP, 1996.              - do -
Submit petroleum import/export liberalization  DOE/ERB, 1996.                  - do -
schedule.
4) Single Price-Regulatory Body for Utilities  Legislation placing NPC and REC's under ERB  Congress/President.           Done. DOE Law in operation.
price regulation.
5) More Efficient Approval System for Energy    Presidential directive to DAR, DA, NEDA, DENR,   ECC, DAR, NEDA, DENR,    Done.
Projects                                   November 1992.                                November 1992.
Agreement between DENR and RDC regarding      DENR/RDC, June 1993.             Done. Latest guidelines for ECC processing issued in
approval requirements and time limit for action.                               July 1994.
Agree to approve power projects on a program  NPC/NEDA, June 1993.             Completed March 1993.
basis instead per individual projects.
NPC to develop standard BOT contracts for various  NPC/NEDA, September 1993.   Model contracts for coal, diesel and gas turbines
power plant technologies.                                                      already developed.
Approval of standard contracts.               NEDA-ICC. One month after
completion of contract by NPC.



Key Performance Indicators for Project Operation - Energy Sector Plan Implementation Status (continued)
Issues/Areas of Action                    Required Action                               Implementing Agency/Schedule    Status (March 2000)
B. POWER SECTOR
1) Availability and Reliability of Supply  Ensure completion of fast track projects.   NPC/DOE, October 1993.           6 BOT contracts in operation.
Ensure implementation of power development   NPC/DOE, ongoing.                PDP approved by ICC and presented to the Cabinet in
program.                                                                      May 1993.
Submit plan to rehabilitate or retire/replace aging  NPC, December 1993.      Done.
plants.
Evaluate and approve NPC plan and allocate    NEDA. January 1994.             Done. OPSF and PAGCOR grants approved.
funding for technical assistance.
Adopt rehabilitation or retirement plan for old                               Rehabilitation of Sucat 2 & 3 completed.
plants.
2) NPC's Financial Viability              Conduct more effective public information prograrn  NPC/Cabinet, Oct-Dec 1992.  Effective public information on price increase in place.
on the need for NPC rate increase.
Decision on acceptable rate of return base   ERB, September 1993.             Done. February 1993.
methodology.
Motion for early resolution by the Supreme Court    NPC, May 1993.            Tax exemption cases of NPC were resolved by the
of NPC fuel tax exemption cases.                                              Supreme Court favorably for NPC in the case of
Maceda vs. Macaraig (197 SCRA 771).
Approve automatic foreign exchange adjustment  NPC, May 1993.                 Formula applied once exchange rate exceeded
formula.                                                                      P28/dollar.
Implement rate adjustment to meet loan covenants.   NPC, December 1992.       NPC implemented tariff increase of P0.18/kWh from
Develop annual projection of rate increase or  NPC, end of each year.         March 26, 1993, and additional P0.03/kWh from July
decrease investment and overall financial                                     1993.
requirement.
Propose to DBM the level of government equity  NPC, March each year.          Approved for 1993.
infusion to NPC. Submission of proposal for  DBM, June each year.             P3 billion from OPSF in 1993 approved by RA 7639,
annual equity infusion to NPC.                                                in addition to the PI billion annually
Executive support of bill proposing equity infusion   DOE.                    Done.
to NPC.
Complete operational efficiency improvement  NPC/World Bank, December 1993.  First phase report completed in March 1993. Draft
study.                                                                        report for Second Phase completed end of June 1993.



Key Performance Indicators for Project Operation - Energy Sector Plan Implementation Status (continued)
Issues/Areas of Action                      Required Action                                 Implementing Agency/Schedule    Status (March 2000)
3) Rate Restructuring (Demand charges and   Complete nationwide consultation, especially in  NPC, August 1993.                Ongoing.
direct connections)                         Bacolod, Cebu and Mindanao.
Implement rate restructuring down to distribution  NPC/Cabinet, NEA/RECs,         Done.
level.                                          ERB/PUs, December 1993.
4) Bataan Nuclear Power Plant (BNPP)        Complete negotiations with Westinghouse.        NPC-BNPP, December 1992.          Negotiations failed.
Decision on BNPP operation.                    Cabinet, March 1993.               Proposal for conversion of BNPP to 1500 MW gas
fired plant (BOT) was approved but discontinued due
to excess generation capacity
5) Improve Electricity Distribution Efficiency  Set limit to distribution loss that can be recovered  NEA/ERB/ECC, ongoing.   ERB Resolution 91-22 has set to reduce losses
through tariff                                                                    permitted in tariffs from 14% to 10% in 5 years.
Presidential endorsement of anti-pilferage bill.  ECC/OP, March 1993.             Done. (RA # 7832).
6) Energy Efficiency Standards              Finalize standards for power intensive appliances.    OEA/BPS-DTI, June 1994.     Building efficiency guidelines published March 1993.
C. DOWNSTREAM OPERATIONS
1) Refinery Expansion                       Decide price adjustment for non-crude increase  ERB, May 1993.                    Done.
Firm up PNOC expansion plans.                  PNOC/DOE, January 1994.            Done.
2) Coal Import Liberalization               Implement financial/technical support program for    OEA, January 1994.           Initial program formulated.
local coal.
Reduce volume and tariff restriction.          DOE/ERB/NEDA, June 1994.          All coals in temporary exclusion list until June 1996.
Anthracite and lignite having a 0% tariff and
bituminous 10% tariff to 1999 and 5% thereafter,
3) Institutionalize Energy Conservation     Executive endorsement of DOE bill with provisions   President.                    Done (DOE Law).
for continuation of energy conservation program.
D. UPSTREAM OPERATIONS
1) Geothermal Law to Encourage Private      Recommend presidential endorsement of pending   DOE/PNOC/OP, June 1993.           Senate hearings on SB 423 and 366 in April 1993. Still
Sector Participation                        legislation on geothermal royalties and                                           pending.
development.
2) Improved Incentives for Oil and Gas      Recommend presidential endorsement of pending   DOE/OP, June 1993.
Exploration                                 legislation on oil and gas development.



Key Performance Indicators for Project Operation - Energy Sector Plan Implementation Status (continued)
Issues/Areas of Action                     Required Action                                 Implementing Agency/Schedule    Status (March 2000)
3) Continued Exploration Momentum          Conduct aggressive campaign to attract more oil                                  Done.
Generated by Recent Oil Discoveries        explorations.
4) Promote Development and Utilization of  Intensify research and development of           DOST-PCIERD/OEA/PNOC/            Ongoing.
Renewable Energy Technologies              altemative/renewable energy technologies.      NEA. Ongoing.
Promote utilization of cost-effective alternative  OEA/NEA. Ongoing.             Ongoing.
energy systems.
Energy Sector Plan - Proposed Legislation
Issues/Areas of Action                     Required Action                                 Implementing              Status (March 2000)
Agency/Schedule
1) Energy Sector Coordination              Enact legislation creating the Department of   President/Congress         Done. RA #7638, An act creating the Department of Energy.
Energy.                                        (December 9, 1992)
2) Oil Industry Deregulation               Enact legislation amending the OPSF Law.        December 1993.            RA #8180, Oil Industry Deregulation Act was passed in 1996,
but subsequently declared unconstitutional by the Supreme
Court. in November 1997. Congress approved a new and
more competitive deregulation law in February 1998.
3) Single Price-Regulatory Body for Utilities  Included in the DOE Law.                    December 1992.            Done.
Enact into law ERB charter amendment.         June 1994.                 Done. RA #'s 7638, 8180, 7832 & 8184.
4) NPC Financial Viability                 Approve annual equity infusion to NPC.          December each year.       Done. RA #7639, an Act providing payment in part of OPSF
Enactment of law authorizing OPSF equity infusion                        to NPC.
to NPC.
5) Improve Electricity Distribution Effticiency    Enact effective anti-power pilferage legislation.  December 1993.  Done. RA #7832, Anti-Pilferage of Electricity & Theft of
Enact law authorizing increase in NEA          March 1994.               Electric T/L Materials.
capitalization.
6) Rationalize Oil Prices                  Enact law rationalizing the tariff and tax component  1996.               Done. RA #8184, an Act Restructuring Excise Tax on
of petroleum products.                                                   Petroleum Products.
7) Energy Conservation                     Refile and enact law institutionalizing energy  December 1993.            Done. EO #123, Institutionalizing the Committee on Power
conservation.                                                            Conservation and Demand Management
8) Geothermal Law                          Enact law to encourage private sector participation    December 1993.     Pending (SB #726 and SB #888).
in geothermal development.



Annex 8
Key Monitoring Indicators: NPC
Appraisal
Financial Year Ending 31- Dec.            1992       1993       1994       1995       1996       1997
ACHIEVEMENT OF GOALS:
Total NPC Energy Sales (GWh)            23,835      25,305     28,825     30,212    32,958      35,730
NetNPC sales (Excl. Test-Run)- GWh      23,476     25,045     28,155      29,752    32,224      34,796
Power Sold/Total Pop. (kWh/person)         371        386        431        443        474        504
MANAGEMENT/EFFICIENCY:
# Days Accounts Receivable                  39         38         38          38        38         38
%Receivables on Billing                  10.8%      10.4%      10.4%      10.4%      10.4%      10.4%
Total Number Employees                   11,055     14,210     14,210     14,210     14,210     14,210
#of Operational Employees                9,372      11,891     11,891     11,891     11,891     11,891
Personnel Cost on Revenues                3.8%       4.0%       4.7%       4.6%       4.3%       3.9%
Personnel Cost on Oper. Costs             4.7%       5.0%       5.9%       5.7%       5.2%       4.7%
Sales per Oper. Employees (MWh)          2,505       2,106      2,368      2,502      2,710      2,926
% Total Energy Losses and Plant Use       6.8%       7.4%       7.1%       7.0%       6.9%       6.9%
FINANCIAL RATIOS:
AverageTariff-P/kWh                         1.6        1.7        1.9        2.1        2.4        2.7
Average Tariff Increase Centavos/kWh        20         11         23          16        26         30
Average Tariff- USc/kWh                     6.0        6.2        6.6        6.8        7.4        8.0
AverageExchangeRatePesos/US$               26.7       27.5       29.6       30.8       32.1       33.4
Working Ratio (1)                        62.0%      59.3%      60.2%      61.0%      64.5%      67.2%
Operating Ratio (2)                      81.0%      78.6%      79.7%      80.2%      82.6%      83.8%
Rate of Retum-NPC's Charter (3)           7.0%       7.8%       7.7%       7.7%       7.6%       7.6%
Rate of Retum on Revalued Assets (4)      7.2%       8.1%       8.0%       8.0%       8.0%       8.0%
Rate on Capital Employed (5)              1.2%      -2.2%      -2.8%       -0.9%      0.8%        1.9%
NetProfit-MillionUS$                       184        160         177        182       208        228
Net Profiton Equity                       7.4%       5.8%       6.0%       5.2%       5.0%       4.4%
Self-Financing Ratio (3-years Avg.) (6)  -15.0%     25.0%      14.0%      19.0%      25.0%      27.0%
Debt Service Coverage (7)                   0.8       1.51       1.23       1.29       1.37       1.32
Interest Coverage (8)                      1 .41      1.45       1.39       1.31       1.33       1.39
Debt/Equity Ratio (9)                    50.0%      54.8%      55.6%      52.5%      47.7%      41.9%
IN CONSTANT 1993 PRICES:
AverageTariff-P/kWh                        1.72       1.71       1.81       1.84       1.93       2.03
Real Tariff Increase Centavos/kWh            9          -1          1          2          9         10
Real Tariff Increase (Decrease)           5.6%      -0.8%       6.2%        1.2%      5.1%       5.3%
Critical Financial Indicators Between 1993-1998
Indicator                                 Min.   Average        Max.  Indicator                  Min.  Average         Max.
ash-Mi]lPesos                           4,673     10,589     18,324 Debt Service Ratio            1.1        1.3        1.5
AverageTafiff- P/kWh                       1.71       1.88       2.03 Days Accounts Receiv.         38         38         38
Working Ratio                            59.3%      63.4%      68.0% Debt/Equity Ratio          37.4%      48.3%      55.60/c
Rate of Retum (Revalued)                  8.0%       8.0%       8.1%
1/ Operational expenses excluding depreciation / operational revenues
2/ Total operational expenses (including depreciation & prov. for d/a) divided by operational revenues
3/ Operating income on net average fixed assets plus one sixth of cash operating expenditures
4/ Operating income on net average revalued fixed assets in operation
5/ Profit before interest and taxes / total equity and reserves
6/ Cash available from operations / 3-year average capital expenditures
7/ Operating cash flow divided by debt service (principal plus operational interest)
8/ Profit before interest and taxes / total interest (operational and capitalized)
9/ Long-tern debt / (long-term debt plus total equity)
- 32 -



Key Monitoring Indicators: NPC
Actual Operational & Audited Financial Results
Financial Year Ending 31- Dec.             1992      1993       1994       1995       1996       1997       1998
ACHIEVEMENT OF GOALS:
Total NPC Energy Sales (GWh)             23,958    24,805      28,745     31,031     33,381    36,442    37,321
Net NPC sales (Exci. Magellan & Test-Run)  23,875   24,712     28,520     30,356    32,549    36,442    36,429
Power Sold/Total Pop. (kWh/person)          395       409        474        452        487        496        508
NAGEMENTEFFICIENCY:
# Days Accounts Receivable                   38         39         36        38         37         38         44
%Receivables on Billing                 10.70%     11.91%     10.33%     11.13%     11.22%     11.75%     13.93%
TotalNumberEmployees                     14,208     14,560     15,794     14,742     13,119    13,512     14,719
# ofOperational Employees                11,185     13,142     12,448     12,164     11,024     11583      11875
Personnel Coston Revenues                3.76%      3.85%      4.97%      6.41%      6.39%      6.21%      5.23%
Personnel Cost on Operational Costs
Sales perOper. Employees (MWh)            2,142      1,887      2,309      2,651      3,028      3152       3143
%Total Energy Losses &PlantUse           6.80%      6.80%      6.10%      6.80%      6.30%      5.90%      6.50%
FINANCIAL RATIOS:
Average Tariff- P/kWh                      1.58       1.64       1.77       1.73       1.96       2.12       2.38
Average Tariff Increase Centavos/kWh         18          6         13         -4        23          16        26
Average Tariff- USc/kWh                     6.3        5.9        7.3        6.6        7.4        5.3        6.1
Average Exchange Rate Pesos/US$            26.7       27.1       26.4       25.7       26.2       29.5       40.9
Working Ratio/l                          62.4%      60.3%      61.1%      56.9%      59.5%      64.1%      69.1%
Operating Ratio/2                        81.2%      83.5%      76.1%      78.0%      79.1%      84.9%      92.0%
RateofRetum-NPC'sCharter/3                 6.8%      5.7%       8.0%       7.0%       7.9%       6.9%      3.10%
Rate of Retum on Revalued Assets 4         7.1%      5.9%       8.3%       7.3%       8.2%       7.2%      3.20%
Rate on Capital Employed 15               11.4%     20.0%      18.8%      20.0%      22.2%      13.1%        14%
Net Profit - Million US$                     91         51       282         152       211        104         -88
NetProfitonEquity                        6.10%      1.90%      7.20%      3.70%      5.60%      2.70%     -2.80%
Self-Financing Ratio (3-years Avg.)/6     7.2%     -11.4%      17.4%      -7.4%     -25.2%     -46.9%     -41.7%
DebtServiceCoverage/7                      1.14       1.51       1.15       0.98       1.12       0.96       1.18
Interest Coverage/8                        1.32       2.36       2.37       2.39       2.75       1.43       1.32
Debt/Equity Ratio/9                      49.8%      57.1%      49.9%      59.0%      75.1%      79.7%      77.4%
IN CONSTANT 1993 PRICES:
Average Tariff- PkWh                       1.72       1.64      1.66       1.53       1.60       1.62       1.70
Real Tarifflncrease Centavos/kWh              9         -8          2        -14          7         2          8
Real Tarifflncrease (Decrease)             5.6%      -4.7%       1.3%      -8.2%      4.7%       1.6%       4.9%
Critical Financial Indicators Between 1993-1998
Indicator                                  Min.  Average        Max.  Indicator                  Min.  Average         Max.
Cash-Mill.Pesos                                                       DebtServiceRatio            0.96      1.15        1.51
Average Tafiff- P/kWh                      1.64       1.93       2.38 Days Accounts Receiv.        36         39         4
Working Ratio                            59.5%      61.8%      69.1% Debt/Equity Ratio          49.9%      66.4%      79.7/
.Rate of Retum (Revalued)                  3.2%       6.7%       8.3%
1/ Operational expenses excluding depreciation / operational revenues
2/ Total operational expenses (including depreciation & prov. for d/a) / operational revenues
3/ Operating income on net average fixed assets plus one sixth of cash operating expenditures
4/ Operating income on net average revalued fixed assets in operation
5/ Profit before interest and taxes / total equity and reserves
6/ Cash available from operations / 3-year average capital expenditures
7/ Operating cash flow divided by debt service (ptincipal plus operational interest)
8/ Profit before interest and taxes / total interest (operational and capitalized)
9/ Long-term debt / (long-tenr debt plus total equity); long term debt included BOT lease obligation
- 33 -



Annex 9
PNOC Energy Development Corporation
Financial Indicators
Appraisal
_    1991       1992      1993      1994       1995      1996      1997       1998
Revenues (peso:million)        1,367     1,499      2,373     3,463     4,504      5,679    11,032    18,533
Net Earnings                     395       421      1,031     1,770     1,837     2,170      3,209     3,700
Net Working Capital              434      -110      3,250     3,979     3,601     3,498      3,715     6,616
Capital Assets                11,484    13,238    16,145    20,071    25,622    30,918    32,791    32,643
Long-Term Debt (Foreign)       4,859     5,056      9,032    10,820    14,340    17,579    16,782    16,206
PNOC Advances                  3,231     1,774         0          0         0         0          0         0
Stockholders' Equity           4,009     6,576    10,504    13,597    15,250    17,203    20,091    23,421
Total Assets                  12,978    14,764    20,650    25,477    30,871    36,230    40,946    43,461
Current Ratio                    1.6       0.9       6.3       6.4        5.3       4.7       4.5       3.9
%LTDebt/(Debt+Equity)          67.2       51.6      46.8      44.3       48.5      50.5      45.5      40.9
Debt Service Times              48.9       2.4        2.2       3.5       2.8        2.1       2.8       1.7
Capital Expenditure            1,408     2,196      2,301     4,138     5,415     4,705      1,513       714
PNOC Energy Development Corporation
Financial Indicators
Actual
1991     1992     1993      1994     1995      1996     1997      1998     1999
Revenues (peso:million)      1,367    1,499    1,970    2,285     2,286    2,920    3,958    12,014   15,594
Net Earnings                  394      422       607     1,207      730      797      -140      535      615
Net Working Capital          -207      474      -341     -743      -118    1,147    -1,290    4,749
Capital Assets              11,484   12,496   15,927    18,324   22,721    25,128   69,582   68,762   72,643
Long-Term Debt (Foreign)    4,S59    4,911    9,286    9,972    12,068    15,973   19,843   20,099   25,592
PNOC Advances               3,231    2,078         0        0        0         0        0         0
Stockholders' Equity        4,009    6,389    10,386   13,631    14,075    14,667   14,369   15,252   15,814
Total Assets               12,981    14,372   21,136   25,272   28,431    34,986   80,880   78,767   82,202
Current Ratio /I              1.6      1.0      2.9       4.2      1.8       2.2      0.9       0.7      1.7
Current Ratio /2              1.6      1.3      3.4       9.1      3.0       3.0      0.7       0.6      0.6
% LT Debt/(Debt+Equity) Jl    67        53       48       43        47       53        58       57        55
% LT Debt/(Debt+Equity) /2    67        53       48       45        48       55        79       77        78
DebtServiceTimes/l            2.8       2.7      2.5       3.7      1.3      1.8       2.1      1.0       1.5
Debt Service Times /2         8.3       3.7      2.2      4.4       3.2      3.6       0.3      0.9       0.7
Capital Expenditure           616     1,128    1,047      679     1,325    1,257    1,165       773      392
Notes: 1) excludes the BOT lease obligations
2) includes the BOT lease obligations
3) 1991-1998: audited; 1999: unaudited
- 34 -



Annex 10
Economic Value of Installed IPP Capacities
I.   Background
The decision of the Aquino administration to mothball the 620 MW Bataan Nuclear
Power Plant in 1986 and the inability to install replacement capacities contributed to the
power crisis which started to be felt in the early nineties and the consequent decline in the
economic growth of the country. Data regarding GDP at 1985 prices, Electric Sales and IPP
installed capacities from 1986 to 1997 are shown in Chart 1.
II.  Economic Values of Installed IPP
1.  Impact of Electricity Supply on Economic Growth
Prior to the power crisis, the country was experiencing an average GDP growth rate at
constant 1985 prices of about 6.5% per annum and electricity demand growth rate of about
10%. In 1990, the GDP growth rate started to decline to 3% and went further down to
negative 0.5% in 1991 and 0.3% in 1992. During this period, electricity consumption was
almost flat due to the lack of power capacities.
With the entry of power plant capacities by Independent Power Producers starting
1992, its impact on the country's economic growth rate started to be felt, with the GDP
growing by 3.8% in 1993 to about 8.7% in 1997 before the impact of the Asian currency
crisis was felt by the country. During this period a total of 4,652 MW power plant
capacities were installed with electricity sales registering an average increase of about
11.5% per annum.
In could be seen from this analysis the importance of electricity supply to economic
growth.
2.   Economic Value of Installed IPP Capacities
Starting 1993, the economic growth experienced by the country can be mainly
attributed to the availability of power supply. From 1993 to 1997, the total value of the
incremental GDP growth was about P157 billion pesos or about $8.44 billion dollars. For
the same period, the additional electricity supplied by IPPs was about 11,323 gigawatt
hours. This translates to an economic value of P13.8/kwh or $0.745/kwh. In terms of
investment, the estimated cost of about $4.8 billion for the power plan installed by the IPP
has been more than compensated by the increased gross domestic product realized by the
country.
'Source: PNOC-EDC
- 35 -



Electricity Sales vs. GDP
40                                                                                                                     950
C 20                                                                                                                        750
c 10                                                                                                                      - . - 650 m
00
0   U            U        =                                                                                          550           .
1986 1987 1988 1989 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997
Years
-A- Electticity Sales, GWH -U- Cumulative Installed IPP, MW GDP
1986       1987       1988        1989       1990        1991       1992        1993       1994       1995        1996       1997
ElectricitySales,GWH                 17.85     19.431     21.573      22.731     23.323      23.625     23.769      24.692     28.449      30.791     33.i12     36.015
Cumulative Installed IPP, MW             0          0           0          0           0          0       0.072      1.278      2.472       3.605      4.305       4.652
GDP                               591.423    616.923    658.581    699.448       720.69    716.522    718.941    734.156    766.368    802.866    848.451        891.53
- 36 -



Annex 11
PNOC-EDC
FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN ON PROJECT COMPONENTS:
STREAMFIELD OPERATIONS
(In Million Pesos Constant 1993 Price Terms)
Year   GWh   Revenues Investment  0 & M   Depre- Cum. Reco   Cost    Net    Govt  PNOC EDC  PNOC EDC
Sales  0.33/kWh    Cost       Cost   ciation    Cost   Recovery Proceeds  Share    Share     Cashflow
1992    _                1,935.88 99 =1,161.53                    =        -=                         -1,935.88
1993                       618.00                    1,532.33                                          -618.00
1994                       227.21                    1,668.65                  .                       -227.21
1995                       953.06                   2,240.49  _                                   _    -953.06
1996    1,370    285.96    586.96     37.21  131.60 2,761.47    257.37   28.60   17.16        11.44    -318.16
1997    1,370    285.96     93.99     28.94  137.55 2,726.99    257.37   28.60   17.16        11.44     174.81
1998    1,370    285.96    133.21    171.15  145.97 2,866.67    257.37   28.60   17.16        11.44     135.60
1999    1,370    285.96              197.25  145.97  2,952.53    257.37   28.60   17.16       11.44     268.80
2000    1,370    285.96               197.25  145.97  3,038.40    257.37   28.60   17.16      11.44     268.80
2001    1,370    285.96               197.25  145.97  3,124.26    257.37   28.60   17.16      11.44     268.80
2002    1,370    285.96               197.25  145.97  3,210.12    257.37   28.60   17.16      11.44     268.80
2003    1,370    285.96               197.25  145.97  3,295.98    257.37   28.60   17.16      11.44     268.80
2004    1,370    285.96               197.25  145.97  3,381.84    257.37   28.60   17.16      11.44     268.80
2005    1,370    285.96               197.25  145.97  3,467.70    257.37   28.60   17.16      11.44     268.80
2006    1,370    285.96               197.25   14.37  3,421.96    257.37   28.60   17.16      11.44     268.80
2007    1,370    285.96               197.25    8.43  3,370.27    257.37   28.60   17.16      11.44     268.80
2008    1,370    285.96               197.25         3,310.16    257.37   28.60   17.16       11.44     268.80
2009    1,370    285.96               197.25         3,250.4    257.37   28.60   17.16        11.44     268.80
2010    1,370    285.96               197.25         3,189.93    257.37   28.60   17.16       11.44     268.80
2011    1,370    285.96               197.25     -  3,129.82    257.37   28.60   17.16        11.44     268.80
2012    1,370    285.96               197.25         3,069.70    257.37   28.60   17.16       11.44     268.80
2013    1,370    285.96               197.25         3,009.59    257.37   28.60   17.16       11.44     268.80
2014    1,370    285.96               197.25         2,949.49    257.37   28.60   17.16       11.44     268.80
2015    1,370    285.96               197.25         2,889.36    257.37   28.60   17.16       11.44     268.80
2016    1,370    285.96               197.25         2,829.25    257.37   28.60   17.16       11.44     268.80
FRR (with sunk cost)              1.8%
FRR (without sunk cost)           8.2%
- 37 -



PNOC-EDC
FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN FOR INTEGRATED COMPONENTS
(In Million Pesos Constant 1993 Price Terms
Year    Power    ECA /    Steam    Depre-   Income          Net        Total
Sales    0 & M      Cost    ciation    Tax      Cashflow    Project
(1.65 / kWh)                                                  Cashflow
1992                                                           0.00   -1,935.88
1993                                                           0.00     -618.00
1994                                                          0.00     -227.21
1995                                                           0.00     -953.06
1996      784.05    578.51    285.96                0.00     -80.42     -398.58
1997    1,985.11   1,551.76    285.96               0.00     147.39     322.20
1998    2,194.75   2,131.47    285.96               0.00    -222.68      -87.09
1999    2,194.74   1,798.21    285.96              36.49      74.08     342.89
2000     2,194.74   1,798.21    285.96              0.00     110.57      379.38
2001     2,194.74   1,798.21    285.96              0.00     110.57      379.38
2002     2,194.74   1,798.21    285.96              0.00     110.57      379.38
2003     2,194.74   1,798.21    285.96              0.00     110.57      379.38
2004     2,194.74   1,798.21    285.96              0.00     110.57      379.38
2005     2,194.74   1,798.21    285.96              0.00     110.57      379.38
2006     2,194.74   1,798.21    285.96              0.00     110.57      379.38
2007     2,194.74    262.01    285.96   231.50    452.89    1,193.89    1,462.69
2008    2,194.74    262.01    285.96   200.51    462.80    1,183.97    1,452.77
2009     2,194.74    262.01    285.96   173.94    471.31    1,175.47    1,444.27
2010     2,194.74    262.01    285.96   150.54    478.79    1,167.98    1,436.78
2011     2,194.74    262.01    285.96   130.30    485.27    1,161.50    1,430.31
2012     2,194.74    262.01    285.96   113.22    490.74    1,156.04    1,424.84
2013     2,194.74    262.01    285.96    98.04    495.59    1,151.18    1,419.98
2014     2,194.74    262.01    285.96    84.76    499.85    1,146.93    1,415.73
2015     2,194.74    262.01    285.96    73.37    503.49    1,143.29    1,412.09
2016     2,194.74    262.01    285.96    63.88    506.52    1,140.25    1,409.05
FRR with sunk cost         9.8%
FRR without sunk cost     16.8%
- 38 -



Annex 12
PHILIPPINES
Leyte-Cebu Geothermal Project (Ln. 3700, 3700A & 3702 - PH)
AIDE MEMOIRE
1.   A World Bank mission, comprising Ms. Selina Shum (Task Team Leader) and Mr.
Mikio Matsumura (Power Engineer) met with the relevant officials from the NPC and
PNOC-EDC at various times during the period January 17 to 31, 2000 for the preparation of
an Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Leyte-Cebu Geothermal Project (Ln.
3700, 3700 A &3702-PH). The mission was assisted by Ms. May Olalia (Operations
Officer) in the review of resettlement aspects. In addition to officials in Manila, the mission
met with NPC officials at their Cebu project office and field trips were made to the various
project sites, including Talisay Switching Station (the Cebu side terminal of Leyte-Cebu
submarine cable interconnection), a new 1 00 MVA substation site for the Cebu Grid
reinforcement component, and the Leyte Geothermal Production Field. The mission would
like to express its appreciation to NPC and PNOC-EDC for their cooperation and
hospitality. The findings and recommendations of the mission are summarized below.
Project Implementation
A. PNOC-EDC's Project Components
2.   PNOC-EDC implemented its portion of the project components satisfactorily. Its
project components included the following: (a) development of a 202 MW geothermal field,
comprising the drilling of 12 production and reinjection wells (which are significantly
higher than the appraisal estimate of 8 development wells), the construction of the fluid
collection and disposal system, and the construction of 230 KV interconnection system; (b)
conclusion of two BOT contracts with private companies to construct and operate
geothermal power plants (Upper Mahiao and Malitbog Unit 1, totaling 202 MW); and (c)
technical assistance for project implementation. The PNOC-EDC components were
completed on schedule, with the commissioning of the BOT plants in July 1996. These
power plants are owned by California Energy and will be transferred to PNOC-EDC after
ten years under the present BOT contract.
3.   Resettlement Program. Overall, PNOC-EDC designed and implemented the
resettlement program in an exemplary fashion. The total number of households affected
was 106. The relocation package included options for cash payment or house replacement
and community amenities. In terms of employment, as of June 1998, 75 members of the 88
households who had originally signified their interest in priority employment are either
employed by PNOC-EDC, its contractors or by the local cooperatives. PNOC-EDC
facilitated community institution self-reliance by organizing the resettlers into the Limao
Resettlement Homeowners Association and the Limao Integrated Farmers for
Empowerment Livelihood Association. To ensure sustainability and for timely interventions
in case of problems, the program has been monitored from 1993 to date.
- 39 -



4.   Project Component Cost and  Financing. PNOC-EDC's  total financing
requirements, including interest during construction (IDC) of $4.03 million, amounted to $
92.02 million, which were close to the appraisal estimate of $91.3 million (including IDC of
$7.5 million). This is mainly due to higher than expected engineering and administrative
costs (including well drilling costs not accounted for in the SAR, well development,
geoscientific investigation and reservoir engineering costs) which were largely offset by the
cost savings in well drilling.
5.   Of the original Bank loan ($64 million) to PNOC-EDC, $53.03 million were
disbursed, and the undisbursed balance ($10.97 million) canceled. The Bank loan was
closed on schedule in June 30, 1998. Under-utilization of the Bank loan was mainly due to
PNOC-EDC's use of in-house rigs for well drilling for economic and efficiency
considerations, but these expenditures were not eligible for reimbursement under the Bank
loan.
6.   Monitoring Project Operation and Performance. The steam supply system as well
as interconnection system connecting the power plants to PNOC-EDC Central switching
station are operated by PNOC-EDC Leyte Geothermal Production Field Office. The BOT
plants will be transferred to PNOC-EDC in the year 2006. PNOC-EDC has formed a Power
Department in charge of monitoring the maintenance and operation of these plants and will
institute training program. The BOT contracts further provide PNOC-EDC personnel with
training one year prior to the formal turn-over. The mission discussed with PNOC-EDC the
performance indicators to be used to monitor future operation and development impact. In
order to evaluate the project objectives and impact as well as performance of geothermal
generation, the following performance indicators would be monitored: actual available
energy and sales to NPC Leyte Cebu system.
B. NPC's Project Components
7.    NPC's components include the following:
(a) Construction of overhead transmission lines in Leyte and Cebu and substations.
> This component was energized in July 1997, which was 12 months behind the original
schedule.
(b) Installation of a submarine cable linking the Leyte-Cebu lines and switching stations at
both ends of the cable.
> This component was completed in November 1997, representing a 17 months behind
the effective date (July 1996) for its power purchase agreement (PPA) with PNOC-
EDC. This was mainly attributable to delays in procurement activities and
accidental damage of the submarine cable when fiber optics cables were laid for a
telephone company.
> Damages (caused by dynamite fishing) have been found on the submarine cables.
Although the cables are still operating, repair will be carried out. In addition to
police and fish wardens patrolling the cable installation and the posting of more
- 40 -



security guards, NPC has decided to extend the burial of the submarine cables from
10 m to 30 m water depth; this is scheduled for completion in February 2000.
(c) Reinforcement of 138/69 kV substations and construction of 138 kV transmission lines
1 Implementation of this component has been delayed significantly mainly due to
difficulties in right-of-way (ROW) issues. Consequently, despite extension of the
original loan closing date by 15 months (to September 30, 1999), one section of the
transmission lines (currently under expropriation procedures) and substation sub-
component have not yet been completed. The major remaining component includes
construction of the 100 MVA Talisay substation near Cebu City where ROW
problems forced NPC to relocate the project site twice. The current site is Lagtang
where NPC obtained approval from the Protected Area Management Board (PAMB)
for release of the land from the water preserved area. The equipment has been
delivered and stored at various NPC warehouse/substations. Completion of this
component is scheduled for April 2002.
(d) TA components, which have been satisfactorily completed, included the following:
> consultant services for the design and preparation of tender documents for two hydro
power projects (Agbulu and Pulangi V)
> institutional support for consultant services to assist in the implementation of this
project, NPC's power development program and the recommendations of the
Efficiency and Operational Improvement Study.
8.  Resettlement and Land Acquisition. There have been significant delays in
compensation payments by NPC, particularly for land acquisition, which are partly beyond
the control of NPC in such cases as missing or incomplete documentation of some
landowners.
> Under the Resettlement Recovery Action Plan agreed during last supervision mission
(October 1999), NPC is committed to the completion of all the compensation
payments by June 2000, except for cases where NPC has no control and cannot
expedite payment due to incomplete documentation by affected landowners.
> Meanwhile, under the agreed action plan, NPC would establish an escrow account, by
November 30, 1999, for all the outstanding compensations, except for cases under
expropriation (for which NPC has already provided provisional deposits). The
mission expressed concerns that this action is still pending and it was agreed that NPC
would expedite the internalprocessing procedures to establish the aforementioned
escrow account by around March 10, 2000.
> NPC has recently intensified its efforts to accelerate the implementation of the
Recovery Action Plan; of the total cases excluding expropriation, Deed of Sale (DOS)
preparation increased significantly from 82% in December 31, 1999 to 95% in
January 31, 2000. However, compensation payments remained at 77%; there is a
long lead time (about 4 months on average) between the deed of sales preparation and
actual payment of compensation for land acquisition.
> It was agreed that NPC would identify (with substantiation) the key bottlenecks and
accelerate the process to the extent it is controllable by the Company; to the extent
the bottlenecks are within the governnent's control, assistance may be sought from
-41 -



the relevant government agency to help improve project performance.
Implementation of the Recovery Action Plan will continue to be monitored closely by
the mission through NPC's monthly progress reports to the Bank.
9.   Project Component Cost and Financing. The total financing requirements of
NPC's components amounted to $227.9 million (including IDC of $ 23.5 million),
representing an 18% cost overrun against the appraisal estimate of $192.9 million (including
IDC of $16.5 million). This is mainly due to (a) the submarine cable contract ($95 million)
which was 39% higher than the appraisal estimate ($68.6 million); and (b) the
aforementioned accidental damage of the submarine cables which resulted in an additional
cost of $15.9 million for repair.
10. Upon the bid opening of the submarine cables contract which was substantially higher
priced than the appraisal estimate, NPC secured additional co-financing ($40 million) from
the Nordic Fund, which totaled $30.9 million in actual disbursement. Further, financing of
the subcomponent for reinforcement of the 138/69 kV substations ($4.8 million) was
transferred to the ongoing Transmission Grid Reinforcement Project. Of the total Bank loan
of US$ 147 million, US$ 140.08 million were disbursed. The loan was closed on September
30, 1999 after a 15 month extension, and a grace period (up to February 10, 2000) was
granted for loan disbursement against eligible expenditures incurred before the loan closing
date. As of February 10, 2000, undisbursed balance of US$ 6.9 million were canceled.
11. Monitoring of Project Operation and Performance. The Leyte-Cebu
interconnection as well as other transmission systems installed under the project are
operated by Visayas Regional Center of NPC. Adequate maintenance would be provided to
the facilities based on NPC's guidelines for maintenance.
12. The mission discussed with NPC the performance indicators to be used to monitor
future operation and development impact. In order to evaluate the project objectives and
impact as well as system performance, it was agreed that the following performance
indicators would be monitored: (a) percentage of geothermal energy among energy sources
for power generation in Visayas system; (b) energy transferred from Leyte to Cebu through
Leyte-Cebu interconnection; (c) system losses in Visayas system; (d) system reliability in
Visayas system; and (e) frequency deviation in Visayas system. The historical data on these
indicators had been provided to the mission.
C. Project Economics
13. During the power crisis in the early 1 990s, the project was designed as a least cost
solution to meet the rapidly increasing demand for power in Cebu using indigenous and
environmentally superior geothermal energy resources. While recalculation of the project
economics has not yet been completed (as verification of selected data by NPC and PNOC-
EDC is still ongoing), the current estimate of the economic rate of return is expected to be
significantly lower than the appraisal estimate of 16%. Nevertheless, it should be noted that
as in the case of the appraisal estimate, the ERR recalculation will be based on the
conservative assumption that the quantifiable project benefits would not include the benefits
to the economy encompassed in the consumers' surplus and the positive environmental
impacts associated with geothermal development.
-42 -



14. The lower project economics are attributable to a combination of factors, including (a)
significantly lower power sales in the initial years of operation due to lower than expected
demand growth and delayed project completion; (b) significantly lower tariff levels than the
appraisal estimates; and (c) total project costs (excluding IDC) were $145.1 million or 33%
higher than the appraisal estimate. In particular, the BOT power plants accounted for the
lion share ($112.8 million or 78%) of the total cost overrun.
D. Recalculation of Financial Rate of Return (FRR)
15. Based on the preliminary analysis of data (some of which are in the process of
verification by PNOC-EDC), the overall financial rate of return (FRR) for PNOC-EDC's
components and the BOT power plants are currently estimated at 9.8% (in real terms),
which is close to the appraisal estimate of 9.5%, despite the significant divergence between
the latest estimates and appraisal assumptions for selected key factors. In particular, due to
the non-passage of the long delayed Geothermal Bill, the financial incentives anticipated
earlier for geothermal development did not materialize. On the other hand, the actual/latest
estimate of power rate is P1 .65/kWh (in constant 1993 price terms), which is 18% higher
than the appraisal assumption of P1 .4/kWh.
16. It is noted that the base case FRR estimated in the SAR has included sunk costs
incurred by PNOC-EDC; this is useful for assessing whether the original decision to
proceed with the project was well founded. However, for the purpose of deciding whether
to proceed with the incremental investment at the time of project appraisal, the sunk costs
should have been excluded from the calculation of the FRR, as in the case of the ERR
estimate in the SAR. With the exclusion of sunk costs, the overall FRR is currently
estimated at about 17%.
E. NPC Finances
17. Recent Finances. NPC's precarious finances are mainly attributable to factors
beyond the control of the Corporation, most notably its under-capitalization and inadequate
tariff adjustments. To meet its liquidity needs, NPC has incurred huge liabilities which, in
turn, expose the Corporation to expensive debt service obligations. Its financial difficulties
have been exacerbated by the recent regional financial crisis, particularly the impact of
local currency devaluation, lower energy demand and over-capacity in power generation
(including "take-or-pay" obligations under IPP contracts). Consequently, its net loss
amounted to P 3.6 billion in 1998 and increased to an estimated P 5.6 billion for 1999.
Despite valiant efforts by NPC in cost cutting and other measures, financial turnaround of
the Corporation (as envisaged in its budget for 1999) did not materialize. Further
deterioration of NPC's finances was mainly due to lower than expected power sales and
delayed implementation of the proposed tariff adjustments (actual average tariff was 21%
lower than the budgeted level).
18. In summary, NPC has been in noncompliance with the financial performance
covenants under the Bank-financed projects since 1997; its return on rate base (RORB) was
estimated at only 3.4% (far below the covenanted minimum rate of 8%) and its debt service
coverage ratio also fell short of the covenanted minimum ratio of 1 time for 1999.
- 43 -



19. Future Finances. The survival strategy of NPC includes, among others, seeking
timely approval for tariff adjustment applications, proactive marketing of power sales,
continued cost cutting measures and rationalization of IPP contracts (including shelving of
projects not yet contracted and, if possible, deferral of contracted projects through mutual
agreement with the concerned project sponsors). In the case of the PPA under this project,
approval for less than full cost recovery (P 1 .45/kWh vs. the contracted price of P
1.65/kWh) was recently obtained from the Energy Regulatory Board (ERB) after protracted
delays. In response, NPC has planned a two pronged approach to (i) apply to ERB for full
cost recovery with the requisite documentation requested by ERB; and (ii) renegotiate the
contract with PNOC-EDC.
20. However, as demonstrated by its recent financial results, cost cutting and other
measures within the control of the NPC are far from adequate in restoring the financial
health of the Corporation; power sector restructuring, recapitalization and privatization of
the NPC lie at the heart of the Corporation's recovery program. In particular, the
government is aware that the Corporation's heavy reliance on foreign debt finance is
unsustainable in the long run. Passage of the Electricity Industry Reform Bill would enable
various measures to put NPC on the path to financial sustainability, including the following
actions:
> The govermnent would absorb P100 billion to P 150 billion of NPC's liabilities. This is
envisaged to be effected through the conversion of a portion of NPC's debt2 to equity.
In this connection, DOF and NPC are in the process of working out the detailed
arrangements, including inter alia, legislative actions needed to increase the
Corporation's authorized capital beyond the current limit of P 50 billion (of which P 26
billion of capital stock has been issued).
> Privatization of the NPC would provide proceeds to retire a portion of its debt and
reduce its stranded costs.
> The remaining stranded costs of NPC would be recovered through a universal levy on all
electricity consumers.
21. However, there are considerable uncertainties related to the timing of the passage of
the Bill. In the absence of adequate remedial measures, NPC's finances will deteriorate
further in the year 2000, mainly due to MERALCO reneging on its power purchase
agreement and the recent commissioning of the Sual power plant, both of which exacerbate
the problem of excess generation capacity. Indeed, in order to avoid the loss of market
share, the magnitude of NPC's tariff adjustments is constrained by competition with the
IPPs and self generation by the industrial users. Based on the assumption that additional
debt would be incurred by NPC to meet its liquidity needs, its debt service coverage ratio is
projected at about 0.7 time and RORB at less than 3% in 2000. A possible option for
providing immediate debt relief to NPC (that does not require legislative action) is for the
DOF to convert a portion of its debt to equity (up to P 24 billion) within the existing
authorized capital of the Corporation.
2 In end-1998, NPC's foreign loans and other long-term debts amounted to P 174 billion, excluding bonds
payable of P48 billion and IPP obligation of P242 billion.
- 44 -



22. Follow Up Actions. In the interest of partnership, ADB is taking the lead in power
sector restructuring and privatization. It is understood that ADB has indicated to the
govermment the need for a task force comprising the government, ADB and NPC officials to
agree on an acceptable financial action plan; the mission will continue to coordinate closely
with the ADB on this matter. In addition, to facilitate monitoring of NPC's precarious
finances, it was agreed that NPC would regularly update the Bank on its financial
condition, including, inter alia, the status of tariff increase application with the ERB and the
Electricity Industry Reform Bill, and furnish the Bank with its unaudited quarterly financial
statements.
F. PNOC-EDC Finances
23. PNOC-EDC's actual financial results fell short of the appraisal projections (for the
period 1993-98) in terms of profitability, liquidity and capital structure indicators. This is,
in part, attributable to (i) delayed implementation of selected projects (brought about by the
unexpected change in the energy development policy of the Ramos administration, i.e., the
displacement of geothermal energy plants as a priority in energy development with coal-
fired plants); (ii) non-passage of the long delayed Geothermal Bill which would have
reduced the royalty/tax payment of the geothermal industry and level the playing field with
nominally cheaper but more polluting fossil fuel; (iii) foreign exchange loss (resulting from
devaluation of the pesos); and (iv) write-offs of unsuccessful exploratory costs.
24. Under the provisions of the Project Agreement, PNOC-EDC is covenanted to maintain
a maximum debt/equity ratio of 70/30, a current ratio of not less than 1 time and a minimum
debt service coverage ratio of 1.25 time. Until 1997, the Corporation consistently complied
with all of the above financial performance covenants. However, mainly due to the
commencement of its BOT capitalized lease obligations for power purchase in 1997,
coupled with its heavy reliance on foreign loans and the adverse impact of peso
devaluation, PNOC-EDC has been in noncompliance with all of the above financial
covenants.
25.  The liquidity squeeze at the Corporation has been largely attributable to the mismatch
in the maturity of its BOT contractual obligations with the private power producers (10
years) and its power sales agreement with NPC (25 years). Based on PNOC-EDC's
unaudited financial statements in 1999, prior to the inclusion of the BOT lease obligations,
its debt service coverage ratio was 1.5 times, current ratio at 1.7 times and debt/equity ratio
at 55/45. On the other hand, after the inclusion of BOT lease obligations, its debt service
coverage ratio was only 0.7 time, current ratio at 0.6 time and debt/equity ratio at 78/22.
26. Over the medium term, its future finances are expected to improve in profitability.
However, prior to the expiry of the BOT contracts in 2006, and in the absence of remedial
measures (such as privatization of the Company which has been delayed due to unfavorable
market condition since 1997 and the passage of the Geothermal Bill noted above), PNOC-
EDC is expected to remain largely in noncompliance with the financial covenants. In this
connection, the Bank's main concern is not so much the noncompliance with the Project
Agreement covenants per se but the intentions underlying these covenants to promote
prudent financial management. Thus, it is recommended that thejfinancial risk noted above
-45 -



be closely monitored and managed.
G. Next Steps
March 14, 2000    The Bank to send its draft final ICR to NPC/PNOC-EDC
for comments.
March 22, 2000    NPC/PNOC-EDC to forward its comments on the draft
ICR to the Bank.
March 31, 2000    The ICR will be finalized by the Bank.
Copies will be forwarded to NPC/PNOC-EDC and the
relevant GOP agencies.
- 46 -



Annex 13
LEYTE CEBU GEOTHERMAL PROJECT
BORROWER'S DRAFT IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PNOC-ENERGY DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
A.  Project Data
B.   Principal Performance Ratings
C.   Assessment of Development Objective
Original Objectives
The project had several original objectives:
(a)  To meet the rapidly increasing demand for power in Cebu and the Visayas region using
indigenous and environmentally superior geothermal energy;
(b)  To strengthen the institutional, planning and financial systems of PNOC;
(c)  To promote private sector participation in power generation;
(d)  To improve the performance of the energy sector through better policies and implementing
mechanisms; and
(e)  To ensure the financial viability of PNOC to undertake a long overdue investment program
The project objectives are consistent with the country's long term energy plan's key policies to (a)
enhance energy self-sufficiency through continuous exploration and development of indigenous
energy resources; (b) pursue large scale utilization of new and renewable energy sources; (c) provide
reliable and efficient supply of electricity and (d) encourage greater private sector investment and
participation in all energy activities. Furthermore the objectives seek to ensure the sustainability of
the project and to ensure the financial viability of the implementing entities through privatization,
institutional strengthening and to further encourage private sector participation by pushing for the
passage of legislation granting further incentives to geothermal developers.
Revised Objectives. The project's original objectives were not revised during the project
implementation.
Original Components. Under the loan agreement, PNOC was tasked to (a) undertake the
development of a 185 MW geothermal field in Leyte comprising of the drilling of some 8
development wells, the construction of the fluid collection and disposal system, and the construction
of the subtransmission system; (b) enter into a BOT contract with a private sector company to
construct and operate a 185 MW geothermal power plant; and (c) carry out a technical assistance
program for project implementation.
Prior to project proposal preparations, PNOC-EDC updated the resource assessments for all the
sectors planned to be developed under Leyte-Cebu and Leyte Luzon. These assessments were
reviewed and confirmed by an independent consortium as consistent with an optimized potential in
excess of 640 MW.
PNOC-EDC brought into this project extensive experience in implementing large scale geothermal
projects. Its management and technical teams had been exposed to all phases of geothermal
development and developed, through the years, a favorable reputation in the international geothermal
industry.
- 47 -



Revised Components. The project was not revised during the implementation.
D.   Achievement of Objectives and Outputs
Outcome/Achievement of Objectives
a.   To meet the rapidly increasing demand for power in Cebu and the Visayas region using
indigenous and environmentally superior geothermal energy
b.    To strengthen the institutional, planning and financial systems of PNOC
c.    To promote private sector participation in power generation
d.    improve the performance of the energy sector through better policies and
mplementing mechanisms
e.    ensure the financial viability of PNOC to undertake a long overdue investment
rogram.
The outcome of the project was satisfactory, marred-only by the delayed completion of NPC's.
transmission lines. The project achieved its major objectives and is likely to achieve satisfactory
sustainable results.
Output by Components
a.    Undertake the development of a 185 MW geothermal field in Leyte comprising of the
drilling of some 8 development wells, the construction of the fluid collection and
disposal system, and the construction of a subtransmission system
i.    The outcome/achievement of the above component of the project was highly
satisfactory.
2.    PNOC-EDC developed a geothermal field complete with fluid collection and
disposal system designed to achieve a capacity of 202 MW, constructed corresponding
substations and installed a power transmission ring main between substations.
3.    PNOC-EDC completed the drilling of the 12 production/reinjection wells (in
addition to existing wells drilled under the Energy Sector Loan) as early as July 1995. (Refer
to Table I for well drilling information).
Table 1. Well Drilling Program
Appraisal Targets                    Actual Results
1994        1995       Total        1994        1995        Total
Upper           2           6           8           4           3            7
Mahiao
Malitbog        0           0           0           3            2           5
TOTAL           2           8           8           7            5          12
4.    The fluid collection and disposal system was completed on April 8, 1996. The 230
KV Subtransmission System consisting of switchyards and transmission lines were
completed on March 12 and March 6, 1996 respectively.
- 48 -



5.    The NPC component of the project, the construction of the submarine cable
connecting the islands of Leyte and Cebu and the associated transmission lines, however
was not completed until November of the following year resulting in the amendment of the
Power Purchase Agreement to treat the energy payments made by NPC from July 25, 1996
to November 25, 1997 as payments for "stored energy" which could be lifted by NPC once
the transmission facilities were available at specific intervals during and after the
cooperation period. PNOC-EDC, meanwhile, met its obligations with the BOT contractors
by paying the stipulated monthly capacity fees.
6.    PNOC-EDC prepared a detailed Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) for the
geothermal development component of the Leyte project. From 1991 to 1993, the project
was subject to a total of 80 consultations with affected communities, government agencies,
the academe, non-government organizations (NGOs), religious groups and the media
including 2 public hearings resulting in the endorsement of the project by the Regional
Development Council of Region VIII.
Standards for occupational health and safety are set by the Department of Health and the
Department of Labor, while standards for the maintenance of air, water and land quality are
set by the Department of Environment and Natural Resources (DENR). The DENR, based
on its own evaluation, issued an Environmental Compliance Certificate (ECC) approving the
project implementation subject to protective measures during construction and operation.
A multi-sectoral task force composed of the DENR, NGOs, Local Government Units
(LGUs) and PNOC regularly monitors compliance with standards and from 1994-1998,
PNOC-EDC has had no violations pertaining to air and water quality.
7.    As stipulated in the loan agreement, PNOC-EDC designed and implemented a
resettlement program for families affected by the geothermal development. The objectives
of the resettlement program were (a) to protect residents from potential health hazards; (b) to
facilitate the implementation of the power project by removing access problems; (c) to assist
the relocatee community in regaining their standard of living prior to relocation and (d) to
facilitate the formation of community institution and self reliance.
8.    The total number of households affected was 106. Consultations were conducted
from January to April 1993 and Memorandums of Understanding were signed with the
individual families from December 1993 to March 1994. The relocation package included
house replacement and community amenities comprising of chapel, village hall/health
center, basketball court, water supply, electricity and toilet facilities. The cost of
construction amounted to $1.2 million.
9.    By February 1996, 52 houses representing 100% of the housing needs of those who
decided to transfer to the relocation site and all community amenities were constructed. As
of June 1998, of the 106 affected households, 50 of 52 households had transferred to the
relocation site. 2 of the 52 households which originally opted to move to the relocation site
changed their minds and opted to move to areas within the geothermal reserve along with 3
other households. 41 households transferred outside of the critical zone but remain within
the geothermal reserve while 9 opted for early relocation outside of the project area. I
widower remains inside the project reserve but is out of the air quality danger zone and thus
is not critical for relocation.
In terms of employment, as of June 1998, 75 members of the 88 households who had
originally signified their interest in priority employment are either employed by PNOC-
-49 -



EDC, its contractors or by the local cooperatives. PNOC-EDC facilitated community
institution self-reliance by organizing the resettlers into the Limao Resettlement
Homeowners Association and the Limao Integrated Farmers for Empowerment Livelihood
Association.
Project Management
11.   Because of the project's relatively large size, PNOC-EDC managed implementation
in terms of three separate subprojects: (a) drilling component; (b) fluid collection and
disposal system; and (c) the power plant component within the PNOC-EDC field
development area through BOT contracts with private developers. A project director
responsible for implementation and coordination was appointed and supported by project
implementation units with adequate staff and facilities. During all phases of the project,
PNOC-EDC was assisted by consultants with extensive experience in geothermal
development. To ensure maximum coordination in the implementation of the sub-projects,
an overall Project Manager with extensive operational and project management experience
working in close coordination with the Project Director was likewise appointed.
Project Cost and Financing
12.   The presence of the World Bank provided confidence in the feasibility of the
project. PNOC-EDC was successful in attracting interest from various countries to
participate in the project (such as the United States, New Zealand, Italy and Japan), the most
significant of which is the private sector which provided 39.4% of the total project cost of
Leyte Cebu.
13.   Of the $64 million World Bank Loan only $53.03 was disbursed. Under-utilization
of the loan was due to the undertaking of the majority of civil, structural and mechanical
works in-house rendering most of the expenditures incurred as ineligible for reimbursement
under the loan. Because it was more cost-efficient, PNOC-EDC chose to drill most of the
Leyte-Cebu geothermal wells using its own rigs resulting in rig expenses not eligible for
reimbursement under the loan.
14.   The total cost of the steamfield was P2,37 1.72 million inclusive of development
drilling and associated costs incurred prior to the time-slice financed by the Bank and by the
additional 4 wells drilled (versus the originally programmed 8 wells) in order to meet the
required production and reinjection capacity for the 202 MW steamfield.
There were substantial savings in the cost of FCDS goods and equipment while the SAR
underestimated PNOC-EDC Engineering and Administration cost which were inclusive of
Well Development, Geoscientific Investigation and Reservoir Engineering costs. Likewise,
the cost of drilling technical services were underestimated due to PNOC-EDC's decision to
contract out on a turnkey basis, drilling fluid and corrosion control services (thus inclusive
of the cost of drilling/corrosion control fluids). The cost of the EHV Interconnection System
was likewise underestimated by the SAR.
b.    Enter into a BOT contract with a private sector company to construct and operate a
185 MW geothermal power plant
I .    The outcome/achievement of the above component of the project was highly
satisfactory.
- 50 -



2.    PNOC-EDC entered into the following BOT agreements to provide 202 MW
capacity for export to Cebu via an EHV AC submarine cable for the following plants:
Upper Mahiao 125 MW Power Plant
A BOT contract was awarded to the winning BOT contractor in August 1993 to construct
and operate a 125 MW power plant for 10 years. The plant comprises of 4 GCCU
(Geothermal Combined Cycle Unit) turbines of 29.9 MW capacity each, and one brine
binary unit with a capacity of 5.5 MW. Each GCCU consists of one non condensing steam
turbine which exhausts to three OEC binary cycle turbines. The plant was commissioned on
July25, 1996.
Malitbog Power Plant - lx 77MW Unit in a Staged Development
A 10-year BOT contract was awarded in September 1993 to construct and operate the first
unit in a 3x77 MW power plant located in the Malitbog Sector. The Malitbog turbines are
conventional single pressure units with direct contact condensers. The unit was
commissioned on July 25, 1996.
3.    The Leyte geothermal project followed the BOT model which has come to be
regarded as a typical private sector participation format. Under the PNOC-EDC BOT
format, the power plant contractor designs, supplies, installs and commissions the plant for a
pre-determined cooperation period of 10 years. During the cooperation period, PNOC-EDC
pays for the plant through an energy conversion tariff which provides for both capital
recovery and operational costs. At the end of the cooperation period, plant ownership is
transferred and handed over to PNOC-EDC for zero payment. Thereafter, PNOC-EDC
operates the plant itself.
4.    In March 1994, PNOC-EDC and NPC executed the Power Purchase Agreement
(PPA) for Leyte Cebu. Under the terms and conditions of the Leyte-Cebu PPA, PNOC-EDC
will sell electrical energy from Leyte-Cebu to NPC dedicating the entire contracted energy
to NPC equivalent to 1,370 GWH per year.
c.    Carry Out a Technical Assistance Program for Project Implementation
1.    The outcome/achievement of the above component of the project was highly
satisfactory.
2.    For its technical assistance requirements, PNOC-EDC hired a consultant with
extensive experience in the development and construction of geothermal fields and power
plants. The contract was originally bidded out for the Leyte-Cebu project and was
subsequently amended to include the work under the Leyte-Luzon project funded by the
Bank under World Bank Loan 3747.
Financial Rate of Return
The Project Financial Rate of Return in the SAR was 9.5% under the following major assumptions:
1.    Levelized cash flow computations were based on 1992 cost levels
2.    Pre-1992 investments carried forward to 1992 with escalation at 4% p.a. in dollar
terms
3.    Electricity sales revenues based on estimated BOT plant capability from a high of
1,417 Gwh (Yr-1: 1997)toa low of 1,354 GWh (Yr20: 2016).
4.    Electricity Selling Price of P1.4o per kwH
- 51 -



5.    ECA Fees based on BOT Contractors' tariff based on bid results (net of VAT)
6.    Royalty and income tax on steam operations based on Steam Price of P0.75 per
KwH
7.    PD 1442 repealed an new Geothermal Act in place with the following fiscal
incentives:
Development Uplift Allowance        -60% of tangible deveopment costs
Filipino Participation Incentive Allowance  -5% of Steam Revenues
Six-year income tax holiday    -1997 to 2002
Eight year royalty holiday     -2003 to 2010
8.    Power plant depreciation after takeover using double declining method
9.    Income tax rate at 35% of taxable income
The re-evaluated Project Financial Rate of Return is 9.6% under the following major
assumptions:
1.  Levelized cash flow computations were based on 1999 cost levels
2.  Pre- 1992 investments carried forward to 1992 with escalation at 4% p.a. in dollar terms
3.  Steamfield investments from 1994 to 1998 based on actual project costs.
4.  Electricity Sales revenues based on Leyte A PPA Contracted energy of 1,370 GwH
5.  Electricity selling price based on Leyte-Cebu PPA Base Energy Rate of P1.65 per KwH
as of June 1993 (P2.53 per kwH at 3rd Quarter 1999 cost levels)
6.  ECA payments based on actual Nominated Capacities for Upper Mahiao and Malitbog
(1 unit)
7.  10% VAT on ECA fees from 1996 to 1998; Zero-rating starting 1999.
8.  Royalty and income tax on steam operations based on Steam Price of P0.33 per KwH
9.  PD 1442 still in effect with no amendatory legislation for additional fiscal incentives
for geothermal.
10. Power plant depreciation after takeover using double declining method
11. Corporate Income Tax Rates: 1997 = 35%; 1998 = 34%; 1999 = 33%; 2000 and beyond
=32%
Refer to Attachment 1 for spreadsheets.
E.   Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
(a)    Factors Outside the Control of Government or Implementing Agency
Delay in Completion of NPC Component
NPC's component for the Leyte-Cebu geothermal project was completed only in
November 1997, 16 months after the contracted completion date of July 25, 1996.
The implementation of the project was characterized by delays in the procurement
and awarding of major contracts, difficulties encountered in land purchases and the
acquisition of right-of-way for the construction of transmission lines. The timely
implementation of the project was further bogged down by several changes in top
management resulting in re-organization and transfer of key personnel out of the
project and ultimately, the accidental severing of the submarine cable linking Leyte
to Cebu in April 1997.
- 52 -



(b)    Factors Generally Subject to Government Control
BOT Legislation
The power crisis in the early 1990s, President Aquino's Executive Order No. 215
repealing the Marcos decree on NPC's monopoly on power generation (Presidential
Decree No. 40), the introduction of BOT legislation in 1990 (RA 6957) allowing for
private sector development of geothermal and other types of power plant and
infrastructure facilities and the 1992 DOE law reviving the Department of Energy
with a strong mandate to develop strong initiatives in the energy sector and to
implement a comprehensive Energy Development Plan all contributed to the
realization and success of this project.
The resulting commercial and institutional environment was advantageous to
PNOC-EDC which throughout its existence had made significant investments in the
exploration and development of geothermal fields with a limited return on
investment due to the Government's erratic implementation of power development
program depending on the priorities of the existing administration.
PNOC-EDC and the Leyte Cebu Geothermal Project therefore was thus one of the
first beneficiaries of the BOT law allowing PNOC-EDC to transform from a purely
energy resource company into an electric generation company fitting neatly into the
corporate strategy to use the Leyte Geothermal Power Project to gain experience in
power generation. It is ironic however that the BOT scheme which helped PNOC-
EDC in financing the power plant has required PNOC-EDC to seek external
financing in order to pay part of the BOT obligations due to the mismatch between
electricity revenues and BOT payments and operating expenditures and the negative
effect of the currency crisis affecting the Asian region.
(c)    Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agency Control
Competence and Professionalism of BOT Contractors
It was noted that the BOT contractors engaged were of a high professional caliber.
Construction of the power plants were carried out in a highly efficient and
competent manner resulting in the early completion of the power plants.
Extensive Experience of PNOC-EDC in Steamfield Development
Likewise, PNOC-EDC's extensive experience and competence in steamfield
development allowed for completion of the project in a timely and cost-efficient
manner. Although the development of the steamfield involved the risks typical of
any large infrastructure development including construction material shortages,
unanticipated cost increases, labor disputes, natural disasters, engineering,
environmental and geological problems, non-performance or unsatisfactory
performance of contractors, etc., there were no material delays or operational
deficiencies affecting its ability to fulfill its contractual obligations to deliver steam
or power.
F.   Sustainability
Rationale for Sustainability Rating
l.    The project's sustainability during its project life is likely with prudent management
of the geothermal reservoir and technological advances in the efficient conversion of
geothernal steam to electricity.
- 53 -



2.    While inroads made into attracting private sector participation in the geothermal
industry were considerable, it is to be noted that the sustainability of geothermal
power plants and the geothermal industry in a privatized energy sector lies in the
reform of the regulatory environment currently imposed on the Philippine
Geothermal industry. At present, the price competitiveness of the industry with
other fuel sources is bogged down by the Government's policies on royalties and
lack of incentives of the use of environmentally benign fuels. To date, the
Geothermal Bill which embodies these reforms has yet to be passed into law.
Moreover, the Omnibus Power Bill which incorporates the rationalization of taxes
on various fuels is still being deliberated by Congress.
Transitional Arrangements for Future Operation
The BOT plants will be turned over to PNOC-EDC in the Year 2007. PNOC-EDC in the
meantime has formed a Power Department in charge of monitoring the maintenance and
operation of these plants and will be instituting in the next 2 years, a formal training
program for its personnel in the maintenance and operations of these plants. The BOT
contracts further provide for training of PNOC-EDC personnel 1 year prior to the formal
turn-over.
Performance Indicators
I1.   Actual Available Energy
G.  Bank and Borrower's Performance
Bank
.    The Bank performed satisfactorily in the appraisal and supervision of the project.
Prior to project implementation the Bank appropriately recommended that high-
level project directors be appointed in order to ensure close coordination between
the two government corporations. Recognizing the importance of the timely
completion of the project considering the penalty provisions existing in the BOT
contracts which can result in outflow of funds from the country and not just from the
pocket of one government entity to the other, the Bank consistently monitored and
encouraged coordination between NPC and PNOC.
2.    The Bank dealt with disbursement and procurement issues satisfactorily. In terms of
institutional strengthening which was specifically mentioned in the objectives but
not provided for as a fundable item, the Bank sponsored local procurement and
disbursement seminars on a regular basis, one disbursement seminar in Washington,
and a 2 week training course in the use of Microsoft Project Management software
to assist PNOC-EDC in project scheduling. The Bank also recommended that key
project personnel be enrolled in a 2 month project management program. This
training was approved for funding under the GETF grant.
Borrower
1.    The borrower performed satisfactorily. All project components and obligations
were carried out and completed on schedule or ahead of schedule.
Procurement and disbursement was generally trouble-free with a few exceptions
since the Borrower was familiar with the Bank's procurement and disbursement
guidelines.
- 54 -



H.  Lessons Learned
1     For a project which involves several components to be implemented by multiple
agencies, a single project director should be appointed in order to facilitate timely
and synchronized project completion.
2     Although the BOT scheme ensured the availability of private capital, there is a need
to plan for possible funding deficits resulting from imbalance between project
revenues and project operating and financing costs.
- 55 -



Annex 14
LEYTE CEBU GEOTHERMAL PROJECT
BORROWER'S DRAFT IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NATIONAL POWER CORPORATION
A. STATEMENT AND EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
The main objectives of the Leyte-Cebu Geothermal Project under IBRD Loan No.
3700-PH of World Bank are to:
1.  Meet the rapidly increasing demand for power in Cebu using indigenous and
environmentally superior geothermal energy resources;
2.  Strengthen the institutional planning and financial systems of NPC and PNOC;
3.  Promote private sector participation in power generation;
4.  Improve the performance of the energy sector through better policies and
implementation mechanisms, and;
5.  Insure the financial viability of NPC and PNOC so they can undertake a long-
overdue investment program.
PNOC will be responsible both for the development of the steamfield resource and
for electricity generation, on the basis of a Build, Own and Operate (BOO) contract with
NPC. On the other hand, NPC will handle the Leyte-Cebu Interconnection Project and will
be responsible for the transmission of power of up to 200mw from the Leyte geothermal
field of PNOC to the Cebu grid.
The project has four (4) major components, namely: (1) substations and cable
terminal stations; (2) submarine cables; (3) overhead transmission lines; and (4) Cebu grid
reinforcement.
The construction of the Leyte-Cebu Interconnection is well timely as it is now
serving Cebu and the Visayas grid since November 15, 1997 by almost 200mw as
envisioned in the feasibility report. The project also constitutes a first step towards the
overall interconnection of Luzon, Visayas and Mindanao grids into a unified grid by the
year 2003.
B.   ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
1. Physical Objective
The original construction schedule of the Leyte-Cebu Interconnection Project under
six (6) contract packages for the substations and cable terminal stations, submarine cables,
and overhead transmission lines took effect on April 3, 1995 and expired on January 10,
1997 (648 cal. days). However, due to delays during construction, the project was
completed on July 1, 1997 only. The energization was further delayed when the submarine
cables were damaged by a construction company for communication lines. After the repair,
this was finally energized on November 15, 1997, or a total delay of 10 months.
- 56 -



As to the Cebu Grid Reinforcement, Schedule I (Naga-Sigpit 138 kV T/L) was
completed on August 25, 1998, while schedule II (Sigpit-Talavera 138 kV T/L) is
substantially completed with only one tower not erected due to right-of-way problem.
Enforcement of writ of possession is still pending in court.
2. Financial Objective
The original project cost based on World Bank allocation was US$ 29.5 Million
(local) plus US$ 147.0 Million (forex) or a total of US$ 176.4 Million. Due to substantial
increase in the bid price for submarine cables and variation orders during actual
construction, actual cost of the project reached US$ 30.1 Million (local) plus US$ 158.3
Million (forex) or a total of US$ 188.5 Million. Another cost was incurred in the amount of
US$ 15.9 Million for the repair of damaged submarine cables which is still for recovery
from the Insurance. For further details of project cost and financing, please refer to the
annexes.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Major problems that caused significant delays were encountered as early as
contract tendering until project construction as follows:
1. Tendering and Award of Contracts:
Based on the World Bank Staff Appraisal Report, the contract packages of the
project should have been awarded by April 30, 1994. However, as early as contract
tendering to opening of bids, the project was already delayed due to several postponement
of bidding dates brought about by some changes in the specifications and incorporation of
additional provisions to contract specifications. Another reason was re-bidding of
Submarine Cables. Further delay was incurred from bid opening to contract effectivity, thus
the last contract to be completed was the transmission line in Leyte, scheduled on January
10, 1997. This was already 6 months behind the PNOC schedule of July 25, 1996 for the
commissioning of their geothermal plants in Leyte.
2. Project Construction:
During construction, various problems were again encountered further delaying the
project. Foremost among them is the right-of-way problem, which resulted to other
problems such as re-routing of transmission lines, variation orders, financial difficulties to
contractors, etc. Other problems include shortage of skilled workers and stringing
equipment for transmission lines, unusually heavy rainfalls and occurrence of more
typhoons in 1996. Due to these delays, the project was completed on July 1, 1997 only or a
delay of 172 days. Actual energization was carried out after the damaged submarine cables
were repaired on November 14, 1997, or a total delay of 10 months.
3. Equipment Supplied By the Contractors:
While generally all the requirement supplied by the contractors are in good order and
operated as required in the specifications, Transformer No. 2 at Compostela Substation (150
- 57 -



MVA) however, developed trouble in its first year of operation. Its adverse effect to the
objective of the project was a reduction of 50% power transfer capability for almost six
months in 1998. The equipment was restored on October 1998.
D.   PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
The energization of the Leyte-Cebu Interconnection Project on November 15, 1997,
and its inauguration held in Ormoc, Leyte on December 13, 1997 attended by no less than
the Philippine President, Fidel V. Ramos, only showed how important the project is to the
power development of the country. Presently, the Cebu-Negros-Panay grids benefits
200mw power supply from the Leyte geothermal field of PNOC. The completed project also
assured Cebu province of a continuous and reliable power supply using an environmentally
preferable indigenous energy source, thus avoiding coal and oil imports.
In fact, the review and finalization of draft tender documents for the additional
200mw of the Leyte-Cebu Interconnection is now on-going. The project will be funded thru
ADB Loan, and will be completed on November 2002, thus increasing the total transfer
capability to 400mw.
E.  BANK PERFORMANCE
The very serious power crisis experienced by the country in 1991 made the
identification of Leyte-Cebu Geothermal Project by World Bank, very timely and most
welcome solution. This was consistent with the Government's highest priority, to reform
and improve the energy sector.
The project appraisal conducted by World Bank Staff on April 1993 paved the way
for the grant of US$ 147 million loan. In addition, a loan of US$ 15 M was also secured
from NORDIC Fund to finance the fourth Submarine Cable. Additional loan of US$ 25.M
from the NORDIC Fund was also secured to fund the repair of damaged cables. Recovery of
the cost of repair of damaged cables is still under litigation in court. The World Bank loan
has an estimated surplus of US$ 10 M, upon project completion.
In over-all, the Bank's performance is satisfactory as a lending institution, which
enabled NPC to construct the Leyte-Cebu Interconnection Project, and implement the
electrification program of the country in general.
F.  BORROWER PERFORMANCE
During project preparations, the Borrower (NPC) failed to immediately comply
World Bank's requirement on power rate structure for Visayas and Mindanao, resulting to
the delay in the issuance of Loan disbursement clearance, and thus delaying the effectivity
of the transmission line contracts for Leyte side. There were also changes in design and
deviations from contract pay items to suit actual field conditions, which resulted to variation
orders thus increasing the project cost.
During project implementation, NPC failed to solve the perennial right-of-way
problems due to disagreement on the price of affected properties and the refusal of
- 58 -



landowners to grant NPC entry to their properties resulting to filing of expropriation cases
and re-routings of transmission lines further delaying the project. The final blow was the
damage to the submarine cables caused by the laying of fiber optic cables for
communication lines which stretched the delay to 10 months. In over-all, despite the
delayed project completion wherein some delays were caused by other government agencies
as in the case of right-of-way; and the damage to the submarine cables, the Borrower can
still be rated satisfactory in its project performance, since the Cebu-Negros-Panay grids are
now enjoying the much needed 200mw power supply since November 15, 1997.
G.   ASSESMENT OF OUTCOME
Basically, there is no deviation in the original project design component as specified
in the SAR of World Bank. The components were adequately designed to achieve the
project objective - to provide 200 MW power supply from the geothermal field of PNOC in
Leyte to Cebu grid. Except the damage to the four (4) submarine cables in 1997 and the
breakdown of one 150 MVA transformer in Compostela Substation in 1998, all components
are in normal operation.
As to the achievement of objectives by components, the following are the outcome:
a) Overhead Transmission Lines in Leyte and Cebu: construction was delayed by six
months mainly due to ROW problems resulting to re-routings and variation orders; b)
Submarine Cables Linking Leyte-Cebu Lines: installation was completed on schedule,
however, due to damage on the four cables last 1997, its energization was delayed by four
months; c) Substation and Telecom System: construction was delayed by three months due
to problems in site acquisition and variation orders; d) Right of Way Compensation: under
the "resettlement issues recovery action plan" all land compensations and easement fees will
be completed on June 30, 2000; e) Technical Assistance: two techinical assistance
consultancies were implemented: 1) Definite design and study of the Agbulu Hydroelectric
Project - consultant completed the final configuration of the scheme as well as the technical
and commercial documents for tendering, including updating of environmental, financial,
and economic viability of the project. The consultant recommended a plant of 660 MW
installed capacity, however, NPC reduced it to 360 MW due to the uncertainty on the value
of peaking energy in the system and the need to reduce the initial capital cost. The project is
scheduled for implementation on 2009; 2) Review and selectien of implementable project
for the definite design and study between Bulanog Batang and Pulangi V Hydroelectric
Project - consultant completed the project's definite design and study including project
selection report, scheme configuration report, final reports, prequalification documents,
commercial and technical specifications. The consultant's recommendation have not yet
been carried out due to reprogramming in the implementation of NPC projects.
H.   FUTURE OPERATIONS
NPC is now undergoing restructuring of its organization in preparation to its
privatization. This is grouped into Core Businesses and Non-core Businesses. The
Operations is classified under Core Businesses with two (2) main groups namely:
Generation Company (GENCO) and Transmission Lines Company (TRANSCO). The
Leyte-Cebu Interconnection is now handled by TRANSCO, and is responsible for its
adequate staffing (including training), management, operation and maintenance.
- 59 -



In order to monitor future operation and development impact of the project, the
following performance indicators are proposed to be monitored: a) percentage of
geothermal energy among energy sources for power generation in Visayas system; b) energy
transferred from Leyte to Cebu through Leyte-Cebu interconnection; c) System losses in
Visayas-system; d) System reliability in Visayas system; and e) frequency deviation in
Visayas system.
From the historical data and as shown in the Visayas Performance Indicators for
Operation, the following were observed: a) geothermal energy comprised 69.95% of the
Visayas generation mix for 1998 compared to 52.08% in 1995 (including independent
power producers); b) energy transferred from Leyte to Cebu through Leyte-Cebu
Interconnection was 843,259 MWH for 1998 or equivalent to 24.84% of the total energy
consumption of Cebu-Negros-Panay grid; c) system loss increased from 4.32% in 1995 to
4.58% in 1998 for Cebu-Negros-Panay-Leyte-Samar system. This is understandable since
the source of energy (Leyte) is very far from the load center which is Cebu; d) system
reliability increased from 99.60% in 1995 to 99.62% in 1998.
With the discovery of near shore damage to Cable No. 3 last October 1997 in
Talisay, Daanbantayan, Cebu caused by dynamite fishing, NPC decided to extend the burial
of submarine Cables from 1 m to 3Gm water depth. The work is being undertaken by
Alcatel Kabel Norge of Norway and is scheduled for completion on February 2000.
Another damaged portions of Cable Nos. 2, 3 and 4 were again discovered early this year,
also caused by dynamite fishing. Alcatel had already conducted their investigations and will
submit their offer for the repair soon. Although the damaged cables are still operating at
present, repair should be carried out. Repair cost will be charged to the Insurance, since the
cables are already insured.
To avoid recurrence of damage to the cables caused by dynamite fishing, NPC
conducted massive information dissemination to the local residents in the area, and
coordinated with the local government and agencies. Police and fish wardens were provided
to patrol the cable installations and more security guards were posted. Buoy markers will
also be provided to identify the cable corridor as "no fishing area". The problem is foreseen
to be solved after the additional burial of cables up to 30m water depth is completed.
It is noteworthy to mention again that an additional 200mw funded by ADB is
scheduled for bidding next year to be completed on year 2002, bringing the total capacity to
400mw.
I.    KEY LESSONS LEARNED
To avoid recurrence of the problems and delays during the implementation of the
project as mentioned in Item C., the following measures are recommended:
1. During Tendering and Award of Contracts:
a)    Bank shall be more clear and firm in its guidelines for the Borrower to
follow.
- 60 -



b)    Bank should be flexible enough in dealing with the Borrowers
commitments most specifically those involving power rates, which have
social, political and economic impacts.
c)    Cost estimated for submarine cables, as well as other equipment not usually
procured should be thoroughly analyzed and evaluated, in order to avoid
huge variance from the actual bid cost.
2. During Project Construction:
a)   It should be, and a policy that no re-routing of transmission line be allowed
to avoid delays of the project and cost overruns.
b)    The right-of-way should be subsequently cleared before the start of
construction.
c)   It is a must that for Submarine Cable project, NPC should not totally rely on
other government agencies in disseminating informations of the proposed
project. On the other hand, this issue is already resolved thru a Memorandum
of Agreement with National Mapping and Resource Information Authority
(NAMRIA), incorporating all submarine cable installation of NPC in all
maritime charts.
As in the previous transmission line projects of NPC, the perennial right-of-way
problem should be given top priority in terms of adequate policies and guidelines acceptable
to affected landowners; adequate and qualified personnel to handle negotiations and
expropriation cases; secure full support of other government agencies involved in the
processing of right-of-way documents including speedy court decisions. These
recommendations are vital in solving right-of-way problems of similar projects in the future.
- 61 -



