Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3702 PH
              (Leyte-Cebu Geothermal Project -- PNOC)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
                  PHILIPPINE NATIONAL OIL COMPANY
                       Dated March 11, 1994
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3702 PH
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated March 11, 1994, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the "Bank") and PHILIPPINE
NATIONAL OIL COMPANY (the "Borrower").
      WHEREAS: (A) The Republic of the Philippines (the "Guarantor")
and the Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
      WHEREAS: (B) By an agreement (the "Guarantee Agreement") of
even date herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor
has agreed to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect
of the Loan, and to undertake such other obligations as set forth in
the Guarantee Agreement;
      WHEREAS: (C) The Project will be carried out by the Philippine
National Oil Company Energy Development Corporation ("PNOC-EDC"), a
subsidiary of the Borrower, with the Borrower's assistance and, as
part of such assistance, the Borrower shall make available to PNOC-
EDC the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement; and
Page  2
      WHEREAS: (D) The Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement
(the "Project Agreement"), of even date herewith, between the Bank
and PNOC-EDC.
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the "General Conditions") constitute
an integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l), and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
      "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
            under which any further withdrawals under the
            Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions of
            Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of
            Agreement."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth,
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a) "Charter" means the Borrower's constituent instrument, the
Guarantor's Presidential Decree No. 334, dated November 9, 1973, as
amended to the date of this Agreement, establishing the Borrower as
a state-owned national oil company duly authorized and operating
under the Guarantor's laws and regulations;
      (b) "Incorporation Law" means, collectively, the Guarantor's
Corporation Code, Batas Pambansa Blg. 68, dated May 1, 1980, and
PNOC-EDC's Articles of Incorporation and By-Laws, as amended to the
date of this Agreement, establishing PNOC-EDC as a subsidiary of the
Borrower, duly authorized and operating under the Guarantor's laws
and regulations;
      (c) "Fiscal Year" means the twelve (12) month period
corresponding to any of the Borrower's financial years, which period
commences on January 1 and ends on December 31 in each calendar
year, and the term "Fiscal Years" means collectively each of said
Fiscal Year;
      (d) "NPC Loan Agreement" means the Loan Agreement, of even
date herewith, entered into between the Guarantor's National Power
Corporation and the Bank;
      (e) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and PNOC-EDC of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the Project Agreement;
      (f) "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
      (g) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the subsidiary loan
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and PNOC-EDC
pursuant to the provisions of Sections 3.02 of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
Page  3
                             The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of sixty-four million dollars ($64,000,000), being the
sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a
commercial Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank,
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1998, or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
      Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
      (b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the
Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
      (c) For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                   Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in
                   which this Agreement is signed.
            (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                   expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                   outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                   after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                   or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans
                   which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
                   bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
                   as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
            (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.
      (d) On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
Page  4
                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."
                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the
            Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined
            in respect of such Quarter."
                   "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, shall cause
PNOC-EDC to carry out the Project and to perform in accordance with
the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of PNOC-
EDC therein set forth, all with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate economic, energy, engineering,
financial, administrative and environmental practices, and shall
promptly take or cause to be taken all action, including the
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources
necessary or appropriate, to enable PNOC-EDC to perform such
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
      Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall relend the entire
proceeds of the Loan to PNOC-EDC under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement
to be entered into between the Borrower and PNOC-EDC, under terms
and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank.
            (b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights and
obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank, and to
accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, or any provision thereof.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall take all action necessary to
ensure that: (a) any adverse environmental impact of the Project, or
any part thereof, is mitigated in a timely manner which is
acceptable to the Bank; and (b) adequate measures are promptly
adopted and carried out for the resettlement and rehabilitation of
the persons involuntarily displaced as a result of the Project, or
any part thereof, all in accordance with a resettlement plan
previously approved by the Bank.
      Section 3.04. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 9.01 of the General Conditions, beginning on
June 30, 1994, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank: (a) quarterly
Page  5
Project procurement progress reports and quarterly Project
implementation progress reports, of such scope and detail as the
Bank shall reasonably request, covering the progress achieved by the
Borrower and PNOC-EDC during the immediately preceding quarter; and
(b) quarterly progress reports, of such scope and detail as the Bank
shall reasonably request, covering the progress achieved by the
Borrower, during the immediately preceding quarter, in implementing
and monitoring the resettlement plan referred to in Sub-section 3.03
(b) of this Agreement.
      Section 3.05. The Borrower shall: (a) maintain, until
completion of the Project, a Project Implementation Unit,
responsible for the overall supervision of Project implementation,
in form and with such composition, functions and terms of reference
as shall be satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) ensure that the said
Unit is at all times headed by a Project Director and staffed with
qualified staff in adequate numbers and with the necessary
resources.
      Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, not later than June 30,
1994, recruit qualified consultants, in accordance with the
provisions of Section II of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement and
based on terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, to assist the
Borrower in carrying out the Project.
      Section 3.07. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods
and services, plans, schedules, records and reports, maintenance and
land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project shall be
carried out by PNOC-EDC, pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project
Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
             Management and Operations of the Borrower
      Section 4.01. The Borrower shall carry on its operations and
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound economic, energy,
engineering, financial, administrative, environmental and public
utility practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
      Section 4.02. The Borrower shall at all times operate and
maintain its plants, machinery, equipment and other property, and
from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound economic, energy,
engineering, financial, administrative, environmental and public
utility practices.
      Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall
be consistent with appropriate practice.
      Section 4.04. The Borrower shall at all times promptly take
all action necessary to: (a) maintain its corporate existence and
right to carry on its operations; and (b) acquire, maintain, renew
and otherwise exercise any and all rights (including, but without
limitation, land rights), powers, privileges and franchises which
are necessary in the conduct of its operations and in carrying out
of its obligations under this Agreement.
      Section 4.05. Except in the ordinary course of its business,
the Borrower shall not, without the Bank's prior consent, sell,
lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its property or
assets which are required for the efficient conduct of its
operations, or the carrying out of the Project.
                             ARTICLE V
Page  6
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain separate records
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
      (b) The Borrower shall:
              (i)  have its records, accounts and financial
                   statements (balance sheets, statements of income
                   and expenses and related statements) for each
                   Fiscal Year audited, in accordance with
                   appropriate auditing principles consistently
                   applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
                   the Bank;
             (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                   any case not later than six (6) months after the
                   end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
                   its financial statements for such year as so
                   audited, and (B) the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
            (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records, accounts and financial
                   statements as well as the audit thereof as the
                   Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
      (c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
              (i)  maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of
                   this Section, records and accounts reflecting
                   such expenditures;
             (ii)  retain, until at least one (1) year after the
                   Bank has received the audit report for the
                   Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal from
                   the Loan Account was made, all records
                   (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
                   and other documents) evidencing such
                   expenditures;
            (iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to examine
                   such records; and
             (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such Fiscal Year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                            ARTICLE VI
                       Remedies of the Bank
      Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a) The Charter shall have been amended, abrogated, repealed
or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of
the Borrower or the Guarantor to perform any of their respective
obligations under this Agreement or the Guarantee Agreement.
Page  7
      (b) The Incorporation Law shall have been amended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the
ability of the Borrower or PNOC-EDC to perform any of their
respective obligations under this Agreement or the Project
Agreement.
      (c) The Guarantor or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the disestablishment or dissolution
of the Borrower, or for the suspension of any of its operations, so
as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower to
perform any of its obligations under this Agreement.
      (d) The Guarantor, Borrower or any other authority having
jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the disestablishment or
dissolution of PNOC-EDC, or for the suspension of any of its
operations, so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of
PNOC-EDC to perform any of its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
      (e) PNOC-EDC shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
      Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified: (a) that
the events specified in paragraphs (a), (b) and (e) of Section 6.01
of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty (60) days, after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Bank to the Borrower; and (b) that the events specified in
paragraphs (c) and (d) of said Section 6.01 shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VII
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning
of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
            (a) That the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been
executed, and has entered into effect, between the Borrower and
PNOC-EDC, pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.02 of this
Agreement.
            (b) All conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
NPC Loan Agreement (other than those related to the effectiveness of
this Agreement) have been fulfilled.
      Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
            (a) That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by PNOC-EDC, and is legally binding upon PNOC-EDC in
accordance with its terms; and
            (b) That the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and PNOC-EDC, and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and PNOC-EDC in accordance with its terms.
      Section 7.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                           ARTICLE VIII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 8.01. The President of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
Page  8
the General Conditions.
      Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INTBAFRAD                     248423 (RCA),
                   Washington, D.C.              82987 (FTCC),
                                                 64145 (WUI) or
                                                 197688 (TRT).
      For the Borrower:
            Philippine National Oil Company
            7901 Makati Avenue
            Makati, Metro Manila
            Republic of the Philippines
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   PNOC                       22259
                   Makati
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                         By   /s/ Marianne Haug
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                             East Asia and Pacific
                         PHILIPPINE NATIONAL OIL COMPANY
                         By   /s/ Monico V. Jacob
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Page  9
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in      Expenditures
                                Dollar              to be
       Category               Equivalent)         Financed
(1)    Works                  28,000,000 )      100% of foreign
                                                expenditures
(2)    Goods                  32,700,000 )      100% of foreign
                                         )      expenditures,
                                         )      100% of local
                                         )      expenditures
                                         )      (ex-factory
                                         )      cost) and
                                         )      70% of local
                                         )      expenditures for
                                         )      other items
                                         )      procured
                                         )      locally
                                         )
(3)    Consultants'            3,300,000 )      100%
       services
                              __________
      TOTAL                   64,000,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a) The term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Guarantor for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
that of the Guarantor; and
      (b) The term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Guarantor.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above: (a) no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed six million
dollars ($6,000,000), may be made in respect of Categories (1), (2)
and (3) on account of payments made for expenditures before that
date but after July 1, 1993; and (b) no withdrawals shall be made
and no commitment shall be entered into to pay amounts to or on the
order of the Borrower for expenditures under Categories (1) and (2),
unless the Borrower shall have entered into a build-operate-transfer
agreement, acceptable to the Bank, for the development of the Leyte
geothermal power field referred to in Part A (1) of the Project, and
that said agreement shall have become effective in accordance with
its terms.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to inter alia: (a) improve
the efficiency and overall performance of the Guarantor's energy
sector; (b) assist the Borrower in meeting the rapidly increasing
demand for electricity power within the Guarantor's Cebu province,
by expanding the Borrower's geothermal power generation capacity and
reinforcing its related power transmission system; (c) strengthen
the Borrower's financial viability and institutional capabilities to
enable it to undertake its long-term investment program; and (d)
promote private sector participation in geothermal power generation
projects within the Guarantor's territory.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Page  10
Part A: Geothermal Power Development
        1. Developing a geothermal power field on the Guarantor's
island of Leyte capable of delivering a power capacity of 185 mega-
watts, including the provision of materials and equipment necessary
therefor; and
        2. Carrying out a build-operate-transfer contract for the
construction and operation of a 185 mega-watts geothermal power
plant on the said island of Leyte.
Part B: Institutional Strengthening.
        Provision of technical assistance services to assist the
Borrower in carrying out Part A above.
                          *  *  *  * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1997.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                     Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                     (expressed in dollars)*
May 15, 1999                              1,195,000
November 15, 1999                         1,240,000
May 15, 2000                              1,285,000
November 15, 2000                         1,335,000
May 15, 2001                              1,385,000
November 15, 2001                         1,435,000
May 15, 2002                              1,490,000
November 15, 2002                         1,545,000
May 15, 2003                              1,600,000
November 15, 2003                         1,660,000
May 15, 2004                              1,725,000
November 15, 2004                         1,785,000
May 15, 2005                              1,855,000
November 15, 2005                         1,920,000
May 15, 2006                              1,995,000
November 15, 2006                         2,070,000
May 15, 2007                              2,145,000
November 15, 2007                         2,225,000
May 15, 2008                              2,305,000
November 15, 2008                         2,395,000
May 15, 2009                              2,480,000
November 15, 2009                         2,575,000
May 15, 2010                              2,670,000
November 15, 2010                         2,770,000
May 15, 2011                              2,870,000
November 15, 2011                         2,980,000
May 15, 2012                              3,090,000
November 15, 2012                         3,205,000
May 15, 2013                              3,325,000
November 15, 2013                         3,445,000
_____________________________
*  The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal.  See General
Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:
Page  11
      Time of Prepayment             Premium
                                     The interest rate
                                     (expressed as a
                                     percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan on
                                     the day of prepayment
                                     multiplied by:
Not more than three years                  0.15
      before maturity
More than three years but                  0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity
More than six years but                    0.55
      not more than eleven years
      before maturity
More than eleven years but not             0.80
      more than sixteen years
      before maturity
More than sixteen years but not            0.90
      more than eighteen
      before maturity
More than eighteen years before            1.00
      maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   The term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2)
and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
      (b)   The term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   The term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to two million dollars ($2,000,000) to be withdrawn from
the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for Eligible Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.
Page  12
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.
            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required
                   pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                   payment or payments in respect of which replen-
                   ishment is requested.  On the basis of each such
                   request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
                   Borrower,  withdraw from the Loan Account and
                   deposit into the Special Account such amount as
                   the Borrower shall have requested and as shall
                   have been shown by said documents and other
                   evidence to have been paid out of the Special
                   Account for Eligible Expenditures.
      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective Eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible
Expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
      (a)   If, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
      (b)   Once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the Eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible
Expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for Eligible Expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
Page  13
outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant  provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
