Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3700 PH
              (Leyte-Cebu Geothermal Project -- NPC)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
                    NATIONAL POWER CORPORATION
                       Dated March 11, 1994
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3700 PH
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated March 11, 1994, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the "Bank") and NATIONAL POWER
CORPORATION (the "Borrower").
      WHEREAS: (A) The Republic of the Philippines (the "Guarantor")
and the Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
      WHEREAS: (B) By an agreement (the "Guarantee Agreement") of
even date herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor
has agreed to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect
of the Loan, and to undertake such other obligations as set forth in
the Guarantee Agreement; and
      WHEREAS: (C) The Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement.
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the "General Conditions") constitute
an integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l), and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
      "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
            under which any further withdrawals under the
            Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions of
            Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of
            Agreement."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth,
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a) "Charter" means the Borrower's constituent instrument
(Charter No. RA 6395), dated September 10, 1971, as amended to the
date of this Agreement, published in the Guarantor's Official
Journal, dated February 7, 1972, establishing the Borrower as a
state-owned power generation company duly authorized and operating
under the Guarantor's laws and regulations;
      (b) "Energy Sector Plan" means the Guarantor's plan for
reforming its power sector and promoting energy sufficiency, both at
the national and local levels, to be implemented by the Guarantor
and its electricity power generation and transmission utilities and
related power entities, as such plan was approved by the Office of
the President of the Republic of the Philippines on November 17,
1992, and as revised by the Guarantor on January 12, 1993;
      (c) "EOIS" means the Efficiency and Operational Improvement
Study, referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement and Section
3.02(c)(i) of the Guarantee Agreement, to be carried out pursuant to
the provisions of the Japanese Grant Agreement, dated July 9, 1992,
between the Bank, acting as administrator of grant funds provided by
Japan, and the Borrower, for the purposes of improving the
Borrower's overall operational and administrative efficiency and its
managerial and financial systems,  all in accordance with the
provisions of said sections;
      (d) "Fiscal Year" means the twelve (12) month period
corresponding to any of the Borrower's financial years, which period
commences on January 1 and ends on December 31 in each calendar
year, and the term "Fiscal Years" means collectively each of said
Fiscal Year;
      (e) "PNOC Loan Agreement" means the Loan Agreement, of even
date herewith, entered into between the Guarantor's Philippine
National Oil Company and the Bank;
      (f) "Power Development Program" means the Borrower's five (5)-
year investment program and related financing plan for the efficient
expansion and development of its power generation and transmission
systems;
      (g) "Relocation and Compensation Plan" means the Borrower's
plan, furnished to the Bank by the Borrower on August 13, 1993 and
referred to in Sections 3.04 (b) and 3.05 of this Agreement, for
relocating and compensating all persons to be displaced by the
Project, or any part thereof, so as to ensure the restoration or
enhancement of their livelihood and standard of living up to or
Page  3
beyond the levels enjoyed by them prior to the commencement of the
carrying out of the Project; and
      (h) "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of one hundred forty-seven million dollars
($147,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the
Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such
withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a
commercial Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank,
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to
this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1998, or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
      Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
      (b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the
Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
      (c) For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.
            (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
Page  4
                  the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
            (iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.
      (d) On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
                  "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."
                  "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
            Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the
            Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined
            in respect of such Quarter."
                  "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
economic, energy, engineering, financial, administrative,
environmental and public utility practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the Project.
            (b) Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, and except as the
Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
carry out the Project in accordance with the Action Plan set forth
in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. (a) Not later than October 1 of each Fiscal
Year, beginning the Fiscal Year ending December 31, 1994, the
Borrower shall exchange views and review with the Bank and the
Guarantor the progress achieved by the Borrower in implementing both
the Energy Sector Plan and the Power Development Program during the
preceding Fiscal Year.
      (b) Based upon said review, the Bank, the Borrower and the
Guarantor shall determine the actions necessary for improving the
Energy Sector Plan and the Power Development Program, and the
Borrower's implementation thereof, in respect of the following
Fiscal Year.
Page  5
      (c) The Borrower shall promptly thereafter, taking into
account the Bank's views and recommendations, carry out the
recommendations of said review with due diligence and efficiency,
and shall take all necessary measures to achieve the objectives
thereof.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, not later than April 30,
1994, review with the Bank and the Guarantor the findings and
recommendations of the EOIS and, promptly thereafter, implement the
recommendations which shall have been agreed upon between the Bank,
the Borrower and the Guarantor, all with due diligence and
efficiency.
      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall take all action necessary to
ensure that: (a) any adverse environmental impact of the Project, or
any part thereof, is effectively mitigated in a timely manner which
is acceptable to the Bank; and (b) adequate measures are promptly
adopted and carried out for the resettlement and rehabilitation of
all persons involuntarily displaced as a result of the Project, or
any part thereof, all in accordance with the Relocation and
Compensation Plan.
      Section 3.05. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 9.01 of the General Conditions, beginning on
June 30, 1994, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank: (a) quarterly
Project procurement progress reports and quarterly Project
implementation progress reports, of such scope and detail as the
Bank shall reasonably request, covering the progress achieved by the
Borrower during the immediately preceding quarter; (b) quarterly
progress reports, of such scope and detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, covering the progress achieved by the Borrower,
during the immediately preceding quarter, in implementing and
monitoring the Relocation and Compensation Plan; and (c) semi-annual
projections, based on a methodology and calculations acceptable to
the Bank, of its power demand, capital expenditures and financial
statements.
      Section 3.06. The Borrower shall: (a) maintain, until
completion of the Project, a Project Implementation Unit responsible
for the overall supervision of Project implementation, in form and
with such composition, functions and terms of reference as shall be
satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) ensure that the said Unit is at
all times headed by a Project Director and staffed with qualified
staff in adequate numbers and with the necessary resources.
      Section 3.07. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project, and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
             Management and Operations of the Borrower
      Section 4.01. The Borrower shall carry on its operations and
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound economic, energy,
engineering, financial, administrative, environmental and public
utility practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
      Section 4.02. The Borrower shall at all times operate and
maintain its plants, machinery, equipment and other property, and
from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound economic, energy,
engineering, financial, administrative, environmental and public
utility practices.
      Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall
be consistent with appropriate practice.
Page  6
      Section 4.04. The Borrower shall at all times promptly take
all action necessary to: (a) maintain its corporate existence and
right to carry on its operations; and (b) acquire, maintain, renew
and otherwise exercise any and all rights (including, but without
limitation, land rights), powers, privileges and franchises which
are necessary in the conduct of its operations and in carrying out
of its obligations under this Agreement.
      Section 4.05. Except in the ordinary course of its business,
the Borrower shall not, without the Bank's prior consent, sell,
lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its property or
assets which are required for the efficient conduct of its
operations, or the carrying out of the Project.
                             ARTICLE V
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain separate records
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
      (b) The Borrower shall:
              (i) have its records, accounts and financial
                  statements (balance sheets, statements of income
                  and expenses and related statements) for each
                  Fiscal Year audited, in accordance with
                  appropriate auditing principles consistently
                  applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
                  the Bank;
             (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six (6) months after the
                  end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
                  its financial statements for such year as so
                  audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said
                  auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
                  Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
            (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and financial
                  statements as well as the audit thereof as the
                  Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
      (c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
              (i) maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of
                  this Section, records and accounts reflecting
                  such expenditures;
             (ii) retain, until at least one (1) year after the
                  Bank has received the audit report for the Fiscal
                  Year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;
            (iii) enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
                  records; and
             (iv) ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such Fiscal Year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
Page  7
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
      Section 5.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall earn, for each of its Fiscal Years after its
Fiscal Year ending on December 31, 1994, an annual return of not
less than eight percent (8%) of the average current net value of the
Borrower's fixed assets in operation.
      (b)   Before December 1 in each of its Fiscal Years, the
Borrower shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by the Borrower
and satisfactory to the Bank, review whether it would meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and
the next following Fiscal Year, and shall furnish to the Bank a copy
of such review upon its completion.
      (c)   If any such review shows that the Borrower would not
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for the Borrower's
Fiscal Years covered by such review, the Borrower shall promptly
take all necessary measures (including, without limitation,
adjustments of the structure or levels of its rates) in order to
meet such requirements.
      (d)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)   The annual return shall be calculated by dividing
                  the Borrower's net operating income for the
                  Fiscal Year in question by one half (1/2) of the
                  sum of the current net value of the Borrower's
                  fixed assets in operation at the beginning and at
                  the end of that Fiscal Year.
            (ii)  The term "net operating income" means total
                  operating revenues less total operating expenses.
            (iii) The term "total operating revenues" means
                  revenues from all sources related to operations.
            (iv)  The term "total operating expenses" means all
                  expenses related to operations, including
                  administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and
                  payments in lieu of taxes, and provision for
                  depreciation in a manner consistent with
                  generally accepted accounting principles.
            (v)   The average current gross value of the Borrower's
                  fixed assets in operation shall be calculated as
                  one half (1/2) of the sum of the gross value of
                  the Borrower's fixed assets in operation at the
                  beginning and at the end of the Fiscal Year, as
                  valued from time to time in accordance with sound
                  and consistently maintained methods of valuation
                  satisfactory to the Bank.
            (vi)  The term "current net value of the Borrower's
                  fixed assets in operation" means the gross value
                  of the Borrower's fixed assets in operation less
                  the amount of accumulated depreciation, as valued
                  from time to time in accordance with sound and
                  consistently maintained methods of valuation
                  satisfactory to the Bank.
      Section 5.03. (a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast
of the revenues and expenditures of the Borrower shows that the
estimated net revenues of the Borrower for each Fiscal Year during
the term of the debt to be incurred shall be at least one and one-
third (1.3) times the estimated debt service requirements of the
Borrower in such year on all of its debt, including the debt to be
incurred.
      (b)   For the purposes of this Section:
Page  8
            (i)   The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the
                  Borrower maturing by its terms more than one (1)
                  year after the date on which it is originally
                  incurred.
            (ii)  Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
                  loan contract or agreement (including, without
                  limitation, this Agreement), or other instrument
                  providing for such debt, or for the modification
                  of its terms of payment on the date of such
                  contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) under
                  a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement
                  providing for such guarantee has been entered
                  into.
            (iii) The term "net revenues" means the difference
                  between:
                  (A)   the sum of revenues from all sources
                        related to operations and net non-operating
                        income; and
                  (B)   the sum of all expenses related to
                        operations including administration,
                        adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in
                        lieu of taxes, but excluding provision for
                        depreciation, other non-cash operating
                        charges and interest and other charges on
                        debt.
            (iv)  The term "net non-operating income" means the
                  difference between:
                  (A)   revenues from all sources other than those
                        related to operations; and
                  (B)   expenses, including taxes and payments in
                        lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation
                        of revenues in sub-section (A) above.
            (v)   The term "debt service requirements" means the
                  aggregate amount of repayments (including sinking
                  fund payments, if any) of, and interest and other
                  charges on, debt.
            (vi)  The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast
                  prepared by the Borrower not earlier than twelve
                  (12) months prior to the incurrence of the debt
                  in question, which both the Bank and the Borrower
                  accept as reasonable and as to which the Bank has
                  notified the Borrower of its acceptability,
                  provided that no event has occurred since such
                  notification which has, or may reasonably be
                  expected in the future to have, a material
                  adverse effect on the financial condition or
                  future operating results of the Borrower.
            (vii) Whenever for the purposes of this Section it
                  shall be necessary to value, in terms of the
                  currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in
                  another currency, such valuation shall be made on
                  the basis of the prevailing market rate of
                  exchange at which such other currency is, at the
                  time of such valuation, obtainable for the
                  purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the
                  absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of
                  exchange acceptable to the Bank.
      Section 5.04. (a) The Borrower shall, not later than December
31, 1994, and subsequently every Fiscal Year thereafter, duly
revalue all its fixed assets in operation based on a methodology,
Page  9
calculations and procedures acceptable to the Bank, .
      (b) For the purposes of this Section, the term "fixed assets
in operation" means all tangible assets, including, but without
limitation, land, buildings, plant and equipment, held for the
production of goods or services, or for administrative purposes.
                            ARTICLE VI
                       Remedies of the Bank
      Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a) The Charter shall have been amended, abrogated, repealed
or waived, so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of
the Borrower or the Guarantor to perform any of their respective
obligations under this Agreement or the Guarantee Agreement.
      (b) The Guarantor or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the disestablishment or dissolution
of the Borrower, or for the suspension of any of its operations, so
as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower to
perform any of its obligations under this Agreement.
      Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified: (a) that
the events specified in paragraph (a) of Section 6.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60)
days, after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower; and (b) that the event specified in paragraph (b) of said
Section 6.01 shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VII
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 7.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of this Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions, namely,
that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the PNOC Loan
Agreement (other than those related to the effectiveness of this
Agreement) have been fulfilled.
      Section 7.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                           ARTICLE VIII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 8.01. The President of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
the General Conditions.
      Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
Page  10
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD                     248423 (RCA),
                  Washington, D.C.              82987 (FTCC),
                                                64145 (WUI) or
                                                197688 (TRT).
      For the Borrower:
            The President
            National Power Corporation
            Quezon Avenue
            East Triangle, Diliman
            Quezon City,
            Republic of the Philippines
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  NAPOCOR                       742-40120
                  Manila                        (PM)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                        By /s/ Marianna Haug
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                             East Asia and Pacific
                        NATIONAL POWER CORPORATION
                        By /s/ Raul Ch. Rabe
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in      Expenditures
                                Dollar              to be
        Category              Equivalent)         Financed
(1)     Works                 2,000,000  )      60%
(2) (a) Equipment, mate-    126,200,000  )      100% of foreign
        rials and related                )      expenditures,
        installation                     )      100% of local
        under Part A                     )      expenditures
Page  11
        of the Project,                  )      (ex-factory
        except Part A                    )      cost) and
        (4) thereof                      )      70% of local
                                         )      expenditures for
                                         )      other items
                                         )      procured
                                         )      locally
    (b) Equipment mat-         5,000,000 )      100% of foreign
        erials and re-                   )      expenditures
        lated installa-                  )
        tion under Part                  )
        A (4) of the                     )
        Project                          )
(3)     Consultants'          13,800,000 )      100%
        services
      TOTAL                  147,000,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a) The term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Guarantor for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
that of the Guarantor; and
      (b) The term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Guarantor.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above: (a) no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of
twelve million dollars ($12,000,000), may be made in respect of
Categories (1) and (2) on account of payments made for expenditures
before that date but after July 1, 1993; and (b) no withdrawals
shall be made and no commitment shall be entered into to pay amounts
to or on the order of the Borrower for expenditures under Categories
(1) and (2), unless the Borrower shall have implemented energy
demand charges, based on a methodology and procedures acceptable to
the Bank, for the purposes of improving the structure of its energy
tariffs so as to better reflect the economic cost of its provision
of power supply.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to inter alia: (a) improve
the efficiency and overall performance of the Guarantor's energy
sector; (b) assist the Borrower in meeting the rapidly increasing
demand for electricity power within the Guarantor's Cebu province,
by expanding the Borrower's geothermal power generation capacity and
reinforcing its related power transmission system; (c) strengthen
the Borrower's financial viability and institutional capabilities to
enable it to undertake its long-term investment program; and (d)
promote private sector participation in geothermal power generation
projects within the Guarantor's territory.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A: Works
      1. Constructing an overhead power transmission line: (a)
within the Guarantor's island of Leyte, covering a distance of
approximately seventy-seven (77) kilometers with a capacity of 230
kilo-volts; and (b) within the Guarantor's island of Cebu, covering
a distance of approximately ninety-three (93) kilometers with a
Page  12
capacity of 230 kilo-volts, and covering a distance of approximately
twenty-seven (27) kilometers with a capacity of 138 kilo-volts;
      2. Installing a submarine power cable crossing covering a
distance of approximately thirty-two (32) kilometers with a capacity
of 230 kilo-volts to link the transmission lines referred to in Part
A (1) above; and
      3. Upgrading the Borrower's existing 138 kilo-volts and 69
kilo-volts power transmission and sub-station facilities on the
Guarantor's island of Cebu.
      4. Provision of goods under the Energy Sector Project (Loan
3163-PH).
Part B: Institutional Strengthening.
      Provision of technical assistance services to assist the
Borrower in carrying out, inter alia: (a) Part A of the Project; (b)
the final design and engineering in respect of two (2) hydroelectric
projects, totalling a 400 mega-watts capacity, including the
preparation of the necessary procurement tender documents; and (c)
the Power Development Program and EOIS.
                          *  *  *  * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1997.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                     Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                     (expressed in dollars)*
August 1, 1999                            2,750,000
February 1, 2000                          2,850,000
August 1, 2000                            2,955,000
February 1, 2001                          3,065,000
August 1, 2001                            3,180,000
February 1, 2002                          3,300,000
August 1, 2002                            3,420,000
February 1, 2003                          3,550,000
August 1, 2003                            3,680,000
February 1, 2004                          3,815,000
August 1, 2004                            3,960,000
February 1, 2005                          4,105,000
August 1, 2005                            4,260,000
February 1, 2006                          4,415,000
August 1, 2006                            4,580,000
February 1, 2007                          4,750,000
August 1, 2007                            4,925,000
February 1, 2008                          5,110,000
August 1, 2008                            5,300,000
February 1, 2009                          5,495,000
August 1, 2009                            5,700,000
February 1, 2010                          5,910,000
August 1, 2010                            6,130,000
February 1, 2011                          6,360,000
August 1, 2011                            6,595,000
February 1, 2012                          6,840,000
August 1, 2012                            7,095,000
February 1, 2013                          7,360,000
August 1, 2013                            7,630,000
February 1, 2014                          7,915,000
_____________________________
*  The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal.  See General
Page  13
Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:
      Time of Prepayment             Premium
                                     The interest rate
                                     (expressed as a
                                     percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan on
                                     the day of prepayment
                                     multiplied by:
Not more than three years                  0.15
      before maturity
More than three years but                  0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity
More than six years but                    0.55
      not more than eleven years
      before maturity
More than eleven years but not             0.80
      more than sixteen years
      before maturity
More than sixteen years but not            0.90
      more than eighteen
      before maturity
More than eighteen years before            1.00
      maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A: International Competitive Bidding
1.      Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the "Guidelines"). For fixed-
price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 2.13
of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is delayed
beyond the original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid
price will be increased for each week of delay by two (2) pre-
disclosed correction factors acceptable to the Bank, one (1) to be
applied to all foreign currency components, and the other to the
local currency component of the bid price. Such an increase shall
not be taken into account in the bid evaluation.
2.      To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and works
shall be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent
of two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000) or more.
3.      In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with
this Part A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding
documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the
Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the
Project.  Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been
Page  14
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based
on other internationally recognized standard terms agreed with the
Bank.
Part B: Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
        In the procurement of goods in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured within
the territory of the Guarantor may be granted a margin of preference
in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs
2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of
Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C: Other Procurement Procedures
        Local Competitive Bidding
        Contracts for supply and erection estimated to cost the
equivalent of one million dollars ($1,000,000) or less per contract,
up to an aggregate amount equivalent to five million dollars
($5,000,000), may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
Part D: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.      Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
      (a) With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of three million dollars ($3,000,000) or more, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
      (b) With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
      (c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not
apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be made on
the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.      The figure of fifteen percent (15%) is hereby specified for
purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part B of the
Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published
by the Bank in August 1981 (the "Consultants Guidelines").  For
complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such
consultants under contracts using the standard forms of contract
for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such
modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank.  Where no
relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank,
the Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with the Bank.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultants Guidelines requiring prior review
by the Bank, or approval of budgets, short lists, selection
procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and
contracts shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than
the equivalent of twenty thousand dollars ($20,000) per contract.
However, this exception to prior review by the Bank shall not apply
to the terms of reference for such contracts nor to the employment
of individuals, to single source selection of firms, to assignments
Page  15
of a critical nature as reasonably determined by the Bank and to
amendments of contracts raising the contract value to the equivalentof thirty thousand 
dollars ($30,000) or more per contract.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                            Action Plan
      The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with
the Action Plan set forth hereinbelow. The Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, not later than June 30 and December 31 in each Fiscal
Year, reports on the progress achieved in carrying out the Project.
Action\0cResponsible\0cDate\0c(A) Project Implementation\0c\0c\0cAppoint consultants for Pro
ject construction
and supervision\0cNPC\0cApril 30, 1994\0cAward contract for transmission lines under
Part A (1) of the Project\0cNPC\0cApril 30, 1994\0cAward contract for submarine cable
under Part A
(2) of the Project\0cNPC\0cApril 30, 1994\0cComplete the consultancy study on the econ
omic
contracting and dispatch of power generating
power\0cNPC\0cJune 30, 1994\0cApprove a standard contract for build-operate-
transfer projects, and strengthen the staff and
organization of the office for private sector
participation to effectively analyze and review
build-operate-transfer and build-transfer-
operate projects.\0cNPC\0cApril 30, 1994\0cAppoint an advisor to assist in overseeing
the
implementation of NPC programs \0cNPC\0cApril 30, 1994
                            SCHEDULE 6
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   The term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1),
(2) and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
      (b)   The term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories in accor-
dance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   The term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to two million dollars ($2,000,000) to be withdrawn
from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusive-
ly for Eligible Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.
Page  16
            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required
                   pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for
                   the payment or payments in respect of which
                   replenishment is requested.  On the basis of
                   each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of
                   the Borrower,  withdraw from the Loan Account
                   and deposit into the Special Account such
                   amount as the Borrower shall have requested and
                   as shall have been shown by said documents and
                   other evidence to have been paid out of the
                   Special Account for Eligible Expenditures.
      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the
Loan Account under the respective Eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
Eligible Expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
      (a)   If, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
      (b)   Once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the Eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the
Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or
justified.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further
deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until
the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for Eligible Expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
Page  17
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to
the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with
the relevant  provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
