Report No. PID10728
Project Name                     Cape Verde: Structural Adjustment Credit
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Non-Sector Specific
Project ID                       CVPE75700
Borrower                         Ministry of Planning and Financing
Implementing Agency
Dr. Antonio Neves
Project Coordinator
Project Coordination Unit
Caixa Postal 323
Praia, Cape Verde
Tel: (230) 614748
Fax: (230) 612334
Email: cvprivat.coord@cvtelecom.cv
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                August 13, 2001
Project Appraisal Date           September 24, 2001
Project Board Date               December 31, 2001
1.      Background
Cape Verde is a small open economy, with a lower-middle income standard of
living that depends heavily on remittances (about 20 percent of GDP).
Economic growth has been strong over the past five years, at an annual average
of 6.4 percent. It has been spurred by a steady pace of structural reforms
aimed at making the economy more responsive to market incentives:
privatizations since 1998 (including all the commercial banks), tariff reform,
and liberalization of staple commodity markets. Its dominant sector is
services (approximately 72 percent of GDP in 2000, including the public
sector). The development of tourism has supported gradual growth ofthe services
sector in absolute terms, and as a share of GDP. Industry, mainly light
manufacturing, represented slightly less than 20 percent of GDP in 2000; its
growth prospects are limited by high factor costs and the absence of economies
of scale, but encouraged by the availability of qualified labor and a steadily
improving investment climate. The strong ties with the emigrant population
are also a source of knowledge transfers. Agriculture, representing only
10 percent of GDP in 2000, is severely constrained by the scarcity of water,
and natural catastrophes such as volcanic eruptions and floods. Cape Verde is
therefore highly dependent on food imports. Public finances have been hampered
by the narrow fiscal base and the accumulation of domestic and external
arrears has occurred at times.
2.      Objectives



The proposed Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC) is an integral part of the
Bank strategy set forth in the December 1997 CAS and in the August 2001 CAS
Progress Report.   The objective of the proposed Credit is to help the
Government of Cape Verde reestablish internal and external balances, by
alleviating the impact of the oil shock and creating the conditions for
sustained high GDP growth. The proposed Credit would thus support the
Government's stabilization program and help implement critical structural
reform in support of renewed growth and poverty alleviation by: (a)
implementing structural reforms in the petroleum sector; (b) supporting an
accelerated privatization program in the transport and infrastructure sector;
(c) creating anenvironment conducive to private sector development and
enhancing revenue mobilization; and (d) strengthening fiscal sustainability.
3.      Description
In-spite-of temporary setbacks in 1997 and 2000, the strong reform program
implemented by Cape Verde generated many positive results in growth and social
sector outcomes. To sustain these achievements the government has initiated a
multi-year reform program. The proposed one tranche SAC in the amount of US$12
million, aims to initiate critical reforms while helping the Government
overcome a fragile fiscal/BOP situation, in some measure resulting from the
oil shock, through the following measures: (i) Petroleum Sector - Government
undertaking to adopt and implement action-plan, acceptable to IDA to reform
the petroleum sector. Up-front measures include raising domestic prices to
reduce/eliminate differential with international prices; (ii) Privatization:
(a) Liquidate the distribution company EMPA. (b) begin the process of
privatizing the airline company TACV; (c) begin the process of liquidate
urban transport company (TRANSCOR); (d) sell [two] cold/freezing storages at
the port ([INTERBASE] and SALMAR), and (e) Liquidate the Golden shares in BCA
(commercial bank) and EMPA, in the context of liquidation iii) Tax and Trade
Reform - Adoption by the Government of VAT and new tariff code acceptable to
IDA; and (iv) Budget Reform : (a) maintaining the cap on university
scholarships at or below current levels, and introducing means testing;
(b)updating the Public Investment Plan(PIP) in the context of the PER
(c) implementing satisfactory macroeconomic program.
4.      Benefit
Cape Verde is a good performer facing temporary problems. The proposed Credit
would help stabilize the budget and BOP situation and help put again the
economy on a sustainable growth path. The implementation of tariff and VAT
reforms, and completion of the divestiture program would improve Cape Verde's
growth prospects over the medium term by improving resource mobilization,
stimulating private investment and economic diversification. Also, by
alleviating the burden on the budget of petroleum subsidies and student grants,
as well that of debt repayment, the Credit would help protect budgetary
spending in areas with direct favorable impact on poverty.
5.      Risks
The main project risk is related to policy reversal. This is mitigated by the
fact that privatization and tax measures envisaged under the program are
difficult to reverse. Furthermore, Cape Verde's track record during most of
the 1990s in terms of high growth and poverty alleviation, underpinned by
privatization and economic liberalization, is quite remarkable and there is
- 2 -



strong ownership of the proposed program by Government. Nevertheless, there
have been two instances during 1997 and 2000 where macroeconomic slippage
occurred and internal debt problems materialized. In both cases, the
Government responded by implementing effective remedial measures. More
importantly, the recent election results indicate that civil society has held
the previous Government accountable for the slippage, which would help
encourage sound economic management in the future. Finally, the Government
recognizes that its relationship with development partners is a long-term one
and that the causes of accumulation of domestic debt need to be reduced and/or
eliminated. Therefore, its commitments under the Letter of Development Policy
go well beyond the SAC horizon, and would help ensure that the reform effort
is sustained up to and beyond a possible future PRSC.
6.      Financing
Multi-lateral (EU and ADB) and bilateral donors are expected to provide
parallel financing. The indicative financing plan is as follows:
IDA:
Bilateral donors:
Multilateral donors:
Total:
US$12.0 million
US$4.8 million
US$5.0 million
US$21.8 million
7.      Implementation
The reform program under this Credit will be implemented by the Ministry of
Finance and Planning. Because this is a one-tranche operation, implementation
of the overall program as well as macroeconomic performance, will be monitored
bi-annually in the context of the next phase of the multi-year reform program
and the PRSP, preparing the next credit, as well as jointly with the IMF. To
ensure greater stakeholder commitment and ownership in the conception and
implementation of the present and future reforms, an ad-hoc adjustment
monitoring committee will be established by the Borrower. This committee
would be responsible for monitoring whether or not expected output and o
utcome are being attained and, if necessary, recommend remedial actions to
avoid slippage.
8.      Sustainability
By helping stabilize the economy, thus reducing the risk of inflation, and
providing budget support, which would help protect priority social
expenditure, the expect social impact of the SAC should be largely positive.
Nevertheless, some groups may be affected unfavorably by the following three
measures: (1) privatization; (2) increase in energy prices; and (3) budget
stabilization measures. The impact of privatization is mitigated by the very
generous safety net provided to retrenched workers of public enterprises,
which provides strong social protection. Bank safeguards in this area are
being met and probably exceeded. With respect to energy prices,the ongoing
study calls for social impact assessment based on which, where feasible,
mitigation measures would be implemented in due course. In the short-term,
- 3 -



price increases tend to target better off consumers, while the diesel price
increase, which has a more direct impact on the poor,is relatively less than
for other products. Liberalization of certain products and the switch to
lower gasoline octane should lead to lower prices and eventually help the
consumer. In the case of a few measures, some temporary negative impact is
unavoidable. This is especially the case for civil servants whose wages have
been frozen. However, the Government has acted appropriately by discussing
and agreeing on these temporary measures with labor unions.
9.      Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the    Country/Sector
IDA's portfolio in Cape Verde is healthy and problem-free. Cape Verde is
highly committed to working with the Bank in highlighting and addressing
issues that affect implementation of projects in the portfolio. A Country
Portfolio Performance Review (CPPR) will be carried out in October 2001 with
discussions likely to focus on: (a) macroeconomic stability as the
prerequisite for healthy project implementation; (b) financing counterpart
funds; and (c) coordination and execution of IDA projects.
10.     Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)   N
11.     Environmental Aspects    N/A
Contact Point
Task Team Leader
Iradj Alikhani
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20043
Tel:(202) 458-0345
For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20043
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not
be necessarely included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the Infoshop during the week ending October 26,2001
- 4 -



