Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P7491 -CV
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
OF SDR 11.6 MILLION
(US$15 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
November 14, 2001
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of their official
duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit              Cape Verde Escudo (CVE)
US$S                       119.75 CVE (as of September 30,2001)
1 CVE                -    USS0.00012 (as of September 30, 2001)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric system
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB            African Development Bank
AIDS            Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome
ARCA VERDE   CompanhiaNacional de NavegaCio (National Maritime Company)
BCA             Atlantic Commercial Bank
CAS             Country Assistance Strategy
CFAA            Country Financing Accountability Assessment
CPPR            Country Portfolio Performance Review
EMPA            Empresa Publica de Abastecimento (Public Commercialization Enterprise)
ENAPOR          National Company for Port Adminstration
ERSO            Economic Reforms Support Operation Credit
FDI             Foreign Direct Investment
FIAS            Foreign Investment Advisory Service
G&CP            Gross and Capacity Building Project
GDP             Growth Domestic Product
HIPC            Highly Indebted Poor Countries
HIV             Human Immunodeficiency Virus
IDA             International Development Agency
IFC             International Finance Corporation
IMF             International Monetary Fund
INE             National Statistics Institute
l-PRSP          Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
LDP             Letter of Development Policy
MPD             hMovimento para Democracia (Political Party)
MIGA            Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
NDP             National Development Program
NPAP            National Poverty Alleviation Plan
OPEC            Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
PAICV           Partido Africanoda Independencia de C(abo Verde (Political Party)
PER             Public Expenditure Review
PIP             Project Implementation Plan
PRSC               Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit
PRSP               Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
BoP                Balance of Payments
PRGF               Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
PROMEX             Tourism Export and Investment Promotion Center
SSA                Sub-Saharan Africa
SALMAR             Empresa de Comercializad Jo de Produtos do Mar SA
SMP                Staff-monitored Program
SAC                Structural Adjustment Credit
TACV               Cape Verde Airlines
TCMF               Treasury Certificates
TRANSCOR           Urban Passenger Transport Company
VAT                Value-added Tax
Vice President                       Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director                     John McIntire
Sector Manager                       Demba Ba
Task Team Leader                     lradj Alikhani



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
COUNTRY BACKGROUND AND ECONOMY ..................................................................1,.    I
Country Profile.I
Political Background.I
The Economy.2
Social Situation - Poverty.2
CAPE VERDE'S REFORM AND ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM.3
The    M ac roeco nomicd  ..................................................................Situation  3
Recent Developments                                                                                3
The  Government .................................................................. . . . . , .     4
The medium-term program.5
Social and Structural Policies and Institutional Issues.5
Policies in Support of Improved Economic Management and Institutional Capaciy .5
Financial     Sect or Reform s.7s ...........................
Policies for Private Sector-led Growth ...........................   ,                   ,,,.,.7
Human Development.9
Fiscal Gap and Financing of The Program .1............................................. 10
THE PROPOSED CREDITT.
Objectives.1 1
Link to the CAS, Poverty Impact and Rationale .                                                     II
The Structural Adjustment Proram .12
Credit Features and Implementation .                                                                 13
BANK GROUP OPERATIONS .16
The Portfolio.16
Performance and Aid Coordination .16
Adj ustment Experience .16
Future Lending.16
COLLABORATION WITH [MF AND OTHER DONORS .                                                               17
RECOMMENDATION.17
TABLES:
TABLE 1: Economic and Social Indicators                              .2
TABLE 2: Estimated Fiscal Gap and Proposed Funding 1I
AN EXES
ANNEX A:  Poverty and Social Development Indicators
ANNEX B:  Key Economic Indicators
ANNEX C:  Letter of Development Policy
ANNEX D:  Policy Matrix
ANNEX E:  Status of Bank Group Operations in Cape Verde
ANNEX F:  Timetable for Key Processing Events
ANNEX G: Cape Verde at a Glance
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:            The Republic of Cape Verde
Terms:               SDR 11.6 million (US$15 million equivalent)
Amount:              Standard IDA terms with a maturity of 40 years
Program Objectives:  The proposed Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC) is an integral part of the
Bank strategy set forth in the December 1997 CAS and in the August 2001
CAS Progress Report. The objective of the proposed Credit is to help the
Government of Cape Verde reestablish internal and external balances, by
helping alleviate the impact of the oil shock and recent World events and
creating the conditions for sustained high GDP growth. The proposed Credit
would thus support the Government's stabilization program and help implement
critical structural reforms in support of renewed growth and poverty alleviation
by: (a) implementing structural reforms in the petroleum sector; (b) supporting
an accelerated privatization program in the transport and infrastructure sector;
(c) creating an environment conducive to private sector development and
enhancing revenue mobilization; and (d) strengthening fiscal and BOP
sustainability.
Credit Description:   In spite of temporary setbacks in 1997 and 2000, the strong reform program
implemented by Cape Verde generated many positive results in growth and
social sector outcomes. To. sustain these achievements the Government has
initiated a multi-year reform program. The proposed two tranche SAC in the
amount of US$15 million, aims to initiate critical reforms while helping the
Government overcome a fragile fiscal/BoP situation, in some measure resulting
from the oil shock, through the following measures: (i) Petroleum Sector -
Government undertaking to adopt and implement an action plan, acceptable to
IDA to reform the petroleum sector; up-front measures include raising domestic
prices to reduce/eliminate differential with international prices; (ii)
Privatization: (a) Liquidate the distribution company EMPA; (b) begin the
process of privatizing the airline company TACV; (c) liquidate an urban
transport company (TRANSCOR); (d) sell the cold/freezing storages at the port
(SALMAR); and (e) liquidate the Golden shares in BCA (commercial bank)
and EMPA, in the context of liquidation; (iii) Tax and Trade Reform - Adoption
by the Government of VAT and new tariff code acceptable to IDA; and (iv)
Budget Reform: (a) maintaining the cap on university scholarships at or below
current levels, and introducing means testing; (b) updating the Public
Investment Plan (PIP) in the context of the PER; and (c) implementing
satisfactory macroeconomic program. A policy matrix spelling out the
objectives of the proposed Credit and measures already taken is provided as
Annex D.
Benefits:            The proposed Credit would help: (i) stabilize the budget and BoP situation; (ii)
alleviate the oil shock and fall in tourism following recent world events; and



(iii) put the economy on a direct favorable impact on poverty. The
implementation of tariff and VAT reforms, and completion of the divestiture
program would enhance Cape Verde's growth prospects over the medium-term
by improving resource mobilization, stimulating competition, private
investment and economic diversification. By alleviating the fiscal burden of
petroleum subsidies and student grants, as well as that of debt repayment, the
Credit would help protect budgetary spending in areas with direct favorable
impact on poverty.
Risks:               The main risk of the program  is related to policy reversal. This risk is
moderated by the fact that tax reform and privatization are largely irreversible.
Furthermore, Cape Verde's track record during most of the 1990s in terms of
high growth and poverty alleviation is good. Nevertheless, there were two
instances, during 1997 and 2000, where macroeconomic slippages occurred
leading to internal debt problems. In both cases, the Government responded by
implementing effective remedial measures. The SAC would lhelp tackle some
of the causes of the overruns, such as petroleum subsidies. Civil society
understands the need for a stable macro environment and has supported
government actions to bring about stability. Furthermore, it has worked closely
with Government in formulating reforms which would enhance the business
environment. Finally, Government recognizes that its relationship with
development partners is a long-term one. Therefore, its commitments under the
Letter of Development Policy would go well beyond the SAC horizon and
would ensure that the reform effort is sustained up to and beyond a possible
future PRSC.
Schedule of          The Credit will be disbursed in two tranches.
Disbursements:
Financing            Multi-lateral (EU and AfDB) and bilateral donors are expected to provide
Plan:                parallel financing to help fill the identified financing gap. The tentative
financing plan is as follows:
IDA:                 US$15.0 million
Other donors:        US$16.6 million
Total:               US$31.6 million
Project ID Number:    CV-PE-P075700
Map:                  IBRD 27215



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed Structural
Adjustment Credit (SAC) to the Republic of Cape Verde for SDR 11.6 million (US$15 million
equivalent). The Credit would be on standard IDA terns, with an amortization period of 40 years,
including a grace period of 10 years. The Credit fits into the ongoing Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
and its current update, presented to the Board on August 28, 2001 (No. IDA/R2000-144). It is justified
on the basis of policy actions, dealing with public finance management and structural reforms for private
sector development, and of alleviating the impact on the economy of the oil shock and recent world
events. The Credit would finance eligible imports. The counterpart funds from the imports would finance
the budget, with about one-third of the funds utilized to pay for retrenchment costs associated with
privatization.
I.  COUNTRY BACKGROUND AND ECONOMY
A.   COUNTRY PROFILE
2.    Cape Verde is a volcanic archipelago of 10 islands, 600 kilometers west of Senegal, in the Atlantic
Ocean. Its Sahelian climate is tempered by the ocean's influence. It was uninhabited in 1460, when
navigators in the service of the Portuguese crown
first landed. Two years after their discovery, the                 Box 1: Cape Verde
archipelago was colonized. Today, half of the   . Cape Verde consists of ten islands of varied topography
with total land area of 4,039 km2. Nine are permanently
archipelago's population lives on the island of      inhabited. The Sahelian climate, a marked shortage of
Santiago around the capital, Praia. Cape Verde's    fresh water supply, and a population growth rate in excess
economy was originally based on plantations,         of 2.0 percent, combine to produce a high pressure on the
which occupied a tenth of the land base that was     country's fragile agricultural base.
arable. Given  drastic  water constraints  and   . GNP per capita: US$1,350 (2000)
frequent natural catastrophes, the plantations met   . Population of about 425,000 habitants (2000) of which
more than 54 percent is urban. Emigration is the principal
with limited economic success. As whaling grew       pressure release valve for the domestic economy, as well as
in importance, Cape Verde became an important        a key means of escape from poverty.
port of call, and the European presence became   . The economy is highly dependent on donor assistance
relatively stronger. Thereafter, as commercial       (with foreign grants accounting for up to 9 percent of GDP
whaling subsided, Mindelo and Praia, the two         in 2000) and remittances from abroad (20 percent of GDP
most important ports, became coal stops for the      Monetized food aid meets abo ut 75 percent of GDPb
transatlantic steamers. The demise of steamers       requirements.
saw Cape Verde lose its relevance for trade, and   . Cape Verde has a good track record in human resource
its economy declined while emigration soared.        development, with universal primary school enrollment, 72
Today, 425,000 people live in the archipelago,       percent literacy, life expectancy of 68 years, and about 25
and twice as many Cape Verdeans live abroad.         percent unemployment.
. The political system is based on multiparty parliamentary
democracy. As witnessed by the smooth transitions
B.   POLITICAL BACKGROUND                            following the past three elections, the level of political
maturity of Cape Verdeans sets the country apart from
3.    Cape  Verde  obtained  its independence        others.
from Portugal in 1975, and originally planned to form one country with Guinea-Bissau, but the plan came
to naught after opposition on the continent. The independence movement converted itself into a political



Cape Verde                                                                                       2
socialist agenda, with central planning and Goyernment control,of production assets. In January 1991,
Cape Verde adopted a multi-party political system, along with democratic institutions. The Movimento
Para Democracia (MPD) came to power with a parliamentary majority and the presidency. It embarked
on a prudent liberalization of the economy and a successful privatization program. The administration
and the President both won a second term in office in 1996. In the parliamentary elections of February
2001 the PAICV won a large majority of seats and a new Government was formed shortly thereafter.
Presidential elections followed in March 2001 and resulted in a narrow victory for the PAICV candidate.
C. THE ECONOMY
4.    Cape Verde is a small open economy, witlh a lower-middle income standard of living that depends
heavily on remittances (about 20 percent of GDP). As indicated in Table 1, economic growth has been
strong over the past five years, at an annual average of 7.1 percent. It has been spurred by a steady pace
of structural reforms aimed at making the economy more responsive to market incentives: privatizations
since 1998 (including all the commercial banks), tariff reform, liberalization of staple commodity
markets. Its dominant sector is services (approximately 72 percent of GDP in 2000, including the public
sector). The development of tourism has supported gradual growth of the services sector in absolute
terms, and as a share of GDP. Industry, mainly light manufacturing, represented slightly less than 20
percent of GDP in 2000; its growth prospects are limited by high factor costs and the absence of
economies of scale, but encouraged by the availability of qualified labor and a steadily improving
investment climate. The strong ties with
the emigrant population are also a source of          Table 1. Economic and Social Indicators
knowledge      transfers.    Agriculture,            (most recent year for which data is available)
represented more than 10 percent of GDP in                                             1997-99 200
2000, employs most of the rural population,  Real Growth Rates (%)                            est.
but is severely constrained by the scarcity
of water, and natural catastrophes such as  GDP                                       7.1    6.8
. '    .                   ~~~~~~~Exports (GNFS)                       9.5    29.6
volcanic eruptions and floods. Cape Verde  Imports (GNFS)                             12.0    6.0
is therefore  highly  dependent on  food  Inflation (%)                               5.8   -2.4
imports.  Public  finances  have  been  National Accounts (% GDP)
Current Account Balance                  -11.4  -10.3
hampered  by the narrow  fiscal base -  Gross Domestic Investment                     20.9   19.3
domestic revenues accounted for less than  Public Finance (% GDP)
20 percent of GDP in the past three years -  Current fiscal balance                   -1.4   -4.6
percent                   - ~~~~~~~~~vral upls-13.0  -18.9
and the accumulation  of domestic and  Foreign financing                              15.0    5.6
external arrears has occurred at times.    International reserves (months of imports)  1.8    1.3
D.   SOCIAL SITUATION - POVERTY                                                      Cape   SSA
Verde
5 .   The m-ost recent data on poverty  Health
Infant Mortalitv (per '000 births)        55      92
(1998/9)  shows  that approximately  30  Under-5 MortalitY (per '000 births)          60      157
percent of the population is poor, with 14  Life Expectancy (years at birth)          68      47
Immunization (% of under agze group))      66     54
percent of the population extremely poor  Access to Improved Water Source             67      55
(living on less than US$1 per day): an  (% of population)
ongoing  survey  is likely  to  show  an  Education
improvement during  the  past decade.  Literacv Overall (% of population 15+)         74      61
Poverty  is predominant in rural areas.   Female                                      64      46
Unemployment, illiteracy and gender are  Gross Primary Enrollment (% of ale group)    147     78
key determinants of poverty. The UN's  Gross Secondary Enrollment (% of aze group)    26      18
Human Development Index for 2000 ranks  I Female                                      26      14
Cape Verde at the 105th place out of 173. Gender disparities have been identified. Single motherhood,
and the lower delivery level of basic services in rural areas exacerbate women's plight. However, women
who attain a high level of education hold important positions in Cape Verde: 5 ministers out of 14 are
women.



3                                                                 Structural Adjustment Credit
6.   Cape Verde has some of the most favorable health'indicators in SSA, i.e., vaccination against basic
diseases is close to universal. The first case of HIV/AIDS in Cape Verde was recorded in 1986. Current
HIV prevalence in the population is estimated at below 3 percent, with most of the infected among the
economically productive (25-49 year olds). Access to, and efficient use of, safe and fresh water remains a
daunting problem in Cape Verde. Nutrition is also an issue, with chronic malnutrition recording an
increase from 21 percent in 1983 to 31 percent in 1991, even though more recent, incomplete statistics
indicate that this situation improved during the 1990s. This is mainly attributable to the low productivity
of subsistence farming given the very limited water resources, as illustrated by the need to import in
excess of 70 percent of food requirements.
II. CAPE VERDE'S REFORM AND ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
A. THE MACROECONOMIC SITUATION
Recent Developments
7.   Cape Verde's record over the past three years was one of strong economic growth, in a context of
low inflation. Inflation stood at an annual average of 2 percent over the past three years, while real
growth stood on average at 7.5 percent between 1998 and 2000. Sustained growth has been driven by
large inflow of private remittances, mainly from workers. Efforts to attract foreign direct investment
(FDI) have also begun to bear fruit, especially in light manufacturing, such as leather goods, and tourism-
oriented infrastructure. As a result, tourist arrivals have increased, generating around US$40 million in
revenue for 2000, up from around US$28 million in the previous year. Exports also rose sharply in 2000,
although this in part reflects a more complete accounting of the re-export of fuel for ships docking in
Mindelo and Praia. Imports increased as well, but by less than the rate of growth of either GDP or
exports. As a result, the current account deficit fell modestly from 13.6 percent of GDP in 1999 to 10.3
percent in 2000.
8.   However, the country's terms of trade deteriorated by more than 9 percent between 1999 and 2000
due to the increase in the price of oil, all of which it imports. In an effort to lessen the impact of the
increase in the world market price of oil on private consumption, the Government has pursued a policy of
price controls at retail outlets, with subsidies to the two leading distributors of gasoline as compensation
for the obligation to sell below cost, a policy it intends to change in the context of the proposed program.
The Government expenditures thereby rose sharply, increasing by 68 percent over the period 1998-2000,
while fiscal revenues (including grants) remained almost unchanged. Therefore, the fiscal deficit
(including grants) reached 18.9 percent of GDP in 2000, up from 11 percent in 1999. Other causes of the
increase in expenditures include a drought in 1999, which led to special outlays for food security, and the
absorption in the Government budget of a portion of the bad loan portfolio of privatized banks (together
amounting to 6.9 percent of GDP in 2000).
9.   The exceptional rise in spending has been financed in part by domestic and foreign arrears
(approximately 7 percent of GDP in 2000), an increase in domestic debt of 8.1 percent of GDP in 2000,
and the proceeds of privatizations worth 2.6 percent of GDP in 2000. To some extent, the accumulation
of arrears is a consequence of a substantial decline in foreign financing (by about 6.3 percent of GDP
between 1999 and 2000). The resolution of the arrears problem is urgent, since Cape Verde cannot
otherwise expect to generate a positive cash flow from the affected donors. Negotiations with Portugal,
the largest bilateral donor, which was owed US$14 million in arrears at the end of 2000, have been
completed and a rescheduling of the debt has been agreed. Other affected donors include multilateral
institutions, such as the European Investment Bank (EIB), and the Organization of Petroleum-Exporting
Countries (OPEC). Overall, the arrears are estimated at US$28.3 million at the end of 2000.



Cape Verde                                                                              4
10. The Government's policy with respect to an offshore Trust Fund established in 1998 to help reduce
domestic debt also affected macroeconomic stability. The Fund was set up with support from IDA
through its Economic Reforms Support Operation Credit (ERSO) and other donors. Under the Trust Fund
arrangements, Treasury Bills held by commercial banks have been exchanged for claims on the revenue
generated by the Trust Fund - TCMFs -, so as to limit the amount of money created in the event of a debt
buy-back. To contain the monetary impact of domestic debt reduction, these instruments were not to be
traded for the first three years, but after ERSO closed, TCMFs were purchased by the Central Bank.
These actions were taken in a very difficult fiscal situation, but they undermined the purpose of the Trust
Fund, which was to reduce domestic debt while sterilizing the effects of the foreign contribution on the
money supply. The Government is expected to adhere to Trust Fund agreements and, in the context of the
proposed SAC and future macroeconomic programs, take all necessary actions to prevent the
accumulation of new domestic arrears, including excessive long-term contingent liabilities from pensions.
11.  Fiscal operations are also constrained by the likely absence of significant financing from
privatizations in 2001. The rise in domestic gasoline prices in early 2001 and other factors have generated
additional price increases. This could result in an increase in the inflation rate to around 5 percent in
2001. In addition, remittances from abroad, tourism receipts and foreign investment can be affected by
the recent slow-down in economic growth in Europe and the US as well as recent World events. This
may in turn have an adverse effect on the current account, and economic growth, which is projected to fall
to 2 percent in 2001. In this context, it is all the more important that the Government maintain conditions
that encourage economic activity, and macroeconomic stability. It is also essential that donors provide
rapid financial assistance to improve the fragile fiscal situation, including through the proposed SAC.
12.  Given the country's substantial reliance on imports to support consumption as well as investment
projects, the expansionary fiscal stance in 2000 was accompanied by a fall in external reserves, down to
around one month's worth of imports at the Central Bank as of December 2000. These developments
have tested the Government's policy to maintain a fixed exchange rate with the Portuguese escudo (and
now, by association, with the euro). The effects on the balance of payments have been mitigated by the
likely underestimation of workers' remittances from abroad.
The Government Response
13.  The new Government is taking difficult measures to correct recent imbalances, with technical
support of the IMF and the Bank. A joint Bank-Fund mission visited the country after the change in
Government and made an assessment of the economy, which was presented on June 15, 2001, to the IMF
Board as part of the staff report on the 2001 Article IV consultation. The policy dialogue with government
was thus reinitiated. Following another visit to the country in August 2001, in close consultation with the
authorities, the Government and IMF agreed on a Staff-Monitored Program (SMP), which is a
cornerstone for renewed assistance from Cape Verde's main creditors, including IDA. Once the SMP is
implemented satisfactorily and the authorities have also completed an Interim-Poverty Reduction Strategy
Paper (I-PRSP), a Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF) program with the Fund could follow.
14.  The Government intends to strictly implement the policies agreed in the context of the SMP
program. Expected outcomes include GDP growth returning to historical levels, in the range of 6 to 7
percent p.a., and containing inflation close to that of the "Euro zone", below 5 percent p.a. To that end,
the budget deficit for 2001 is expected to be contained to approximately 6 percent of GDP, from
approximately 19 percent of GDP in 2000. Measures with immediate effect include: (i) a significant
increase in the price of non-taxable diesel, taxable diesel and gasoline; (ii) a ceiling on the budget
allocation for scholarships abroad accompanied by changes in the system of scholarships to ensure that
the program does benefit the most needy students; (iii) a wage freeze in the public sector this year, a
measure which was agreed with the unions; and (iv) cuts in administrative expenses such as non-essential
travel. New measures with immediate effect on revenues include raising the customs processing fee from



5                                                               Structural Adjustment Credit
7 to 8 percent of the value of the goods, and raising the airport fee for international travel from US$10 to
US$25.
B. THE MEDIUM-TERM PROGRAM
15.  Cape Verde faces the typical challenges of smaller island states, with a narrow resource base,
geographic isolation, vulnerability to external shocks and natural disasters, and entrenclhed poverty -
especially in rural areas and the smaller islands. The Government made strides in the past to address
these issues with a policy mix that relied on targeted public sector intervention and coordination, support
to private sector enterprises, and donor involvement. The previous Government had adopted the National
Development Program (NDP) as its reference document in which it outlined its fundamental medium-
term goals, covering the period 1997-2000. These goals were underpinned by macroeconomic stability,
private sector-led growth, and social and environmental sustainability. The Government implemented
programs designed to: (i) reform public administration; (ii) improve transport infrastructure; (iii) promote
human resource development; and (iv) develop land and natural resources. In parallel with these
economic measures it had sought to strengthen democracy. The Bank's 1997 CAS supported this
endeavor with IDA credits that covered the first three goals. There is evidence of improvement in
government provision of social services, reflected in the social indicators.
16.  The Government intends to deepen and extend the reform agenda initiated in the last decade, that
would enable the country to attain performance levels reached by leading comparable middle-income
countries. To this end, it identified the main pillars of its comprehensive development agenda, which was
presented to Parliament in November 2001. A more detailed version of this document will be presented to
the International Monetary Fund and the Bank as Cape Verde's Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy
Paper. The Government has also begun preparation of the National Development Plan (NDP) to
implement the development agenda.
17. The NDP will contribute to the Government's full Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP). The
PRSP, which will present a multi-year strategy to address poverty reduction comprehensively, will be
prepared in close collaboration with all stakeholders in Cape Verde, the International Monetary Fund, the
Bank and other multilateral and bilateral donors. The PRSP will focus on addressing the causes of
poverty, and will address key macroeconomic issues including economic management and public sector
capacity, social development and environmental sustainability. The plan will also present a program that
will facilitate sustained private sector-led economic growth through improved competitiveness of the
economy. This last objective would be achieved in part by improving the business environment,
developing tourism and deepening financial sector reform, including pensions. At the same time, the
Government intends to continue to improve its public expenditure planning and management, the agenda
for which is being set under a public expenditure review. While preparing its medium-term strategy, the
Government is introducing key measures which constitute the initial phase of the program with a view to
continuing to set the foundations for private-sector led growth. This initial phase of the program is
supported by the proposed Credit. The main policy areas of the Government's strategy and the initial
measures are described below.
C.  SOCIAL AND STRUCTURAL POLICIES AND INSTITUTIONAL ISSUES
Policies in Support of Improved Economic Management and Institutional Capacity
18.  Budget and expenditures. Despite effective budgeting, work is needed to ensure that public
expenditure programming is undertaken in the context of a medium-term expenditure program which
links inputs to expected outputs and outcomes. This is especially important as the budget will be a key
implementation instrument for the Government programs that are likely to be included in the PRSP.
Budget accountability systems are already being strengthened with institutional capacity-building



Cape Verde                                                                                 6
financed by IDA through the Public Sector Reform and the Capacity-Building Projects and other donors.
On the policy side, the Bank intends to be proactively involved as an adviser in the budget formulation
process. To this end, a new PER dialogue has been initiated with a view to improving budget policies and
resource allocation decisions. The PER is expected to be a collaborative process between the Government
and donors, who will also fund studies and capacity-building. The PER is expected to be a multi-year,
Government-led exercise. The initial focus of the PER consists of following up on previous work and
rationalizing budget allocations, for example, by protecting poverty-related expenditures and rationalizing
and funding the PIP. The medium-term goal is to introduce outcome-oriented budgeting through the
adoption of a three-year rolling medium-term expenditure framework, tracking of expenditures, especially
in the social sectors, to bring about greater efficiency and evaluating unit costs of programs. Another
important aspect of this work would be to improve budget control mechanisms, so as to avoid expenditure
overruns and accumulation of arrears when the treasury situation is tight.
19.  The Government's medium-and long-term expenditure strategy, being developed as part of the
work on the PRSP and PER, would be set in a well-defined macroeconomic framework. Decision-
makers are aware that recent setbacks are largely related to external and internal imbalances and, to the
extent possible, they intend to prevent their re-occurrence. This will be achieved in part through
expenditure prioritization and control, which should facilitate the funding of priority public programs in
the social sectors while minimizing unexpected deficits. External shocks are often unavoidable. In
addition to petroleum reforms mentioned elsewhere in this report, the Government intends to mitigate
their effect by progressively building up reserves and monitoring debt sustainability. With respect to debt
sustainability, the risk does not appear to be significant at present, even though the Government and its
partners are monitoring the situation. Bank staff calculations show that Cape Verde meets HIPC
sustainability targets: (a) NPV of debt-to-revenue ratio is estimated at 128 percent (below 250 percent
HIPC trigger); and (b) NPV of debt-to-exports currently stands at 124 percent (HIPC threshold is 150
percent). Internal imbalances would likely manifest themselves in increased domestic debt/arrears. Under
the IMF monitored program, this area is being strictly monitored and reforms being introduced, which
should help avoid a repetition of past problems. Furthermore, the Government with assistance from the
World Bank has identified unfunded pensions as the largest source of contingent liabilities in the budget.
To avoid this medium-term risk, the Government has requested IDAs assistance in defining a reform
program to put in place a financially-sound and institutionally-sustainable pension system.  It is
anticipated that pension reform would be implemented between 2002 and 2005.
20.  Public Sector Reforms. The public sector in Cape Verde has evolved more favorably than in
many Sub-Saharan African countries. Although the country cannot count on a deep pool of personnel, its
institutional capacity is significant. Governance problems are limited, even though overstaffing of the
civil service combined with limited financial resources presents a potential risk. The transparency of
treasury operations and procedures also need to be improved to diminish the possibility of financial
mismanagement. The implementation of recommendations from the IMF on the management of treasury
operations is thus one of the Government's priorities. In addition, capacity building efforts are being
expanded to rebuild institutional know-how. Finally, the proposed Country Financial Accountability
Assessment (CFAA, see para. 57) is expected to identify and reduce governance problems and, through
related capacity building, help strengthen budget systems.
21.  Ongoing public sector reform and capacity-building, supported by an IDA credit (Cr. 3294-CV), is
seeking to improve the provision of public services, driven by demand and focused on results. Training
has been emphasized and will be complemented by administrative reform. It will seek to apply principles
of human resource management, simplification of operating procedures, and accountability. However,
further work will be needed to better address structural aspects of administrative shortfalls. The PER work
would be expected to set the agenda in this area.



7                                                                 Structural Adjustment Credit
Financial Sector Reforms
22.  Central Bank. A decade ago, the Central Bank provided a broad range of financial services,
including banking. Reforms implemented during the 1990s focused the institution on its core activities,
while commercial banking activities were privatized. While progress has been made to make the Central
Bank more independent, its mandate needs to be made clearer. For example, in addition to monetary and
exchange rate stability, the current statutes also mention the development of economic activity as a joint
policy objective. This set of potentially conflicting objectives has caused tensions between the Central
Bank and the Government when fiscal imbalances put pressure on credit expansion. Another issue is the
lack of clarity of the law in defining Central Bank credit limits to the central Government to S percent of
fiscal revenues. These issues will be addressed in the PER dialogue as well as through continued capacity
building in the context of planned future Bank operations.
23.  Regulation. Significant efforts have been made in recent years to improve the Central Bank's
regulatory capacity over the financial sector. Nevertheless, preliminary analysis of the financial sector
indicates the need for continued capacity building at BCV for the supervision of bank and non-bank
financial institutions. The issue in banking supervision is mainly one of enforcing existing regulations
and capacity building. The same issue, as well as that of improving regulations, also exist for the
insurance sector, where partnership with CIMA would be a possibility, and the micro-finance sector.
Spreads analysis indicates that, while real interest rates are high, intermediation margins reflect costs.
Given the macroeconomic fragility, the evolution of banks' non-performing loans would need to be
monitored. These issues would be taken up through the proposed IDA Growth and Competitiveness
Project (G&CP), which would also help address institutional capacity-building needs.
24.  Pensions. Pensions represent an important element of the social safety net put in place by the
Government. They also represent a source for term resources that could fuel investments. However, the
Government is concerned about the short- and long-term sustainability of the present system, especially
the public sector one, and the medium- to long-term impact of pension liabilities on the budget. Building
on work already initiated, it has therefore requested Bank assistance in this area, and future reforms are
likely to be supported under the G&CP, thus helping alleviate a potentially large future contingent of
fiscal liabilities. The main conclusions, recommendations and issues of a detailed, preliminary review of
the sector, undertaken in June 2001, are as follows:
* form an inter-ministerial/stakeholder working group responsible for a broad policy vision that
addresses the overall pension system;
*  based on common methodology and realistic assumptions, estimate the magnitude of the unfunded
pension liabilities in the two main pension schemes as soon as possible;
#  generate baseline projections against which different reform options are benclhmarked; determine
policies required to reduce the unfunded pension liability in the pension system;
*  generate projections that take into account the possibility of integrating civil servants into the INPS
and design a transition strategy;
* undertake the necessary detailed complementary studies;
* build capacity in the area of pension reform by: (i) gathering best practice material and international
experience; (ii) organize workshops in Cape Verde for experts in the field; and (iii) participate in
external conferences; and
+ begin a public education campaign designed to make the need for reform clear to the population at
large and to specific stakeholders.
Policies for Private Sector-led Growth
25.  Competition. Since 1998, the Governent has made important strides to enhance competition. It
lifted all quantitative import and export restrictions, and has also abolished the legal import monopsonies
of EMPA, the state commodity trading company, for vegetable oil, sugar, corn and rice. A first tariff



Cape Verde                                                                                 8
reform took effect in 1999, resulting in an average unweighted tariff rate of around 20 percent, but more
than 100 tariff categories (in part due to exemptionis and exonerations) remain, and continued reforms are
expected under the program, as discussed in paragraph 29 below.
26.  Privatization and infrastructure reform. Cape Verde also pursued a vigorous policy to improve
the services of utilities and other public enterprises. Privatizations have now been completed for more
enterprises than the originally foreseen 24 under the first ERSO (1998). EMPA (trading company),
TAC'V (the national airline), ENAPOR (port operations), the airports, the national shipyards and the
internal shipping lines, urban transport are the main state-owned companies that could benefit from
further privatization or concessioning. Following the liberalization of the import regime, EMPA cannot
survive in a competitive market and is slated for liquidation. Performance of privatized firms is monitored
regularly by Government. Available information shows that privatized firms have generally performed
well in terms of employment, output growth and service delivery. Divestiture transactions (either
privatization, concession or liquidation) for all remaining parastatals are envisaged under the proposed
program.
27.  Improvements in infrastructure are also being sustained: (a) in the energy sector, with the
development of clean energy alternatives (wind power) supported by the GEF; (b) country-wide transport
infrastructure investments in different sub-sectors, including the rehabilitation of the Santiago Island ring
road, in the context of the multi-donor funded Transport and Infrastructure Project (TIP); and (c) more
generally, through gains in efficiency in privatized or concessioned utilities, such as Electra, the leading
power generator and distributor. Finally, telecommunication services were privatized in 1997 and have
led to significant improvement in service: Cape Verde has the highest teledensity in SSA. The additional
work remaining in the sector is opening of value-added services, especially a second cellular license and
the internet, to competition.
28.  The Government recognizes that sector regulation is part of sector reform and privatization. Such
regulation is especially important in the infrastructure sector where Government is expected to be
involved in setting technical norms, promoting competition and providing economic regulatory oversight.
To this end, it has decided to establish institutions responsible for regulating the infrastructure and utility
sectors. In this respect, it has been decided that technical regulation will remain under the responsibility of
technical ministries. Economic regulation will be undertaken by a multi-sector regulatory agency, which
is benefiting from capacity-building under the ongoing IDA Credit (Privatization and Regulatory
Capacity Building Project, Cr. 3121).
29.  The Investment Climate. The opening of the economy during the 1990s has led to improved
institutional arrangements and policies, and resulted in a more conducive business environment.
Nevertheless, further improvements are warranted and are being formulated with the assistance of the
World Bank Group (especially MIGA, FIAS and AFR). Specific areas relate to the public/private
interface and the elimination of administrative barriers, and tax reform, summarized below.
30.  Improving public/private interface and eliminating administrative barriers. A good, periodic
dialogue has been established between the private and public sector. Formal bi-annual forums are
organized and the recommendations of these forums are integrated into the Government's reform agenda.
Stakeholders have also identified administrative barriers that hinder business development. The reform
program in this area is being formulated and is expected to result in actions aimed at reducing the cost and
time associated with red-tape that is faced by businesses.
31.  Tax reform. Tax reform has two complementary objectives related to fiscal equilibrium and the
business environment. The tax reform consists of three categories of measures: (a) the introduction of a
VAT, mainly a revenue tool; (b) reform of external tariffs, a trade policy and revenue generation
instrument; and (c) reform of income tax, a revenue instrument which also has an important impact on
investment incentives. The first phase of tax reform is already underway with the introduction of the



9                                                                  Structural Adjustment Credit
VAT and significant tariff reforms mentioned earlier. The average tariff will thus fall, with forgone
revenues compensated by the introduction of a new VAT in early 2002. In addition to compensating for
lost tariff revenue, the VAT will broaden the tax base and put in place a more even playing field
conducive to private investment. Adoption by the Government of both the VAT and the new tariff code
are SAC conditions.
32.  The Government also intends to revise the income tax system. The expected reforms would
include simplifying and clarifying the income tax system and reducing and/or eliminating certain taxes.
A marginal effective tax study is expected to be launched during last quarter of 2001 to help Government
define its reform plan. It is expected that the reforms would be implemented during 2002 and 2003. In
addition, the Government has requested a FIAS review of domestic taxation and of the exemption
regimes. The conclusions of these studies and the related action plans will be taken up in the context of
the broad policy dialogue between the Government and the Bank.
33.  The petroleum sector. Following privatization of the sector in the late 1990s, the petroleum sector
has been largely operated on a private commercial basis. However, to shield the consumer from the
internal fluctuations the domestic retail price is set by Government on a "cost plus" basis. The
Government is also responsible for compensating oil companies for any shortfall caused by high
international prices. The fragility of these arrangements was exposed by the recent oil price shock. The
need for tighter monitoring and regulatory arrangements and a change in the price-setting mechanism has
been highlighted by the Government arrears accumulation, mainly during 2000, to the two leading oil
distributors. These obligations were incurred on the basis of the contractual agreement to pay subsidies to
the two leading distributors (Shell and Enacol), to compensate them for the difference between the state-
controlled prices of oil distillates and their world market price. These subsidies were one of the leading
causes of the budget deficit over the past two years. Another factor was the cost plus pricing mechanism,
which discourages cost effectiveness and efficiency. For example, Cape Verde now imports 97 octane
gasoline (equivalent to 93 octane U.S.), while cheaper 93 octane would be adequate for operating the fleet
of vehicles in the country (savings of about 10 percent). The Government has initiated a study, financed
by an IDA Credit, to investigate ways in which this pricing system could be adapted, with a view to
enhancing efficiency and equity. While measures supported by the SAC would help address a number of
issues affecting the sector, the study, slated for completion in late 2001, is expected to identify a more
comprehensive and sustainable reform program by addressing issues such as: (a) changing the formula so
that the domestic price closely reflects international conditions; (b) delegating responsibility for
monitoring the formula to a suitable institution; (c) identifying and eliminating inefficiencies; and (d)
enhancing competition in the sector.
Human Development
34.  Education in Cape Verde has improved significantly, with overall primary school enrollment at
quasi-universal levels. Classroom construction, teacher training and textbook distribution have been
enhanced. Secondary education has been made to be more relevant and complemented by training
schemes. Challenges in the education system remain, such as raising the quality of educational services,
reducing the uneven distribution of resources across the islands, and addressing problems in sustaining
institutional capacity, mainly due to high staff turnover and civil service reorganization. The problem of
capacity-building is especially acute at the Ministry of Education in Praia, and its regional branches.
Efforts to improve the situation have been undertaken, with effective decentralization of budget control
and decision-making authority as key elements of the strategy. However, since 1997, investment
expenditures for the Ministry of Education have fallen. This reduction in capital expenditures poses a risk
to the sustainability of the education system reform process that would be alleviated through greater
donor funding of the sector. The PRSP would be expected to lead to the definition of a sector expenditure
program.



Cape Verde                                                                                10
35.  Cape Verde has a comparatively well-deyeloped health system. Basic health indicators such as life
expectancy, infant mortality and maternal mortality, all compare very favorably with the indicators found
in most continental African countries. Given the high life expectancy (around 68 years), cardio- and
cerebro-vascular diseases and cancers have become leading causes of morbidity and mortality, besides
infectious respiratory and parasitary diseases. Basic services, such as vaccination (45 percent fully
vaccinated before one year), antenatal care (72 percent of women attend at least once per pregnancy), and
family planning (47 percent use a modern method) are widely offered, but coverage of these could be
improved.
36.  The geographical characteristics of the country make it particularly difficult to establish an efficient
referral system. The relative isolation of the rather small populations on various islands necessitate a level
of service higher than normally would be considered for such numbers. A new program of cooperation
has been signed with Luxembourg to improve health care generally and the U.S. is helping to build
dispensaries on all the islands, as expectations of further tourism development grow].
37.  The country has carried out a mapping health services (Carta Sanitaria). To help take stock of the
efficiency and effectiveness of spending in the health sector, the EU will be providing TA to undertake a
new PER, which calls for a detailed assessment of past spending flows, and implicit future liabilities of
current health projects. The Carta Sanitaria and PER together will provide excellent background for
future health policy development and planning.
38.  Information on the extent of the spread of HIV/AIDS is limited. Routine checks of expecting
women put the level at between 2 percent and 4 percent. In Cape Verde, HIV is mainly transmitted
through heterosexual relationships, although mother to child transmission and sharing of syringes for
intravenous drug use are also contributing mechanisms of transmission. The prevalence of illegal drugs
is, by nature, difficult to measure, but has been reported to be on the increase. Routine checks of
expecting women put the level at between 2 percent and 4 percent. The threat of an HIV/AIDS epidemic
is keenly understood by the Government and a program to help alleviate this public health concern is
currently under preparation with the assistance of the World Bank and other donors. The Bank has
committed to supporting the authorities in the context of its Africa-wide rapid response project; staff
intend to propose an operation to the Board in early 2002.
D.   FISCAL GAP AND FINANCING OF THE PROGRAM
39.  The proposed IDA support would help close the financial gap created by the reform program and
external factors. The fiscal gap in 2001 has been closed mainly through expenditure control measures and
limited international assistance. The projected fiscal gap in year 2002 has two main elements. First, the
present Government has had to face the oil shock, as well as expenditure overruns occurred during 1999
and 2000. Even though remedial actions have been taken, the financing of these excess expenditures still
account for a significant part of the budget. Second, lack of up-front resources for retrenchment have
hindered the implementation of the privatization program. The projected financing gap in the budget for
2002 estimated by Bank Staff is estimated at around US$31.6 million. The budget estimates reflect
measures already taken, and the need to fund priority programs. The figure includes expected
privatizationi revenues as well as estimated retrenchment costs, which are part of net domestic financing
and exceptional financing, respectively. Table 2 below summarizes the requirements and the proposed
financing plan.
' The U.S. is supporting the construction of a fully-equipped clinic on the island of Sal, where the international
airport is located.



11                                                                        Structural Adjustment Credit
Table 2. Estimated Fiscal Gap and Proposed Funding
(US$ million)
Year                        1999    2000         2001      2002
Total Government Income                      197.3     153.8      148.6    121.5
Revenue                                     155.0    122.4       119.0     121.5
Grants                                       42.4      31.3       29.6       0.0
Total Expenditure                            227.7    231.7       198.8    169.8
Recurrent Expenditure                       156.2     189.7      134.5    134.3
Capital Expenditure                          71.5      41.9       64.3     35.5-
Overall Balance                              -30.4    -77.9       -50.1      48.2
Financing                                     24.0      81.0       42.2      16.7
Net External Financing                        13.6     23.8       27.1      25.0
arrears                   -11.8      24.2        0.0       0.0
loans (net)                25.4      -0.3       27.1      25.0
Net Internal Financing                       10.4      57.2       15.1       0.0
Arrears                     4.0       8.6        5.9       0.0
bank credit                 7.5      45.0        9.2       0.0
loans (net)                -1.1       3.5        0.0       0.0
Exceptional Financing (retrenchment)          0.0       0.0        0.0      -8.3
Errors & Omissions                            6.3      -3.1
Financing Gap                                  0.0       0.0       -7.9    -31.6
Expected Funding                                                             31.6
IDA                                                                        15.0
Donors                                                                    16.6
Source: IMF, Bank Staff.
III. THE PROPOSED CREDIT
A.   OBJECTIVES
40.   The objective of the proposed Credit would be to support the initial phase of Government's
medium-term reform program, alleviate the impact of the oil shock and help implement critical structural
reforms in support of renewed growth. Specific targets would include GDP growth returning to historical
levels, in the ranige of 6 to 7 percent, and containing inflation close to that of the Euro zone, below 5
percent p.a. The Credit of US$15 million would make financial resources available for retrenchment of
public enterprise employees and help finance the short-term fiscal deficit caused by the oil shock and the
fall in tourism following recent World events. The financing will provide balance of payments support to
help the Government sustain sound macroeconomic policies. The counterpart funds would help finance
some of the costs incurred as the Government attempted to dampen the impact on the population of the oil
shock and the fall in tourism business. An amount equivalent to US$5 million of counterpart funds would
also finance the retrenchment of public enterprise employees and thus ensure that privatization objectives
are met. The budget support would also ensure that fiscal difficulties will not lead to disruptions in social
sector programns and that implementation of the public investment program, largely financed by donors, is
not hindered by insufficient Government contributions.
B.   LINK TO THE CAS, POVERTY IMPACT AND RATIONALE
41.  The proposed Credit is consistent with the December 1997 CAS, which had envisaged an
adjustment credit in the form of ERSO II, and the CAS progress report, which was discussed by the



Cape Verde                                                                             12
Board oii August 28, 2001. The operation supports the specific CAS goals of: (i) macroeconomic
management and domestic debt reduction; and (ii) policy reform in support of private sector development.
42.  Fiscal constraints are severely affecting the Government's ability to maintain and increase publicly
funded social services. The proposed Credit directly and indirectly, by leveraging other donor resources,
would provide the country with a needed lifeline and would help avoid deeper cuts. Given the dialogue
on public expenditure and the multi-year nature of the program, the Bank has received assurances that this
support would be used to improve budgetary allocations to such priority expenditures. The financing
would also help stabilize inflation, any increase in which would affect the poor relatively more than other
groups, and help restart economic growth and employment creation.
43.  Cape Verde is one of many countries in Africa to face a difficult situation as a result of the
petroleum shock. IDA has helped alleviate the fiscal impact of this shock in seven countries through a
Supplemental Credit2. The document related to this Credit lays out the rationale for IDA intervention,
which is also valid for Cape Verde. The Cape Verde program would also be strengthened by the
Government's commitment to further sector reform that would help limit the vulnerability of the budget
to oil price fluctuations in the future.
44.  The reactivation of the privatization program would bring about significant additional benefits.
Recen-t work indicates that the slow-down in privatization has led to incremental costs of about US$30
million during 1999 and 2000. These charges will eventually impact the budget in the form of subsidies
or lower proceeds from privatization. Social costs include the uncertainty being faced by the labor force.
The final benefit would be in the form of improved services, which in many cases - such as urban
transport - would have a favorable impact on poverty. The social impact of the SAC is discussed in
greater detail below (paras. 58-64).
C.   THE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
45.  The stage for this operation has been set by a number of important decisions already taken or
currently being taken. A number of them will be fully implemented or iiitiated prior to Board
presentation, while remaining ones are expected to be completed during the first half of year 2002.
These actions demonstrate the Government's determination to undertake structural reforms and maintain
and consolidate fiscal stability. The adjustment measures introduced as part of the initial phase covered
by the SAC are summarized below.
46.  Petroleum Sector. The medium-term objective is to implement a comprehensive petroleum sector
reform to reduce/eliminate the effect of current policies on the budget and to enhance efficiency and
competitiveness. The main measure pending completion of the study and implementation of a more
comprehensive reform concerns raising domestic prices to reduce/eliminate differential with international
prices (being/has been implemented).
47.  Privatization. The medium-term objective is to alleviate the fiscal burden, promote private sector
development and improve the business environment through the implementation of a rapid privatization
program. The measures included under the initial phase: (i) liquidate the distribution company EMPA;
(ii) begin the process of privatizing the airline company TACV; (iii) liquidate urban transport company
(TRANSCOR); (iv) sell a cold/freezing storage at the port (SALMAR); and (v) liquidate the Golden
shares in BCA (commercial bank) and EMPA, in the context of liquidation.
48.  Tax and Trade Reform. The medium-term  objective would be to improve the business
environment, reduce distortions and strengthen the fiscal revenue base through tax reforms. In the initial
2 Report No. P-7415-AFR



13                                                              Structural Adjustment Credit
phase supported under the program, the Government would adopt the VAT and a new tariff code, with
fewer tariff bands and lower spreads, acceptable to IDA (implementation would start during 2002).
49.  Budget Reform Measures. The medium-term objective is to improve fiscal sustainability and the
poverty focus, effectiveness and transparency of public expenditure programs. The initial phase consists
of: (i) maintaining the cap on university scholarships at or below current levels, and introducing means
testing; (ii) updating the Public Investment Plan (PIP) in the context of the PER; and (iii) implementing
satisfactory macroeconomic program.
50.  In addition to the above, its is expected that: (i) the Government macroeconomic program will be
on track; and (ii) the Government and IDA will have initiated the PER process. The Government
medium-term development strategy and other complementary actions are described in the LDP.
D.   CREDIT FEATURES AND IMPLEMENTATION
51.  Credit amount and Financing. The Borrower will be the Republic of Cape Verde. The proposed
amount of IDA financing is US$15 million equivalent. This amount is considered adequate to support the
momentum of policy reforms in the Cape Verdan economy and essential to help leverage additional
concessional resources from bilateral and multi-lateral donors.
52.  Tranching. The Credit of SDR 11.6 million (about US$15 million) will be disbursed in two
tranches. The first tranche of SDR 5.55 million will be released at Credit Effectiveness. The advance for
project preparation (PPF), in the amount of SDR 500,000, becomes due at effectiveness and will be repaid
from the proceeds of the Credit. The second, floating tranche of SDR 5.55 million will be disbursed
upon compliance with conditions specified below. This two-tranche Credit is justified on the basis of:
(i) significant up-front policy actions dealing mostly with initiating privatization and tax reforms, and
implementing public finance reform; (ii) the pressure on fiscal expenditure due to the oil shock and need
to finance retrenchment; and (iii) the need to conduct consultations with social and technical partners
before implementing privatization decisions. The conditions are indicated below:
53.  Conditions of Board Presentation. It was agreed with the Borrower that the Credit would be
presented to the Board when the following have been met, in a manner satisfactory to IDA:
* Consistency of macroeconomic policies of the Borrower with the objectives of the program.
*  Domestic prices of petroleum products raised to reduce differential with international prices.
* Adoption by the Council of Ministers of a decision acceptable to the Association for the liquidation
of EMPA.
* Adoption by the Council of Ministers of a decision acceptable to the Association for the liquidation
of TRANSCOR.
* Adoption by the Council of Ministers of a decision acceptable to the Association for the
privatization of TACV.
* Privatized SALMAR by executing the sale agreement with the successful bidder.
* Decision by the Council of Ministers to relinquish its privileges under the golden shares held in
BCA in a manner acceptable to the Association.
* Adoption by the Council of Ministers of draft laws on the VAT acceptable to the Association.
*  Contained expenditures on university scholarships at/or below current levels and introduced means
testing for the attribution of university scholarships.
+ PIP updated.
54.  Conditions for floating tranche release. Before release of the floating tranche, the Borrower
must provide evidence satisfactory to IDA on following conditions:



Cape Verde                                                                             14
* Macroeconomic policies of the Borrower-remain consistent with the objectives of the program.
* Publication of a Decree acceptable to the Association for the liquidation of EMPA.
* The privatization of TACV has been initiated, through the publication of a privatization Decree-
Law, including a privatization action plan for TACV acceptable to the Association.
* Publication of a Decree acceptable to the Association for the liquidation of TRANSCOR.
* Approval by the Council of Ministers a draft tariff code acceptable to the Association.
+ Privileges under the golden shares held in BCA have been relinquished in a manner acceptable to
the Association
55.  Disbursement. The Borrower will open an account in its Central Bank. Upon notification of
release for the tranche, proceeds of the Credit will be deposited by the Association in this account at the
request of the Borrower. If after deposit in this account, the proceeds of the Credit are used for ineligible
purposes (i.e., to finance goods or services in the standard negative list), the Association will require the
Borrower to refund the amount to the Credit Account. The ad-hoc adjustment monitoring committee
referred to in paragraph 58 as well as the coordinating unit of the privatization program, in the case of
retrenchment, would be responsible for monitoring the use of fund and report any improper use of funds.
Given Cape Verde's good track record in respect to fiduciary aspects, the Government is expected to be
able to put in place appropriate measures to safeguard the use of public resources.
56.  In addition, as stated in the LDP, the Government intends to deposit US$3.5 million of local
currency counterpart generated in an escrow account. The proceeds of this account would be utilized to
fund retrenchment programs. Additional donor funding for retrenchment as well as all privatization
proceeds would also be transferred to this account until the privatization program is fully implemented.
Once this objective is achieved, the use of any residual funds would be agreed between the Government
and donors, including IDA; options include transfer to the Trust Fund and/or consolidated budget
accounts. The proposed arrangement reflects the fact that the fiscal gap presented earlier includes
retrenchment needs and that the Government gives the highest priority to funding retrenchment. A
number of precedents exist for such an approach under adjustment programs including Guinea-Bissau
(Cr. 3349, counterpart used to finance repayment of domestic debt) and Guinea (Cr. 3511, counterpart
used to finance retrenchment).
57.  Auditing and other fiduciary considerations. The Association reserves the right to seek an audit
of the accounts related to the Credit. In addition, given that Bank financing co-mingles with the
Borrowers' general resources, improving the transparency, accountability and effectiveness in the
management of public resources would be key to sustaining the SAC, and a pre-condition for a possible
future PRSC. The PER dialogue would help the Government improve public expenditure management
and ensure that programs derived from the PRSP are adequately programmed and funded. However, it is
also essential that public sector management ensures transparency and accountability. Work in this area
has already been started under the public sector management project. In addition, the scope of the
proposed PER would be expanded to cover this key area, and capacity-building resources would be
allocated to improving financial management system under ongoing and planned technical assistance
operations of the Bank and other donors. The action plan for improving these areas is expected to be
derived from a preparatory study for the Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA), to be
launched in December 2001.
58.  Implementation and monitoring. The reform program under this Credit will be implemented by
the Ministry of Finance and Planning. Implementation of the overall program as well as macroeconomic
performance, will be monitored bi-annually in the context of the next phase of the multi-year reform
program and the PRSP, preparing the next IDA adjustment Credit, as well as jointly with the IMF. To
ensure greater stakeholder commitment and ownership in the conception and implementation of the
present and future reforms, an ad-hoc adjustment monitoring committee will be established by the
Borrower. This committee would be responsible for monitoring whether or not expected output and
outcome are being attained and, if necessary, recommend remedial actions to avoid slippage.



15                                                              Structural Adjustment Credit
59.  Social impact. The impact of the SAC on the social sectors will be immediate, significant and
positive on two fronts. First, by helping to stabilize the economy, adverse economic conditions with a
disproportionate impact on the poor, such as high inflation, are avoided. Second, by providing direct
budget support, priority social expenditures, which are being provided relatively efficiently, are being
protected. This injection of liquidity is especially beneficial to the civil servants, whose wage payments
had already been in arrears once over the past year, and who had been discussing and agreeing temporary
austerity measures since February 2001.
60.  However, some conditions for full disbursement of the Credit will have an immediate and negative
impact on specific interest groups. Conditions pertaining to divestitures will be accompanied by job
losses in the two main urban centers of Praia and Mindelo. To mitigate the hardship of the redundancies,
up to US$5 million are being earmarked under the SAC for labor retrenchment. These funds would
provide a social safety net for the 1000+ employees of restructured or liquidated parastatals (mainly
EMPA and TRANSCOR, with 618 and 298 current employees), and would meet or even exceed Bank
safeguards.
61.  With respect to energy prices, the recent increases in oil distillates are likely to have mixed effects
with regard to social equity: while the bulk of the cash flow increase is likely to be paid by the better off,
the impact on the poor who use fuel (as a share of their budget) is likely to be more important. The
Government is sensitive to these considerations. To help mitigate the impact of the fuel price increase,
the ongoing study will provide a social impact assessment, which will help design a domestic oil pricing
system that takes equity into account.
62.  Other measures discussed in the Credit Agreement, such as the liberalization of certain products
and the switch to a lower octane level for gasoline, should lead to lower prices, with an unambiguous
favorable impact on the consumer. In addition, the Credit contemplates other measures that will facilitate
economic activity (such as the tariff reform), improve the efficiency of public resource allocation and use
(such as the PER), and encourage income distribution.
63.  With respect to energy prices, the ongoing study calls for social a impact assessment based on
which, where feasible, mitigation measures would be implemented in due course. In the short-term, price
increases tend to target better off consumers, while the diesel price increase, which has a more direct
impact on the poor, is relatively less than for other products. Liberalization of certain products and the
switch to lower gasoline octane should lead to lower prices and eventually help the consumer. In the case
of a few measures, some temporary negative impact is unavoidable. This is especially the case for civil
servants whose wages have been frozen. However, the Government has acted appropriately by discussing
and agreeing on these temporary measures with labor unions.
64.  Benefits. Cape Verde is a good performer facing temporary problems, partly caused by external
factors. The proposed Credit would help stabilize the budget and BoP situation and help put again the
economy on a sustainable growth path. The implementation of tariff and VAT reforms, and completion
of the divestiture program would improve Cape Verde's growth prospects over the medium-term by
improving resource mobilization, stimulating private investment and economic diversification. Also, by
alleviating the burden on the budget of petroleum subsidies and student grants, as well as debt repayment,
the credit would help protect budgetary spending in areas with direct favorable impact on poverty.
65.  Risks. The main project risk is related to policy reversal. This is mitigated by the fact that
privatization and tax measures envisaged under the program are difficult to reverse. Furthermore, Cape
Verde's track record during most of the 1990s in terms of high growth and poverty alleviation,
underpinned by privatization and economic liberalization, is quite remarkable and there is strong
ownership of the proposed program by the Government. Nevertheless, there have been two instances
during 1997 and 2000 where macroeconomic slippage occurred and internal debt problems materialized.
In both cases, the Government responded by implementing effective remedial measures. More



Cape Verde                                                                             16
importantly, the recent election results indicate that civil society has held the previous Government
accountable for the slippage, which would help encourage sound economic management in the future.
Finally, the Government recognizes that its relationship with development partners is a long-term one and
that the causes of accumulation of domestic debt need to be reduced and/or eliminated. Therefore, its
commitments under the Letter of Development Policy go well beyond the SAC horizon, and would help
ensure that the reform effort is sustained up to and beyond a possible future PRSC.
IV. BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
A. THE PORTFOLIO
66.  As of October 31, 2001, IDA had extended 16 Credits to Cape Verde for 15 operations, amounting
to about US$154.4 million equivalent, of which about US$110.2 million equivalent has been disbursed.
Ten credits have closed and the current portfolio include six credits, representing a total of about US$69.1
million equivalent, with an undisbursed balance of about US$38.4 million. The current portfolio gives a
high priority to capacity-building for privatization, infrastructure regulation and public sector
management. National capacity-building has also been strengthened under the Transport and
Infrastructure Project through large-scale contracting. Other projects support initiatives in social sectors
and education reform, as well as energy and water sector reforms. The IFC portfolio is limited to two
projects, only one of which is active. IFC is also considering investment financing in the tourism sector
in the context of the development of Boa Vista Island. MIGA has also supported Cape Verde through a
guarantee of US$2.2 million in 1998 and the ongoing provision of advisory services to the investment
promotion agency (PROMEX).
B.   PERFORMANCE AND AID COORDINATION
67.  IDA's portfolio in Cape Verde is healthy and problem-free. Cape Verde is highly committed to
working with the Bank in highlighting and addressing issues that affect implementation of projects in the
portfolio. A Country Portfolio Performance Review (CPPR) was carried out in October 2001 witlh
discussions focusing on: (a) macroeconomic stability as the prerequisite for healthy project
implementation; (b) financing counterpart funds; (c) coordination and execution of IDA projects; and (d)
financial management of projects.
C.   ADJUSTMENT EXPERIENCE
68.  In the early 1990s, the Government of Cape Verde initiated a process aimed at transforming its
State-managed economy into one based on the principles of free markets and private ownership. This
effort was supported by one adjustment operation, the Economic Reforms Support Operation (ERSO)
approved by IDA in December 1997. ERSO contained a number of measures in the areas of
macroeconomic and sectoral reform, public sector reform, economic liberalization and privatization. The
implementation of this Credit, and Government and Bank performance was largely satisfactory: some
components were rated highly satisfactory. The main weaknesses were related to sustainability of
domestic debt reduction through the establishment of a trust fund and delays in privatization, especially in
the transport sector and related activities. Some of the slippages were related to fiscal problems and
political considerations during 2000. Another factor identified in the Implementation Completion Report
under lessons learnt relates to shortcomings in the design of the domestic debt reduction trust fund.
D.   FUTURE LENDING
69.  The Bank's new lending program for FY02, envisaged under the CAS Progress Report of August
2001, proposes credits of about US$25 million. The volume and composition of lending will depend on



17                                                              Structural Adjustment Credit
the progress that the authorities make in restoring macroeconomic stability. Under appropriate
circumstances IDA's lending would include a proposed credit to support the authorities' program to fight
HIV/AIDS, a supplemental to the existing privatization project or a stand-alone growth and
competitiveness project and, given progress on initiating a public expenditure review, and the Structural
Adjustment Credit described herein. The new CAS will be prepared during FY03, following the proposed
full PRSP. This strategy will formulate IDA's lending program for tlle next three years.
V. COLLABORATION WITH IMF AND OTHER DONORS
70.  Cooperation with the Fund is good, and helps ensure timeliness and targeting of assistance through
the sequenced implementation of a Fund program and Bank adjustment lending. The authorities have
indicated their readiness to initiate discussions with the IMF on a SMP, which would provide the support
needed to redress the current imbalances. In the context of the development of the PRSP, the SMP could
make way for a PRGF.
71.  Close coordination also exists with the EU. The EU's most recent intervention in support of
reforms for macroeconomic management took the form of a structural adjustment operation, with a first
tranche worth EUR 9.4 million, released in 1998. Targeted areas include the privatization process,
strengthening the state accounting framework, and the execution for the health and education budgets
(both recurrent and capital). In this context, PERs were supported by advisory missions from the EU
(including in health and education), the conclusions of which will be taken up by the Bank in the future
dialogue on public expenditure. Collaboration with other donors, such as AfDB and the Swiss Aid
Agency, in the context of the ERSO has also been good.
72.  There are no other donors currently active in macroeconomic management reforms in Cape Verde.
UNDP, France, and Spain are actively supporting decentralization reforms. Portugal, Germany, the
Netherlands, Luxembourg and Austria are the other main bilateral development partners. Aid
coordination within Cape Verde has been managed from different ministries, depending on the type of
donor: the Bretton Woods institutions and multilateral institutions deal with the Ministry of Finance,
while bilateral institutions deal with the Secretariat of State for Aid Coordination, which is under the
Ministry of Foreign Affairs. However, as with other small countries, the donor community is limited,
thereby facilitating informal meetings. The Government is currently reviewing its Aid Coordination
Policy, so as to develop a more efficient management of its donor-financed resources.
VI. RECOMMENDATION
73.  1 am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the Articles of Agreement of the
Association and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Shengman Zhang
Washington, D.C.
November 14, 2001
Attachments






ANNEX A
Page 1 of 1
Poverty and Social Development Indicators
Latest single year           Same regionlincome group
Sub-       Lower-
Saharan       middle-
1970-75     1980-85      1993-99           Africa      income
POPULATION
Total population, mid-year (millions)            0.3          0.3         0.4            642.8       2,093.0
Growth rate (% annual average for period)      0.8          1.4         2.8              2.6           1.1
Urban population (% of population)              21.4         33.0        60.6             33.8          42.9
Total fertility rate (births per woman)          7.0          6.0         3.8               5.3          2.1
POVERTY
(% of population)
National headcount index
Urban headcount index                            ..
Rural headcount index
INCOME
GNI per capita (US$)                              ..           ..       1,330              490         1,200
Consumer price index (1995=1 00)                  ..          54          120              131           137
Food price index (1995=100)                       ..
INCOME/CONSUMPTION DISTRIBUTION
Gini index
Lowest quintile (% of income or consumption)
Highest quintile (% of income or consumption)      ..
SOCIAL INDICATORS
Public expenditure
Health (% of GDP)                               ..          ..          1.8              1.7           2.3
Education (% of GNI)                            ..         3.6           ..              4.1           4.8
Social security and welfare (% of GDP)          ..
Net primary school enrollment rate
(% of age group)
Total                                           ..          95                                         99
Male                                          ..          98            ..              ..          100
Female                                        ..          93           ..               ..           99
Access to an improved water source
(% of population)
Total                                           ..           ..          74               55            80
Urban                                         ..          ..          64                82           94
Rural                                         ..          ..          89                41           69
Immunization rate
(% under 12 months)
Measles                                         ..          54           61               57           87
DPT                                              ..         39           69               59            87
Child malnutrition (% under 5 years)              ..          19           14                              9
Life expectancy at birth
(years)
Total                                           59          63           69               47            69
Male                                         58           61          66                46            67
Female                                       61           66          72                48            72
Mortality
Infant (per 1,000 live births)                 88           78           39               92            32
Under 5 (per 1,000 live births)                123          95           50              161            40
Adult (15-59)
Male (per 1,000 population)                 335          292         228               499           191
Female (per 1,000 population)               279          249          126              453           133
Maternal (per 100,000 live births)
Births attended by skilled health staff (%)       ..          10           ..
Note: 0 or 0.0 means zero or less than half the unit shown. Net enrollment ratios exceeding 100 indicate discrepancies
between the estimates of school-age population and reported enrollment data. Latest year for access to improved water



ANNEX B
Page 1 of 2
CAPE VERDE - KEY ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Actual                   Estimate                 Projected
Iidicator                   1996       1997      1998      1999      2000      2001      2002      2003      2004
National accounts (as %/> of GDP)
Gross doniestic product"                         100       100       100        100       100       100       100       100       100
Agri,ulture                                     13         12        12        12        12        11         7         7          7
Industry                                        19         18        17        18        18        17        19        20         22
Servmces                                        67        70         71        70        71        72        74        72         71
Total Consurrption                               108       108       115        118       114       112       111       112       I11
Gross domestic fixed investment                   24        22        20        21         19        18        18        19         19
Governmeit iivestmelit                          21         18        21        13         8        11         6          6         6
Private investmenit                              4          4        -2         8        12         7        12         12        13
Exports (GNFS)5                                   22        26        20         19        23        25        25        26        26
Imports (GNFS)                                    54        56        55        58         57        55        55        57        56
Gross domestic savings                            -8        -8       -15        -18       -14       -12       -11       -12        -11
Gross nationial savings'                          21        14         8         7          7         7         8         8          8
Memsorarsndums nenis
Gross domestic prodtict                          502       506       540       588        558       584       600       625       658
(US$ imiilliois at currenit prices)
GNP per capita (US$, Atlas method)              1250      1260      1280      1330       1410      1340      1280      1320       1330
Real aninital growth rates (%, calcuilated from 1986 prices)
Gross domestic product at market prices         4.0       5.4       7.4       8.6       6.8        3.3       4.0       6.0       5.0
Gross Domestic lilcome                          4.0       5.4       7.4       8.6       6.8        3.3       4.0       4.7       4.2
Real anilual per capita growth rates (%, calculated from 1986 prices)
Gross domestic product at mnarket prices        0.7       2.6       4.2       5.4       3.7        0.3       1.0       3.2       2.2
Total coiisumptioi                             11.5       2.9      10.9       7.4        1.0      -1.6      -0.1       2.2        1.1
Private conisiumptioni                         17.4       4.3      13.4       3.1      -1.0       7.1        1.8       2.5       2.4
Balance of Payments (USS millions)
Exports(GNFS)5                                  112       129       109       114        131       144       153       163        173
Merchandise FOB                               30         38        23         8        24        27         28        30        31
Imports (GNFS)5                                273       283       298        340       319       320       329       354        368
Mercliaidise FOB                             206        211       208       223       218       215        219       235       243
Resource bal aiice                             -161      -154      -189       -226      -188      -176      -176      -191       -195
Net curretit tralisfers                         141       107       121       142        125        84        84       130        131
Curretit accouinit balance                      -27       -42       -63        -82       -67       -64       -59       -68        -70
Net private foreigin direct investmenit          28        12         9        67         31        30        24        25         25
Lonig-tenn loaiis (slet)                                         ..        ..        ..        ..        ..         ..
Official                                        18         7        36        16         12         6         5        11          0
Private                                          .         . .
Other capital (niet, incl]. errors & ommissiois)  .         ..        ..        .          .         ..
Change in reservesj                             -22         3         8        -29        21         0       -16        -25       -25
Memtiorwaidun, itelems
Resource bal ance (% of GDP)                   -32.2      -30.4     -35.1     -38.4     -33.8      -30.1     -29.3     -30.6     -29.6
Real amiiiulal gr-owth rates ( YR86 prices)
Merchiandise exports (FOB)                     19.0       17.9    -42.7      -66.9     203.8       9.0        3.1       8.9       0.3
Primary                                       -0.4      10.0       10.0      10.0      10.0      10.0       10.0      10.0      10.0
Manutifactures                                  ..        ..         ..        ..        ..        ..
Merchanidise imnports (CIF)                    -6.7       -7.4      -7.2       4.2     -11.8       0.0        1.4       0.9
((onlirnued)-



ANNEX B
Page 2 of 2
CAPE VERDE - KEY ECONOMIC INDICATORS
(Continued)
Actual                Estimate              Projected
Indicator                1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001         2002    2003    2004
Public finance (as % of GDP at market prices)'
Current reveniues                        22.5    18.0    22.2       198      193     200       19.8     19.9    19.8
Current expenditures                     224      22.3     205      266      340      23.0    21.1      20 1     193
Currentaccountsurplus (+)ordeficit(-)     0 1     -4.3      1.6    -6.8   -14.7       -3 1     -1.2     -02       04
Capital expenditure                      20.5     180      21 3     13.2      75      11.0      5.9      6.2      5.8
Foreign financing                         59      152      19.5    11.5       5.6      9.7      46       48       44
Monetary indicators
M2/GDP                                   65.3    64.4      584      61 3     64.1    63.7
Growth ofM2 (%)                           8.9    12.1       1.8    197       12 1      6.0
Private sector credit growth              1.4    77.9   101 5       76.4    -50      432
total credit growth (%)
Price indices( YR86 =100)
Merchandiseexportpriceindex             160.4   173.0   180.9   190.0   1905    196.8    197.4   194.0   200.1
Merchandise import price index          176 1    191.2   199.6   208 4    226.7   224.5    224 5    229 3
Merchandisetermsoftradeindex             91.1     90.5     906      91.2    84.0    87.7    87.9        84.6
Real exchange rate (US$/LCU)'           100.4   103.9   106.3   100.4    96.7
Real interest rates
Consumer price index (% change)           6.0      8.6      4.4      44      -2 4      5 0      3.0      4.2      4.3
GDP deflator (% change)                   5.8      7.9      4.6      5 0      0 3      3.3      0 3     -1.7      0.3
a. GDP at market prices
b "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
c. Includes net unrequited transfers excluding official capital grants.
d. Includes use of IMF resources.
e Consolidated central government.
f "LCU" denotes "local currency units." An increase in US$/LCU denotes appreciation.



ANNEX C
Page 1 of 9
MINISTERIO DAS FINANVAS E DO PLANEAMENTO
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Praia, November 8t h 2001
Subject: Structural Adjustment Program
Statement of Development Policies
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn:
1 . Over the past ten years, the Government of Cape Verde has implemented an ambitious program
of structural reforms aiming to modernize its economy and improve the living standards of its
population. In spite of occasional setbacks, this program has generated important results in terms
of growth and social benefits to the population, progress which is reflected in key social
indicators. Cape Verde is now facing serious temporary imbalances resulting in part from the oil
price increases of the last few years. These imbalances threaten both the short term stability of the
economy and its longer term prospects, and undermine progress made over the past ten years.
2. In the spirit of productive dialogue and cooperation that exists between Cape Verde and the
World Bank, I would like to present to you the program of policy reform which the Government
has initiated to address the short-term macroeconomic difficulties, and set the foundation for
longer term growth. The structural measures which are being implemented this year, represent a
continuation of the Govemment's adjustment program initiated in the early nineties. They are an
initial phase of our medium-term reform program for this decade, which will vigorously attack
the problems associated with poverty and the challenge of sustained high growth.
RECENT DEVELOPMENTS
3. Cape Verde's record over the past three years has been one of strong economic growth, in a
context of low inflation. During this period, inflation stood at an annual average of 2 percent,
while real growth averaged 7.5 percent. Sustained growth has been driven by large inflows of
private remittances, mainly from workers (approximately 20 percent of GDP in 2000) and
expanded economic activity resulting from increased foreign direct investment, particularly in
light manufacturing and tourism-related infrastructure.



ANNEX C
Page 2 of 9
4. Progress on the economic front was affected by oil price increases of the late nineties, and Cape
Verde's terms of trade deteriorated by more than 9 percent between 1999 and 2000. As the oil
shock was initially thought to be temporary, the Government did not initially increase prices at
retail outlets in an effort to lessen the impact of this increase on economic competitiveness and on
the poor. This policy has now been discontinued, but it resulted in a sharp rise in expenditures,
which increased by 68 percent over the period 1998-2000. Fiscal revenues remained almost
unchanged: problems were encountered in transferring corporate income tax from the commercial
banks, which act as collection points for the Treasury, while delays in the privatization of EMPA,
the state-owned food distribution company, meant that important amounts of monetized food aid
were not transferred to the Government budget. As a result, the budget deficit (including grants)
rose sharply, from 11 percent of GDP in 1999 to 18.9 percent in 2000. Other causes of the
increase in expenditures include a drought in 1999, which led to special outlays for food security,
and the absorption in the Government budget of a portion of student loans and off-budget
expenditures financed by privatized banks (together amounting to 6.9 percent of GDP in 2000).
The exceptional expenditures have been financed in part by domestic and foreign arrears
(approximately 7 percent of GDP in 2000), an increase in domestic debt of 8.1 percent of GDP in
2000, and the proceeds of privatizations worth 2.6 percent of GDP in 2000.
5. Given Cape Verde's reliance on imports to support consumption as well as investment projects,
the expansionary fiscal stance in 2000 was accompanied by a fall in external reserves, whichl in
December 2000 fell to around one month of imports. This is testing the Government's policy to
mainitain a fixed exchange rate with the Portuguese escudo, and now with the Euro.
6. The Government's policy with respect to an offshore Trust Fund established in 1998 to help
reduce domestic debt also affected macroeconomic stability. The fund was set up with support
from IDA through its Economic Reforms Support Operation Credit (ERSO) and other donors.
Under the Trust Fund arrangements, Treasury Bills held by commercial banks have been
exchanged for claims on the revenue generated by the Trust Fund - TCMF's-, so as to limit the
amount of money created in the event of a debt buy-back. To contain the monetary impact of
domestic debt reduction, these instruments were not to be traded for the first three years, but after
ERSO closed, TCMF's were purchased by the Central Bank. This freed up lending capacity in
commercial banks, much of which was used to absorb a new issue of Treasury Bills, undermining
the objective of the fund. The Government recognizes the importance of adhering to Trust Fund
agreements, and intends to take all necessary actions to prevent the accumulation of excessive
domestic liabilities, including by addressing an important long term contingent liability through
pensions reform.
7. The Government also recognizes that the resolution of the arrears problems with donors is
urgent, as development aid is critical to the success of the reform program. In this context, it has
completed negotiations with the Government of Portugal, our largest bilateral donor, which has
agreed to reschedule Cape Verde's debt obligations with it; the Government plans to complete
discussions with other affected donors by the end of year 2001. On the basis of our important
efforts to correct macroeconomic imbalances in the context of a long-term development program,
we are also engaging other donors to finance our reforms, which are discussed below in this
letter.
THE GOVERNMENT'S MULTI-YEAR PROGRAM
8. The Government intends to implement social and economic policies that would help the country
attain performance levels reached by leading comparable middle-income countries. To this end,
we have identified the main pillars of our comprehensive development agenda, which was
presented to Parliament as the "Grand Options for Cape Verde". A more detailed version of this
document has been presented to the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund as Cape



ANNEX C
Page 3 of 9
Verde's Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper. Concurrently, we have begun preparation of
the National Development Plan (NDP) to implement the Grand Options. The NDP will provide
inputs into the Government's Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP). The PRSP, whicll will
present a multi-year strategy to address issues of development and poverty reduction
comprehensively, will be prepared in close collaboration with all stakeholders in Cape Verde
Society, the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund and other multilateral and bilateral
donors.
9. The PRSP will focus on addressing the causes of poverty, identifying the promising sectors in
which to encourage economic activity, as well as the key macroeconomic issues including
economic management and public sector capacity, social development, and environmental
sustainability. The strategy's program on sustained private sector-led economic growth will
adopt a comprehensive approach to enhancing the overall competitiveness of the economy. This
objective would be achieved by concomitantly improving the business environmenit, promoting
certain sectors such as tourism, and deepening financial sector reform, including pensions. At tlle
same time, the Government intends to continue to improve its public expenditure planning and
management, the agenda for which is being set under a public expenditure review. The main
policy areas of the Government's strategy are described further below. While preparing its
strategy for poverty reduction and growth, the Government is introducing key measures which
constitute the initial phase of the program with a view to stabilizing the economy and continuing
to set the foundations for private -sector-led growth (see chapter on Immediate Measures to
Stabilize the Economy).
10. Technical Assistance (TA) from all donors has been sought for work on the nature of poverty, the
delineation of appropriate policies, their program implications, the costing thereof, the finanicing
requirements, indicators and targets. TA will also address critical implementation mechanisms,
such as the development of a rolling, three-year expenditure framework that will link capital and
recurrent expenditures, donor coordination, and progress monoitoring mechaniisms.
Policies in Support of Improved Economic Manazement and Institutional Capacity
11. Public Expenditure Management. Despite relatively strong budget systems, the Government
recognizes that public expenditure programming needs to be undertaken in the context of a
medium term expenditure program which links inputs to expected output and outcomes. Budget
accountability systems are being strengthened, with assistance from IDA and other donors, as part
of a financial audit which will soon get underway. This work will pave the way for a Country
Financial Accountability Assessment and related improvements in budget systems. The medium-
term goal is to introduce outcome-oriented budgeting through the adoption of a three-year rolling
medium-term expenditure framework, tracking of expenditures, especially in the social sectors, to
bring about greater efficiency. The Government has launched a PER to initiate work under this
agenda.
12. The Government recognizes the importance of avoiding recent external and internal imbalances,
and proposes to take measures that avoid past problems. To this end, it intends to introduce
mechanisms that ensure expenditure prioritization and control so as to facilitate the funding of
priority public programs while minimizing unexpected deficits. The Government has identified
unfunded pensions as the largest source of contingent liabilities in the budget. To manage this
medium-term risk, the Government has requested thle World Bank's assistance in defining a
reform program to put in place a financially-sound and institutionally-sustainable pension system.
It is anticipated that pension reform would be implemented between 2002 and 2005. Since Cape
Verde being small open economy, external imbalances are often the result of external shocks; the
Government intends to mitigate their effect, by undertaking specific reforms, such as that of the
petroleum sector.



ANNEX C
Page 4 of 9
13. Public Sector Reform. Although Cape Verde cannot count on a deep pool of persolnel, its
institutional capacity is significant. Governance problems are limited, even though overstaffing
of the civil service, combined with limited financial resources, presents a risk. To address the
problems affecting the civil service, including overstaffing, and to contain the budgetary outlays
on administrative expenses, the Government has formulated and is implementing a public sector
reform program which includes building institutional capacity, and applying the principles of
efficiency and decentralization to bring service provision closer to the beneficiaries. One result
of the program has been the retrenchment of about 1600 civil servants, and the early retirement of
400 others. A second phase of civil service reform, which is expected to be supported by donors,
aims to improve the provision of public services to make it more responsive to demand and
focused on results. Training will continue to be emphasized, while operating procedures and
accountability are expected to be improved.  The transparency of treasury operations and
procedures is also being improved to diminish the possibility of financial mismanagement, and
the recommendations resulting from the upcoming financial audit will be implemented.
Financial Sector Reforms
14. Over the past decade, the Government has taken a number of important measures to make the
Central Bank more independent, and to focus its activities on its core functions of monetary and
exchange rate stability. In this connection, all commercial banking activities, which had been the
domain of the Central Bank, have been privatized. Moreover, the Government recognizes that the
Central Bank mandate needs to be made clearer. Areas requiring clarification include the Central
Bank functions in financial market development and its role as regulator of financial institutions.
The Government has taken measures to improve the Central Bank's regulatory capacity.
However, work remains to be done, such as the improvement of Government regulation of the
insurance sector, where participation in regional regulatory arrangements is a possibility under
study.
15. Pensionis represent an important element of the social safety net put in place by the Government.
The Government is concerned about the short- and long-term sustainability of the present system,
especially in the public sector. Building on work already initiated, it intends to put in place
reforms that will help contain potentially large future fiscal liabilities. In this connection, the
Government has decided to set up an inter-ministerial/stakeholder working group responsible
preparinig a broad policy reform, to be carried out during 2002-2005.
Policies for Private Sector-Led Growth
16. Over the past three years, the Government has made important strides in facilitating private
sector-led initiatives. It has lifted all quantitative import and export restrictions, and abolished the
legal import monopsonies of EMPA - the state commodity trading company -, for vegetable oil,
sugar, corn and rice. A first tariff reform took effect in 1999, resulting in an average unweighted
tariff rate of around 20 percent. However, more than 100 tariff categories remain, in part due to
exemptions and exonerations. The Government also carried out a vigorous program to improve
the services of utilities and public enterprises through divestiture and the beginning of regulatory
reform. These reforms are initial steps. They will be furtlher pursued in the areas of taxation,
trade, tourism, energy, infrastructure, finance, divestiture, and public services, among others.
17. Privatization and Infrastructure Reform. Privatizations have now been completed for more
than the 24 companies foreseen under ERSO (1998). The Government envisages completing
divestiture either through privatization, concession or liquidation of all remaining public
enterprises. These enterprises include EMPA, mentioned above, TACV, the national airline,
ENAPOR, the port operations company, the airports (management contracts only), the national
shipyards and the internal shipping lines, and urban transport companies. Divestiture of all these



ANNEX C
Page 5 of 9
companies will be completed by June 2002, with the exception of the port operations. In this case,
due to the need to finalize sector strategies, the process is expected to last until 2003. Following
the liberalization of the import regime and an initial unsuccessful attempt to privatize EMPA, the
Government has concluded that EMPA cannot survive in a competitive market, and will be
liquidated. Performance of privatized firms is monitored regularly by the Government, and
available information clearly shows that privatized firms have generally performed well in terms
of employment, output growth and service delivery. This trend is expected to continue in the
future and will be reinforced through further improvements in the investment climate and a
regulatory environment.
18. The Government recognizes that regulation is a fundamental element of sector reform,
particularly in the infrastructure sector, where Government is expected to be involved in setting
technical norms, promoting competition and providing economic regulatory oversight. The
Government has established an agency responsible for regulating the infrastructure and utility
sectors. Technical regulation will remain under the responsibility of technical ministries.
Economic regulation will be the responsibility of a multi-sector regulatory agency, which has
been staffed since the year 2000 and is receiving technical assistance for capacity building It has
also created an agency for food security (ANSA), which is operational since 2001, and an agency
for pharmaceutical regulation (ARFA), both of which require TA for capacity building.
19. Tourism Development. A balanced development of the tourism sector will also play an
important role in increasing domestic wealth-generation in Cape Verde. With the benefit of
broad participation by all stakeholders, the Government will formulate a comprehensive tourism
policy that will give due consideration to the investment climate, the environment, integration
with the local private sector, upstream and downstream linkages (i.e. transportation) and other
issues such as the spread of HIV/AIDS. Lessons will be drawn from the current track record of
tourism development, and will be made relevant to the specific situation and ambitions of each of
the ten islands.
20. Business Environment. The opening of the economy during the 1990s has led to improved
institutional arrangements and policies, and resulted in a more conducive business environment.
The Government has identified new challenges of doing business in Cape Verde, such as the
increasing globalization of economic activity, and the importance of knowledge in generating
wealth. Therefore, further improvements to the business environment are warranted. Areas of
reform are summarized below.
21. First, the Government aims to improve public/private interface and partnerships, and eliminate
administrative barriers that hinder business activity, with a view to put Cape Verde among the
attractive business locations for smaller international companies. A reform program in this area is
being formulated with active participation of stakeholders. The program is expected to focus on
actions that reduce the cost and time associated with government procedures related to business
transactions, and improve service delivery of public institutions.
22. Second, the Government intends to sustain its efforts toward a comprehensive tax reform, which
has the complementary objectives of ensuring fiscal equilibrium and improving the business
environment. The tax reform includes: (1) the introduction of a VAT, mainly as a revenue tool;
(2) reform of external tariffs, which is both a trade policy and revenue generation instrument; and
(3) reform of income taxation, which is a revenue instrument with an impact on investment
incentives.
23. The first phase of tax reform is already underway with the introduction of the VAT and
significant tariff reforms. Proposed tariff reforms are underpinned by a study that calls for
significant reductions in the maximum tariff rate, to 50 percent, and the reduction of tariff bands



ANNEX C
Page 6 of 9
to a maximum of seven. Government also envisages further tariff reforms, which would bring
Cape Verde on par with international best-practice.
24. The Government also intends to revise the income tax system to put in place a more even playing
field conducive to private investment. The expected changes would include simplifying and
clarifying the income tax system. A marginal effective tax study has been launched during last
quarter of 2001 to help Government define its plan, to be implemented during 2002 and 2003. In
addition, the Government has requested a review by the Foreign Investment Advisory Service of
domestic administrative barriers, corporate taxation, and the exemptions regime. The conclusions
of these studies and the related action plans will be taken up in the context of the broad policy
dialogue between the Government and the World Bank.
25. The Petroleum Sector. Following privatization of the sector in the late 1990s, the petroleum
sector has operated on a private commercial basis. However, to shield the consumer from
international oil price fluctuations, the domestic retail price is determined by Government.
Subsidies to petroleum companies resulting from the existing arrangements have been one of the
leading causes of the budget deficit over the past two years.
26. The "cost plus" mechanism to compensate domestic oil distributors has also affected efficiency
negatively, by discouraging cost reduction. For example, Cape Verde currently imports one kind
of gasoline with a an octane level of 98, while cheaper lower octane gasoline would be adequate
for operating gasoline-powered vehicles. Therefore, in the context of sector reforms to be
identified in the study mentioned below, the Government intends to mandate the availability of
lower octane gasoline as soon as possible.
27. The Government has initiated a study to investigate ways in which domestic prices and the
compensation system could be adapted to enhance efficiency and equity. The study, slated for
completion in late 2001, is expected to identify a more comprehensive reform program which
eliminates inefficiencies and enhances responsiveness to international market trends and domestic
consumption needs. It is expected to address issues relating to (i) the adjustment of domestic
prices to reflect more closely international price fluctuations, and (ii) the delegation of
responsibility for monitoring the pricing and compensation mechanisms to a suitable institution.
During 2002, the Government intends to adopt and implement an action plan on the basis of the
study.
28. The Water Sector. Water resources are scarce in Cape Verde. Their cost-effective enhancement
is an endeavor that is critical to the business environment, through sectors such as agriculture and
tourism; Water resource management is also central to effective health and sanitation policies.
The Government, with the active support of partners in development will develop a water policy
to help define its ambitions for the above sectors, along the themes of (i) water resource
mobilization, (ii) efficiency of distribution, and (iii) effectiveness of use. Practical issues that will
be addressed are urban water distribution, watershed management, subterranean water resources
exploration (borehole drilling), irrigation, sewerage and water treatment.
Human Development Policies
29. The Government recognizes the importance of education and training in improving the well-being
of the population, and its policies have resulted in significant improvements in education levels.
Specifically, the Government considers enhanced vocational training as key to the international
competitiveness of the country. Education will remain at the heart of the Government's program,
because of its impact on (i) social mobility and poverty (especially for women) through better
participation in the global knowledge-based economy, and (ii) the transmission of culture, which
strengthens national identity and ownership of the development of Cape Verde.



ANNEX C
Page 7 of 9
30. Primary school enrollment is almost universal, and classroom construction, teacher training and
textbook distribution have been enhanced. Secondary education has been made more relevant,
and complemented by technical training schemes. Challenges in the education system remain,
such as raising the quality of educational services, reducing the uneven distribution of resources
across the islands, and addressing problems of sustaining institutional capacity, mainly due to
high staff turnover and civil service reorganization. Efforts to improve the situation have been
started, with effective decentralization of budget control and decision-making authority as key
elements of the strategy. However, since 1997, investment expenditures for the Ministry of
Education have fallen. This reduction in capital expenditures poses a risk to the sustainability of
the education system, and this matter is expected to be an important focus of the poverty
reduction analysis and related discussions.
31. Information on the extent of the spread of HIV/AIDS is limited. The last HIV seropositivity study
was performed in 1988. The seroprevalence was 0,4%. A new study is in preparation. The threat
of HIV/AIDS is understood by the Government and a program to help in addressing this public
concern is currently under preparation with the assistance of the World Bank and other donors.
An overall assessment of the health sector is being contemplated to better understand certain
diseases. Financing of the health system has been identified as an important challenge, for which
donor-supported TA is needed. In addition to the health sector PER supported by the EU, further
work in the area of resource mobilization and allocation will significantly contribute to the
preparation of the medium-term budget framework.
IMMEDIATE MEASURES TO MAINTAIN MACROECONOMIC STABILITY
Direct Budget Measures
32. The Government, in the context of a renewed dialogue with the Bretton Woods institutions, is
taking important measures to correct recent imbalances. The Government and the staff of the
IMF have agreed on a Staff-Monitored Program (SMP), and the Government intends to strictly
implement the policies agreed in the context of this program. Outcomes consistent with the SMP
would include GDP stabilizing, and containing inflation close to that of the Euro zone. To that
end, the budget deficit for 2001 would be contained to approximately 6 percent of GDP, down
from approximately 19 percent of GDP in 2000. Measures with immediate effect include (i) a
significant increase in the price of non-taxable diesel, taxable diesel and gasoline; (ii) a ceiling on
the budget allocation for scholarships abroad accompanied by changes in the system of
scholarships to ensure that the program does benefit the most needy students; (iii) a wage freeze
in the public sector this year, a measure which was agreed with the unions, and (iv) cuts in
administrative expenses such as non-essential travel. New measures with immediate effect on
revenues include raising the customs processing fee from 7 percent to 8 percent of the value of
the goods.
Structural Measures
33. Structural measures will also be implemented in two phases.  The first phase would be
implemented by the end of this year, and the second during the first semester of 2002. These
measures, which are discussed below, include (i) the introduction of a need-based and merit-
based system for awarding scholarships, and the streamlining of Government accounting and
treasury operations, to allow for tighter expenditure control; (ii) introduction of a comprehensive
tax reform which will introduce a single-rate VAT, and streamline the current tariff regime which
will improve both revenue and competitiveness; (iii) adjustments in the pricing for oil products
to ensure that these reflect transparently the fluctuations in the world market price; (iv) actions
on the divestiture of key enterprises, the performance of whicll has had a direct adverse effect on
macroeconomic stability and competitiveness.



ANNEX C
Page 8 of 9
34. The interim reform agenda aims to address the short-term macroeconomic imbalances, and set the
stage for the policy reforms which will be introduced over the next five years. The reactivation of
the privatization program would bring about significant benefits. Recent work indicates that the
slow-down in privatization has led to incremental costs of about US$30 million during 1999 and
2000. These charges will eventually impact the budget in the form of subsidies or lower proceeds
from privatization.
35. Structural reform measures to be introduced during the remainder of this calendar year relate to
the budget and public expenditure programming, the petroleum sector, taxation, and privatization,
mentioned elsewhere in this letter, and summarized below.
36. In the area of budget and public expenditure reform, the Government has frozen and reduced
university scholarships and is introducing a merit-based system for awarding scholarships. In
addition, it has updated the Public Investment Plan (PIP), which will reflect the Government's
priorities of ensuring fiscal discipline and continuing to improve social services. It has also
initiated its comprehensive tax and tariff reform. A draft law on the introduction of the VAT has
been approved by Government. A new tariff code will be approved by the Government in the
early 2002.
37. With respect to the petroleum sector, the Government has raised domestic prices to reduce the
differential with international prices in March and August 2001. These measures have
significantly reduced the need for further government subsidies for the sector. The Government
also undertakes to adopt and implement during 2002 an action-plan based on the proposals of the
ongoing study to reform the petroleum sector, including liberalizing derivative products and
mandating the reduction of the octane level for gasoline.
38. In the area of divestiture, the Government intends to privatize/liquidate/bring to the point of sale
six out of nine remaining public enterprises. Specifically, the Government has decided to
liquidate EMPA, and publish a decree to that effect in the course of 2002. The Government will
also initiate the privatization process of TACV through the publication of a privatization decree,
including the adoption of the related action plan in 2002. Moreover, the Government has decided
to liquidate the urban transport company (TRANSCOR), and publish a decree to that effect in the
course of 2002. The cold/freezing storage company at the port (SALMAR) will be privatized in
2001. The Government has decided to relinquish its privileges under the golden shares it holds in
BCA, and EMPA, for the latter in the context of liquidation of the company. The tender for sale
of remaining assets of ARCA VERDE and INTERBASE (as a going concern) has been
inconclusive. INTERBASE, and the assets of ARCA VERDE will be offered for sale again in
2002.
39. The Government is seeking a credit of US$15 million from IDA to promote its structural reform
agenda, and to alleviate the social duress of the divestitures. The proposed credit would be
structured in two tranches. The first would contribute US$1 million of local currency counterpart
funds in an escrow account to support retrenchment programs. The second tranche would add
US$4 million to that escrow account. Overall, no more than US$3 million local currency
equivalent would support retrenchment at EMPA. It will be managed by the privatization
coordination unit and audited annually. Additional donor funding for retrenchment as well as all
privatization proceeds would also be transferred to this account until the privatization program is
fully implemented. Once this objective is achieved, the use of any residual funds would be agreed
between the Government and donors, including IDA; options include transfer to the Trust Fund
for the reduction of domestic debt and/or consolidated budget account.



ANNEX C
Page 9 of 9
PROGRAM MANAGEMENT
40. The Ministry of Finance and Planning will guide the Structural Adjustment Program, which will be
implemented in the context of the broader reform agenda, and the PRSP. It will manage the program,
and coordinate the activities of the various agencies, including the Privatization and Energy Reform
Coordination Units, involved in its execution. It will ensure the integration of the efforts of
institutions involved in the preparation of the National Development Plan and the Poverty Reduction
Strategy. The Ministry of Finance will report to stakeholders, including donors, on accomplishments
in the context of the preparation of the medium term agenda. To ensure greater commitment and
ownership in the design and implementation of reforms, an ad-hoc adjustment monitoring committee
has been established.
41. We look forward to a close and constructive dialogue with the World Bank in support of our
adjustment efforts in the period ahead.
Sincerely yours,
Carlos A. de Burgo
(Minister of Finance and Planning)



ANNEX D
Page 1 of 2
CAPE VERDE - SAC: POLICY MATRIX
REFORM AREAS. OUTPUT AND OUTCOME INDICATORS
Issues             SAC December 2001         SAC Floating Tranche        Medium-Term Program 2001-2003          Specific OutputOutcomes and
Benchmarks                Benchmarks                        Benchmarks                           Assumptions
Objective 1: Efficient petroleum sector operating on commercial basis      Expected Overall Outcomes: (a) elimination of need for public subsidies;
and (b) competitive market.
Imperfect functioning of the  Raising domestic prices to   None.                Adopt and implement action-plan, based on  Output/Outcomes: Agreed action
domestic market reflected in  reduce and/or eliminate                           a sector study launched in October 2001,    plan adopted, domestic prices follow
high cost and public      differential with                                     acceptable to IDA to reform the petroleum    international ones,
subsidies.                international prices.                                 sector, including liberalizing imports of  regulatory/monitoring capacity
derivative products (motor oil etc.) and  established, measurable gains in
requiring oil companies to offer       efficiency through lower overheads,
appropriately lower Octane gasoline in all  competitive profit margins etc.
gas stations and in amounts sufficient to
satisfy demand; companies would be free to  Assumptions: Study completed by
import other grades on purely commercial   January 2002, consensus reached on
basis.                                 action-plan during first half of 2002
and all policy and institutional
measures implemented by mid-2003
Objective 2: Complete rapid privatization program                     Expected Overall Outcomes: (a) divestiture of public sector from
commercial, industrial and infrastructure activities; (b) elimination of all
public operational subsidies to the parastatal sector; and (c) improved
service delivery of privatized firms, es ecially those in infrastructure.
Public enterprises constitute  Cabinet decision to  Publication of liquidation  Sale of the remaining assets of the    Output/Outcomes: Finalization of all
a drain on public finances,   liquidate EMPA (trading    decree of EMPA.        liquidated maritime company (ARCA      transactions, including ENAPOR in
deliver inadequate service to  company).                                        VERDE).                                year 2003, and effective
consumers and crowd-out                                                                                                disengagement of government from
private sector activities  Cabinet decision to     Publication of privatization  Privatize pharmaceutical firm         parastatals, improved sector
privatize TACV.          decree of TACV.             (EMPROFAC).                             performance and service delivery, as
measured by value added, utility and
Cabinet decision to      Publication of liquidation  Private participation in management and  infrastructure coverage, etc.
liquidate urban transport    decree of TRANSCOR.     operations of ENAPOR (ports)            Assumptions: Technical work
company (TRANSCOR).                                                                          remains of quality and is completed
Privatization of SALMAR   Liquidation of golden shares                                       ons ovenit and
(cold/freezing storage  in BCA (commercial bank)                                             on time, government reform
facility at the port).   and EMPA, in the context of                                         program remains on track and



ANNEX B
Page 2 of 2
Issues           I   SAC December 2001           SAC Floating Traniche           Medinm-'lerin Program 2001-2003           Specific Output/Outcomes and
Benchmarks                   Benchmarks                            Benchlmarks                             Assumptions
liqulidatioiis.                                                            political constraints are overcome.
Objective 3: Improve businiess environimienit thiroughi tax reformii          Expected Overall Outcomes: (a) reduice/elimlinate tax-induced distortions in
line witli international best-practice; and (b) strenlgtilen fiscal revenue base.
Tax base is narrow, the      Adoption by government    Adoption by cabinet of new       Implemenlt new tariff code and VAT.         Output/Outcomes: VAT and new
import tariff system is      of VAT bill                tariff code, in form and                                                    tariff code in place, tax base
excessively complex and a                                substance satisfactory to IDA    Launch  study of income study of marginal    broadened, tax system promotes
source of distortions.                                                                  effective tax rates and implement reforms.   investments and does not distort
incentives.
ASSUmlptionIS: ParIliaimeint approves
________________________    ___        __                     _ __ __.__                                                            tallx hbill.
Objective 4: More accountable and cl-licienit use ol'public resouices throughi      Expected Overall Otutcoimes: (a) improved iiscal sustainiability; (b) greater
improved public ex )enditure management and po erty focused budget.                 efficienicy in resource allocation; and (c) transparenit budget systems.
Budget management needs    Implement                    None.                           incor-porate resuilts of thie P'ER and CFAA   Output/Outcomes: monetary and
to be strengthened, inter-   satisfactory                                               into PRSP.  lntegratel the results of this  BOP targets met, new arrears not
and intra-sectoral priorities    macroeconomic                                          work in the budget for year 2003.           accumulated, PRSP prepared and
improved, and programs       program.                                                                                               PER and CFAA completed, anti-
become outcome oriented.                                                                Maintain macroeconomic stability and        poverty programs are integrated into
adopt a satisfactory program for year 2002    budget while low priority programs
and year 2003.                             are terminated.
Contain cap on
university                                                                                            Assumptions: Macroeconomic
scholarships at or                                                                                    reforms are sustained, capacity
below     current                                                                                     building resources are made
levels,  introduce                                                                                    available.
means testing.
tJpdate    ilie    Public
linvestil ilu t   P'lani  (11')   ill
the context of the PER.    _



ANNEX E
Page 1 of 2
CAS ANNEx B8
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN CAPE VERDE
IBRI) LOANS AND IDA CREDITS IN THE OPERATIONS PORTFOLIO
(Data as of November 31, 2001)
Closed                                                                                                                    Difference Between
Projects: 8
(i)                                         Last PSR                                                             Expected and
Actual
Supervision Rating b/                Original Amount in US$ Millions     Disbursements
Project ID     Project Name                    Development Implementati  Fiscal   IBRD   IDA  Grant Cancel. Undisb. Original Formally
Objectives  on Pro ress    Year                                                     Revised
P042054        CV EnergyNVater- GEF            HS                 S         1999                     4.7                4      2.5       2.5
P055468        EDUC.&TRAINING CONS.            S                  S         1999                6                     3.3    -2.5
P040990        ENERGY/NATER PROJECT            HS                 S         1999             17.5                    13.2      9.1
P055467        PRIVATIZATION TA                S                  S         1999                9                     3.1        1
P057998        PUBL.SEC.REFORM SUPP            S                  S         2000                3                     2.2      2.3       1.4
P000432        SOCIAL SECTOR DEVT              S                  S         1999             16.1                    12.3      6.3
P000435        TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE S                         S         1993             17.5                     4.7    -0.3
Result           69.1    4.7              42.8    18.3        3.9
IBRD/IDA *
Total Disbursed (Active)        27.90
of which has been repaid   0.00
Total Disbursed (Closed)        82.40
of which has been repaid   1.50
Total Disbursed (Active + Closed)  110.27
of which has been repaid   1.50
Total Undisbursed (Active)      38.83
Total Undisbursed (Closed)      0.00
a.   Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b.   Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter-based system was introduced (HS  highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U  unsatisfactory,
HU  highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note: Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.



ANNEX E
Page 2 of 2
CAPE VERDE
STATEMENT OF IFC's
COMMITTED AND DISBURSED PORTFOLIO
(Data as of July 31, 2001)
Held (US$ mil)                          Disbursed (US$ mil)
FY         Company       Loan   Equity    Quasi  Participation   Loan    Equity    Quasi  Participation
Approval
1992 AEF Growela      0.15       0       0.00         0         0.15        0        0           0
1999 SEF Britagem     1.09       0       0.17         0          0.00       0         0          0
Total Portfolio:       1.24       0       0.17         0          0.15       0         0          0
Note:
AEF Growela = African Enterprise Facility for shoe manufacturing
SEF Britagem = Small Enterprise Fund for cement and construction materials



ANNEX F
Page 1 of 1
TABLE FOR KEY PROCESSING EVENTS
Time taken to prepare the project          6 months
Pre-appraisal mission                      June 2001
Appraisal                                  September 2001
Negotiations                                October 2001
Board Presentation                         December 2001
Effectiveness                              January 2002
Project Closing                            December 2002
The Task Team members for preparation of the Structural Adjustment Credit are Messrs./Mmes:
1. Alikhani (Task Team Leader, AFTPS), J. van Houtte (Country Economist, AFTM5), S. Wang
(Private Sector Development Specialist, AFTPS), I. Micali Drossos (Lawyer, LEGOP) and J.
Fernandes (Team Assistant, AFTPS). The Quality Assurance Team consists of J. Happi (FRM)
and H. Martinez (Consultant). The Sector Manager is Demba Ba and the Country Director is
John Mclntire.



ANNEX G
Page 1 of t
CAPE VERDE AT A GLANCE
9/27/01
Sub- Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                           Cape Saharan  middle-
Development diamond
Verde   Africa  income
2000                                                                                                            Life expectancg
Population, mid-year (millions)                                               0.44      659   2,046
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                                           1,330      480    1,140
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                                              0.59      313   2,327
Average annual growth, 1994-00                                                                         Ge                           Gross
per                 .        rmr
capita                     proimary
Population (%)                                                                 2.8      2.6      1.0                            erm
Labor force (%,.)                                                              3.8      2.6      1.3
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1994-00)                                                     Access to improwed waer source
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)                          30
Urban population (% of total population)                                       62        34      42     -     nrp cr
Life expectancy at birth (years)                                                69       47      69           I
Infant mortality (per 1, 000 live births)                                      39        92      32
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                                      14               11
Access to an improved water source (% of population)                            74       55       80
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                                            26       38       15
Gross primary enrollment (%of school-age population)                           148       78      114
Male                                                                         150       85     116
Female                                                                      147        71     114
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980  1990     1999    2000
Economic Fatios
GDP (US$ billions)                                                     0.11   0.34     0.59     0.56                Trade
Gross domestic investment/GDP                                          51.6  22.9      20.9    19.3
Exports of goods and services/GDP                                      18.0  12.7      19.3    23.4  Domestic         /         Inestmen
Gross domestic savings/GDP                                             -24.0  -8.1    -17.5   -14.5  savings
Gross national savings/GDP                                             16.4  17.6       5.2      5.8
Current account balance/GDP                                            -22.8  -5.3    -15.7   -13.5
Interest payments/GDP                                                   0.1   0.6       0.6      0.7             Indebtedness
Total debt/GDP                                                         19.5  39.9      48.4    51.5
Total debt service/exports                                               0.5   57      11.3      7.3
Present value of debtGDP                                                   .           29.1    31.5      -
Present value of debt/exports                                                          87.6    84.6
1980-90 1990-00  1999      2000 2000-04
(average annual growth)
GDP                                                             9.8      6.0   8.6      6.8      4.7
GDP per capita                                                  8.2      3.3   5.4       3.6     1.8
Exports of goods and services                                   3.1    13.8   4.0      29.2    11.3



IBRD 27215
0                                        ,1'0
1n
Wz    101
,. 1}'-s                                                :X      . I~I-.  
N~~~~~~~~~GAA
ui    z
-.1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
!      i7goS                       \ 0                                          E
7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
IN-      -EA  1995
2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AGS 1 995 



