                                    Document of
                                  The World Bank




                                                                Report No: 27085

                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                           (PPFI-Q2890 IDA-35870 IDA-35871)

                                        ON A

                                       CREDIT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 15 MILLION EQUIVALENT

                                TO THE REPUBLIC OF

                                    CAPE VERDE

                                        FOR A

                          STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT




                                  December 16, 2003




Private Sector Unit
Africa Region

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                (Exchange Rate Effective )

                               Currency Unit = Cape Verde Escudo (CVE)
                                      108.95 = US$ 1
                                 US$ .00918 = CV1

                                     FISCAL YEAR
                                January 1    December 31

                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB      African Development Bank
ARE      Multi-sector Regulatory Agency
BCA      Atlantic Commercial Bank
BOP      Balance of Payments
CFAA     Country Financial Acountability Assessment
EMPA     Empresa Publica de Abastecimento (Public Supply Enterprise)
ERSO     Economic Reforms Support Operation Credit
EU       European Union
FIAS     Foreign Investment Advisory Service
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
IMF      International Monetary Fund
I-PRSP   Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
LDP      Letter of Development Policy
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PCU      Project Coordination Unit
PIP      Public Investment Plan
PER      Public Expenditure Review
PRGF     Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
PRSC     Poverty Reduction Support Credit
SAC      Structural Adjustment Credit
SALMAR   Empresa de Conercialização de Produtos do Mar SA
SMP      Staff-Monitored Program
TACV     Cape Verde Airlines
TRANSCOR Urban Passenger Transport Company
VAT      Value-added Tax



                              Vice President:    Callisto Madavo
                           Country Director      John McIntire
                             Sector Manager      Demba Ba
          Task Team Leader/Task Manager:         Iradj Alikhani

                                        CAPE VERDE
                                Structural Adjustment Credit


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            12
6. Sustainability                                                                13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 14
8. Lessons Learned                                                               16
9. Partner Comments                                                              16
10. Additional Information                                                       20
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             21
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             23
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             24
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             25
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             26
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                27
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            28

Project ID: P075700                                                  Project Name: Structural Adjustment Credit
Team Leader: Iradj A. Alikhani                                       TL Unit: AFTPS
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 22, 2003


1. Project Data
                   Name: Structural Adjustment Credit                             L/C/TF Number: PPFI-Q2890; IDA-35870;
                                                                                                     IDA-35871
   Country/Department: CAPE VERDE                                                          Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (33%); General industry and
                            trade sector (25%); General transportation sector (17%); Aviation
                            (17%); Oil and gas (8%)
                  Theme: State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization (P);
                            Macroeconomic management (P); Tax policy and administration (S);
                            Trade facilitation and market access (S); Other financial and private
                            sector development (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 06/30/2003                                     Effective: 12/18/2001                02/19/2003
     Appraisal: 02/10/2001                                         MTR:
      Approval: 12/13/2001                                      Closing: 12/31/2002                 06/30/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          THE REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE/MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND PLAN
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Callisto E. Madavo                             Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:               John McIntire                                  John McIntire
Sector Manager:                 Demba Ba                                       Demba Ba
Team Leader at ICR:             Iradj Alikhani                                 Iradj A. Alikhani
ICR Primary Author:             Melissa Bennett

2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        HS
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         HS
            Borrower Performance:          HS


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  HS
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

Background. Despite Cape Verde's record of strong growth and moderate inflation since 1997, serious
macroeconomic imbalances emerged in 1999 and 2000 which threatened growth performance in the
subsequent years. In particular, the Government was unable to respond to the terms of trade shock induced
by the rise in the world market price of oil. The oil price shock and increase in public expenditures prior to
elections resulted in an increase in the budget deficit and the accumulation of arrears. Given the country's
substantial reliance on imports, the expansionary fiscal stance in 2000 was accompanied by a fall in
external reserves, down to around one month's worth of imports as of December 2000. In an effort to lessen
the impact of the increase in the world market price of oil on consumers, the Government pursued a policy
of price controls at retail outlets, with subsidies to the two leading distributors of gasoline as compensation
for the obligation to sell below cost. Government expenditures thereby rose sharply, while fiscal revenues
(including grants) remained almost unchanged, and the fiscal deficit (including grants) reached 19.09
percent of GDP in 2000, up from 9.9 percent in 1999. Other causes of the increase in expenditures include
a drought in 1999, which led to special outlays for food security; scholarships for students abroad, which
amounted to 1.2 percent of GDP in 2000; and the absorption in the Government budget of a portion of the
bad loan portfolio of privatized banks.

In 2001, the Government took courageous and effective measures to correct these imbalances with the
technical support of the Bank and IMF. The Authorities adopted a medium-term reform program which
became the cornerstone for renewed assistance from Cape Verde's main creditors, including IDA. The SAC
was proposed to support the initial phase of Government's medium-term program, by helping the
Government overcome a fragile fiscal and balance of payments situation and implement critical structural
reforms to create the conditions for renewed growth. Funds provided under the SAC needed to be available
by the end of 2001 to finance the deficit. The SAC was prepared in four months due to the urgency of
supporting Cape Verde's macroeconomic stabilization and structural reform efforts, and the possible risk of
Government slowing down the reform process.

The SAC was a two-tranche operation with a first tranche of US$7.04 million and a floating tranche of
US$7.39 million. The remainder of the US$15 million credit refinanced a Project Preparation Facility
(PPF). The Credit was justified on the basis of significant up-front policy actions dealing mostly with (i)
initiating privatization and tax reforms, and implementing public finance reform, and (ii) responding to
pressure on fiscal expenditure due to the oil shock and the need to finance staff retrenchment in the public
sector. A policy matrix spelling out the Credit objectives and upfront actions laying the groundwork for the
SAC is attached to the Report and Recommendation of the President (MOP) Report Number P7491-CV,
November 14, 2001.

In December 2002, the Government requested a supplement of US$4 million to assist in meeting its
financing shortfalls caused by the faster repayment of past government arrears to the private sector than
anticipated in the program (approximately US$8 million) which had been stifling growth. While repayment
of arrears contributed to sustained GDP growth, the resulting fiscal burden could have put at risk the
impressive macroeconomic stabilization record achieved during 2001 and 2002. The supplemental credit
(Report Number P-7570-CV of November 22, 2002), which was approved in December 2002, helped fill
the program's emerging financing gap.

The SAC and SAC supplemental disbursed fully in December 2002 and March 2003, respectively, as
planned. The project closed on June 30, 2003 following a six-month extension to accommodate the



                                                        - 2 -

supplemental credit.

Original Objective. The original objective of the SAC was to help the Government of Cape Verde
reestablish internal and external balances, by helping alleviate the impact of the oil shock and of September
11, 2001, and creating the conditions for sustained high GDP growth. The Credit was thus to make
financial resources available to support the Government's stabilization program and sustain sound
macroeconomic policies, and to help implement critical structural reforms in support of renewed growth
and poverty alleviation. Specific targets outlined in the MOP included GDP growth returning to historical
levels in the range of 6-7 percent, and containing inflation close to that of the Euro zone, below 5 percent
per annum. The counterpart funds would help finance some of the costs incurred as the Government
attempted to dampen the impact on the population of the oil shock. An amount equivalent to US$5 million
would finance the retrenchment of public enterprise employees, and thus ensure that divestiture objectives
were met and sustained. The budget support would also ensure that fiscal difficulties would not lead to
disruptions in social sector programs, and that implementation of the public investment program, largely
financed by donors, would not be hindered by insufficient Government counterpart funding. The program
had well-defined objectives which involved priority measures. The SAC program was not on the whole
complex, although some measures such as those relating to privatization were technically challenging. The
Government had the competencies to implement the program. The SAC was seen as a bridge to a possible
Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC). This expectation has materialized and preparation of the PRSC
has been initiated.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The original objective was not revised. The task team sought guidance on whether any additional
conditions, especially on petroleum reform, should be included as a trigger to the supplemental credit. This
approach was not pursued as the supplemental credit was in line with the original objective.

3.3 Original Components:

The medium-term reform program included policies aimed at (i) improved economic management and
institutional capacity, including budget reform, (ii) encouraging private sector growth, including petroleum
reform; privatization and measures to enhance the investment climate such as tax and tariff reform, (iii)
financial sector reform, and (iv) human development. The first phase of the program covered by the SAC
conditionality focused on the first two objectives. The Letter of Development Policy (LDP) of November
8, 2001, which is attached to the MOP, contained additional structural measures, including some related to
the two first objectives. Conditions for the first tranche release of the SAC were met prior to Board
presentation of the Credit, while the second tranche was a floating tranche.

The specific measures to be implemented in connection with the SAC are described below.

(i) Petroleum Sector. The medium-term objective was to implement a comprehensive petroleum sector
reform to reduce/eliminate the effect of existing policies on the budget and enhance efficiency and ensure
that it operated on a commercial basis. SAC Board conditions included raising domestic prices on
petroleum products to reduce/eliminate the differential with international prices. In the LDP, the
Government indicated its intention to adopt and implement an action plan based on the proposals of an
ongoing study to reform the petroleum sector, including liberalizing derivative products and reducing the
minimum octane level for gasoline.

(ii) Privatization. The medium-term program envisaged the rapid privatization/divestiture of all state



                                                      - 3 -

enterprises, with a view to improving services, alleviating the fiscal burden, promoting private sector
development and improving the business environment. SAC Board conditions included: (a) adoption by the
Council of Ministers of a decision for the liquidation of the distribution company EMPA; (b) adoption by
the Council of Ministers of a decision for privatizing the airline company TACV; (c) adoption by the
Council of Ministers of a decision for the liquidation of an urban transport company (TRANSCOR); (d)
privatizing the cold/freezing storage at the port (SALMAR) by executing the sale agreement with the
successful bidder; (e) decision by the Council of Ministers to relinquish its privileges under the golden
shares held in BCA (the largest commercial bank).

The conditions for the floating tranche included: (a) publication of a decree for the liquidation of EMPA
and TRANSCOR; (b) initiation of the privatization of TACV, through the publication of a privatization
Decree Law, including a privatization action plan for TACV; (c) relinquishment of privileges under the
golden shares held in BCA.

(iii) Tax and Trade reform. The medium-term program aimed to improve the business environment and
strengthen the fiscal revenue base through tariff and tax reforms. Under the SAC, the Government would
adopt the VAT and a new tariff code, with fewer tariff bands and lower spreads. Prior to the Board
presentation of the Credit, the Council of Ministers was to adopt draft laws on the VAT. The floating
tranche release was conditioned on the approval by the Council of Ministers of the revised tariff code.

(iv) Budget Reform. The medium-term program envisaged improvements in economic management and
institutional capacity with a view to making the use of public resources more efficient and poverty focused.
As a Board condition the Government committed to: (a) maintain the cap on university scholarships at/or
below existing levels, and (b) introduce means testing for the award of university scholarships. In addition,
the Government committed to updating the Public Investment Plan (PIP) in the context of the Public
Expenditure Review (PER) with a view to rationalizing expenditures.

In addition to the above, it was expected that the Government's macroeconomic program would be on
track and the policy framework would be consistent with the objectives of the program, as measured on the
basis of agreed indicators which were described in the LDP. The Development Credit Agreement refers to
the LDP. These included GDP stabilization, and inflation close to that of the Euro zone. To achieve those
objectives it was agreed that the budget deficit for 2001 would be contained to approximately 6 percent of
GDP (including grants), down from approximately 19 percent of GDP in 2000. In addition to changes in
petroleum taxation and measures relating to scholarships, both discussed in the paragraphs above, the
Government would introduce a wage freeze in the public sector in 2001, a measure that was agreed with
the unions, and cut administrative expenses such as non-essential travel. Measures with immediate effect
on revenues were taken such as increases in the customs processing fee.

3.4 Revised Components:

The components were not revised. As mentioned above, the Bank approved a supplemental credit in
December 2002. The Closing Date of the Credit was extended by six months, to allow for disbursement of
the supplemental financing. The project closed on June 30, 2003, as per the amendment.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

No quality at entry review was carried out by the Quality Assurance Group. The quality at entry is rated
highly satisfactory for the reasons given below, including consistency with the CAS, an appropriate design
and clear assessment of risks.



                                                      - 4 -

Consistency with the CAS. The SAC is consistent with the December 1997 CAS, which had envisaged an
adjustment credit in the form of Economic Reforms Support Operation Credit II (ERSO), and the August
2001 CAS Progress Report. The SAC supported the specific CAS goals of: i) macroeconomic
management and domestic debt reduction; and ii) policy reform in support of private sector development.
The SAC served as an emergency measure to respond to an immediate fiscal crisis, but also represented the
first phase of a medium-term program whose objectives remain valid to date. The SAC paved the way for
the Poverty Reduction Growth Facility (PRGF) supported by the IMF, and a proposed Poverty Redution
Strategy Credit (PRSC) which is now under preparation. While the Supplemental Credit was not
contemplated in the CAS progress report discussed at the Board on August 28, 2001, it is consistent with
its goals and critical to the Government's program objectives. The supplement assisted the Government in
meeting its incremental funding needs associated with the privatization program.

Link with World Bank Projects and Donor Coordination. The SAC was designed to be complementary
to other Bank programs in Cape Verde, which give high priority to capacity-building for privatization,
infrastructure regulation and public sector management. Specifically, the SAC and the ongoing
privatization program were complementary in providing support for the Government's program to reduce
the State ownership and increase private participation in infrastructure and productive sectors through the
development of effective policy and regulatory frameworks. Additionally, the SAC deepened and extended
the program envisaged under the ERSO project, which contained measures in the areas of economic
liberalization and privatization. Through work carried out under the PPF, the SAC also supported Foreign
Investment Advisory Service (FIAS) work on administrative barriers and effective tax rates, which
contributed to a lowering of corporate income tax from 35 percent to 30 percent. This work was used in the
design of the PRGF and is supported the Growth and Competiveness Project approved in May 2003.

Close cooperation with the International Monetary Fund (IMF) during preparation and effectiveness of the
Credit helped to ensure timeliness and targeting of assistance through sequenced implementation of a Fund
program and Bank adjustment lending. The IMF had agreed to put a Staff Monitored Program (SMP) in
place. As mentioned above, the SAC supported measures that were key to resolving the crisis and led to the
PRGF, approved on April 10, 2002.

Finally, in line with expectations outlined in the SAC MOP, the donor community provided strong backing
to the Government, including additional financial support of approximately US$7 million in 2002, through
both budget and project financing. A SAC was signed with the European Union (EU) for 11 million Euros
in 2001. Of this Credit, the first tranche of 2 million Euros and second tranche of 5 million Euros were for
budget support and the remaining 4 million Euros were for balance of payment support. Additionally, three
public expenditure reviews (PERs) in health, education and agribusiness were supported by the European
Union and the Dutch Government, and the analytical work was supported by AFDB with a US$3.4 million
adjustment operation.

Design. The lending instrument chosen was appropriate as was the program design. Two tranches were
agreed because some reforms needed time for consensus-building, and to complete technical work
underpinning the reforms. For example, the Government was able to: (i) alleviate the social impact of the
proposed liquidation of EMPA and TRANSOR through discussions with labor unions; and (ii) undertake
more technical work to finalize tariff reforms, liberalize wholesale trade in key commodities imported by
EMPA, update divestiture strategies, etc., and (iii) relinquish BCA golden shares. The SAC measures were
carefully chosen to address the central issues that could not only assist in a quick turnaround of the
economy, but were also part of a broader program to sustain and deepen the reforms, described in the LDP.
Conditions for the second tranche were related to the implementation of these decisions. Some of the


                                                      - 5 -

measures such as the privatization program were politically difficult, as they entailed significant staff
retrenchment, an issue identified in the MOP.

Risk Assessment. The main project risk was related to policy reversal, which has not materialized. The
MOP discussed the project risks adequately. The report noted that this risk was mitigated mainly by the
fact that the privatization and tax measures envisaged under the program were difficult to reverse, and were
accompanied by liberalization of market access and the creation of a new agency to address food security
issues. The Government was able to bring the unions and consumers on board with the liquidation of
EMPA, the largest employer in Cape Verde, and thus alleviate an important political constraint.
Furthermore, Cape Verde's track record during most of the 1990s, in terms of substantial and rapid policy
reforms, was good and the SAC assumed that slippages in 1999/2000 were an exception and not indicative
of permanent policy reversals that would constitute a risk. This assumption was proven correct.
Furthermore, the Government recognized that its relationship with development partners was a long-term
one, and took effective steps to re-establish its credibility by implementing and sustaining the SAC
program. Its commitments under the LDP went beyond the SAC horizon, up to and beyond a future
PRSC. Similarly, relationships with the private suppliers were strengthened through the elimination of the
causes of accumulation of domestic debt and reduction of arrears.While the risks have been well-managed
during project implementation, they still remain particularly in terms of macroeconomic stability.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

4.1.1    The SAC has contributed to Cape Verde's macroeconomic stability, growth, and structural
reforms. The implementation of the macroeconomic program has been impressive, as evidenced in the rapid
decrease in fiscal deficit (including grants, from 19 percent of GDP in 2000 to approximately 11.9 percent
in 2002). GDP output grew by 4.6 percent in 2002, and inflation was kept in check. The results of the
overall economic reform program surpassed projections and this performance was accompanied by
important irreversible structural reforms in the areas of taxation, privatization, and petroleum sector
restructuring. The program achieved its objective of helping the Government reestablish internal and
external balances by helping alleviate the impact of the oil shock and the effects of September11, 2001 on
the airline industry, and creating the conditions for sustained high GDP growth. It is rated highly
satisfactory. This judgment is based on Cape Verde's macroeconomic performance during the program
period and since then, and on the overall quality of program implementation, which went beyond the
measures envisaged in the SAC. Some of the reforms were complicated and politically sensitive
(particularly in privatization and petroleum reform), but they also required efficient, rapid actions, attention
to details and political will. Cape Verde's remarkable track record over 2001-2003 underscored the
Government's strong ownership of the program.

The Government acted rapidly to take difficult measures, and to fulfill the letter and spirit of its
commitments embodied in the Letter of Development Policy. The Government ensured that all
effectiveness conditions were met within a tight agreed timetable, and the first tranche was released three
working days after Board presentation, which enabled end-year fiscal targets to be met. All floating tranche
conditions were met, and the credit was disbursed on schedule.

In addition to specific conditions related to the fixed and floating tranches, the Government initiated, and in
many cases completed, a number of actions which were complementary to ongoing reforms and/or their
sustainability, and which had been spelled out in the LDP. Major initiatives launched include petroleum



                                                       - 6 -

sector reform, adoption of the Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP), completion of a public
expenditure review (PER), and completion of a Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA).
The fact that all of these initiatives were undertaken in a timely manner constitutes an impressive
performance and supports the highly satisfactory rating for SAC implementation.

The SAC was prepared in close collaboration with the IMF and was approved and disbursed before the
PRGF was sumbmitted to the IMF board, which is an unusual sequence. The SAC helped the Government
meet its macroeconomic program targets, which in turn permitted it to finalize the PRGF discussions. In
addition, the SAC has helped implement measures which prepared the way for reform in the medium to
long term and sustained growth. Furthermore, by continuing to develop the policy agenda, the Government
has effectively mitigated risks and helped ensure that the macroeconomic and structural reforms will be
deepened and sustained.

4.2 Outputs by components:

4.2.1    Macroeconomic Performance

During the SAC period, Cape Verde's macroeconomic performance achieved a remarkable turn around.G
rowth accelerated, in 2002 and 2003, contrary to the projections before the SAL of continued decline.
Fiscal developments have been positive, and every target in the Government's program was met as of
September 2002. Notably, the deficit (excluding grants) was estimated to be 1.9 and 4.7 percent of GDP in
2001 and 2002, respectively. Additionally: a) the GDP growth rate, at 4.3 percent per annum, is projected
to be two times higher than originally programmed; b) external reserve targets for 2004 were met in 2002
and will be exceeded; c) the overall the fiscal deficit remained negligible at 1.9 percent in 2002 (after
grants); d) and inflation fell to 1.8 percent in 2002.

These achievements in part justify the aforementioned highly satisfactory rating for the project. The
performance is a testimony of strong Government commitment to implement politically-challenging
reforms. This assessment is unchanged by the fact that due to higher han anticipated retrenchment costs
associated with privatization, the Government requested an IDA supplemental credit to help close its fiscal
deficit in December 2002. By providing a total of US$19 million of BOP/budget financing, the SAC
contributed substantially to the macroeconomic stability that has laid the foundation for continued growth
and poverty alleviation. Key performance indicators are given in Table 1.

                                     Table 1: Selected Economic Indicators

                                                                                               2002      2003
                                                        1998       1999       2000       2001 actuals    estimate

Real GDP growth (%)                                      7.4        8.6        6.6         3.8        4.3      5.1
Export growth (%)                                          -2      15.5        13.2       17.2         14      4.1
Import growth (%)                                       17.2       21.5        -7.3        5.8         13      5.2
CA (incl. Official tansfers, as % of GDP)              -12.3       -16.8     -10.6      -10.7       -11.2    -10.3
CA (excl. Official transfers, as % of GDP)                         -21.1     -20.4      -14.5         -14    -17.3
Fisc. Deficit (excl. official grants, as % of GDP)     -19.4        -6.7     -26.5        -9.4      -10.2       -9
Fisc. Deficit (inc.official grants as % of GDP)        -0.35        -9.9    -19.09        -5.4       -1.9     -3.5
Broad Money growth (%)                                             15.4        12.9        9.8       14.3      7.8
Foreign Reserves (months of imports)                                1.6          1         1.5          2      2.2
Change in the CPI (period average, %)                    4.4        4.4        -2.4        3.8        1.8        2




                                                      - 7 -

The analysis of the results reveals that economic growth was high and broad-based, except for agriculture.
The sectors that grew most have been construction and tourism. Electricity generation and water
production improved, with new investments by the foreign partners. Agriculture, which employs somewhat
less than half of the population, had poor years in 2001 and 2002 because of a mild drought. Sectors
affected by government arrears in 2000-2001 (e.g. construction and energy) raised their level of activity
due to accelerated repayment of arrears.

The current account deficit (including all transfers) is stabilized, but increased slightly to 11.2 percent in
2002 (10.7percent in 2001) in part because the Government increased spending to leverage the external
assistance that it could mobilize. The influx of FDI and donor disbursements, especially in the first half of
2002, has resulted in an increase in reserves at the Central Bank (1.6 months of imports). The BOP
stability reflects effective demand management and low import growth.

Fiscal developments have been favorable and improved since the slippages of 2000. Every target in the
Government's PRGF-supported program was met by the end of September 2002. Private sector confidence
in the economy has been helped by a strong and steady performance on the fiscal side. Arrears
accumulation has been reversed, as negotiations with suppliers has led to regularization of Government
liabilities; the government has either paid off its debts or issued new debt instruments. Resource
mobilization has been more successful than programmed; grants reached 6 percent of GDP in 2002 while
revenue has increased in line with higher GDP figures. Net domestic financing was negligible. In addition
to eliminating new domestic expenditures, domestic arrears which were accumilated in 1999 and 2000,
were paid off.

4.2.2     Petroleum Sector

The reform of the petroleum sector reflects an important effort by the Government, and is exemplary of
international best practice of this type of reforms, and is rated highly satisfactory. The petroleum sector
was the source of much of the fiscal deficit in 2000. The formula used to set domestic prices lacked
transparency, retail prices were inflexible and there were inefficiencies inherent in the duopolistic nature of
the sector limited the choice of petroleum products. These factors led to large government transfers to the
petroleum companies. In 2001, the Government took stop-gap measures by increasing domestic prices
twice (averaging an overall increase of 20 percent). The Government also required oil companies to offer
lower-priced 89 octane gasoline by the end of January 2003, and clarified that imports of all derivative
products such as motor oil would be liberalized. The Government went further by agreeing on reforms with
petroleum companies including a change in the pricing formula, with variations in the international price
passed on to consumers, and measures to improve logistics and other aspects of sector efficiency (structural
benchmark for the IMF-supported program).

To underpin the reforms, the Government commissioned in 2001 an independent review of its oil sector
(funded by an ongoing IDA project), including its pricing mechanisms and oil taxation policy which was
completed in 2002. An action plan to reform the existing supply and distribution arrangements was adopted
in 2002, as discussed in the LDP. In the context of the policy dialogue with Government, Bank petroleum
experts provided considerable advice on the reform program. As part of an overall reform package, the
Government introduced a new pricing mechanism to enhance the efficiency of the distribution and storage
infrastructure. As a result of these changes, not only has the possibility that a future petroleum shock will
adversely affect the budget has been largely removed, but also consumers will benefit from greater pricing



                                                      - 8 -

efficiency.

As a result of measures introduced over the past two years, no subsidies have been paid to petroleum
companies in 2003, and sector efficiency has increased. For instance, in July 2003, prices at the pump
dropped from 105 to 100 Cape Verde Escudos (CVE) for 1 liter of gasoline and from 60 to 57 CVE for
diesel, reflecting international prices. Also lowering the prices to consumers was the availability of lower
grade gasoline, which was foreseen in the LDP. System fine-tuning is currently under way with help from
an international consultant, which is working on a number of issues, including the definition of standard
costs for each product category, and oil companies' profit margins.

4.2.3    Privatization

Progress on most scheduled privatizations and movement in the privatization of the airline, given the
international context, was satisfactory. The overall rating for the sub-component is satisfactory. The
purpose of the privatization program was to alleviate the fiscal burden, while providing market incentives
to promote private sector development and improve the business climate. The objective was to divest six of
the nine remaining public enterprises including EMPA, TRANSCOR, SALMAR, TACV, BCA and Arca
Verde. Prior to the SAC, the lack of retrenchment financing, which was due in part to the large benefits
specified in labor laws at the time, and the lack of political will to take measures including liquidating
unviable enterprises that would upset vested interests, were the main weaknesses of the privatization
program.

a) Distribution company (EMPA). The EMPA privatization is rated highly satisfactory. The divestiture
of EMPA had in fact been studied for a decade, but had never implemented, largely because of the political
difficulties associated with the measure, given that EMPA was one of the largest employers in Cape Verde,
with over 600 employees. EMPA had been costing the Government up to US$750,000 - US$1 million per
month; in some recent years the deficit reached US$8 million annually. Two decree laws liquidating
EMPA were published in December 2002. The financial pay-off of employees began in February 2002
when 50 percent of amounts due were paid, and the remaming payments should be completed by early
2005. The liquidation process is irreversible as assets have been sold off.

EMPA was created in September 1976 with the mandate to import, distribute and sell goods of primary
importance for the country. The liberalization of commerce that was initiatied in Cape Verde in 1993,
without prior preparation on the side of EMPA, introduced competitive pressures, from more efficient
commercial operators, which marked the beginning of EMPA's decline. The company operated in a
monopolistic environment which, allied with its status as a sole agent for the commercialization of
international food aid received by Cape Verde, transformed the company into the country's most dominant
commercial enterprise. The company's exit from the cement market and the entry of a private competitor in
the mid-1990s contributed greatly to its increasingly negative results. Between 1996 and 2000, EMPA
sales fell by 43 percent (ECV 2.6 billion), while the company lost considerable market share. Between
1994 and 2001, the company had cumulative losses of over ECV 1.1 billion (an amount almost twice the
owner's equity). All performance ratios (profitability, liquidity, etc.) indicated that the company was
insolvent.

Reforms associated with EMPA were the result of a an extensive dialogue between the Government and
stakeholders and the Bank. Stakeholders had expressed their concern that the elimination of EMPA would
lead to the establishment of a private monopoly. After discussions with the Bank, the Government
concluded that there was no natural monopoly in trade activities and market inefficiencies were largely
due to rules and regulations that constituted a significant barrier to entry, including a minimum capital


                                                      - 9 -

requirement of US$10 million for commercialization firms, as well as the obligation to serve all islands. As
a result, complementing the SAC reforms the Government has largely eliminated barriers to entry and new
private operators entered the sector almost immediately after EMPA's liquidation. The fact that there has
been no shortage of any of the key commodities in any of the islands has confirmed the expectation that the
market would be competitive and that adequate supply chains existed. This liberalization process is
underway and will be monitored by the Bank teams in the context of the continued dialogue on
privatization.

b) Airline (TACV). The only reform that remains at risk concerns the privatization of TACV, which is
rated marginally satisfactory. A decree for the privatization action plan of TACV was signed and published
by the Government on December 19, 2002. A proposal for privatization of TACV has been made, whereby
a majority share of the company would be sold. In addition, the Government has announced that it would
not hold a Golden Share in the new company after IDA discussed the flaws with the proposal. Problems
which have been experienced in this privatization, in part relate to difficulties associated with the events of
September 11, 2001, which are being experienced by the airlines worldwide. The privatization of TACV
was also affected by confusion in the airline industry following the liquidation in 2001 of the dominant
regional carrier, Air Afrique. However, regional expansionary policies pursued by TACV and the line
ministry, exacerbated the problems and resulted in excessive losses in 2002 (US$14 million or 2 percent of
GDP). This was mainly due to a failed expansion policy that sought to exploit the void left in West Africa
by the liquidation of Air Afrique and a heavy cost structure.

The Government adopted a restructuring plan in 2003 to stem the losses. These include: i.) change in
management and expenditure controls; ii) other conservation measures to stem losses described below iii.)
other conservation measures to stem losses, iv.) decision to adopt a suitable form of public-private
partnership to be implemented during 2004. The mandate given to the new management team was to
contain losses and to implement any restructuring measures that were immediately possible. In this regard,
management has stopped all loss-making routes in Western Africa. The company is still expected to make a
small loss in 2003, although it is estimated to be considerably lower than in 2002 (US$ 2-4 million), which
largely reflects the cost of TACV's public service obligations related to inter-island transport.

The Government has recognized that the process of privatization of an airline in the existing worldwide
economic conditions would be difficult. To increase the likelihood of success, it has adopted and
implemented the required rules and regulations to ensure that by around mid-2003, the Sal international
airport received category 1 certification from the US Federal Aviation Authority. It has also decided to sell
a majority share in the airline to a strategic partner. Finally, in line with an earlier agreement with the Bank
in the context of the SAC, the Government has also decided not to pursue the option of holding a golden
share in the company. These actions initially increased the likelihood that the divestiture planned for 2004
would be successful. The Bank team gave consideration to whether or not remaining risks surrounding
TACV divestitures would justify downgrading the SAC rating to 'S'. The Bank decided against lowering
the rating because of the very good results of the program and the stabilization of TACV. Looking at
precedents elsewhere, it should be noted that the Uganda SAC1 outcome was rated highly satisfactory for
similar reasons even though a condition of tranche release had been waved (performance audit report
number 19386).

c) Urban Transport (TRANSCOR). The TRANSCOR liquidation is rated highly satisfactory.
TRANSCOR was liquidated in June 2002; approximately 250 workers were retrenched and retrenchment
payments have been made. Private operators are providing an adequate level of urban transport. The
Government is now addressing post-divestiture problems related to the need to ensure a competitive urban
transport of good quality, based on regular (published) schedules. Technical assistance for this work is


                                                       - 10 -

provided under the IDA privatization project. In addition, an urban task force was established to set up the
urban transport policy. The task force consists of representatives from PCU, ARE, the Ministry of
Infrastructure and Transport, and municipalities.

d) Commercial Bank (BCA-Golden Share) The main feature of the golden share related to the ability of
the Government to approve the bank's first five-year business plan. This condition was already met by the
approval of the Strategic Plan in 1999. Other Government rights related to changes in articles of
incorporation at the merger, transformation and liquidation of the company. These provisions are
consistent with the standard provisions of the banking law and are required to protect depositors.
Government ownership in BCA has remained at 10 percent.

In addition to the privatization measures discussed in the preceding paragraphs, the Medium Term Program
envisaged that policies supporting private sector development, notably on the investment climate and
financial sector reform, especially in the area of pensions, would be formulated during the SAC period. The
work on investment climate policies, which also benefited from FIAS' support in the form of two reports,
and pensions, was completed and paved the way for the Growth and Competitiveness Project presented to
the Board in May 2003. By supporting the implementation of these reforms, the project contributed to the
sustainability of the SAC.

4.2.4    Tax and Trade Reform

Prior to the SAC, reflecting in part the legacy of import substitution policies, as well as an outdated
approach for revenue generation, Cape Verde's trade and tax policies were characterized by high tariff
barriers and a cascading consumption tax. The Government was aware that these arrangements were
impediments to economic activity and the development of a competitive private sector. Changes
implemented under the SAC resulted in important reforms through the adoption of a new VAT mainly as a
revenue tool, and a streamlined tariff code, with fewer tariff bands ( 7 down from 64) and lower spreads
(up to 50 percent instead of 300 percent).

The tariff and VAT reforms were fully in line with the letter and spirit of agreements under the SAC and
therefore are rated highly satisfactory. This rating is based in part on the fact that reforms are expected to
be revenue enhancing, facilitating income tax reform, and in part because of the effective public
information campaign and training availed to the private sector prior to their implementation, which would
help ensure sustainability. The reforms included the replacement of the four existing trade/consumption
taxes with three levies: the 15 percent VAT, import duties and an excise tax (generally about 10 percent),
applicable to some luxury goods. In parallel, the Government also went on to reduce the corporate income
tax rate from 35 to 30 percent, and the aim is 25 percent. The tariff code has other desirable features,
including a unique rate being applied to similar products and close substitutes.

The Council of Ministers adopted the VAT in 2001 prior to Board presentation, and the revised tariff code
in 2002 prior to floating tranche release as agreed. In spite of political opposition, both measures were
adopted by Parliament around mid-2002 and signed into law. The technical details of the VAT
implementation have been worked out, institutional capacity building and information of the public have
taken place, and the VAT will start being implemented on January 1, 2004.

4.2.5    Budget Reform

The Government has a strong program of budget reform. The objective was to improve its fiscal
sustainability and its ability to target expenditures at poverty alleviation and growth. A number of


                                                      - 11 -

measures to improve budget management were introduced although they were not part of tranche
conditionality. As agreed under the SAC, university scholarships were capped at or below the level of
budget year 2000, and a system of means-testing was introduced to ensure that only those requiring
assistance received the scholarships. The Public Investment Program (PIP) is regularly updated. As
envisaged in the LDP, the government undertook a fiduciary assessment of budget systems and a Country
Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) has been completed. This work is complemented by a PER
for the whole expenditure program and special PERs for the education and health sectors. The
Government also invited its development partners to discuss its macroeconomic programming, which was
supported by a PRGF. Important results have also been achieved in computerizing the execution and
reporting systems for public expenditure and the Justice Department, and in redefining the accounting
classification of Government for the 2003 budget. The new budget was approved in October 2003.

The Government's efforts in curtailing its expenditure levels are noteworthy. First, it passed a supplemental
budget to rein in expenditures selectively in light of developments. Second, the Treasury imposed a system
of budgeting with an additional rationing of 10 percent to 15 percent applied to budget allocations.

Measures associated with the SAC have helped improve the Government's financial discipline and helped it
meet its fiduciary obligations. A CFAA and the ongoing Country Procurement Assessment Review
(CPAR) carried out in the context of government commitments under the LDP led to a number of
recommendations which are being adopted on budget processes and government purchasing practices. On
the capital expenditure side, the PIP review in 2002 enabled the Government to obtain the necessary
financing to carry out its investment program. The PER, produced at the end of 2002, in turn provided
the analysis needed for improved budgetary management. The stabilization and analytical work carried out
in connection with the SAC led to the Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) which is now being
developed. As a result of the policy measures and analytical work, many of the preconditions for a PRSC
considered in the SAC documents were met. This component was therefore ranked highly satisfactory.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The project had a substantial institutional impact. A key reform has been the strengthening of the Ministry
of Finance and other institutions associated with public finance with the institutionalization of
programming and budgeting mechanisms such as the public expenditure reviews. The privatization and
elimination of state intervention in key public enterprises has contributed to strenghening them, while the
liquidation of inefficient ones has reduced the administrative burden of the agencies charged with their
supervision. The establishment of an adequate supervisory mechanism for the petroleum sector was
important. In that regard, the significant reforms in the petroleum sector are likely to have a lasting impact.



5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

The shakeup of the airline industry after September 11, 2001, which could not be anticipated, considerably



                                                      - 12 -

affected the prospects of finding a suitable buyer for TACV. However, the decline in tourism which had
been anticipated did not materialize, in part because of Cape Verde's proximity to Europe as well as its
good security record, and this contributed to better than expected growth performance in 2002.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

The Government took the strategic decision to make sure that the reforms were well designed and
implemented with the support of affected groups (unions in the case of privatizations), as well as
parliament, which had objected to tax reforms. By taking time for reforms to mature, while staying within
the SAC timetable, the Government was able to pay special attention to their sustainability. The
privatization PCU proved less than agile in carrying out the administrative functions associated with the
program, including reporting to IDA. Nevertheless, the Government acted appropriately and overhauled
PCU management in early 2003.


5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

The Ministry of Finance was charged with project reform implementation and it delegated most of the
day-to-day management of the project (studies, reporting, monitoring, evaluation, etc.) to the PCU for the
privatization project . While overall SAC implementation was very good, the project suffered from
insufficient attention by the PCU. As a result, reporting was partial. The institutional arrangements
foreseen at appraisal did not work out as originally intended largely because of a change in the PCU team
during the second half of 2001, and it took the Government some time to remedy the situation once the
shortcoming became apparent. The policy discussions continued to be led effectively by the Ministry of
Finance, but the reporting aspects of the project suffered. The SAC steering committee, which had been
set up to monitor the progress of the program performed adequately.

5.4 Costs and financing:
N.A.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

6.1.1    Sustainability has been rated as likely although the nature of the measures adopted under SAC and
the strong commitment of the Government suggest that the most important reforms are likely to be highly
sustainable, including reforms in the petroleum sector, and privatization. Elements of sustainability include
the largely irreversible nature of the reforms and the private sector-led supply response that has resulted.
The timely disbursement of the SAC helped the Government meet targets for its macroeconomic program,
and the continuation of support from donors under the PRGF. Continued support will help ensure that the
SAC reforms will be sustained.

6.1.2    Cutbacks and restrictions imposed on expenditures and reforms that link domestic petroleum prices
to international prices constitute structural changes which will contribute to keeping deficits low. The
adoption of a PER, and work under the CFAA will also assist in disciplining public expenditures by
ensuring funding of priority programs, and greater transparency and efficiency in government spending.
The Government has divested from key enterprises, measures which are not easily reversed, and will
contribute to improved performance of the enterprises on a sustained basis. In particular, a dynamic and
competitive private sector has already replaced EMPA and TRANSCOR. Reforms in the tax and tariff
structure will contribute to improving the climate for investment and private sector competitiveness by



                                                     - 13 -

reducing the anti-export bias and replacing the distortionary consumption tax with VAT.

6.1.3. Despite the very good prospects for sustainability of the program, sustainability has been rated as
likely because of exposure to external shocks, and the risks associated with an economy such as that of
Cape Verde. The country is still dependent on foreign assistance as well as substantial private transfers.
This risk is expected to be manageable becaue during the round table of early 2003, donors reiterated their
intention to continue to support Cape Verde. In the case of the Bank, this will be mainly through PRSCs.
Continued private transfers also reflect the confidence in the economy and the availability of investment
opportunities with relatively high rates of return.

6.1.4. By helping stabilize the economy, reducing the risk of inflation, and providing budget support to
help protect priority social expenditures, the social impact of the SAC is expected to be largely positive. In
particular, the SAC, and other balance of payments support provided by donors, will help maintain the
fixed exchange rate regime. Some groups may be affected unfavorably by privatization, the potential
increase in energy prices because of the new pricing mechanism, and the cutback in public expenditures.
The impact of privatization is mitigated by the safety net provided to retrenched workers of public
enterprises which provides social protection. With respect to energy prices, while another jump in
international petroleum prices would be reflected on consumers these have benefited from efficiency gains
that will result in lower prices at the pump for a given world price. Gasoline prices have already declined
as a result of the reform program and world market price trends.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

The Government is continuing to implement its medium-term strategy and in this context is engaged in an
active dialogue with the Bank, the IMF and other key donors. The Donors have continued to support
analytical work to underpin the growth and poverty alleviation strategy. The Government has prepared a
Poverty Reduction Strategy which is expected to be supported by at least two PRSCs. The program is
also being supported by the IMF (through a PRGF) and other donors which plan to provide budget support
. The growth agenda is being addressed through the Privatization Project, approved in July 1998, in the
context of which the discussions of the privatization of TACV have continued. The Growth and
Competitiveness Project, approved in May 2003, is providing technical support in a number of areas
including measures to modernize the financial sector (including pension reform) and reforms on the legal
and regulatory environment for investment and operation of enterprises. FIAS, in turn, is continuing its
support on the investment climate.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

The Bank's performance in the identification, preparation, implementation and appraisal of the project is
rated highly satisfactory. The instrument was appropriate for helping preserve macroeconomic stability
which was an essential precondition to achieving the Government's mid-term goals of increased growth and
poverty reduction. The Bank was responsive to the need to urgently stabilize the economy, and acted
quickly to provide the needed support. It took only four months from identification of needs to Board
approval of the credit. The Bank was also responsive to the need for the supplemental credit which was
approved quickly. The Bank worked closely with Government, the IMF and other donors to ensure that the
program was endorsed by key partners. The program supported under the SAC addressed key issues
affecting financial stability. The nature of the reforms proposed shows that considerable technical work



                                                      - 14 -

had been done with Bank support prior to negotiation of the SAC.




7.2 Supervision:

Supervision is rated highly satisfactory. The SAC was closely supervised and despite the short time
horizon of the operation, three supervision missions were carried out. The same task manager was charged
with the operation from identification to closing, which ensured continuity, and it received considerable
attention from a number of specialists, as it was supervised jointly with other operations in the private and
financial sectors. Due to the type of structural measures covered by the SAC, the operation was managed
by the private sector unit of the Africa region, in close collaboration with the country economist, who
prepared the supplemental credit. This joint supervision and cross-unit collaboration helped ensure
coordination of activities being carried out under different Bank programs, and reduced the costs of
supervision. The Bank addressed proactively early indications of implementation problems, many of which
were associated with the performance of the project unit, and situated the dialogue on the measures within
the broad policy agenda managed directly by the Ministry of Finance. The Quality Assurance Group did
not assess the quality of supervision.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Overall Bank performance is rated highly satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

The Government performance during preparation was highly satisfactory. The Government identified key
issues and worked with donors to find appropriate responses to the problems, which it implemented quickly
and effectively. It consulted with stakeholders which facilitated some reforms as in the case of the freeze in
government wages which was agreed with the union. The government took a number of difficult measures
prior to Board presentation of the program, demonstrating commitment.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

The Government implementation performance is rated highly satisfactory. The Government introduced a
number of difficult and politically sensitive measures in the areas of petroleum pricing, taxation and
privatization in a short period of time, which contributed to stabilizing the economy and setting the
foundations for growth as discussed in Section 4 of this report. The Government in fact carried out reforms
in the areas of budget management and petroleum much earlier than anticipated in the Letter of
Development Policy.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

Implementation of the program was the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance and Planning which
chaired an interagency committee that monitored the reform program. The performance of the interagency
committee was on the whole satisfactory. While overall SAC implementation was very good, the project
suffered from insufficient attention by the project management unit charged with privatization in the
Ministry of Finance which was responsible for monitoring the Credit. The performance of the privatization
unit was marginally satisfactory. As a result of the weak performance of the project unit, formal reporting
was partial, although information on the progress of the reform program was available to the Bank


                                                      - 15 -

through the office of the Minister of Finance. Coordination, monitoring and evaluation funcions need to be
strengthened in future operations such as a PRSC.


7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

The Government performance is judged highly satisfactory given the measures taken and the results
attained. The ICR team did carefully consider whether the shortcomings in reporting by the privatization
unit would warrant downgrading overall Government performance to satisfactory "S". It decided against it
because despite the problems encountered, the results achieved under the SAC were impressive, both in
absolute terms and compared to achievements elsewhere in Sub-Saharan Africa, and these could not have
been achieved without very strong performance by the Borrower.

8. Lessons Learned


Lessons learned under this program confirm those of similar Bank operations. Although the lessons are
not unique, the timeliness and effectiveness of the Bank and Government teams is unusual.

8.1 Programs addressing crisis situations work when there are dynamic teams in the Government and the
Bank that are able to bring together the necessary expertise and to take necessary decisions and actions to
bring about quickly the needed support in the case of the bank and the policy changes in the case of the
Government. The SAC was designed and approved in four months, ahead of the IMF program, an
approach which was supported by the IMF. When the program required additional resources, the Bank
approved a supplemental credit within three months of the need being identified. The Bank's intervention
and Government actions stabilized the Cape Verdian economy in 2001 and set the stage for the
revitalization of the economy.

8.2 Identification of key measures and simplicity are critical to the success of reform programs in general,
but particularly of those geared to addressing severe short-term imbalances. The program targeted a few
key reforms which were central to the reform program. This reduced the burden on Government and
ensured that it focused on key issues.

8.3 Experience with the Cape Verde program confirms the importance of Government commitment and
buy in of all stakeholders in bringing about needed changes. In Cape Verde, the Government took a number
of difficult measures in a very short period of time and there was limited resistance, as it had the support of
trade unions and other key stakeholders. With few exceptions, Cape Verde has been committed to its
reform program and to working with the Bank and other donors.

8.4 Close coordination within the Bank increases the effectiveness of Bank assistance and reduces costs.
During preparation and supervision of the SAC, Bank teams in different units worked closely together and
with the IMF and other donors. This collaboration helped enhance the technical content of the reform
program and the financial support for it.

8.5 There is a need to provide appropriate Technical Assistance resources to support the implementation
of the adjustment measures. The availability of SAC PPF reflows, (amounts left from the original
allocation that were preserved in a project account), which the Government agreed to utilize for studies and
capacity building and other sources of financing allowed for essential technical work on key structural and
budget measures mentioned in the LDP, including petroleum sector reform, the PER, the assessment of the



                                                     - 16 -

pension system, and the analysis carried out on investment incentives by FIAS.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:




          MINISTÉRIO DAS FINANÇAS, PLANEAMENTO E DESENVOLVIMENTO
                                                REGIONAL


                                        GABINETE DO MINISTRO




                                                                              Praia, December 9th, 2003




   Mr. John McIntire
   Director of Operations for Cape Verde
   The World Bank
   3, Place de l'Independence
   Immeuble SDIH, B.P.3296
   Dakar Senegal




   Subject: Credit 3587 ­ Structural Adjustment Credit: Government comments for the Implementation
   Completion Report




   Dear Mr. McIntire:


   This is to convey the Government of Cape Verde's (GOCV) analysis of the impact of the Structural
   Adjustment Credit (SAC).



                                                   - 17 -

The SAC was crucial to the successful implementation of the GOCV's economic agenda during 2001
and 2002. Moreover, it laid the foundations of a reform package that has set the country on a path of
macro-economic stability, paving the way towards sustainable economic development.

Macro-economic stability is one of the main objectives set forth in the Government Program for the
2001-2006 period. Accordingly, the Government elected as top priorities fiscal and budget policies
aimed at a sustainable reduction in the budget deficit and consolidation of the parity of the Cape verdean
currency.

In line with these policies, during 2001 and 2002 the Government worked actively to correct the major
macro-economic imbalances which had occurred during 1999 and 2000. To this end, comprehensive
stabilization programs were drafted and implemented with technical and financial support of the donor
community, namely the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund, and the European Union.

The SAC was the most important of these programs, considering the amounts involved (some 20 million
dollars) and the timings of the disbursements (in late 2001 and 2002). More importantly, the SAC made
it possible for the Government to design and implement a number of structural reforms to the Cape
verdean economy.

Cape Verde has performed well under the above mentioned programs and even surpassed some of the
performance criteria agreed upon: inflation is lower, real economic growth is higher, the fiscal deficit is
smaller, and the balance of payments is stronger.

The SAC provided for the definition and implementation of a number of structural reforms to the Cape
verdean economy. In addition to helping the GOCV reverse internal and external imbalances caused by
the impact of the 2000 oil shock and the post September 11 economic downturn, the funds from the
SAC made it possible for the GOCV to implement important structural reforms in the areas of taxation,
privatization and petroleum sector restructuring.

The following are accomplishments achieved in connection with the SAC:


(a) Macroeconomic stability

As a result of the expansionist fiscal policies in 2000, in a context of stagnating fiscal revenues and
foreign aid, the fiscal deficit reached 19 percent of GDP. On the other hand, because of the country's
strong reliance on imports, these expansionist policies led to a drop in the level of external reserves and
increasing pressures on the exchange rate peg. Funds from the SAC and, more importantly, the reforms
implemented in the context of the credit, were crucial to allow the re-establishment of the fiscal balance
and alleviation of the pressures on the peg.


(b) Budget reforms

In connection with the SAC, the Government undertook a number of initiatives aimed at the goals of
increased efficiency of public expenditures and poverty alleviation. Institutional capacity building
activities and expense limiting measures, following a Public Expenditure Review (PER), were set in
place to ensure the achievement of these goals.


                                                - 18 -

(c) Petroleum price reforms

A new Oil Price Adjustment Mechanism (OPAM) has been established, providing for adjustments to
fluctuations in world crude prices. As a result of this mechanism, fuel prices at the pump dropped last
July, in reaction to lower world crude prices. Further, subsidies paid by the Treasury to petroleum
product retailers, which exceeded 20 million dollars in 2000 and 12 million dollars in 2001, dropped to 9
million dollars in 2002. For the current year, subsidies are expected to be negative, in which case the
retailers will compensate Treasury for the price differential.

The reform is currently being consolidated with specific intervention to improve the logistics. In
particular, the GOCV is promoting the establishment of a joint company for import and bulk sales. The
company, which will have as shareholders the Government and the two current importers, aims at more
efficient import and bulk distribution operations, thus resulting in gains to consumers and the productive
sectors. It should be pointed out that the proposed mechanism will come into being in a regulated
environement, thus addressing possible concerns about competitiveness and consumer protection.


(d) Privatizations

In connection with the SAC, the Government implemented a number of privatization measures, leading
to improved services, reduced financial burden and improved business environment through increased
opportunities for private sector participation.

Specifically, the Government brought the national airline to the point of sale, sold off one insolvent
company, SALMAR (cold storage for fishing products) and liquidated two significant loss making
companies, EMPA (food import and distribution) and TRANSCOR (urban transportation).

In the absence of the policy dialogue and technical assistance made possible under the SAC these tough
but necessary undertakings would not have been possible. Further, the funds from the credit facilitated
the compensation payments to TRANSCOR and EMPA workers, which turned out to be significantly
higher than expected.


(e)   Business environment

With support form the SAC the Government has been able to advance work on far reaching and
irreversible tax reforms, including implementation of a VAT, as well as introduction of a new tariff
code. Funds from the credit financed consultancies and equipment in connection with these two
processes.

Tax reform has two complementary objectives related to fiscal equilibrium and the improvement of the
business environment. The reform strategy consists of three categories of measures: (i) the introduction
of a VAT; (ii) reform of external tariffs; and (iii) reform of the income tax structure. The VAT and new
customs tariff structure will become effective on January 1st, 2004.

The Government intends to pursue these efforts along the lines of further reduction in corporate taxes
and the simplification of the overly complex fiscal incentive mechanisms. Taxation of independent


                                                   - 19 -

   workers (traders, consultants, etc) will also be reviewed, specific goals being more equitable fiscal
   treatment of these workers as well as alleviation of their tax burden.

   The SAC also financed studies on administrative barriers to investment, which helped identify
   constraints to business establishment and operation. These studies led to an Action Plan for reducing
   administrative barriers to investment, which is now being implemented, with strong participation and
   monitoring from private sector representatives.


   The Government concludes that the SAC was crucial to allow the further definition and successful
   implementation of the Government's economic reforms agenda. We strongly believe that without the
   policy dialogue, as well as the technical and financial assistance received from the Bank in connection
   with the SAC, the reform agenda would not have been accomplished.

   It should also be emphasized that without the resources provided under the SAC Cape Verde would have
   suffered a major budget and balance of payment crisis, leading to severe consequences for the economy.
   These consequences would be particularly hard on the poor, who depend heavily on labor intensive
   public employment programs and publicly funded welfare programs.


   Another very important point More important, however, is the quality of the reforms implemented under
   the SAC. The quality of the dialogue and the irreversible nature of most of the measures implemented
   lead us to believe that these measures were sound and adequate.

   Further, the positive impact they have had thus far make us confident about their sustainability. Indeed,
   despite the structural weaknesses which still hinder the performance of the Cape Verdean economy, we
   strongly believe the positive results achieved and envisaged, and the nationwide widespread national
   consensus around the outcomes, will make it possible to consolidate and further these reforms in the
   years to come.

   On behalf of the Cape Verdean Government and people, please accept the expressions of my
   consideration and esteem.


                                                Sincerely yours,




                                           José Maria Pereira Neves
                                                    Minister

(b) Cofinanciers:

Not applicable.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

Not applicable.




                                                    - 20 -

10. Additional Information

Not applicable.




                              - 21 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


Objectives          SAC Benchmarks                               Achievements
Overall objective:  · Implementation of satisfactory             · Monetary and BOP targets met
Macroeconomic       macroeconomic program                        · New arrears not accumulated
stabilization       ·Resolve balance of payments financing       · Internal and external financing gap
                    gap                                            funded
                    ·Stabilizing GDP                             · GDP growth rate at 4.3% per annum
                    ·Inflation control close to Euro zone        · Inflation fell to 1.8% and remained very
                    ·Budget 2001 deficit contained to              low
                    approximately 6% of GDP                      · External reserve targets for 2004 have
                                                                   already been met
Efficient petroleum SAC Board Conditions
sector operating on Raising domestic prices to reduce and/or    ·  Done
commercial basis    eliminate differential with international   ·  Domestic prices follow international ones
                    prices.                                     ·  Elimination of need for public subsides

                    Other (LDP)
                    Agreed action plan, based on sector         ·  Regulator/monitoring capacity established
                    study in October 2001, to be adopted        ·  Agreed action plan adopted including
                                                                   liberalizing imports of derivative products
                                                                   and requiring oil companies to offer lower
                                                                   Octane gasoline in sufficient amounts
                                                                ·  Competitive market created
Complete rapid      SAC Board Conditions
privatization       · Adoption of Decision by Council of        ·  Done
program             Ministers to liquidate EMPA-trading
                    company,
                    · Adoption of Decision by Council of        ·  Done
                    Ministers to liquidate
                    TRANSCOR-Urban transport                    ·  Done
                    · Adoption by Council of Ministers of
                    Decision for the privatization of TACV
                    airlines
                    ·Decision by Council of Ministers to        ·  Done
                    relinquish golden shares in BCA
                    · Privatization of cold port storage        ·  Done
                    (SALMAR)

                    Floating Tranche
                    · Publication of decree for liquidation of  ·  Done-December 2002
                    EMPA
                    · Publication of decree for liquidation of  ·  Done-June 2002
                    TRANSCOR
                    · Publication of decree for privatization   ·  Done-December 2002
                    Decree Law for TACV
                    · Privileges under golden shares held in    ·  Done-September 2002
                    BCA relinquished


Improve business    SAC Board Conditions
environment         ·Adoption by Council of Ministers of        ·  Done-VAT was enacted in 2002 and is to
through Tax         draft laws on VAT                              be implmented along with new customs
Reform                                                             tariffs on January 1, 2004
                    Floating Tranche
                    ·Approval by Council of Ministers of a      ·  Done-2002
                    draft tariff code



                                                             - 22 -

                                                            ·  Tax base broadened
                                                            ·  Tax system promotes investments and does
                                                               not distort incentives

More accountable  SAC Board Conditions
and efficient use · Contain cap on university scholarships   · Done
of public         at or below existing levels, introduce
resources through means testing for scholarships
improved public   · Update the Public Investment Plan        · Done-2002 and regularly updated
expenditure       (PIP) in the context of the PER            · PER and CFAA completed-2002
management and                                               · PRSP being prepared to incorporate
povery focused                                                 results of the PER and CFAA
budget                                                       · Anti poverty programs were integrated
                                                               into the budget while low priority
                                                               programs were terminated.




                                                         - 23 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Not applicable




                                      - 24 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable




                                      - 25 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               06/2001                   2     TEAM LEADER (1);PSD
                                               SPECIALIST (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               09/2001                   5     TEAM LEADER (1);
                                               LAWYER(1);
                                               PRIVATIZATION (1);
                                               MACROECONOMIST (1);
                                               PSD SPECIALIST (1)


 Supervision

               05/22/2002                 5    TEAM LEADER (1); LAWYER              S               S
                                               (1); PRIVATIZATION (1);
                                               FINANCIAL SECTOR (1); PSD
                                               SPECIALIST (1)
               10/28/2002                 3    TEAM LEADER (1);                     HS             HS
                                               MACROECONOMIST (1);
                                               PETROLEUM SECTOR (1)
               6/06/2003                  1    TEAM LEADER (1)                      HS             HS

 ICR
               12/5/03                   1     CONSULTANT (1)                       HS             HS



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation              15.32                        63,765
  Appraisal/Negotiation                      3.6                       15,604
  Supervision                              6.73                        32,850
  ICR                                          5                       30,000
  Total




                                               - 26 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 27 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. President's Report on a Proposed Structural Adjustment Credit - Report No. P7491-CV,
   November 14, 2001
2. President's Report on a Proposed Supplemental Credit - Report No. P-757-CV, November 22, 2002
3. Bank Mission Supervision Reports and Aide-memoires
4. Country Finanacial Accountability Assessment
5. Public Expenditure Review
6. Public Investment Plan




                                                - 29 -

- 30 -

