Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3587 CV
Development Credit Agreement
(Structural Adjustment Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated December 14, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3587 CV
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 14, 2001, between the REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Borrower a Letter of 
Development Policy dated  November 8, 2001, describing a program of actions, 
objectives and policies designed to achieve structural adjustment of the Borrower's 
economy (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the 
execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in support of 
the Program during the execution thereof; 
(B)
the Borrower has carried out the measures and taken the actions described 
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Association and has 
maintained a macroeconomic policy framework satisfactory to the Association;
(C)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has decided 
in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the 
Credit in two tranches as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing to 
extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, (as amended through October 6, 
1999) with the modifications thereof set forth below (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 12, is modified to read:
"‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit Agreement, in support of which the Credit is made.";
(b)
Section 4.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made in the currency of the deposit 
account specified in Section 2.02 of the Development Credit Agreement.";
(c)
Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit 
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of the Development 
Credit Agreement and of these General Conditions";
(d)
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
(e)
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read:
"(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, 
the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the 
execution of the program referred to in the Preamble to the Development Credit 
Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the Association of their 
respective obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit."; and
(f)
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 9.07 
and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"BCA" means Banco Comercial do Atlântico, the Borrower’s former national 
commercial bank, established by Decree Law No. 43/93 of July 16, 1993 and privatized 
according to Decree Law No. 70/98 of December 31, 1998;
(b)
"Central Bank" means Banco de Cabo Verde, the Borrower’s central bank, 
established and operating under the Decree-Law No. 42-93 of July 4, 1993;
(c)
"Deposit Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(d)
"EMPA" means Empresa Pública de Abastecimento, the Borrower’s public 
procurement company, established by Decree-Law No. 7-G/75 of September 10, 1975 and 
operating pursuant to Decree-Law No. 64/99 of November 2, 1999;
(e)
"First Tranche" means the amount of the proceeds of the Credit allocated 
to Category (1) in the Table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(f)
"Floating Tranche" means the amount of the proceeds of the Credit 
allocated to Category (2) in the Table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;
(g)
"LDP" means the Letter of Development Policy referred to in Recital (A) 
of the Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement;
(h)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to a letter signed on behalf of 
the Association on August 31, 2001 and on behalf of the Borrower on October 2, 2001;
Page  3
(i)
"TACV" means Transportes Aéreos de Cabo Verde, the Borrower’s public 
airline, established by Decree No. 131/81 of November 21, 1981 and operating pursuant 
to Decree No. 21/2000 of May 15, 2000 which transformed TACV into an SA;
(j)
"Tranche" means any of the following: the First Tranche, the Floating 
Tranche;
(k)
"TRANSCOR" means Transportes Rodoviários de Passageiros, the Borrower’s 
public urban transportation company, established and operating pursuant to Decree No. 
156/79 of December 31, 1979;  and
(l)
"VAT" means value added tax.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit  Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to eleven million six hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 11,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit 
from the Credit Account in support of the Program.
(b)
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first 
request for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and thereafter maintain in its Central 
Bank, a deposit account in dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association. All withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into the Deposit Account.
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. If the Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of 
the Credit shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (i) deposit into the 
Deposit Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment, or (ii) if the 
Association shall so request, refund such amount to the Association. Amounts refunded 
to the Association upon such request shall be credited to the Credit Account for 
cancellation.
(d)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as  may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request ; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Page  4
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)   Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each February 1 and August 1 commencing August 1, 2011 and ending February 1, 2041. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on February 1, 2021 shall be 
one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by the Association of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify 
the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower 
to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal 
amount of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to 
commence repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual 
payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the 
date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of 
a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned  
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of  the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at 
the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program and the actions specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying 
out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be 
taken after the disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially 
reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, 
including any action specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Upon the Association’s request, the Borrower shall:
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
Page  5
(b)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(c)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out.
ARTICLE V
Termination 
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for finance 
is designated as the representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 
of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
C.P. 30
Praia,
Cabo Verde
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
COORDENACAO
608 MCECV
(238) 61 38 97
Cape Verde
For the Association:
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
By /s/ José Brito
Authorized Representative
Page  6
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ John McIntire
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit and Excluded Expenditures
1.
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Schedule, the table below sets 
forth the amounts allocated to expenditures in support of the Program to be withdrawn 
from the Credit Account and deposited into the Deposit Account in support of the 
Program:
Amount of the Credit 
       % of
Allocated (Expressed 
 Expenditures
in SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
First Tranche
5,550,000
 100%
(2)
Floating Tranche
5,550,000
100%
(3)
Refunding of the
  500,000
             Amount due pursuant
Project Preparation
             to Section 2.02 (d) of  
Advance
             this Agreement
TOTAL
     11,600,000
2.
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures:
(a) 
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services 
supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(b)
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any 
national or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance under another credit or a loan;
(c)
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of 
the Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), 
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated 
by the Association by notice to the Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112
   -
Alcoholic beverages
121
   -
Tobacco, unmanu-
factured, tobacco
refuse
122
   -
Tobacco, manufactured 
(whether or not
containing tobacco
substitutes)
525
   -
Radioactive and 
associated materials
667
   -
Pearls, precious and
semiprecious
stones, unworked
or worked
Page  7
718
718.7
Nuclear reactors, and 
parts thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges),
non-irradiated, for
nuclear reactors
728
728.43
Tobacco processing
machinery
897
897.3
Jewelry of gold, 
silver or platinum
group metals (except
watches and watch
cases) and
goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’
wares (including 
set gems)
971
   -
Gold, non-monetary
(excluding gold
ores and concentrates)
(d)
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or 
for luxury consumption;
(e)
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member 
of the Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories; or 
(b) on account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such 
payment or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council 
taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and
(f)
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association 
determines that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of 
the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Credit during the procurement or execution of 
such contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to the Association to remedy the situation.
3.
No withdrawals shall be made from the Credit Account under Category (2) of the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule unless the amount specified in Category (1) has 
been withdrawn by the Borrower and the Association shall be satisfied after an 
exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence 
satisfactory to the Association that the requirements of Part A of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement have been fulfilled; and in addition with respect to said Category (2), that 
the actions described in Part B of Schedule 2 of this Agreement have been taken in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Association.
4.
If after any of the exchange of views referred to in paragraph 3 above, the 
Association shall have given notice to the Borrower that the requirements of Part A of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement  or the actions taken under Part B of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement are not satisfactory and, within ninety (90) days after such notice, the 
Borrower shall not have met the requirements of Part A of said Schedule 2 or taken the 
actions under Part B of said Schedule 2, then the Association may, by notice to the 
Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or any part thereof.
SCHEDULE 2
Actions Referred to in Paragraphs 3 and 4 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
Part A: 
General Requirements for Tranche Releases
1.
the Association is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the 
carrying out of the Program; and
2.
the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is satisfactory, as measured 
on the basis of indicators agreed between the Borrower and the Association and 
described in paragraph 32 of the LDP.
Part B:
Specific Conditions for the Release of the Floating Tranche
Page  8
The Borrower has:
1.
published a Decree acceptable to the Association for the liquidation of EMPA, as 
described in paragraph 38 of the LDP; 
2.
initiated the privatization of TACV, through the publication of a privatization 
Decree-Law, including a privatization action plan for TACV acceptable to the 
Association, as described in paragraph 38 of the LDP; 
3.
published a Decree acceptable to the Association for the liquidation of 
TRANSCOR, as described in paragraph 38 of the LDP;
4.
approved through its Council of Ministers a draft tariff code acceptable to the 
Association, as described in paragraphs 22, 23 and 36 of the LDP; and
5.
relinquished its privileges under the golden shares held in BCA in a manner 
acceptable to the Association, as described in paragraph 38 of the LDP.
