'--D    K   '- / /X
Docomnt of
The World Bank
FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12656-IND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDONESIA
SEMARANG-SURAKARTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MAY 16, 1994
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No:         1265rj ID
Type: SAR
East Asia and Pacific Region
Country Department III
Infrastructure Operation Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents ma} not otherwise be disclosed witbout World Rank autborization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(As of December 1993)
Currency unit = Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
$1.00 = Rp 2,105
Rp 1 million = $475
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric Units
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Indonesia: April I - March 31
Provincial and Local Governments: April I - March 31
Water Enterprises: January I - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
AMDAL               - GOI environmental assessment process
ANDAL               - GOI detailed environment impact assessment study
APBD 1/11           - Annual provincial/local government development budget
APBN                - Annual central government development budget
BANGDA              - Directorate General for Regional Development, MHA
BAPPENAS            - National Development Planning Agency
BAPPEDA I/1I        - Provincial/Local Development Planning Agency
BPKP                - Central Audit Bureau
BPD                 - Regional Development Bank (Provincial Level)
CPMO/FO             - Central Project Management Office/Finance Office
DATI 1/11           - Provincial/local level government
DGCK                - Directorate General Cipta Karya (Human Settlements), MPW
DGBM                - Directorate General Bina Marga (Roads and Bridges), MPW
DGM                 - Directorate General Monetary Affairs, MOF
DGWRD               - Directorate General for Water Resource Development, MPW
DPUK                - KabupatenlKotamadya department of public works
DPUP                - Provincial department of public works
DIP/DIPDA           - Central/regional project budget
DUP                 - Preliminary project budget
GOI                 - Government of Indonesia
IDC                 - Interest during construction
IKK                 - Kecamatan headquarter town
IMG                 - IUIDP Implementation Management Group, BAPPENAS
INPRES              - Presidential Instruction, including a class of GOI grants
IUIDP               - Integrated Urban Infrastructure Development Program
Kabupaten           - Local (Level II) district
Kampung             - Urban neighborhood
KIP                 - Kampung Improvement Program
Kotamadya           - Incorporated municipality/city (Level II)
Kecamatan           - Kabupaten or kotamadya administrative district
LIDAP               - Local Institutional Development Action Program
MCK                 - Communal lavatory and toilet facility
MIP                 - Market Improvement Program
MHA                 - Ministry of Home Affairs
MOF                 - Ministry of Finance
MPW                 - Ministry of Public Works
Murni               - Rupiah murni, or money from 'pure" domestic sources
NGO                 - Non-governmental organization
O&M                 - Operations and maintenance
PADS                - Pendapatan Asli Daerah (local government taxes and charges)
PBB                 - National land and buildings tax
PDAM                - Local government water enterprise
PEMDA               - Local (Municipal/District) government
PIA                 - Program Implementation Agreement
PIL                 - Preliminary environmental assessment
This document has a restricted distibudon and may be used by recipiens only in the ptnwancf ldr
I official duties Its contents may n othwise be disclosed with  World Bank atonza.IL



PIU                - Project Implementation Unit
PJM                - Medium-Term Expenditure Program
PMDU               - Provincial Management and Development Unit (for water enterprises)
PMO/FO             - Local Project Monitoring Office/Finance Office
PMU                - Project Management Unit
PPF                - Project Preparation Facility
PPMU               - Provincial Project Management Unit
PUOD               - Directorate General for Public Administration and Regional Autonomy,
MHA
RAKORBANG IIII   - Provincial/local annual budget coordination meeting
Repelita           - Five-year Development Plan
RIAP               - Revenue Improvement Action Program
RKL                - Environmental Management Plan
RPL                - Environmental Monitoring Plan
SDO                - Routine central GOI grant, primarily for salaries
SK                 - Surat Keputusan, decree of a senior official
SPABP              - special grant fimd channel from Central to local governments
TKPP               - Urban Development Coordination Team
TUA                - Directorate of Budget Administration, MOF
UNDP               - United Nations Development Program
Walikota           - Kotamadya chief executive (mayor)



INDONESIA
SEMARANG AND SURAKARTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:           The Republic of Indonesia
Beneficiaries:      The Municipal Governments of Semarang and of Surakarta
Water Enterprises (PDAM) of Semarang and of Surakarta
Amount:             US$174.0 million equivalent
Terms:              Repayable in 20 years including five years of grace, at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate
Onlending Terms:   Out of the loan proceeds, US$66.5 million equivalent would be
onlent by the Central Government to the Municipalities of Semarang
and Surakarta and their Water Enterprises at an annual interest rate
of 11.5% which reflects the 6 month average of the 3-month
Serdfikat Bank of Indonesia (SBI) rate at the time of project
appraisal, for a term of 20 years, including 5 years grace. Both
Municipal Governments and their PDAMs are fully responsible for
the interest during construction. The Central Government would
bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project Objectives
and Description:    The main objectives of the project are to (i) improve the provision
of urban infrastructure and services and the efficiency of urban
investments, (ii) promote stronger, more autonomous, and financiaUy
more independent municipal governments and (iii) contribute towards
urban poverty alleviation, mainly through better access to essential
services and an improved urban environment.
The project would finance priority investments in Semarang and in
Surakarta in: a) urban roads and transport; b) water supply and
distribution systems; c) storm drainage and flood control; d) solid
waste collection and disposal; e) human waste disposal (sewerage and
on-site sanitation facilities); f) multi-sectora! programs for kampung
(low income area) improvements and market improvements, and g)
programs for the development and strengtbening of local institutions,
(h) programs to increase local revenue generation, and (i) technical
assistance for implementation.



-ii -
Bendits and Risks:  The project would benefit the urban populations in Semarang and
Surakarta through provision of better qualty and more reliable and
accessible urban infrastructure and services. The water supply,
drainage. and human and solid waste disposal investments would
greatly improve the living environment by providing safe and reliable
water, reducing property damage and productivity losses, and
decreasing pollution and the incidence of diseases. The urban roads
management investments would assist the local economies by
lowering transport costs and travel times. Kampung and market
improvement investments would help lower income population by
betring living conditions and local commercial facilities.  The
main risks are the limited capabilities at the local level to plan,
manage, and implement investment and development programs. This
weakness may cause implementation delays, poor quality, cost
overruns and non-achievement of revenue targets. In order to
mitigate these risks, appropriate measures have been included in the
project, such as the use of standardized procurement documents,
increased involvement of private sector in O&M delivery,
employment of consulants, managed at the local level, to assist with
implementation. Another mitigating factor is the strong ownership
of the proposed program by the two municipalities developed through
their close involvement in the preparation process.
Estimated Costs:
D4l           PoreignT
'US$ million)
Water Supply and Distribution    16.2           39.5          55.7
Drainage                         18.5           10.2          28.7
Urban Roads & Transport          34.6           16.9          51.5
Solid Waste Management            4.7            2.5           7.2
Sanitation & Sewerage            11.6            8.0          19.5
KIP/MIP                           3.9            2.1           5.9
Housing/Urban Renewal             3.7            2.0           5.7
Implementation Support           17.6            7.5          25.2
O&M Overheads & Taxes            41.3            9.2          50.5
Total Base Cost /a        152.1           97.9         249.9
Physical Contingencies        6.2            6.6          12.8
Price Contingencies          25.2            9.1          34.3
Totl Pjject Cost          183.5          113.8         297.3
Interest During Construcion  23.5                         23.5
Tota Financing Equirded/b    207.0       113.8         320.8



-iii-
/a Includes repayment of PPF of US$1.7 million.
/k Includes taxes and duties of US$18.9 million equivalent and land acquisition amounting to US$9.5
million equivalent.
Note: Due to rounding, totals may not add up.
FINANCING PLAN
gmZa           EBRD       Total
Sources     Loan
(US$ million)
Loca Governments                 50.8         16.4         67.2
Water Enterprises                27.5         56.3         83.8
Provincial Government             3.3          0.0          3.3
Central Government               41.7        101.3        143.0
Total                   123.3        174.0        297.3
Interest During Construction  23.5                       23.5
TotFinalcin  qired   146.8           174.0        320.8 /b
/a Totals may not add up due to rounding.
Disbursement:
EBRD-Fiscal Year      1995   196   1997   1998   1999 2
Annual               20.7   39.4   43.6   34.1  27.9    8.1
Cumulative           20.7   60.0  103.7  137.7  165.7  174.0
Poverty Category:       Targeted intervention - about 30% of additional water supply for the
urban poor. Solid waste, drainage and flood control, sewerage,
kampung and market inhfrasucture improvement components of the
project include elements that would directly benefit the urban poor.
Estimated Economic Rate of Retun: 17% to 50% for roads, minimum 12% for water supply,
not quantified for other components.
Maps: IBRD No.: 25468 Key Map - Indonesia, Java & Central Java
IBRD No.: 25469 Semarang - Urban Infirastructure Improvements - Map I
IBRD No.: 25470 Semarang - Urban Infiastructure Improvements - Map 11
IBRD No.: 25471 Surakarta - Urban Inflastructure Improvements - Map I
IBRD No.: 25472 Surakarta - Urban Infrastructure Improvements - Map H



- l-
HIDONESIA
SEMARANG AND SURAKARTA TRBAN
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (SSUDP)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
1. URBAN SECTOR   ......................................    1
A. Sector Overview ......................................    1
B. Urban Development in Semarang and Surakarta ......................................    2
H. SECTOR STRATEGY AND BANK EXPERIENCE  ..................................   4
A. Government Strategy ......................................   4
B. Bank Experience ......................................    5
C. Bank Sector Strategy ..............  .........  6
. THE PROJECT......................................................... 7
A. Project Objectives ..........................    7
B. Project Desripon ..........................7 
C. Project Cost and Financig Plan  ..........................   11
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  ...... .......................................  13
A. Implementation Agencies ..........................   13
B. Project Coordination and Monitoring  ..........................   15
C. ImplmetaionSchedule  ..........................   16
D. Procurement and Disbursement ..........................   16
E. Project Accounts and Audit ..........................   21
P. Projec Reporting, Monitoring and Bank Suprvision ..........       ..........................  21
V. FNAqNCIAL ASPECTS ...................................................    21
A. Financiil Status of the Kotamadyas ...............................................  21
B. Financial Situation of the PDAMs .    ..............................................  23
VI. PROJECT JUSTIICATION AND RISKS ........................................ 24
A. Economic Justification ...................................................                         24
B. Enviroment Impact ................................................. ..  26
C. Social mpact . ................................................... 26
D. Impact on Poverty  ......       ...................................................  27
E.Risks.          ................................................... 28
VI. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ....................... 29



ANNEXES
1. Urban Lnfrasrcture Projects
2. Detailed Project Description
3. Detailed Cost Table
4. Detailed Financing Plan
5. Implementation Organization and Arrangements
6. Technical Assistance
7. Overall Implementation Schedule
8. Summary of Procurement Arrangements
9. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
10. List of Key Indicators
11. Financial Projections KOTAMADYA SEMARANG
Financial Projections KOTAMADYA SURAKARTA
12. Key Financial Indicators PDAM SEMARANG
Key Financial Indicators PDAM SURAKARTA
13. Summary of Economic Evaluation
14. Resettlement
15. SPABP "Special Grant" Channel Financing
16. Supervision Staming and Schedule
17. Documents in the Project File
MAPS:  JBRD No.: 25468 Key Map - Indonesia, Java & Central Java
IBRD No.: 25469 Semarang - Urban Infrastructure Improvements - Map I
IBRD No.: 25470 Semarang - Urban Infrastructure Improvements - Map I
iBRD No.: 25471 Surakarta - Urban Infrastructure Improvements - Map I
IBRD No.: 25472 Surakarta - Urban Infrastructure Improvements - Map U
The report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Indonesia during
October/November 1993. The mission was led by H. Unger (EA3IN) and comprised E. Dotsoa,
R. lyer, A. Kim TEA31N), W. Luscombe (ASTTP), D. Martin, 1. Richardson, and I. Wetherill
(consultants); substantial support was provided P. Midgley, M. Nuch and G. Soraya (EA3RS) in
Indonesia. The peer reviewers were Messrs. J. Kozel (EAIIN), J. Hicks (TWURD), K.S. Lee
(TWURD) and G. Read (EA2EU). Mr. A. Khanna (EA3IN) Infrastructure Division Chief, and
Mrs. M. Haug, Country Department Director (EA3DR) have endorsed the project. Ms. Lu Kang
was responsible for the production of the report.



- 1 -
1. URBAN SECTOR
A. SECTOR OVERVIEW
1.1        Demographic Trends. The urban population iP. Indonesia exceeds 55 million antl is growing at
about 5% per year, more than twice the overall population growth rate. About 80 million Indonesians (40% of
the population) are expected to be city dwellers by the year 2000. Indonesia has 15 metropolitan and large
cities :f more than half a million people, 40 secondary cities of over 100,000 (provincial headquarters and
incorporated municipalities), 200 small towns with mver 20,000 residents (district headquarters), and about
3,200 service centers (sub-district headquarters) with 3,000 to 20,000 people. Seven of the ten largest
metropolitan areas are in Java.
1.2        Insttutional Framework. At the national level, there is no single minisiry for urban
development. The principal central ministries involved in urban issues are the Ministry of Home Affairs, the
Ministry of Public Works, and the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) is responsible
for oversight of the regional governments, primarily through its Directorate General for Public A14nistration
and Regional Autonomy (PUOD) and Directorate General for Regional Deveiopment (BANG1l-I
Ministry of Public Works (MPW or DPU) is responsible for oversight for most infrastructure.  -t_  VrW,
the following directorates-general are responsible for urban infrastructure: the Directorate Gener. or Hu Jan
SettMements (Cipta Karya or DGCK) is responsible for oversight of city and regional planning, water supply,
urban drainage, sanitation and sewerage, solid waste management, kampung improvement programs (KIP), and
market improvement programs (MIP); the Directorate General for Roads (Bina Marga or DGBM) is
responsible for oversight of urban roads and bridges; and the Directorate General for Water Resource
Development (DGWRD or Pengairan) is responsible for urban flood control and bulk water sapply. The
Ministry of Finance (MOF) is responsible for central and local finance through its Directorate General for
Monetary Affairs (DGM), while the Directorate General for Budget (Anggaran or DGA) administers budget
transfers.
1.3        The National Development Planning Agency, BAPPENAS, is responsitle for overall planning and
allocation of resources, focussed on Five-Year Development Plans (Repelita) and Annual National Development
Budgets (APBN). Witbin BAPPENAS, the Bureau for Urban Development, Settlement and Public Housing
under Deputy I (Regional and provincial Development), is responsible for oversight and coordination of urban
infastructure development. All key agencies with responsibilities in the urban sector are represented in the
Inter-agency Coordinating Team for Urban Development (Tim Koordinasi or TKPP) chaired by BAPPENAS.
1.4        Although Indonesia continues to have a highly centralized unitary government, at the regional
levels, provincial (Level I) and local (Level II) governments operate with increasing responsibilities and
delegated authority. There are 27 provinces and 301 local governments, including 54 kotamadya
(municipalities) and 247 kabupatens (districts). Legislative powers at both provincial and local levels are held
by People's Representative Councils (Dewan Perwakilan Rakyat Daerah or DPRD).
1.5        Provincial governments are headed by governors who represent the President and the central
government; the governors also head the semi-autonomous provincial administrations. Bupatis (kabupaten
heads) and Walikotas (municipal mayors) respectively represent the governors and provincial governments, and
head their own local governments. Regional Development Plaming Agencies (BAPPEDA I and II) report
direcdy to their respective governors, district heads or mayors, and are responsible for planning and resource



-2 -
allocation. Regional government services are provided by separate departments (Dinas I and II) analogous to
line ministries oe the central government.
1.6        Urban Infrastructure Issues. The main problems and issues faced by cities are: (a) large
infrastructure and O&M backlogs; (b) poor integration of infrastructure planning with land management and
transport objectives; (c) weak management of water enterprises and municipalities, as evidenced by poor
service levels, lack of adequate cost recovery, revenue generation, and little use of crecil and information
systems; (d) inefficient programming of the dcs;ign and construction cycles; (e) complex and changing
relationships among local, provincial and central agencies with respect to responsibilities for project and
program preparation, appraisal, financing, implementation, and O&M; (f) shortage of trained and experienced
managerial and technical personnel at all levels; and (g) limited involvement of the private sector in urban
infrastructure.
1.7        Sector Priorities. Country-wide, only about 20-25% of urban households have direct access to
piped water supply, another 15% buy drinking water from vendors or standposts, ard the rest rely on shallow
wells and sometimes on surface water. Only about 40% of urban households have access to sanitation
facilities, and surface water courses in urban areas are frequently polluted due to discharge of untreated
wastewater. In the larger cities, inadequate industrial water supply, and lituid and solid waste disposal are
serious problems. The problems of deficiencies in basic services and degr2-ed environmental conditions are
causing health risks among the urban poor (who, in 1990, were estimated to be 17% of the urban population).
To meet GOI's service and equity objectives, more investment is needed in low cost, local or tertiery systems
in poorly served urban areas. The Bank's 1993 Urban Public Infrastructure Services Report (No. 12154-IND)
estimated that the 1990 infrastructure investment backlog was at least US$5 billion for the four main subsectors
(piped water, sewerage, urban roads, and drainage). Further, a substantial backlog prevails in the maintenance
of facilities, which has resulted in decreased productivity of the infrastructure.
1.8        Sector Finances. Finances of provincial and local governments have long been dominated by
central government transfers and are characterized by weak local resource mobilization, low per-capita budgets
and very limited use of credit for capital investment. The dominant role of central government grants for
financing local government services is partly due to the limited local authority for levying taxes. Grants are
therefore a way to resolve the disparity between local needs and local resource mobilization. Although grant
allocation criteria have been modified to respond better to local needs and shortfalls (comparct to minimum
standards), there is a need to base grant allocations more on performance and productivity.
1.9        Sectoral Coordination and Local Participation. Due to the hierarchical administrative system,
coordination of the urban sector has been rather poor and local participation in the decision-making process has
been limited. The large size and diversity of the country, the number of concerned agencies, and the lack of
experienced staff have led to a somewhat fragmented approach to urban development. In view of the
increasing scale of urbanization, greater decentralization and devolution of responsibilities is nece. sary.
B. URBAN DEVELOPMENT IN SEMALRANG AND SURAKARTA
1.10       Semarang is the provincial capital and main port of Central Java Province. It is located on the
north coast of Java and is about 500 km east of Jakarta. With an area of about 373 km2, Semarang is the
largest city in Central Java and is the fifth largest in the country. Over the past ten years, the population of
Semarang has grown at an average annual rate of 2%, almost double the provincial rate. This trend is



-3 -
expected to continue and by the year 2000, the population is expected to reach 1.5 million. On the other hand,
the household size decreased from 5.2 persons in 1980 to 4.6 in 1990. As a result, the need for residential
land has been increasing. While in the past development was concentrated on the flat coastal plain and lowland
areas, the lack of land in the lowland areas has in recent years led to increasing development in the hilly areas
and along the main roads to the south. The built-up area of the Kotamadya was just over one third of the total
area, with population densities of 33 per hectare (ha) for the entire city area, and 93 persons per ha for the
built-up areas.
1.11       Semarang is developing rapidly with major commercial, industrial and residential developments
recently completed, under construction or planned. There are now over 5,000 industrial units operating in the
city: over 100 large factories; about 1,800 smal scale industries; and the rest in the informal sector. They
cover a wide range of products including food products, hardware, chemicals and textiles. Further industial
development is taking place in both east and west Semarang, with over 1,000 ha under various stages of
planning and construction.
1.12       Sr t (also called Solo) was founded in the 18th century and is the original center of
Javanese culture in Indonesia; it remains a major national center for performing arts and batik mafctuie. It
is the second largest city in Central Java and is centrally located in the fefrile lowland areas of the province.
The Kotamadya, which covers about 66 knm, is generally flat, except in the north, where the land rises
appreciably. The city is partly bounded by Bengawan Solo, the largest river in Java, and is crossed by several
of its tributaries.
1.13       Between 1980 and 1990, the population of Surakarta grew from 469,000 to 503,000, an average
annual growth rate of 0.7%. The current population of Greater Surakarta, which includes the urbanized areas
in the adjacent distrcts, is about one million and is expected to increase to around 1.2 million by the end of the
century. The average household size decreased from 5.0 in 1980 to 4.6 in 1990, while the number of
households increased by 1.7% annually. 88% of the Kotamadya is already built-up and the population densities
are high, especially in the central parts of town, where the average of 117 persons/ha in 1990 is expected to
reach 132 persons/ha by the year 2,000. Greater Surakarta is an irmportant city in Central Java (after Semarang
and Pedalogan) for private invetment   commercial, industrial and residential development, is growing
rapidly. At the same time, redevelopment of the downtown area is acceleraing because of lack of ievelopable
land, and almost all new development is occurig outside the municipal boundaries, especially in the East,
South and West.
1.14       Acoess to Urban Infratructr Services. The increase in the urban population and the
expansion of the urbanized areas in Semarang and Surakarta have not been mached by a corresponding
development of infrastructure services. While improvements have been carried out in recent years by
municipal and provincial authorities, they have been limited due to shortage of funds. This has relted in a
deterioration of the standards of service, and in some of the newly developed areas, even essential services are
not always available.
1.15       In Semaang, the local water enterprise (PDAM) supplies piped water to some 40% of the
population (29% through house connections and 11% through public taps), with the rest relying on wells and
other sources. There is no sanitary sewer system and existing open storm water drains are used to collect both
storm water and wastewater flows. Over 45% of the population does not even have septic tans. Frequet
flooding occurs in the northern and eastern low-lying parts of the city. The existng solid waste system does
not cover all urban areas and over 40% of the solid waste is disposed of by dumping in vacant plots, canals



-4 -
and rivers. With the closure of three dump sites, currently only one solid waste disposal site is operational.
The main deficiencies of the urban transport system are: (a) a lack of capacity for east - west through traffic;
(b) inadequate arterial/primary collector roads to the east and south of the center; (c) the lack of a proper road
system in the east and southeast of the town, where much of the urban development is expected to take place;
(d) poor road and traffic conditions on bus and minibus (oplet) routes; and (e) poor traffic conditions and lack
of facilities for pedestrians, public transport and parking in the central business district.
1.16       In Surakarta, with PDAM supplies of piped water being limited, 61% of the population relies
entirely on shallow wells for water supply. Two separate sewerage systems are in existence: the larger one
covering the central areas of the city, which was built in the Dutch colonial period, is only partially operational
due to inadequate maintenance; the other serves a small area of 65 ha and a population of 18,000. While 80%
of the 1990 population had private toilets, only 65% had septic tanks of which only a small proportion are
emptied regularly. Solid waste collection services are functioning better with about 80% of the population
being served; however, waste treatment faciLities are indequate and water courses are contaminated. The main
urban transport issues are: (a) the low railway bridge on the main east - west route for through traffic (n. A.
Yani); (b) one - way traffic in the main street of the CBD which diverts buses and inconveniences passengers;
(c) delays to road traffic from railway level crossings; (d) conflict between motorized and non-motorized
traffic; and (e) availability and organization of parking in the CBD.
II. SECTOR STRATEGY AND BANK EXPERIENCE
A. GOVERNMENT STRATEGY
2.1        IUIDP Approach. With large deficiencies in urban infrastructure and a fast-growing urban
population, GOI's strategy in the past emphasized physical ifastru   targets: length of roads to be built,
percentage of population to be supplied with piped water, sanitation services, etc. These targets have a
prominent place in the five year national development plans (Repelitas). In 1987, GOI issued a Statement of
Policy, representing a consolidated view of development in the sector. This Statement, incorporated in Repelita
V (for the period 1989-94) includes: (a) strengthening local governments to build, operate and maintain local
services; (b) improving the planning and programming of urban infrastructure investmen; (c) mobilization of
local revenues and the optimization of their use; (d) implementing coordinated financing and administration
systems for local services; and (e) strengthenig consultative processes at various levels of government,
particularly the participation of municipalities and districts.
2.2        GOI's Policy Statement called for Integrated Urban Inftructure Development Programs (IUIDP)
as the operational approach for achieving the above objectives. The policy was traLslated into action plans for
local institutional reforms (Local Institutional Development Action Plan or LIDAP) and improvements in local
resource mobilization (Revenue Improvement Action Plans or RIAP), sector planning, and financing
arrangements. GCI has issued reglations and policy clarifications to operationalize the IUIDP approach; with
World Bank, Asian Development Bank (ADB) and bilateral assistance, GOI has undertaken a nation-wide
program for IUIDP preparation and implementation since 1987; and UNDP and UNCHS have supported a
central assistance team to the IUlDP Management Group (IMG). More than 50 percent of local govermments
have so far prepared IUIDP plans.
2.3        Local Borrowing. Under Repelita V, GOI has also given priority to the expansion of borrowing
by water enterprises. To induce a higher level of credit financing, GOI has adopted less conservative financial



-5 -
criteria for borrowing by local entities (debt service coverage ratio of not less than 1.5 for local government
general fund operations and not less than 1.3 for local enterprises like PDAMs). This has considerably
enhanced the legal borrowing capacity of local governments, particularly the larger municipalities. GOI's
strategy is to move int.rest rates on such loans toward market rates over the medium term.
2.4        Repellta VI. Repelita VI and the 25 Year Plan I, both of which start in March 1994, emphasize
sustainable urban development through improvement in the quality of the living environment, support for
economic growth, reduction in regional imbalances, and poverty alleviation. Wbile continuing the basic
premises of Repelita V and the National Policy Statement for Urban Development mentioned earlier, Repelita
VI will take a broader approach by expanding the IUIDP into an Integrated Urban Development Program
(IUDP) that includes: (a) broadening to include spatial planning and urban planning in addition to public works
infrastructure development plans; (b) covering a larger number of smaller cities and towns; (c) expanding the
scope to cover low income and rental housing, infrastructure provision for low-income areas, and urban
renewal; (d) involving the private sector and communities to a greater extent; and (e) strengthening
environmental suinabiity. To accelerate decentralization and implementation of plans, emphasis will be
placed on better use of resources, mobilization of local revenues, developing financing mechanisms, and
increasing cost recovery by municipalities and their agencies. Better coordination and strengthening of local
agencies will also be sought.
B. BANK EXPERIENCE
2.5        Overall Sector Experience. Bank involvement in the urban sector also started in the early 1970s
with low cost investment project in shelter, water supply, sanitation, and urban roads, aimed at alleviating
urban poverty. Sites and services and slum upgradmg projects were to demonstrate replicable approaches
benefitting the poor, while recovering costs and reducing the financial burden on the public sector. Many of
these projects succeeded in physical terms, but had litle impact on the policies of national and local
governments and on urban management. The Bank had not paid adequate attention to the policy and
instiutional requiements for improving the productivity of the urban economy and reducing urban poverty,
and improving management of the urban environment. Purther, as many of the urban programs did not
achieve sustainable policy reform and institutional development, project approaches were generaly not
replicable outside the framework of Bank financial support.
2.6        In the urban water supply sector there has been relatively little change in approach since the mid-
seventies. While many projects have provided substantial economic benefits, the expence indicates: (a)
supply of water has lagged behind increasing demand; (b) delays in project implementation are common; (c)
inproving institutions and moving towards cost-recovery have been slow and difficult; (d) water quality is a
persistent problem; and (e) disposal of waste water in densely populated areas has been difficult.
2.7        A review of Bank experience in urban transport projects highlights issues similar to the ones faced
in the urban and the water sectors, namely: (a) weak institutional capacity; (b) inadequt counterpart f%nding;
(c) slower than expected implementation due to lack of final engineering designs at appraisal, and over
opfimistic scheduling; (d) weak enforcement u, t-affic management schemes; and (e) inadequate maintenance
due to lack of capabilty in road and traffic signal maitenance and insufficient funding.
2.8        By the mid-1980s, the experience of donor-assisted projects had led to shifts in their approaches to
the urban sector. It was recognized that central governments alone were unable to meet the increasing needs



- 6 -
for infrastructure services of rapidly growing urban populations and greater efforts had to be devoted to: (a)
improving the management of urban institutions and strengthening inter-governmental fiscal relations; (b)
improving local resource mobilization; (c) enhancing the management of urban infrastructure, particularly with
regard to maintenance; (d) establishing enabling regulatory frameworks; (e) expanding financial services for
urban development; and (f) promoting private sector participation in urban service delivery. Recent initiadves
by governments and donors in these areas reflect a growing appreciat -n of the importance of policies,
institutions, and regulations in formulating effective strategies to manage urban growth.
2.9        Experience in Indonesia. The Bank has financed 11 completed anc 8 ongoing urban and water
supply projects in Indonesia since 1974, for more than fifty local governments and many of their water
enterprises (see Annex 1). Urban lending operations in Indonesia have progressed from demonstration projects
in Jakarta through more programmatic investments in selected other large cities, to sector lending within an
agreed policy and institutional framework (although still limited in terms of area and subsectoral scope). Water
supply projects initially covered only a few cities at a time, but later, like Bank projects in other countries,
assisted a large numoer of urban settlements under one operation. In urban transport projects (or the transport
components of urban development projects) attention has focussed on road construction and maintenance while
inadequate attention has been given to traffic management, and to improvement of facilities for public transport
services and for pedestrians. Details concerning Bank-funded water and urban infrastructure projects are
available on file.
2.10       Bank experience confirms that: (a) limited planning and implementation capacity at the central
level and the difficulties inherent in providing essentially local services by central government departments
reduces the efficiency of mass delivery programs; (b) capacity building at the local level is a long-term process
that needs to be accompanied by an increase in local responsibility and accountability; (c) to develop such
responsibility and accountability, central-local financial relations need to provide more local government
autonomy; and (d) private sector involvement needs to be enhanced. GOI is also aware of these issues and
they have been addressed to a large extent in the design of the current project.
C. BANK SECTOR STRATEGY
2.11       The Bank has oriented its sector lending to assist the Government to deliver adequate urban
infrastructure services in cost-effective ways. GOI and the Bank emphasize improvements in: (a) service
levels, in a regionally balanced fashion, particularly for the poor; (b) urban productivity and the effectiveness
of investments through better infrastructre planning, especially at the city level, and through enhanced local
government capacity for fiscal management, revenue mobilization, project implementation and O&M; (c) the
urban environment, by enhancing local government capacity to plan, implement and operate infrastructure in an
environmentally sound fashion; and (d) enhancing community participation.
2.12       In promoting efficient urban development, the Bank's strategy supports the expanded IUDP
approach; however, implementation should include both sectoral and hnegrated approaches as appropriate.
While all plans should be integrated, in some cases, implementation can be better handled through separate
sectoral projects. For example, in smaller municipalities multisectoral projects are generally of manageable
size and complexity; an integrated investment approach would, therefore, be more appropriate. In other cases,
where the requrements of a particular sector are sufficiently large and complex, both in technical terms as well
as on policy, institutional and financial matters, sectoral projects within the framework of an integrated plan
may be better.



-7 
2.13       Improving local management capacity is another area where the Bank's strategy is aligned with
that of GOI. Local governments and local institutions such as PDAMs should have well qualified and well
trained staff. In addition, local resource mobilization and retention should be increased. These issues could be
addressed through revenue improvement programs, greater retention of tax collections, pricing policies to effect
cost recovery (O&M costs and perhaps a portion of investment costs), flexibility to use funds as needed in
priority areas, and increased local borrowing at market rates of interest. The Bank also recognizes that the
infrastructure deficiencies are large and that the financial capabilities of local institutions are limited; GOI
grants will therefore continue to be an important source of financing. In order to optimize their use, grants
should be allocated on an incentive basis e.g., to match increases in revenue generation and investments by
local governments and local enterprises.
2.14       The Bank's strategy also promotes the establishment of an enabling regulatory and planning
framework for urban land management. The Government has recently established a national agency (BPN) for
land and a focus of the Bank's strategy will be to support GOI efforts to simplify zoning and other regulations
to facilitate more efficient urban land use and strengthen tenure. An enabling framework for increased private
sector participation has also to be developed.
HII. THE PROJECT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
3.1        Rationale for Bank Involvement. The Bank Group's Country Assistance Strategy for Indonesia,
which was presented to the Board on April 12, 1994, highlights the need to focus on interregional equity,
delivery of higher quality services and enhanced competitiveness in a climate of macroeconomic stability. This
will be addressed through a lending program of investme,its to overcome bottlenecks in infrastructure and
human resources; decentralizing responsibilities and reducing pollution are fuirther objectives of the Bank
strategy. This project is part of a series of urban development projects supported by the Bank under the IUIDP
framework. It will make a contribution in these areas in the Central Java cities of Semarang and Surakarta and
has the folowing principal objectives: (i) improve the provision of urban infrastructure services and the
efficiency of urban investments, (ii) promote stronger, more autonomous, and financially more independent
municipal governments, and (iii) contribute towards poverty alleviation, mainly through better access to
essential services and an improved urban environment.
B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
3.2        The project will support a program of high priority investments in both cities in roads, water
supply, drainage, human waste management, solid waste management, and KIP/MIP all complemented by local
institutional development programs to increase the institutional capacity of the implementing agencies, and
financial action plans to improve local financial management and revenue generation.
3.3        Urban Roads. The urban roads component, the largest sectoral component in the project, will
provide a more comprehensive solution to the existing traffic problems in both cities through a more efficient
road network. In Semarang, the program will comprise: (a) construction of a 3 km extension of the Northern
Ring Road (including three new bridges), and of four new bridges to complete links in the secondary road
network; (b) minor improvements to 73 km of roads, including widening and betterment; (c) rehabilitation and
periodic maintenance of 59 km of road, including resurfacing and as needed, drainage, curbs, sidewalks; and



-8 -
(d) a traffic management program, including improvements to road links, intersections, traffic signals, public
transport and pedestrian facilities, parking areas and road safety. In Surakarta, the program will comprise:
(a) construction of the initial 5 km of the Northern Ring Road (including three new bridges); (b) minor
improvements to 27 km of road; (c) periodic maintenanice of 59 km of road; (d) a traffic management program;
and (e) an urban transport study to establish future policy, investment needs and priorities (a similar study is
being undertaken in Semarang financed by ADB).
3.4        Detailed engineering design, economic and environmental analyses are required for the new
primary roads to be constructed/upgraded in the later years of the program in both cities, as well as for some
collector roads in Semarang. The Bank will review the preliminary engineering designs and environmental
assessments (PIL or ANDAL) prior to commencement of detailed engineering design and the detailed designs,
RKL and RPL prior to start of procurement. Similarly, the traffic management program for both cities for
years 2-5 will be finalized based on detailed traffic management schemes which will be prepared during the
first year of implementation. Technical assistance to the local governments is included in the project for design
and implementation.
3.5        Water Supply. In Semarang, this component will raise the service level of piped water supply
from about 40% of the present population to about 64% of the 1999 population. It comprises source supply
additions, improvements to the transmission, storage and distribution system, reduction in unaccounted for
water (UFW) and technical assistance. Supply expansions include: (i) a bridging program of 360 liters per
second (l/s3), of which 1 10 I/s will come from maintenance and refurbishment of (a) deepwells (50 l/s); (b)
intake pumps at Kali Garang (40 Us); and (c) a small package treatment plant at Kali Garang (20 l/s); the
remaining 250 I/s by increasing the capacity of the existing Gajah Mungkur water treatment plant; (ii)
providing up to 2,000 I/s from Kelambu Barrage through a raw water canal to Kudu where the first two stages
of a water treatment plant for 500 Uls each will be constructed under the project in 1997 and 1999. The
transmission, storage and distribution system in the eastern part of the city will be expanded by 550 km to
supply the additional available water. 68,000 new house connections and 300 public taps will be provided,
benefitting a total of about 90,000 households. UFW will be reduced from the current high level of 46% to
26% through (a) contracting out a leakage reduction program on a target-related basis, (b) a rolling meter
checking, recalibration, repair and/or replacement program through upgrading the meter workshop and a
supply of meters and spare parts, and (c) updating system maps and consumer records in order to ensure that
all consumers are billed.
3.6        GOI had made great efforts to involve the private sector in a Build-Operate-Transfer (BOT)
scheme for the Kudu treatment plant, transmission, storage and major distribution facilities. Financial analysis
of this alternative indicates that - on the basis of the available information - it would be viable for PDAM
Semarang with a maximum initial bulk water tariff of Rp. 650/m3 at 1993 prices compared to Rp. 392/e3
under the current arrangements. Since negotiations between GOI agencies and the private sector joint venture
had not been concluded successfully until the end of February 1994 (even after several years of discussions),
the project loan includes financing for the construction of the Kudu treatment plant and the related transmission
and distribution system. The main problem standing in the way of successful private sector participation is the
relatively slow and somewhat uncertain build-up of domestic demand, whereas the proposed BOT scheme
would require a guaranteed large volume offtake from the beginning to be viable. Should GOI decide at a later
stage to go ahead with this part of the project as a BOT scheme, the Bank will reappraise the Semarang water
supply component to evaluate the impact of the agreed bulk water rates on the financial viability of PDAM
Semarang.



- 9 -
3.7        The water supply component in Surakarta will raise the service level from about 30% of the
present population to about 58% of the 1999 population. It comprises a supply augmentation program,
improvements to the distribution system, UFW reduction, technical assistance and studies. Ten new deepwells
(seven duty and three standby), each yielding 30 I/s, will provide additional supplies. The distribution system
will be augmented by about 30 km of new primary and secondary distribution pipes, and approximately 110
km of new tertiary distribution pipes; in addition, the distribution system will be rehabilitated through the
replacement of 45 km of pipes ranging from 50 mm to 100 mm in diameter. Maintenance programs for the
existing and new wells as well as an O&M program for the extended distribution system are also envisaged.
About 14,000 new property connections and over 50 new public taps will be provided, benefitting a total of
about 18,000 households. UFW will be reduced from 34% to 22% (by in-house efforts, supported by technical
assistance) through continuing the current programs of leakage reduction, rolling meter recalibration, repair and
replacement programs, and detection and elimination of illegal connections.
3.8        Assurances were given by GOI at Negotiation- *hat (a) Central government miancing will be
made available for the post-1996 bulk water supply scheme . - 'emarang in Kudu; (b) funding for the
completion of the Kelambu - Kudu conveyance canal will be w.ade available by GOI, and (c) in PDAM
Surakarta, the Leakage Control Division wiH be established by December 31, 1994.
3.9        Drainage. This component will support high priority improvements in both Semarang and
Surakarta for areas subject to frequent flooding; it includes channel rehabilitation, widening and deepening,
removal of bottlenecks (such as undersized culverts and bridges), and some new construction. In Semarang, 28
km of primary drains and 126 km of secondary and tertiary drains will be improved. In Surakarta, 3 km of
primary drains, 17 km of secondary and tertiary drains, and two stormwater pumping stations will be
improved. In addition, in Surakarta, a small pumping station will be constructed near the mouth of the Kali
Pepe to lift drainage flows into the proposed wastewater treatment plant.
3.10       An essential part of the drainage component is a major improvement in the level, quality and
execution of O&M. Project financed technical assistance will install a Performance Oriented Maintenance
management System (POMMS) in both cities. Up to 40% of all O&M will be contracted out, with guidelines,
manuals and sample documtnts for increasing private sector participation being provided by the ongoing
USAID PURSE Project. Final versions of the Terms of Reference and short list of firms for POMMS will be
required by Negotiations. Assurances were given by GOI at Negotiations that local governnent funding
wiri be steadily increased to reach 100% of road and drainage O&M requirements by the end of
FY1997/98.
3.11       Sanitation & Sewerage. The project will support improvements to on-site and off-site sanitation
facilities in both Semarang and Surakarta. In Semarang, the program comprises: (a) an off-site sanitation
improvement program, which includes the construction of 14 km of trunk and interceptor sewers; construction
of a 29 ha wastewater treatment plant (in two phases) comprising anaerobic, facultative and maturation aerobic
ponds; construction of seven pumping stations; and a 59 ha pilot area with full sewerage and house
connections; (b) an on-site sanitation improvement component which includes construction of a septage
treatment facility including sludge thickener, digester, drying beds and maturation ponds; construction of 272
communal bathrooms and toilets (MCKs); procurement of desludging trucks; and a credit ,cheme for the
construction of up to 4,500 private toilets and septic tanks for individual households. Prior to carrying out the
detailed design, GOI will examine alternative options to the conventional sewerage system proposed under (a)
above. If a more cost-effective and technically sound alternative is identified, GOI will propose it to the Bank
for review and possible appraisal.



- 10 -
3.12       In Surakarta, the human waste component comprises: (a) an improvement program for the old
Dutch sewer system, which includes its rehabilitation; construction of the upstream length of an interceptor
sewer; and construction of an in-stream treatment plant; (b) rehabilitation of the Mojosongo sewerage system
and addition of an oxidation pond sewage treatment plant near Kali Anyar, and an extension of the main trunk
sewer; (c) an on-site program, comprising a small credit scheme for the construction of individual septic tanks
to serve a further 2,300 households, the construction of 200 MCKs and communal toilets, and procurement of
two desludging trucks.
3.13       Solid Waste Management. The solid waste component of the project will increase service
coverage from 60% to 80% in Semarang, and from 80% to 90% in Surakarta. The collection systems in both
cities will be rationalized and modernized through replacement and purchase of new vehicles and containers
and construction of temporary collection depots. In Semarang, the program includes: (a) closure works at the
old disposal sites needed to prevent continued air and groundwater pollution, and improvement of the
Jatibarang final disposal site; (b) site selection study and land acquisition for the next disposal site; and (c)
procurement of equipment such as dump trucks, armroll trucks, compactor trucks, loader, back hoe and
handcarts. Actions to improve the Jatibarang disposal site, especially construction and site management
measures and construction of a new, low level access road, have been taken by GOI.
3.14       In Surakarta, the principal elements are upgrading the Putri Cempo disposal site and procurement
of equipment similar to Semarang. As in the case of drainage O&M, support from the PURSE Project, as well
as the Bank's study on Private Sector Participation in Municipal Solid Waste Management, will provide
assistance in contracting out waste collection services.
3.15       Kampung Improvement Program (KIP). The project will support GOI's new community-
based development approach to KIP, Tri-Bina, comprising Bina Lingkungan (development of physical
environment), Bina Manusia (human resources and social development), and Bina Usaha (business and
economic development). In Semarang, 16 Kelurahan covering about 420 ha, benefitting 197,000 people, will
be improved; in Surakarta, 26 Kelurahan, covering 390 ha and benefitting 33,700 people will be improved.
Social and economic development in the 42 Kelurahan in the two cities will be programmed over three years
with community involvement.
3.16       Market Improvement Program (MIP). The project includes a program in the two cities to
rehabilitate and improve high priority, important markets through the rehabilitation of infrastructure and
improvements to market superstructures.
3.17       Urban Renewal (Perumahan Rakyat). Perumahan Rakyat will be a pilot component in the
project, with technical assistance for the preparation of: (a) an urban renewal action plan and a feasibility study
in Semarang, mainly for the Bandarharjo slum area (about 14,000 people on 24 ha); (b) a similar study in the
high priority area of Mojosongo in Surakarta (about 75 ha); and (c) a credit scheme for housing rehabilitation
in both Semarang and Surakarta. Investment funds for infrastructure provision for low income communities for
the first stage of implementation of (a) & (b) have also been included in the project, but (c) will be funded
from GOI's national TRIGUNA program.
3.18       Historic Areas Conservation. The project will support pilot physical improvement components
in the core areas of both cities selected historic buildings and areas in Surakarta; and at Kota Lama and the
Tawang Railway Station in Semarang) to protect and promote conservation of historic buildings and areas,
make them more liveable, and also enhance their tourist potential.



- 11 -
3.19       Implementation Support and Institutional Capacity Building. Mindful of existing absorptive
constrains with regard to technical assistance, implementation support and capacity building have been kept to
the minimum levels considered necessary to achieve project objectives in an effective manner. Implementation
support constitutes about 7% of total project costs (about 12% of the loan), while institutional development and
capacity building constitutes 1% of total project costs (about 2 % of the loan). GOI will still seek bilateral
grant funds for funding some of these components. Annex 6 details the Implementation Support and
Institutional Building activities supported by the project.
3.20       Implementation support and Institutional Capacity Building activities cover contract engineering
services, program management/implementation, sector development and implementation related studies.
Contract engineering services cover detailed engineering design and construction supervision for all major
components in both cities: roads, water supply, sanitation and drainage. Program managementimplementation
assistance provides for: (a) advisers to the PMO, the PMU and the PFO in both cities; (b) an adviser to the
provincial-level PPMU; (c) assistance for the implementation of RIAP, including the development of Land
Information Systems for improved taxation in both cities; (d) Urban Management Support for Infrastructure
Development Programs (UMSIDP) in both cities, for the formulation of metropolitan area development plans,
implementation of Urban Spatial Information Systems (in the form of a basic GIS), and formulation of
guidelines and technical standards for controlling development and maintaining the cultural heritage; and (e)
POMMS installation for improved roads and drainage maintenance. Sector development assistance includes
financing of: (a) a Sanitation Adviser at the national level; and (b) project management training at all levels
including project launch activities.
3.21       Implementation support studies in specific sectors cover the following: (a) in urban roads;
preparation of a detailed traffic management program fcr both cities; (b) in water supply, the funding of UFW
Control Experts in both cities, a management and a financial Adviser for PDAM Semarang, and a metropolitan
water resources and system development study for Surakarta; (c) in sanitation, an industrial liquid waste survey
in both cities, a house connection survey in Surakarta, and advisory services to start up the new sewerage
division in Surakarta; (d) in solid waste, studies to select a new disposal site in Semarang to meet medium term
needs; (e) studies mentioned in para. 3.17 for infrastructure for low-income communities; and (f) studies for
historic building preservation.
C. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING PLAN
3.22       The total project/program cost of the SSUDP for the five year period (GOI) FY1994/95 - 1998/99
is Rp. 625.7 billion, equivalent to US$297.3 million. Base costs, in October 1993 prices, total Rp. 526.4
billion (US$250.1 million), and contingencies account for the remainder. (Physical contingencies for land and
civil works have been computed at 10% of base costs (except for roads & drainage works for which 5% has
been assumed) and those for equipment at 10%. Price contingencies for local and foreign costs have been
computed assuming 2.5% for foreign inflation and 5.5% for local inflation. Semarang accounts for 68.6% of
the costs and Surakarta, 31.4%. Table 3.1 shows details of the project cost.



- 12 -
Table 3.1 PROJECT COST
Rp  Mu                   S mllon              %of          % of
Descrip00n                Local   Fore         Total   Local  Fordlp   Total    Base Cost    Foreg
Exchan
Water Supply             34,086    83,172 117,258   16.2    39.5      S5.7      22%          71%
Drainage                  38,892  21,562  60,454   18.5    10.2       28.7      11%          36%
Urban Roads & Trausport   72,865    35,583 108,449   34.6    16.9     S1.5      21%          33%
Solid Wae Management      9,955     5,244  15,199    4.7     2.5       7.2       3%          35%
Santation & Sewerage     24,323    16,830  41,153   11.6     8.0      19.5       8%          41%
KIP/MIiP                  8,115     4,369  12,484    3.9     2.1       5.9       2%          35%
HoushingUrbanRenewal      7,751     4,175  11,930    3.7     2.0       5.7       2%          70%
Conract Services         17,931     5,977  23,908    8.5     2.8      11.4       5%          2S%
Technical Assistance     19,142     9,959  29,101    9.1     4.7      13.8       6%          34%
Taxes                    39,888        0  39,888   18.9      0.0      18.9       8%           0%
Overheads                11,283        0  11,283    5.3      0.0       5.3       2%          0%
Roudine O&M              35.973    19,370  55,343   17.1     9.2      26.3      10%          35%
Tota Base Cost al     320,206   206,242 526,448  152.0    97.9    249.9       100%        47%
Physical Contingenies    13,101    13,982  27,083    6.2     6.6      12.9       7%          52%
Price Contingencies      52,957    19,250  72,207   25.2     9.1      34.3      20%          27%
Tota Project Cost b/    386,264   239,474 625,737  183.5   113.8    297.3     171%         38%
1nere During Consructon  49,478        0  49,478   23.5      0.0     23.5
Tot Financig Requhed43s,742   239,474 675,215  207.0   113.8    320.8
a/     Due to rounding, totals may not add up.
bJ Including taxes and duties amounting to USM28 milion equiovent and land acquisition amnounting to US$9.5
million equivalent.
Table 3.2 FINANCING PLAN
Rn BMion                       $ millio.
pesco~9a                      Own       IBmD      Total     Own       IBRD     Total     % of
Somca    Ia                   Sour    Loan                 Cost
Local Governments          107,096    34,221   141,317      50.9      16.3      67.1    23%
Water Enerpises             57,880   118,583   176,463       27.5     56.3      83.8    28%
Provincial Goveram           6,942         0     6,942       3.3       0.0       3.3     1%
Cental Govenmen             88,076   142,567   230,643      41.8      67.7    109.6    37%
Central Governmet                     70,371    70,371               33.43     33.43    11%
(SPABP to TK I & U)
Total                  259,993   365,743   625,736      123.51    174.0    297.26    100%
Percen1eg                42%         58%      100%        42%      58%      100%
Interest Durig Consruction  49,478              49,478      23.5                23.5
Tolal Em atin           309,471  365,743   675,214     147.0    174.0    320.8



- 13 -
3.23       Financlng. The proposed Bank Loan of US$174.0 million will finance 58.5% of the project cost.
GOI agencies will finae about US$123.5 million, of which US$42 million will be from central goverment
DIP, US$3 million will be from the provincial government, US$51 million will be from the two Kotamadyas,
and US$27 million from the PI>AMs of the two cities. Proposed sub-loans to the Kotamadya and the PDAMs
will be US$66.5 million under subsidiary loan agreements. The sub-loans comprise all of the central funding
for the water and solid waste components, as well as a major portion of central financing for KIP/MIP. Local
entities are fully responsible for interest during construction amounting to US$23.5 equivalent. Table 3.2
shows the financing plan, while the details are shown in Annex 4. It should be noted that although a
substantial grant element still remains, the overall flnaning plan, with an Increased reliance on
borrowings for capital costs (through the sub4loans) is consistent with the Bank's (and the Govenmnent's)
sector strategy described In Paragaph 2.13. Assurances were obtained at Negotiations on the timely
provision of GOI funds for the project through the various funding channels.
3.24       Onlending Terms. As indicated above, part of the proceeds of the loan will be onlent by GOI to
the two local governments and the respective PDAMs. Sub-loan terms will be for a maximum of 20 years,
including five years grace, at a fixed interest rate of 11.5%. Consistent with GOI and Bank strategy to move
local borrowing towards market rates (see Paragraphs 2.3 and 2.13) the interest rate for the subloans reflects
the six month average of the three month Serdficat Bank Indonesia (SBI) rate prevailing at the time of project
appraisal. GOI will bear the foreign exchange risks.
3.25       Confirmatlon was received from GOI at Negotiations that SPABP grant procedures and
channelling of funds are as described In Annex 15 and that the terms and conditions for the suboans to
the local governments and water enterpries are as described In paras 3.23 and 3.24. Confirmation was
also given by GOI at Negotations that all payments (i.e. from both SPABP and SLA funds) to local
contractors would be made from the Treasy (KPKN) office in Semarang. Execution of the subloan
agmments is a condition of Loan effectiveness.
3.26       Retroactive Financing. In order to make an early start on the implementation of the program,
retroactive financing, not exceeding US$5 million, was agreed. Expenditu  incurred for civil works
contracts, goods and consultant services (a) in accordance with Bank procurement guidelines and procedures,
and (b) after November 1, 1993, are eligible for retroactive financing. A Project Preparation Faeility (PPF)
in the amount of US$1.7 million had been granted by the Bank and was used to finance part of the pro;ect
preparation studies; it will be repaid from the loan as soon as it has become effective. A Japan Grant Fund
of US$0.3 million for this project was used to finance the environmental assessment work.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. IMPLEMENTATION AGENCIES
4.1        Project Implementation Agreements (PIA). Existing organizations at the municipal level wil
be responsible for implmentation of the project, except for the coordinating agencies described below.
Project Implementation Agreements (PIA) have been drawn up between GO1, Central Java Province,
Kotamadyas Semarang and Suraarta, and their PDAMs to confirm essential understandings and commitments
based upon the medium-term expendite programs (PIM), financing plans, Revenue Improvement Action
Plans (RIAP) and Local Institutional Development Action Plans (LIDAP). Through the PIAs, Kotm yas



- 14 -
Semarang and Surakarta and their PDAMs would commit themselves to comprehensive sectoral invesutent
programs (including O&M budgets), specific revenue targets and measures to strengthen the institutional
capabilities of urban management. The investment and sector plans can and will be amended annually to
reflect changing conditions during project implementation. However, the process of preparing and later
updat  the comprehesive sectoral programs is the core of the IUIDP approach and all amendment proposals
should include an environmental assessment, a management and monitoring plan and, if necessary, a
resettlement plan. Execution of PLAs acceptable to the Bank Is a conet-don of Loan effectiveness.
4.2        Urban Roads Tramc Management. The Roads and Bridges Section of the Municipal Public
Works Agency (DPU II) is responsible for the construction, maintenance and supervision of local roads and
bridges. Provincial and national roads are the responsibility of the provincial and national governments
respectively. A separate section will be established in the DPU to implement the traffic management program.
Conslting support is being provided under the project to design in detail, evauate and implement indidual
schemes in the traffic management program.
4.3        A technical team for a Performance Oriented Mainnance Management System (POMMS) has
already been established at the municipal level to provide technical support (planning, programming, budgeig,
controlling, evaluating and reporting) to strengthen the O&M program for roads and drainage. The project
provides consulting support to the POMMS teams in both cities to help identify the needs for additional O&M
staff, additional equipment, and training.
4.4        Water Supply. Consulants appointed by the cenal govermment will assist the PDAMs in
Semarang and Surakarta in implementing the major new investments of the project. The PDAMs will be
responsible for operating and maintaining the water supply assets generated by the project. A UFW Control
expert will be provided under the project to PDAM Surakarta to help implement the UFW reduction program.
PDAM Semarang will engage a contractor to address and manage system leakages under the supervision of a
UFW Control expert. In addition, a Management Adviser and a Financial Adviser will be provided to PDAM
Semarang for institutional strengthening in O&M, on-the-job staff training and on financial matters.
4.5        Drainage. At the municipal level, the drainage sub-section will be removed from the saitation
section and converted to a separate section, with responsibility for storm drainage and flood control within the
municipal area. The central government will be responsible for implementing investments under its
jurisdiction. O&M performance will be strengthened through POMMS and consulting support, as described
above in the case of roads.
4.6        Human Waste Disposal. Construction of new sewerage works in each city will be carried out by
the respective Environment Sanition Project (PLP), with a staff member from the Environmental Sanitation
Division (Sub-Dinas TPL, Dinas PU Cipta Karya) as Project Manager on behalf of the central public works
department. The local PDAM will take over the management of the system through a separate unit, Unit Air
Limbah (UAL). For the longer term, consideration will be given to proposals to establish separate sewerage
enterprises.
4.7        The on-site sanitation program in both cities will be implemented by the central government (PLP
DGCK) using municipal staff (BANGDES) as project managers. Three agencies have been established to
facilitate the on-site sanitation development program: a Sanitation Directing Group (KPS), at the municipal



- 15 -
level; a Sanitation Guiding Group (KBS), at the district / kecamatan level; and a Sanitation Working Group
(KKS), at the targeted sub-district / kelurahan level. A new section will be established in the PDAM to operate
sludge collection services in areas not covered by private operators.
4.8        Solid Waste Management. Dinas Kebersihan (Cleansing Agency) in the two municipalities will
be responsible for all solid waste management activities.
4.9        Infrastructure for Low-income Communities and KIP. The municipal housing agency (Dinas
Perumahan) in each city will be responsible for the implementation of the KIP and the Perumahan Rakyat
components. Consultant teams, providing assistance on the technical, financial, economic, institutional and
environmental aspects, will be located in the Dinas Perumahan, but will be responsible to the Directorate of
Housi.g, DGCK.
4.10       MIP. The market agency in each city (Dinas Pengelola Pasar) will be responsible for
implementation of the MIP component of the project. Training support on market management is being
provided under the ADB-financed Project.
B. PROJECT COORDINATION AND MONITORING
4.11       Municipal Government Responsibilities. The municipal governments in Semarang and
Surakarta will have primary responsibility for project coordination and monitoring. A Steering Committee
(SC) and a Technical Team (Tim Teknis) established under the local planning board (BAPPEDA II),
fimctioning as a Project Monitoring Office (PMO), will provide overall guidance. A Project Management Unit
(PMU) will be established by the city mayor to coordinate the activities of the units implementing the various
sector programs. Local Project Finance Offices (PFO) will be established under the jurisdiction of the finance
section of Mayor Secretary's Department for financial monitoring of the project. In addition, in Surakarta, a
temporary new sub-unit will be established in the PMU to monitor RKL/RPL. The project will provide
tchnical assistance to the municipal IUIDP teams through consultant support.
4.12       In order to ensure the availability of full-time staff in the implementation units, both municipal
governments will issue special Letters of Assignment to release staff from their regular duties. Satisfactory
NMG-approved drafts of the official Instruction (SK) on Implementation Arrangements and of the
Instructions from the city mayors on the establishment of the implementation units have been received
and reviewed prior to Negotiations.
4.13       Central Government Responsibilities. Existing central government agencies and organizations
already established for coordination and monitoring of all IUMP projects in Indonesia will also be responsible
for coordination and monitoring of the project at the national level. These include: (a) the TKPP, assisted by
the IUIDP Management Group (IMG), which will be responsible for central interdepartmental policy
coordination and guidance; (b) the DGCK in MPW, assisted by its Central Project Finance Office (CPFO),
and the Central Project Management Office (CPMO), attached to the IMG, which will be responsible for
technica supervision and management of the project. The CPMO will monitor all programs and sub-projects,
while the CPFO will oversee all project accountng and auditing, and also monitor loan disbursements.
4.14       Provincial Government Responsibilities. The provincial Government of Central Java wil have
only a limited role in the management of the project. Four functional units, established by the government to



- 16 -
implement the ADB-funded Central Java and D.I. Yogyakarta Urban Development Program will support the
municipal level implementation agencies as required. The Bank will provide limited capacity building
assistance to the Provincial Project Management Unit (PPMU) under this project.
C. IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
4.15       The SSUDP will be implemented over a five year period from April 1994 to March 1999. Annex
7 indicates details of the implemeuwtation schedule. In preparation for the start of implementation in GOI
FY1994/95, the provincial and municipal governments have submitted their finalized budget requests (DUPs)
for funding first year project implementation (based on the appraised project), so that the necessary budget
authorizations (DIPs) are provided. Assurances to this effect have been received at Negotiations.
4.16       In order to facilitate project implementation on schedule, priority technical assistance packages
(Priority 1 and 2) have been identified. Priority 1 consultants, i.e. (i) first year key implementation advisors,
and (ii) first year detailed engineering design and supervision have been appointed. The TOR for Priority 2
consulting services have been reviewed prior to Negotiations, and the shortlists for their selection will be
completed by July 1994.
4.17       The following consulting services which have been identified as being Priority 1 will be mobilized
during the first year of project implementation: (a) PMO/PMU/PFO Advisors; (b) POMMS for Roads and
Drainage O&M; (c) detailed traffic management program; (d) a Management and a Financial Adviser for
PDAM Semarang; and (e) consultants for detailed engineering design and construction supervision for at least
the first year and second year sub-projects / programs. The following consulting services have been identified
as being Priority 2: (a) LIDAP and RIAP for both cities; (b) solid waste TPA site selection; (c) UFW Control
Contractor for PDAM Semarang, and UFW Control Advisor for PDAM Surakarta; (d) Land Information
System for RIAP; (e) industrial liquid waste surveys in Semarang and Surakarta; and (f) house sewer
connection survey in Surakarta.
4.18       Status of Project Preparation. The project is ready for implementation: the central and local
budgets have been allocated for this fiscal year, land for major project facilities, including the resetlement site,
has been acquired, and a first year program of simple subprojects is ready for execution.
D. PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT
4.19       Procurement of works and goods will follow the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans
and IDA Credits" dated May 1992. Large civil works contracts costing US$3 million or more and goods
contracts costing US$200,000 or more would be procured following International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
procedures, using the Bank's standard bidding documments (SBD). A General Procurement Notice would be
issued in advance to encourage participation of eligible parties. Smaller civil works contracts, valued at less
than US$3 million up to an aggregate amount of US$137.3 million and goods contracts valued less than
US$200,000 up to an aggregate amount of US$7.0 million would be procured under Lox I Competitive Bidding
(LCB) procedures acceptable to the Bank. Goods contracts for less than US$50,000 each up to an aggregate
total of US$0.7 million, may be procured through prudent international and/or local shopping. All consulting
services under the Bank loan would be procured in accordance with the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" dated August 1981. Domestic
preference may be provided during bid evaluation at a rate of 15% (of the CIF price or the applicable customs



- 17 -
duty, whichever is lower) for local manufacturers participating in the ICB procurement of goods, and at a rate
of 7.5% for local contractors participating in the ICB procurement of civil works.
4.20       Procuremient Review. Civil works contracts exceeding US$1 million equivalent in value, goods
contracts exceeding US$200,000 equivalent in value, and consultant contracts with an estimated value of
US$100,000 or more for engagement of firms (US$50,000 or more for the engagement of individuals) would
be subject to prior review by the Bank. The balance of contracts for goods and civil works, including those
reimbursed under Statement of Expenditures (SOE), would be subject to selective post-review by the Bank.
Contractors for civil works exceeding US$ I million in value would be pre-qualified in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Terms of Reference for all consulting services, including detailed
engineering design and supervision, studies and other technical assistance, would also be subject to prior Bank
review. Prior review by the Bank is expected to cover some 20 goods and about 25 civil works contracts,
amounting to 62% of the total value of contracts. This relatively low review coverage will be compensated for
by (i) standardized bidding documents, (ii) prior review of each different type of contract (road works,
drainage) since there are numerous groups of contracts of similar nature, and (iii) systematic post-review by
Bank staff.
4.21       Procurement packaging. Where technically feasible and administratively pracical, sub-projects
have been packaged together for tendering. Procurement of physical components has been kept separate for
each agency (central & local governments, PDAM) to avoid administrative delays and complex payment
procedures. Similarly, procurement has been kept separate for each sector (roads, drainage, etc.) as each
contract would be administered by a different agency. However, consulting services have been combined
wherever feasible e.g., support packages for studies, institutional strengthening for both cities etc. Table 4.1
summarizes the procurement arrangements, while details by sector, category, and contract numbers are given in
Annex 8; details of procurement packaging are available in the project files.



- 18 -
Table 4.1 Procurement Arrangements (US$ million)/#
Procurement Metbods
Expenditure Category             ICB          LCB        Other/b       NBFfc      Total Cost
Civil works                      23.5        122.8                                    146.2
(17.2)       (89.8)                                  (107.0)
Goods                            46.7          8.0                       1.7           56.3
(36.3)        (7.5)                     (0.0)         (43.8)
Contract Services                                           12.6                       12.6
(Det Eng. Design & Supervision)                            (11.4)                     (11.4)
Technical Assistance                                        13.8                       13.8
(11.8)                     (11.8)
Land                                                                    11.0           11.0
(0.0)         (0-0)
Taxes                                                                   21.5           21.5
(0.0)         (0-0)
O&M and Project Administration                             35.7         35.7
(0.0)         (0.0)
Total                           72           130.7         26.5         69.           MI  /d
(53.5)       (97.3)       (23.2)        (0.0)        (174.0)
IDC                                                                     23.5
Total Fnancing Required                                                               320.8
la Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank.
lb Includes local and international shoppng, selection of consulants following Bank guidelines, and repayment of PPF.
/c Not Bank financed; includes also procurement of vehicles, which will be funded by 001.
/d Exchudes IDC.
4.22        Disbursments. IBRD loan disbursements will be made at the following rates for the various
main expenditure categories as detailed in Table 4.2: (a) Sub-projects under SLA to local governments and
water enterprise - 100%; (b) Civil Works - 65%; (c) Equipment and Supplies - 100% of the CIF cost of
directly imported goods (ICB), 100% of ex-factory costs, for goods supplied by local manufacturers, and 65%
of the costs of other locally procured goods; and (d) Consultancy Services and Training - 100% of the costs for
consultants employed by the local and provincial entities, and 80% of the costs for consultants employed by
central government agencies.



- 19 -
Table 42 Disbursement
Amount of the
Loan Allocated                   % of
(Expressed in                 Expenditures
Category                        Dollar Equi    )to be Fin
Psrt A of the Pro;ect:
(1) Civil Works                          45,800,000               65%
(2) Equipment and                        2,700,000                100% of foreign expenditres,
supplies                                                     100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory costs) and
65% of local expenditures for
other items procured localy
(3) Consultats' services                 3,500,000                100%
and traning
(4)  Sub-projects under the SLAs:
(a) KM Semarang                     10,300,000               100%
(b) PDAM SemarAng                   42,100,000               100%
Part B of the Project:
(5) Civil works                         21,800,000                65%
(6)  Equipment and supplies              3,000,000                100% of foreign expenditures,
100 of local exnitres
(ex-factory cost) and 65% of
local expenditures for other
items procured locaUy
(7) Consultants' services                2,200,000                100%
and training
(8) Sub-projects under tbe SLAs:
(a) KM Surkarta                      4,600,000               100%
(b) PDAM Surakrt                     9,500,000               100%



- 20 -
Part C of the Project
(9) Consultants' services
and training
(a) employed by the Borrower     14,600,000              80%
(b) employed by provincial
agencies                      1,100,000              100%
(10) Refunding of Project             1,700,000             Amount due pursuant to
Preparation Advance                                     Section 2.02 (c) of
Loan Agreement
(11) Unallocated                     11.100.
Total                           $174,000,000
Esdmated IBRD Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year      1995            199     7 6               1999 22
A.msal               20.7        39.4       43.6      34.1      27.9      8.1
Cumulative           20.7        60.0      103.7     i37.7     165.7    174.0
4.23       To facilitate disbursements, a Special Account will be opened by the Ministry of Finance in Bank
Indonesia for withdrawals against all eligible foreign and local expeditures. This account will be mainned
in US dollars, with an initial deposit of US$ 5 million. The Bank will replenish the Special Account in respect
of drawings on the application of DG Budget (TUA) supported by the following documentation: (a) in the case
of civil works contracts with a value of US$1 million and over, and equipment contracts with a value of
US$200,000 and over, (i) Payment Orders (SPMs) issued by the offices of the State Treasury (KPN); (ii)
Certificates of Performance (3erita Acara) issued by the implementing agencies; and (iii) "No Objection' letter
from the Bank regarding the award of the contract; and (b) in the case Of contracts below the limits indicated
above, i.e., civil works contracts below US$1 million in value, equipment contracts below US$200,000 in
value, and contracts for consulting firms below US$100,000, and contracts for individual- below US$50,000,
Statements of Expenditure (SOE). Such replenishment of the Special Account would be made on a monthly
basis or when 20% of the initial deposit has been used, whichever comes first. Detailed supportng
docmentation for SOEs will be retained by DG TUA and the implementing agencies and made available to the
Bank for review on request. Payments to local conftators (including payments out of SBABP and SLA funds)
in both cities will be made from the KPKN Treasury office in Semarang.
4.24       The proposed disbursement period of five years is somewhat less than the disbursement profile for
IUIDP projects in Indonesia. However, as this project has been prepared taking into account the start up
problems encountered in the earlier projects, and because of the steps taken to (a) mobilize the high priority
consulting services, and (b) assure availability of counterpart funds for the first year, it is considered
achievable. The project completion and loan closing dates are March 31, 1999 and September 30, 1999
respectively. The estimated schedule of disburments is shown in Annex 9.



- 21 -
E. PROJECT ACCOUNTS AND AUDIT
4.25       At the local level, the Project Finance Offices (PFOs) in each city will maintain accounts for
project related expenditures financed by all sources of funds for all project components, including those relating
to the PDAMs. At the national level, the Central Project Finance Office will prepare project accounts of all
components implemented directly by the central agencies. CPFO will also be responsible for consolidating
quarterly project accounts from the two PFOs and submitting them annually for audit by the government
auditors, Badan Pengawasan Keuangan dan Pembangunan (BPKP). CPFO will also coordinate audits of the
SOEs with the Directorate General for Budget, Bank Indonesia, and the central office of the State Audit Board.
In additon to financial audits, assuranes have been obtained at Negotiations that GOI will carry out
annual technical audits during project implementation. Terms of Reference for financial audits will be
finalized by GOI in consultation with the Bank; the detailed requirements for technical audits will be reviewed
by the first supervision mission.
4.26       Assurances have been given by GOI at Negotiations that the consolidated project accounts,
including the Special Account and SOEs, as well as the overall accounts of the two PDAMs, will be
audited annually by Independent auditors in a manner satisfactory to the Bank and that the audited
accounts would be submitted to the Bank no later than six months after the end of each fiscal year,
commencing FY94/95.
F. PROJECT REPORTING, MONITORING AND BANK SERVISION
4.27       DGCK, with assistance from the CPMO and the CPFO, will prepare and submit to the Bank
quarterly progress reports (QPR) on the basis of inputs from the PMOs/PFOs, with an overall summary and
covering the progress on (a) physical aspects of each component; (b) institional development action (LIDAP)
and revenue improvement (RIAP) programs; (c) consulng servic; (d) compliance with loan agreement
covenants; (e) administration and finance, includng project cost, commitent and disbursement schedule; and
(f) a list of executive actions to be taken by the various parties. QPRs will be submitted within 45 days from
the end of each quarter, startng with the quarter ending September 30, 1994. On completion of the SSUDP,
the DOCK, assisted by the two cities, wfll prepare a Project Completion Report, for review by GOI and the
Bank.
4.28       The project will require 25-30 staff weeks of Bank supervision each year during the first two
years and 15-20 staff weeks annually in the subsequent years of the project. Supervision missions will include
mainly technical (urban infrstructu), institutional, financial and enviromental expertise, supplemented from
time to time by expertise in community development and resettlement. The proposed arrangements and
schedule for project supervision have been discussed with GOI at Negotiations.
V. FINANCIAL ASPECTS
A. FINANCIAL STATUS OF TIHE KOTAMADYAS
5.1        Kotamadya Semarang. Kotamadya Semarang (KMSMG) is in a financially sound position:
during the period FY88/89 - FY92/93 local revenues, assigned revenues (land and building tax, other assigned
revenues), and grants from provincial and national governments all grew steadily. The Kotmadya anally



- 22 -
financed development projects ranging in value from Rp. 18 billion to Rp. 20.9 billion. Debt service charges
were more than adequately covered, with the lowest debt service coverage ratio (DCR) during the period being
5.0, against the current GOI minimum of 1.5.
5.2        In order to meet the investment costs of the current project and to improve its financial position,
KMSMG has prepared a Revenue Improvement Action Plan (RIAP). Through focussed efforts on high
potential revenue improvement areas such as: (a) property tax on land and buildings; (b) public roads lighting
tax; (c) development tax; (d) advertisement tax; (e) entertainment tax; (f) building permit fees; (g) parking and
terminal fees; (h) and market fees, KMSMG's revenues during the 5-year project period are projected to
increase (as a result of the RIAP) by Rp. 58.1 billion, at a total cost of Rp. 0.5 billion.
5.3        Financial projections for KMSMG (see Annex 11) indicate that the Kotamadya wil be able to
meet project related development expenditures, incremental O&M costs and debt service costs. As the impact
of the RIAP begins to be felt, KMSMG is projected to have a DCR increasing steadily from 1.3 to 7.7 during
the project period, thus providing an opporunity to meet future investment needs through market borrowings
rather than through relying exclusively on government grants.
5.4        Kotamadya Surakarta. The fimancial situation of Kotamadya Surakarta (KMSKT) is similar:
local revenues, assigned revenues, government grants and total income all went up steadily from FY88/89 to
FY92/93; development expenditures increased from Rp. 4.3 billion per annum to Rp. 8.5 billion; and the DCR1
ranged from 2.5 to 4.8. KMSKT's RWAP forecasts a revenue increase of Rp. 20 billion during the project
period, at a cost of Rp. 0.3 billion. Financial projections for KMSKT (see Annex 11) also indicate a sound
position; the DCR during the project period increases steadily from 3.1 to 9.7, providing (as in the case of
Semarang) an opportunity to finance future investments through market borrowings.
5.5        Cost Recovery. The two cities charge for solid waste disposal and sanitation (including on-site
sanitation, sewerage and sludge removal); water supply charges are handled by the respective PDAMs.
Because of low rates and low collection efficiencies, the present revenue from solid waste charges in both
kotamadyas covers only 70-75% of O&M costs, with no contribution being made towards capital costs. Two
solid waste tariff increases are proposed in each kotamadya during the project period: (a) in Semarang, the
minimnum rates will be increased by 25% each in FY1995/96 and FY1997/98, with larger increases of 150%
on each occasion for others; and (b) in Surakarta, rates for households will be increased by 50% and 65%
respectively in FY1995/96 and FY1997/98, while the corresponding increases for business and industry will be
200% and 130%. In both cities, collection efficiencies will also be improved. As a result of these efforts,
both kotamadyas should be able to achieve full O&M cost recovery by the end of FY1997/98; however, only
negligible contributions are expected towards capital costs. Details of the analysis are available in project files.
5.6        The on-site sanitation programs in both Semarang and Surakarta wiUl operate on a full cost
recovery basis, with the beneficiary households making a small down payment, foUowed by monthly instalment
payments. Sludge removal that wil be managed by the PDAMs on behalf of the respective PEMDA (as a
supplement to the service provided by the private sector) will achieve full cost recovery by the end of
FY1996/97 through increases in the charge per collection. Charges will be reviewed periodicaUy and a further
increase is anticipated in the year 2000.
5.7        In the case of the sewerage system, the PDAMs (which will take over the operation of the system
on behalf of Pusat) wil add a surcharge to the water bills. Financial analysis indicates that in both cities, a
surcharge of 10% wiUl be sufficient to cover O&M costs and depreciation. The surcharge will be phased in,



- 23 -
starting at 5% for the first two years of system operation (with the central government providing an initial 50%
operating subsidy) and 10% thereafter. All other entities in the area served by the sewer system will be also be
charged varying flat rates (depending on the size and nature of the building unit) with an average rate of Rp.
1000 per month. An NGO, the Community Welfare Association (PKK), will collect the flat rate sewer charges
from non-PDAM customers for a fee.
B. FINANCIAL SITUATION OF THE PDAMS
5.8        Audited financial reports for PDAM Surakarta for each of the last four years, ending March
1992, indicate that the PDAM made a small operating profit each year. Unaudited figures for fiscal 92/93
indicate a significantly higher profit as a result of the impact of a 50% tariff increase. PDAM Semarang, on
the other hand, has performed somewhat unevenly; after making small profits in 1988 and 1989, it posted
losses in 1990 and 1991. Unaudited results for 1992 reveal a substantial loss of Rp. 2.9 billion on revenues of
Rp. 11.3 billion. As a result of a 55% tariff increase, preliminary figures for 1993 indicate a return to
profitability.
5.9         Results of the financial projections for the two PDAMs, taking into account project costs of about
Rp. 170 billion (of which Rp. 65 billion will be financed by the PDAMs and the remainder through sub-loans
from the Bank loan), indicate that the PDAMS should be able to produce gross revenue starting FY1995 with
full O&M costs and depreciation being covered, provided a number of key actions are taken at specified
times; these are discussed below. Details of the financial projections - income statements, balance sheets and
funds flow statements - are available in the project files. Annex 12 contains the key financial indicators for
each PDAM.
5.10       Tariffs. In addition to the 55% tariff increase in 1993, PDAM Semarang will require increases
of 25% every alternate year, starting 1995. The current ratio of 1:3 between the lowest and highest domestic
rates as well as the ratio of 1:8 between the lowest rates and the highest rates (paid by large industrial
customers) will be retained during the early project period. In order to provide an incentive for large industrial
organizations (who currently use water from their own wells) to connect to the PDAM system, the PDAM will
review the tariff structure during the latter part of the project period to reduce cross-subsidies and to simplify
the structure towards cost pricing. In the case of PDAM Surakarta, in addition to the 50% tariff increase
effected in 1992, average tariff increases of 25%, 25% and 30% are required in 1994, 1996 and 1998
respectively; these average tariff increases are based on projections done at appraisal and actually required
increases may differ. The current tariff structure, with a ratio of 1:4 between the lowest and highest domestic
rates and a ratio of 1:8 between the lowest domestic tariff and the highest industrial tariff, will be retained
during the early project period. As in the case of Semarang, the Surakarta PDAM will also review the tariff
structure during the latter part of the project period. Agreement was reached at Negotiations that GOI will
cause the measures to be taken, including tariff reviews and adjustments every two years, to enable each
PDAM to cover from its revenues O&M costs and depreciation after FY1994. If tariffs are adjusted to the
levels projected above, achievement of this financial target wil be feasible.
5.11       Other issues. Increases in the number of connections, reduction in UFW, personnel costs
(especially the number of staff per 1,000 connections) and accounts receivable (number of days billings
uncollected), will be monitored at half-yearly intervais during implementation. Assurances that PDAM
Semarang will introduce by June 30, 1995 an installment house connection program for low income
familes were given by GOI at Negotiations.



- 24 -
VI. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
6.1        Urban Roads. By improving urban roads and reducing transport costs, the proposed sub-projects
are expected to promote commercial and industrial activities. The expected benefits include: (a) savings in
vehicle operating costs and travel time through increased speeds and in some cases, through reduction in the
travel distance. New road sub-projects were evaluated by computing the economic rate of return (ERR) over a
ten year project horizon; resurfacing sub-projects have a five year horizon. In Semarang: (a) the new road
and bridge sub-projects, which expand road capacity and shorten travel distances, have an estimated average
ERR of about 37 percent; (b) road widening, as part of the improvement schemes, increases vehicle speeds and
thereby reduces travel times, giving these schemes an estimated average ERR of 44%; and (c) resurfacing, as
part of periodic maintenance, improves road condition and thereby reduces vehicle operating and costs, giving
an estimated average ERR exceeding 50%, provided continued routine maintenance is performed. In
Surakarta: (a) the proposed new Northern Ring Road, which would increase the road capacity and reduce
traffic congestion in the center of town by diverting traffic to the new road, has an estimated average ERR of
about 17 percent; and (b) road widening, as part of the improvement schemes, increases vehicle speeds and
thereby reduces travel times, giving the schemes an estimated average ERR of 31 %; (c) the ERR of periodic
maintenance exceeds 50%. The estimated economic benefits from the proposed road improvements in both
cities are adequate to justify the investments. The traffic management program in both cities will consist of a
series of schemes to be defined in detail and evaluated by the Bank prior to implementation. Experience with
traffic management programs suggests that the economic benefits will be more than adequate to justify the
small investments involved.
6.2        Water Supply. Least cost options were chosen for both cities to meet water demand through
technically sound solutions: six alternative schemes were evaluated in Semarang, while the most suitable project
design was chosen to achieve improved efficiency of the water supply system in Surakarta. The proposed
investments will increase service coverage, increase average per capita consumption, and reduce water losses.
They will provide better access to safe water, increase productivity by saving hauling time, save fuel
expenditures for boiling, and reduce water-related diseases. The estimated financial rates of return (FRR) for a
10 year project horizon from 1994 to 2004 are about 13 percent and 12 percent for Semarang and Surakarta
respectively (assuming tariff increases of 25 percent every alternate year from 1995 for Semarang and 25
percent, 25 percent and 30 percent in 1994, 1996, and 1998 for Surakarta, respectively). The ERRs for the
sub-projects were not calculated, since the FRRs establish financial viability of the proposed investments; ERRs
would be higher because of consumer surplus.
6.3        Drainage. The sub-projects are expected to benefit the residents and the local economy by
reducing property damage, loss of production, health risks, and inconvenience. ln other cities of Indonesia,
drainage and flood control projects resulted in higher land prices after a few years of project implementation.
Expected increases in land values due to reduced flooding were compared with investment and O&M costs to
evaluate the economic viability of the proposed drainage and flood control sub-projects. In Semarang,
drainage sub-projects in the eastern and the central parts of the city will improve current conditions, while
those in the western part will prevent, through rehAbiUitation, flooding caused by silt. For the drainage sub-
projects in the eastern and the central parts of Semarang, increases in land values required (to break-even with
investment and O&M costs) range from 36 percent to 177 percent, or between Rp. 20,000/i2 and Rp.
55,000/me except for the Kali Banger HI sub-project, where increases of 28. percent are required because of



- 25 -
low land values. On the other hand, in the western part of Semarang, an increase of only about 1 percent in
land value would be sufficient to cover the cost of the required rehabilitation and maienance, since the
current land prices are already high (Rp. 150,000/m2). In Surakarta, the six sub-projects (that involve
investments of any significance) require average land value increases of less than 10 percent. The Jln. A. Yani
pump station sub-project, which will allow uninterrupted road traffic on a section of the main road where
traffic is currently impeded for several hours when it rains, the high land value increases required are well
justified.
6.4        Sanitation and Sewerage. The proposed sanit tion sub-projects comprise on-site and off-site
systems (including de-sludging services) depending on population densities, soil conditions, and ground water
table. The technologies to be adopted are consistent with the experience of other developing countries: while
conventional sewerage systems are most suitable for metropolitan areas where population densities are high
(greater than 200 persons/ha), on-site sanitation facilities are more appropriate for areas where population
densities are low, in view of the high capital investment needed for conventional sewerage systems. Overall,
the proposed sewerage sub-projects for both cities are economically justified since they are most suitable
options for a first phase investment to provide a safe living and working environment by minimizing investment
costs, resettlement, and negative environmental impacts as well as protecting the public from epidemic diseases.
6.5        In Semarang, the proposed sewerage investments will reduce the pollution of ground water and
rivers by constructing: (a) a waste water treatment plant with sludge drying beds; (b) a trunk sewer to transport
sewage from the Kali Semarang interceptors to the treatment plant; and (c) a pilot separate sewer system
including house connections in a densely populated area of 59 ha. These sub-projects were selected for
min mizing costs over the long run, by taking advantage of economies of scale, using appropriate technologies.
Seven alternatives were evaluated for waste water treatment and fcultative ponds were selected since they only
cost about half of any of the other options. 70% of the project area population (about 388,000 persons) will be
served, and the improvements will contribute to the further development of the city by providing a safer and
cleaner working and living environment.
6.6        The proposed sub-projects are based on the findings of several consulting studies, and are
miniimum requirements to prevent major environmental degradation and epidemic diseases at least cost for the
medium term, especially for a fast growing city like Semarang. The option to delay the project will neither
benefit the population, especially the poor, nor the government except for a temporary reduction in investment
costs. In the absence of adequate provision of sanitation services, the poor are more likely to be exposed to
environmental and health risks, while the higher income groups are able to pay to avoid direct negative
impacts. Moreover, per capita water consumption is expected to increase with the proposed water supply
improvements under SSUDP. Without proper water treatment, the increased waste water generation will have
a significant negative impact on the en-ironment by further polluting rivers and ground water, that are
alternative sources of water for the poor. The opportunity cost of doing nothing would exceed the proposed
investments-it will financially ccst more to goverment to restore the damage.
6.7        In Sunrakwt, the sanitation sub-projects, chosen on the basis of previous studies, represent the
most suitable options for the medium term at least cost from among the various alternatives considered for
technological choice, site location and size, environmental and social impacts, and investment costs. The
proposed investments will reduce the pollution level of Bengawan Solo River (a major source for drinking
water) by treating waste water prior to it being discharged into the river.



- 26 -
6.8        Solid Waste Management. The proposed investments in solid waste management are justifiable
on the basis of cost recovery, in addition to indirect benefits resulting from the reduction of negative
enviromnental impacts. They propose customized systems that can collect and transport domestic, market, and
commercial waste, at least cost, taking into account the volume and content of waste as well as the distance to
the disposal site. In both Semarang and Surakarta, the percentage of population served will increase, and
environmental degradation through burning or dumping of unconnected garbage into rivers and drains will be
substantially reduced through the environmentally safe operation of new and improved land fill sites. O&M
costs will be recovered in full by the end of the project period through user charges.
B. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
6.9        The project which is "Category A" will have a positive impact on the environment in both cities
through improvements to solid and human waste disposal, drainage and flood control, and the KIP. Four
ANDAL (detailed environment assessments) studies were carried out by GOI (and reviewed by the Bank during
appraisal) for the following components: (a) Solid Waste, Semarang; (b) Sewerage, Semarang; (c) Drainage,
Semarang; and (d) Sewerage, Surakarta. These have led to significant improvements in project design,
including more appropriate mitigating actions, especially for the wastewater treatment plant site in Surakarta.
The Environmental Assessment Summary was distributed to the Executive Directors on October 14, 1993.
6.10       The following actions will be taken during subsequent stages of the project:
(a)   Solid Waste, Semarang - In order to improve site conditions and operations at the
solid waste disposal site in Jatibarang, construction and site management measures
have been taken, and a new low level access road has been built. In addition, the
project will finance studies to select a new disposal site in Semarang to meet
medium term needs.
(b)   Urban Roads - As indicated in Paragraph 3.4, for major urban road components
which have been appraised on a programmatic basis, environmental screening
(PIL) will be carried out prior to commencement of detailed engineering designs
and the management and monitoring plans (RKL/ RPL) prior to start of
procurement. The Bank will review both. Assurances have been given by GOI
at Negotiations that environmental protection measures stipulated In the
reslective Environmental Management / Monitoring plans (RKL/RPL) will be
carried out in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
(c)   Liquid wastes - Under the implementation support and capacity building
component, industrial liquid waste surveys will be carried out in both cities.
C. SOCIAL IMPACT
6.11       The proposed flood control works on the Kali Banger (river) in West Semarang will
have an important social impact. The drainage improvements along this frequently overflowing water
course will require the relocation of about 800 families who live along the river banks and in the
right-of-way. As part of the detailed environmental assessment process, the City of Semarang, with
the assistance of the central government and consultants, had prepared a detailed resettlement plan



- 27 -
which involved NGO participation, public meetings and cowultations with the affected people, and a
socio-economic survey of the area's population to gauge the response to the relocation proposals,
determine tenure status, family incomes, and preferences for the different resettlement options. Most
of the resident of the Kali Banger area support the relocation proposals, and a majority of them
expressed a preference for serviced plots as compensation. The plan includes a timetable and
implementation arrangements by the city of Semarang which will be responsible for resettlement.
6.12       The resettlement plan has been approved by the mayor of Semarang in August 1993 and
was reviewed at appraisal for compliance with the Bank's OD 4.30 on Resettlement. the main option
proposed is resettlement of affected families in Karang Roto, an area about 6km from Kali Banger
which already accommodates several hundred people affected by the earlier stages of Semarang
drainage improvements. Serviced plots with title and a minimum size of 60M2 will be provided by
the city, and relocating families will have to pay - dependent on the value of their existng plot and
improvements thereon - a maximum of 25% of the new plot price in affordable installments.
Assistance with moving to the new land and with the construction of basic housing wiU be given by
the City to households entitled to such support. The City wil also offer the option of financial
compensation based on the value of the land (with improvements) to be acquired, as determined by
the land tax (NJOP) assessment.
6.13       In response to the results of the survey and te consultations with affected people, the
local government will upgrade the physical and social infrastructure at the resettlement site in Karang
Roto, and construct a primary school, a local market, a health care facility, and places for worship;
this will also benefit the earlier resettlers. The City will improve the access road to Karang Roto (to
promote the provision of public transport services by private operators), install street ligMng, and
initially provide two vehicles so that the community can organize transport to the nearest major urban
transit hub. The complete package of resettlement and compensation options by the Kotau u4ya has
been disclosed to the affected people prior to Negotiations.
6.14       The newly issued Presidential Decree No. 55/93 on land acquisition for public facilies
will be applied for dealing with all aspects of raestemen and compensation. The directive which
substantially complies with OD 4.30, recognizes the different land righs, stipulates fair compensation
foi land and other objects (improvements) to be acquired, and calls for consultation, negotiations, and
reaching consensus with the affected people. Assurances were obtained fhom GOI at negotiations
that the resettlement plan will be Implemented as agreed with the Bank. Details of the
resettlement and compensation arrangements are contained in Annex 14, and in the resetlement plan
(and supplements) is in the Project File.
D. IMPACT ON POVERTY
6.15       The project is expected to substantially alleviate poverty and many project activities are
targeted at improving the quality of life and enviroment in the poorer kampung areas of the city.
Under the Water Supply component, about 30% of the incremental water supply will benefit the
urban poor. The significant increase in the number of house connections in both cities will increase
the reach of piped water to more of the urban poor. In Semarang, an instmt payment scheme will
be introduced for house connections for the urban poor; a similar scheme already exists in Surakarta.
In both cities, additional public taps are being instaUed for those who cannot afford house



- 28 -
connectons. The drainage component, by reducing flooding in the low lying are where many of
the urban poor live, will befit the poor by reducing property damage and health risks, and by
improving the general environment.
6.16       The proposed investments in sanitation and sewerage will reduce health risks (or
medical expenditures) and improve the productivity of the population as a whole. The urban poor
will benefit directly from the construction of MCKs in both cities and may be able to take advantage
of loans that will be offered towards the cost of house connections to the sewer system. Sludge
removal facilities that will be offered by the PDAMs will extend this service to the more congested
areas of the city, where typically more of the urban poor live.
6.17       The KIP program, one of GOI's principal means of reducing urban poverty, will
improve the living environment in selected densely populated urban areas in both cities by improved
water supply, sanitation, drainage, access paths and roads as well as houses, through active
participation of the communties. Construction of small shops and stands in the two cities under the
MIP will provide employment opportnties for the poor. The pilot Permnahan Rakyat componet
in Semarang and Surakarta and the associated small credit schemes for housing rehabilitation will
benefit the urban poor in the pilot areas.
E. RISKS
6.18       Lhnmted Intitutional Capacity. Limited institutional capacity at the local level may
cause implementation delays, cost overruns, low quality works, and non-ahievement of revenue
targets. Reviews during preappraisal and appraisal missions have focused on these aspects and
proposed a number of institutional support measures to mitgate these risks: use of standardized
procurement documents and processes, increased involvement of private sector firm  for mainteance
operatons, locally managed consultant support to assist with implementation, and targeted support
from the center with new and more complex project components, such as sewerage. Another
mitgadng factor is the strong "ownership" of the proposed program by the municipalities which has
developed over the preparation period. The local staff have shown their comptnce, ability and
commitme  to this program, by implemeing a number of the smaller and simpler sub-prqects
already while awaitng the processing of this loan.
6.19       Consultant Appointments. Delays in the selection and appointent of consulants hve
slowed implementtion of urban sector projects in the past. In the case of the SSUDP, procrement
and consultt selecdon is proceeding in parallel with project processing, so that consultan  can be
appointed and contracts can be awarded and signed upon loan signing. Retroactive financing, up to
an agegate amount of US$5 million equivalent, has been re ed for approval to cover
expendire for goods, works and consultants procured according to Bank guidelines between
appraisal and loan sign.
6.20       Fiancial Matters. Availabilty of GOI funds and financial viability of the two
municipalities and the PDAMs in the two cities are possible risks to timely completion of the projee*.
and its sustainability. Assurances will be sought during Negotations regading the availabilty of all
required DIP fumding for 1994/95 from Pusat, and Level I and Level I governments. Supervision
missions will monitor the availability of DIP funds for the subsequent years. In the case of the



- 29 -
muicipalities, RIAP consultants will be responsible for assist  them with implening the revenme
enhancement actions. Tariff increases by the PDAMs will be a covenant in the loan agreement.
Supervision missions will monitor progress in increase in the mber of connections and the reduction
in the unaccountd for water.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.1        At negotiations, agreements were reached with GOI that:
(a) central government funding will be made available for the timely compltion of the
Kelambu-Kudu raw water conveyance canal (para. 3.8);
(b) a leakage (UFW) control division will be established in PDAM Surakarta (para 3.8);
(c) 100% local governmet funding will be provided by the end of FY1997/98 for O&M of
roads and drains in both cities (para. 3.10);
(d) (i) SPABP funds will be used for funding provincial and local govment projects and
for consultants employed by local goverments (para. 3.25); (ii) SPABP funds will be
channelled as described in Annex 15; (iii) terms and conditions of subloans will as
described in paras 3.23 and 3.24; and (iv) aU payments (i.e., from both SPABP and
SLA funds) to local contractors would be made from the Treasury (KPKN) office in
Semarang (para. 3.25):
(e) all necessary budget requests ()UPs) have been submitd by the three levels of
government, and the budget approvals (DIPs) will be issued in tme for start of
implementation in FY1994/95 (paras. 3.23 & 4.15);
(t) audited project and water enteprise (PDAM) accounts will be submitted to the Bank not laer
tban 6 months after the end of the financial year (para. 4.25);
(g) the municipal govermnens and their water anterprises respectively will review and adjust
their tariffs for solid waste services (para. 5.5), sewerage (para. 5.7) and water supply (para.
5.10) services;
(h) PDAM Semarang wil introduce an insment house connection program for low income
families (para. 5.11);
(i) the enviromental protection actions set out in the respective Environmental
Management/Monitoring plans (RKlJRPL), and the resettlement plan for the Kali
Banger drairage project in Semarng will be canried out in a manner satisfactory to the
Bank (para. 6.10 and 6.14); and
(j) GOI will carry out ammsl technical audis during project implementation in a manner
sasfactory to the Bank and funish the audit rmdons to the Bank (para. 4.25).



- 30 -
7.2        The following are condtions for loan effectiveness:
(a) execution of the subsidiary loan agreements between the central government and the
municipalities of Semarang and Surakarta and their water enterprises respectively;
(c) final approval of PIAs by the two municipal mayors, the Central Java provincial govenor,
and by the Secretary-General for Home Affairs of the central government (para. 4.12);
7.3        Recommendaffon. With the above agreements and conditions, the project is suitable for
a Bank Loan of US$ 174.0 million equivalent with a 20 year maturity, including a grace period of 5
years at the Bank's standard variable rate. The Borrower will be the Republic of Indonesia.



- 31 -
Annex I
INDONESIA
SEMARANG-SURAKARTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
URBAN INFRASUCTR  PROJECTS
Fiscal                                               PPAR
Loan    Year/   Closed/                            Original   PCR
No.  Effective  Closing Project Name                Loan   Rep. No. Year
1  1040    1975      1981 Jakarta Urban Development    25.00    4620   1983
2  1049    1975      1982 Five Cities Water Supply     14.50    6256   1986
?  1336    1977      1984 Second Urban Development    52.50      6329   1986
4  1653    1979      1987 Third Urban Development      54.00    8b83   1990
5  1709    1981      1987 Second Water Supply          36.00     8622   1990
6  1972    1982      1988 Fourth Urban Development     43.00     8583   1990
7  2236    1983      1991 Jakarta Sewerage/Sanitation  22.40
8  2275    1983      1990 East Java Water Supply       30.60    10853   1992
9  2408    1984      1991 Fifth Urban Development      39.25    11501   1992
10 2632    1986   May 93 Second E. Java Water Supply   43.30
11 2725    1986       1992 Housing Sector Loan         200.00
12 2816    1987       1991 Urban Sector Loan           270.00    10388   1992
13 2817    1987    Oct94 Reg. Cities Urban Transport    51.00
14 2932    1988   Mar 95 Jabotabek Urban Development 150.00
15 3219    1990   Dec 96 Second Jabotabek Urban Dev.  190.00
16 3246    1991   Dec 96 Third Jabotabek Urban Dev.    61.00
17 3304    1991   Dec 96 East Java-Bali Urban Dev.     180.30
18 3340    1991   Dec 96 Sulawesi-Irian Jaya Urban Dev. 100.00
19 3726    1995   Sept 99 Surabaya Urban Development  175.00
Total 1,737.85



Annex 2
INDONESA
SEMARANG-SURAKARTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIITION - INFWRASRUCTURE COMIPONENT
Sc torm/on                              Semamnig                                                       Surabata
Water Supply         -Refurbishment ad upgading of a Water Treaunent Plant                -Development of 10 new deepwells
-Construction of two new Water Treaent Plants                       -Well mainenae progamme
-Well maintenance programme                                         -Water loss (UWF) reduction programme
-Water loss (UFW reduction programme                                -Water Resources and Development study
-550 km of new distibution pipeines                                  -Extension and infill of the distibution ntwork
-68,000 new house connection and 300 new public taps                -18,000 new house connections and 125 new public taps
Baniaton             -Waste Water Treatment Ponds (29 ha)                                 -Rehabilitation of the Mojosongo Sewer System (65 ha)
Sewerage             -7 Pumping stations                                                  -Rehabilitation of the le'bres Sewerage System (55 ha)
-Septage Treatment Plant (4 ha)                                     -2 Waste Water Treatmnit Plants
-14 km sewer interceptor and trunk sewers                           -Septage Treatment Pat (1.5 ha)
-59 ha pilot poject separate sewer system                           -Credit Scheme On-Site Saniation (2300 households)
-Credit Scheme O1-Site Sanitation (4500 households)                 -200 MCK's and 2 deshudging trucks
-272 MCK's and S deshlging trucks
Drainge &            -improvement of 28 kn of primy drains                                -improvement of 3 km of primary drains
Flood Control        -inprovement of 126 km of secondary and tertary drains               -improvement of 17 km of secondary and tertiary drains
-periodic maintenance equipment                                     -improvement of Demangan and A. Yani pumping stations
-periodic maintenance equipment
Urban Road           -improvement of 76 km of urban roads                                 -construction of 4.7 km of new roads (ring road)
-periodic maintenance of 78 km or urban roads                       -improvement of 36 km of urban roads
-construction of 4 new bridges                                      -periodic maintenance of 60 km of urban roads
-aic   m gement prcmram                                             -constuction of 3 new bridges (part of ring road)
-taffic management program
-preparation of an urban trausportaion plan
;olid Waste          -Improvement of the Jatibarang Final Disposal Site                   -Upgrading of the Putri Cempo Final Disposal Site
danagement           -Closure works at the old disposal sites                            -Site location study for new Final Disposal Site
-Site location study for new Final Disposal Site                    -32 open dump trucks, 14 armnroll trucks, 2 compactor
-Land acquisition for new disposal site (11 ha)                      trucks and a transportation pool
-4 open dump trueks, 65 armroll trucks, S compactor trucks          -1 wheel loader, 1 bulldozer, 1 backhoe and 91 gerobaks
-1 tracked loader, I backhoe and 182 gerobaks
Jrban Renewalt      -Infrastructure development in low income area                       -Infrastructure development in low income area
CP/MIP              -Housing rehabiLtation tbrough credit scheme                          -Housing rehabiltation through credit scheme
-Kampung Improvement Programme: 412 ha                               -Kampung Improvement Program: 389 ha
-Market Improvement Programme: 19 markets                           -Market Improvement Program: 29 markets



Annex 3
Page 1
Indonesia
Semarang-Surakarta Urban Development Project
DETAILED PROJECT COST
KOTAMADYA SEMARANG
Descriptio                            Ep. million                           US$ milion                      % Base     % Forign
Loal      Foreig         Toal        Local      Forei6g       Total           Cost      Exchange
Water Supply                                 28,160       67,913       96,073        13.4         32.3        45.6         36.5Y         70.7Ye
Drainage & Flood Control                      33,677      16,292       49,969        16.0          7.7        23.7         19.0/e       32.6%
Ur     "& xadsandTrnsport                    43,339       22,052       65,390        20.6         10.5        31.1         24.9%         33.7%
Solid Waste Managentd                          8,074       3,689       11,763         3.8          1.8         5.6          4.5%         31.4%
Sanitatin                                     15,229      10,566       25,795         7.2          5.0        12.3          9.8%o        41.0%
KIPIMIP                                       4,233        2,279        6,512         2.0          1.1         3.1          2.5%         35.0%
Housing                                       4,704        2,533        7,237         2.2          1.2         3A           2.8Ye        35.0 6
Urban Renewal                                   227          122         350          0.1          0.1         0.2          0.1%         350%t
Total Inb truture Base Cost                  137,643     125,447      263,089        65.4         59.6       125.0          100%/        47.7P
Physil Contingenies                           9,290       10,403       19,693         4A           4.9         9.4          7.5%         52.8%
contrct Srvices                               12,834       4,278       17,112         6.1          2.0         8.1          6.5%         25.0%
(Dea Engig Design & Superson)
TechicalAsistance
PPN                                          28,632            0       28,632        13.6          0.0        13.6         10.9%o         0.(WO
Overheads                                     6,868            0        6,868         3.3          0.0         3.3          2.6%          0.0Y
Ovrhwead for lIplementtion                      679            0         679          0.3          0.0         0.3          0.3%          0.0Q%
Routine O&M                                  21,221       11,427       32.648        10.1          5.4        15.5         12.4%         35.0Y
Price Contingencies                          37,686       14,479       52,165        17.9          6.9        24.8         19.8Y         27.8%/o
Tobtl Project Cost                          254,853      166,034      420,887       121.1         78.9       199.9        160.0W         39.4%
SIA hnieD#wing Proect Peiod                  36,127                    36,127        17.2          0.0        17.2
(=dateres Duing Constcion (IDC))
Total Jisndug Required                      290,980      166,034      457,014       138.2         78.9       217.1
D*toroundi& tas may notadd up.
b/ kicudes txs and dutis amuMnting to US$19.6 milln  equivaleDn and land aoisition moting to USS6.7 miin equivalent



Annex 3
Page 2
Indonesia
Semarang-Surakarta Urban Development Project
DETAILED PROJECT COST
KOTAMADYA SURAKARTA
Description                          Rp. million                          US$ million                 % Base        % Foreign
Local    Foreign       Total         Local     Foreign       Total        Cost       Exchange
Water Supply                                 S,926      15,259     21,184           2.8          7.2        10.1      20.4%           72.0%
Drnage & Flood Control                       5,215       5,270      10,485          2.5          2.5         5.0      10.1%           50.3%
UrbanRoadsandTransport                      29,527      13,532     43,058           14.0         6.4        20.5      41.5%           31.4%
Solid Waste Management                       1,881       1,555       3,435          0.9          0.7         1.6       3.3%          45.3%
Sanitation                                   9,094       6,264      15,358          4.3          3.0         7.3      14.8%           40.8%
K[P/MJIP                                     3,882       2,090       5,972           1.8         1.0         2.8       5.8%           35.0%
Housing                                      2,217       1,194       3,410           1.1         0.6         1.6       3.3%           35.0%
Urban Renewal                                  606         326        933            0.3         0.2         0.4       0.9%           35.0%
Total Infrastructure Base Cost              58,347      45,489     103,836          27.7        21.6        49.3       100%           43.8%
Physical Contingencies                       3,811       3,579       7,390           1.8         1.7         3.5       7.1%           48.4%
Contract Services                            5,097       1,699       6,796           2.4         0.8         3.2       6.5%           25.0%
(Detail Engin'g Design & Supervision)
Technical Assistance
PPN                                         11,255           0      11,255           5.3         0.0         5.3      10.S%            0.0%
Overheads                                    3,057          0        3,057           1.5         0.0         1.5       2.9%            0.0%
Overhead for Inplementation                    679          0         679            0.3         0.0         0.3       0.7%/           0.00/%
Routine O&M                                 14,752       7,943      22,695           7.0         3.8        10.8      21.9%           35.0%
Price Contingencies                          15,270      4,771      20,041           7.3         2.3         9.5      19.3%           23.8%
Total Project Cost                         112,268      63,481     175,749          53.3        30.2        83.5     169.3%           36.1%
SIA Interest During Project Period           13,351                 13,351           6.3         0.0         6.3
(="Interest Duing Constrution (IDC)")
Total Financing Required                   125,619      63,481     189,100          59.7        30.2        89.8
a/ Due to rounding, toals mnay not add up.
b/ Includes taxes and duties amounting to US$89.7 million equivalent and land acquisition amounting to US$2.8 million equivalent.



..   ..                                        _ ... .
ligG; . . .. .. ... ... as. Ou. ig.  ... l
ii;~~ Ia. IA   i iii *I                          Ioil
-f  {                       IA   ihr  IA   *.. Io{{ o
. . ...    ... ...             ...  ..  ... 
I   I      ~      ~    1919.        5  99. ...
| ig     ....        ..  ... ..  ..... ..... g   
* igii             90         99  o    iXis. Urt.
.    .i;    . . ... ... ... ... .. ... ... 1
| lii . i. ... ... ... ... ..
p                            ){. .  . g.s . . . . ....... 
I... . ..      .... 0   c ...    ccc c.  9 
*                  eec cc.. -c   to......ie O-f
!I9 I;o   io *v oo     191 ie     Del obe;;l I B nc
C E|         i i       I         v;;;v    
-        wt
ii;;        i_ii;  i_ir_!;_;l;*i__ ;_;               __;;i
_____________________________ 



vwit        %WmN      ltWis      LVst       Om       LL514(    LUA      SWEE    41"la          0                 Lt        W         (l'"     Mrs'  onf       U          SW    tw*it  St    two    am5                   IfL
WI*         EWLI        ULgL     anS                                                                                       Ca  0 *o    l  el    t   .n        .          ,      o       wIt      tu.    wsr             Ma
'E.         twat            ow      n       ,        0.1      0                   0*                                  0.   "         *t       o               a                         at"     on       tE                       .nm,l
Inv.        at         AV         u          u           0                         9               0  0    0                   0 St                   0        0       0        0       0            0 go
16"         0a         ut       0t          0                            9        00  0               0        0                  0          0       0        0            0        0                                    "Ps
W"          WI          (L       MS         E        0        0          0PM                                               0         0        0      0        0                                    
It     Wt        amLL      LS         SlUt    05        0         0 0 a                          0 0       0                                   an tV    O          0                                i
SWP              ISUO      Lut        ',SO'    OmS      0         0         MI           0       0         0                                   (V  0                      0      0         0       LiOM            usp
WIK         gm          0        0    0         0             0          0     0        0                        0         0         0        0      0        0          0      0      0         0       0m              ma
W41         tW1,        16WI     o                   V:I,     0                    E'                         0       0         0       0                                0      0      0         0,      :WIS 
uro         amt         mu       amn        amu   St                               s                                                 *        0      U 0                        0      ON        Sm      LEVIf
Ur&1               EES     0          5       Lt        0          0         W                                       0        0         0      0        8  0"                    son       *       1V          vow"                         P
am0    0         451l5    (EVI        so"    11         0          0         E'           E      0         0          Ss       o         M  0                      0       WEEE'                   art(            PS
WI    OmL        StE'      fO                                                                    0         0         L                   E 0            0          0      0 lonsI't'               0              VWO
gm1         aWE        am55      amW        amVE    :W.E      0          I        :W,              0        0    a         O        0"        0       0                     0.11   (W1          0         lSE       Poem E          sssoeqq"
Urt"EL            5811     lIvES       W"'L    an'      Lm         0        it"S                 0         Li        Howl      0         5     0        0          g EEl         *5'       o       am              P
551   U          ILL'?    a0          0W      0         0         0         0                     0                  jO'      0         158    0                   0.    0UN0             0        It'S           ma
WOm         OWu         an"E    WVE         945      EO       LU         0m       Ut            0      0         tO        a                  0      0        0           E    0         V       0        OS                          aooE
051         aVn        lER?    EE           MV                           SE                    0       0         0         0         am'      0      0        0          0      I      0         5       0               M
EEL'0ce          51555      E:m       :m'S    o                       E     0            0       0         0         0         IsVE     0      0        0                 0      0         0       0                                   MIsMA
411      Km       W1        m        IORu    UIAWE                   R        UUZ       rxL                                 am n  LYW               UN                 ME
sam   -t   ag    =v    VW                         VD    an  Wma    lawsow:a                       mu yGo a           m MEN                  xis;=   aIn"   an-
mP   l.-0    PUS         W       __  __   _  __  _  __  __  _  __  _  __  __   _  __  _  __(. E              00 5  3p 1        -  I        i0 aEO                                 P I_                              __  _  _  _  __n_      _ _  _
2uwnu.s wSpaugsox
gumI Zupuguuj .vuuuns
Z b



Annex 4
Pare3
Summary Financing Plan
Kotamada Surakarta
_.I            0 _  Jd1sV=) _                                                        _                                                     _Td    %1Ow
PA_O   VW    Wm   En   m    MON   SUhSt  110  am  *                                                         *                       EN            AW0  1  A D           WNU           0 - A
^b _ * ^ e e  ~~~o    emw  o.                                                        a"    $W                                    m    TE               TA I                                    w   nu   us bNA
w-                     0          0           0         0                                                                                                                0     2.m0                      0 a              010      20,0a7   e      1      o      1Wn
11~~  0   0   0   0   0   0        0        011312               0           0           0        0               0     23.120          0         0     1302        620     21.114        17060         *1.1%~~~~~~11, "06  sm  *U
&3s4Ows4    ~~~~  0  0  0.03  0    0            0          0        0         0          0          02            0        0             244          0        201     0.510     2.3W      s.w       aUol           u23 usoao m  %W  m  on  u
-"                 .L=            0           0                   0           0           0       7          0            0  0 a                                                    0 I0 0                                         OA"7           130           .7
I4*'7                   a        un       AM            0     0                 0       1          0    0  t            02            0        00                                 M       403       .m        322m                     O.SD0A       MA%0
o00*               24                                                              * 0                                                                                                                                   Lo4 0 4  n 2             2.e0o       "23%
TOM l              1.             0 *                            0, 0                    0  n                0    1.              00            0                                                   u                    UAW    662               140"          r3%
ft wmmmm                    bmsb                 320           0       2342         a         0           0           0        0         0          f                 0              0.2)                       0          0       10          0         0      430           2.200         2.0%
o00                  ns       4.0                                                                     * 0  0a * 0  0  *  0                                                                                        0         0        1*           1*01" So 
Td6s   6                         4.         14                                          1 . 0  0  4          0         0           0            0        0             .022         0          0       21    0              0a1"Al                 .1          0t3
_I I12                                                           0           a         0        0            0          0        0         0          0           a            0        0             20 1                                       a*  *             *0   .  1#*  a s            MW
00                              .0                      0         0           0           0       0          0          0                                                                  0                  0   I       .7D        .00          2.44          0.2
TOM                                                                           l0                                       0                                 0 W22                      0          0 *4       50  44  UU 11.97                       213           243
NMEks                 I~b0O                MUI           0           0         0         0           0           0        0         0          0          00                                 10            0          0       t.o3        0      L0        On0           4.00          4.0%
_                                 00                                                            0                                                                                   0          0         0        0         0          0             0             *.tO
1.04                  to02                    0         0         0           0           0       0          0          0          0            0        0               a.0        0          a        MO2)   01            0       0,0          0.22         41%
SANI"Nwd20                        0           0         0         0           0           0        a         4          0          0            0        0               0          0          0         a       n0o     20         40              so          AOW
000                               0           0  0            0                           0   0         0         0          0            0         0                    0    0                0         0         0         0                        0        0.0
T0                                           0          0                     0           0        0         0          0                       0        0               0          0          0         atO   10        20         4U.t            3           0.7%
oafah.0k4       s"          00b                    04          0           0        a         0           0           0        0         0         a            0           0        0               0          a          a         0       20        4a       20              22          0.JW
font                                       SN?0*          0          0n        0         0           0s        30         0     on         0A             0s          0a                      0                       040  aml  07A   0A         "A       0t            02             03W
Om0                  0N          0n         0m          0                     0           0        0         0        a0           0            0        0               a          0          a         0       N        43*       2.10            10         0WI
frb0m~~~    b3804                N~iL       0m           0n         0       I0             a          0t       0         0t       mm            0IS00 0 a0                                                                     0         0        000           102      l.3%
- S  -               221                                                                                                                                                                              MI)                           2124          2.100 3s 4*&% 2 dX-Ul  AS  %2 "
a__ ~    ~ ~       b. _.0                             0       4.0   0*               0          20         11         0     1.2        2.0            02           0        0           2140      221)          24      2707     2142      1602      2 0            1130          0
00*                030         2.0         1.0          0       72            0           02.0           7.2          02           0            0        0               0          0          0         0         0     1.0       260           11*           201
lUll                  3.3        7*0       UN         72            10        22      2.4      2327        1.2           0)            0        0          1404       1212          24     1772      0.2    177    tK10                              00.0
.ttd                         _.0                        2.12       4.2       4.2       6.3         000         027      010       1          2.0 a       02          0.0      MO              2.0       222         0  *0    1.00    200         20        2000o
I__~~~~~~~~~~~~h 7                                                                                       _017       m.0                                                                      ---    4jp



3O1AOV  NOIIVNIlU&OO    ................... ...
3NI1 UNVWIOO
6883SWAfA3~~~~~~~~~903'0d
116S855                                             *.. l'dOclNNVS
. dllWfI
;8_ S133K)'dd '." 3 dlW    r    U03Mdd 1                                                  1
.....   nad        8N043
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.... . .... .........     ..... . .- . .............. . ...........,,,, , . .,  ...''.........
.    .                !            . 1    '~~~~ ~~.  .5                                 . O  ;   5I8&"A?S
5 i""""""""""' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.......... .,, .,,,,,,V,,. ..... .,,,,,.... ............ .... ,  ..  *""'"j ....... |               { 
813If0~~~Id  A3N~~~OV  II ~~I3A31  i3N3~~~~)V  AON3OV  II~~ 13A31    r U MAMI  flV8O                      N33S           NLO 3S".       N0133
:                                                                                                                                if*  N .  8  S3'.
* ",,-.-,,,.,..,.. ... ..                                                 0  |
. ....... ."                                         . 7 ...2                                          8
..........QW&
'm u LM                 x m      ..... . .... ..,. ......... ...... ................----------------- d|"'''"5  |_ 
._,___;_I___i_.___:        :-| j
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5 _                                       1
I                  S3I IOV          yr. VtI     13A1        I J A1    iIMA1
5       V"/dd)ll                                                         IF
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  . NNI    r *Ns~                                                                                  ic,, .
|                        (W d38 "I |8    |   8N3ddI 0    |  !11                                                       ll                          VH J    
F  0A                                   I                        suw io         1                   119A31II                                        N
NOIVIlN3G1dWI o3roUd HOJ 38Un1Onl1S/NOLLVZINVDUO
iOwoUd IMMWdOQWAM NV8unl VluvvunS - ONVVW3S :IS3NaNI
5 xamIv



AnxeR 6
Papg I
I1-May-94
SEMARANG SURAKARTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUNMARY OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
DrU5S.K____  _.__   ____.______                                                                                                                                         .       . ... _
140.                     SEEOMT4INROECT                            No ow     cm         AL            A T L OST   BET serA          EECRUm                            310 RIMA tE
_________________________________________              __    PAcKAGE    O  F      PACI    F   I  ,N tUSS     MONIII               AGENCY             _ . _  __ ___________o_r__I__
I  M_ MI  MWYi EMA
I  PRO     A OESIINr ADVISORY sVtPROVItctLAND
WCLIJgvWJ:
- PMOVOtWPO 556RAN00* SURAKARTA. PPMOt? PUU     A       t                   60          600        285,036         40 DM                             COS COOPEATlON WITH TX I1  
2        PguTS YEAAPEDR SUERVMSDON (50  KAM   + SKA)5I 10                                   1.50       712.50          126 D1CK                         ON LS COOPATIO1 Wins D1ss
I    I  DROAINAB, LOCAL ROADS, SOLID WASTE. OS4SITESAN, tl3P. MIP
- FED & SUPERVSON sBM5RANo2ND 2    ST YEAR                             1      3550        3,550      L,600,461        275 DIOAS PUTK nSM0
b. IED & SUPERVISJIONSJRAKARTA 2ND - STH YEAR                          t      2225         2,225     1,057.007        102 DINAS PUTK IStKA
VAT7R WmYSBtO
PFfD& SUPERVISION WATBR SUP?LY 2ND *31 YS AR                       2      1136S       11365      5,3s,050       S70 DD4AS PUTK I & RSIATED PDA    SSRANG AND SURAKARTA SEPARATE
3 ErAeoB sacrok
*  FfiD S u?RV1DHi SEWSRA&OR2ND - STU YEAR                           2      S.300          "       2,Sl I 17.035    436 DtNAS PU Tr I & RELATED PDA0 SBRANG AND SVRAXATA SEPAATE
b. SEWER CONNEtN SURVrY AND PROGRAWMINa SURAIARTA                      3       320                     352,019         32 DIAS PU TK t & DAM SKA
DOUsTRIAL LIQUID WASTE ANALYSIS PoR SMO.  SEA                      2       420          420        399.525         42 DINNS PUTK I A RElATED PDAM  SESARAN3 AND SURAKARTA SEAPATB
4  SESSARN SEWERAGEOPTION STUDY                                        3       400          400       10.024         32 DINAS PUT I  IPDAM SM
4   lDL WASESBrEOR
TPA SITSELECTION AND ITS AMDALSEUARANO                              1       000         600        205,036         60 DS PUTb IAND DWAS
KCEBBRSONTXU a5.00
5   AN ROADS gSCTOR
FED  SUPERVISON NATINAL ROADS 2ND * RH YEAR                         1      3,017        3,017     1,433,254        300 ROO - SBMARANa
b  TLuF 3MANAOMENT  LPLMUrATMN PROORAM (sMG + SEA)(5                   I       700          700       332.542          42 RBO * SDjAMRAO
6  DRADIAa SECTOR
PfD&SUPERVISIONMAJORDRAtNAo12ND.STtNYAR                             a      1,671       1,671       703,024         167 DMNS pU CKTK I
7  URSNRAWWALSICTOR
P LT PHIYSCAL DOPROVWM. 0TitiToCARC A O.NCSIRVATION (                  I                    50t       241.330            DD3ICKR LUTI I& DINAS
MIOESC ARMA CONSERVATION STUDY SBMARAN2                                     400                                    40 PERUtAIAN TK I
FfiD  SUPRV5IINFHYSICULRO1Ct                                               toE                                      ItI
b  IIIOWEA UItBASNEiNWAL DTACIONPLAN FORSEARANO                        I       500          550       736342          50 DS PU CK T I AND
FfiD & SUSERVUIODKURBANREC2WAIMOWINOS3.ORANG                                500                                    00 DINAS PBRUMAKANTK n 9MO
WCEOUNY DEVELOIEA1 PoRDURBAN MnAUCrURS DBVT                                 250                                    25
FOltSB R UNtl
c. IOUSNt & MAN RINEAL DEr ACtl   N MOR SURAKARTA                      t       500        1,050       4f1,t2          50 DINA9 PU CKTKI AND
FfiD & SUWEVISODNWUREANREIEWAUOUWEOOWRAKARTA                                300                                    30 D1504 PBRLAANTKUISA
CYh6UNfYDBVBLOlENT IF0RURANINIMASTRUCTU.R W                                250                                    25
FGII SUlBAEATA
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
(f _iVB Fl. BlLAtB9AL PDO5.jOINO WllLL8B SOUGT#i
"  AILBLtUEW   DWLVESIEBACTIEPARIICSPATION OPFTDCTRAL. ROVIALANDLOCALAGCfi
:PRIo3RITY Ct



A6X
Pare 2
I 1-May-94
SEMARANG SURAKARTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
mcla7.wK3                                                                                                        _ ___   ___4)___lt_____
MOt                   8083780m PrO4WT                       mow       CMr    vAL C      TOTAL CoOT     t.6IAw                                         UBMAU(
-PACKUS     8BMfP O)WPAMKOR      wn~        MONTH              AOMWIC            ______________
I nuMllXMMArM3oaYaUVwMPVMLAM
LOCAL5_V
awmaa(AnAIa      &SMAA1hA. MW!MLUA2("n                       I     4.0         4,5W     2.17$.Msi 310 OJCK                           lHCOO3BCRATOWN33/Thl+U
2      ADVA OTAIMAM U                                                              2.2m 8    110 inoas   1          UTK1ADSPAM s
3DAIIAaMM1awcLADMIAGROUDT            3oa(.                         1.3                                  96
)DMJUR ^ALA l BVENWATWRMUS2        KADVU0("n                        700                                 48
a  AgvaauOMI3ANDMAfU8WIW NAhU0                                  1  I.2            1.620     709,4          in SUOD                          00M 000133AT14 WUX 000  uTE
$W r6FOE WOAL MASTRIicnJ8(POaEaSANIS aA ("~
4     AS28AUDWSATW32ADVT 0OASIMMSIAXZAEA                         1     1,2t0       1200      $70.071        84 DICE                      IN SCLOSBOlATM WIMAMASK
IAW2OTATIOADVOa
$  lliQMaaOVafACWNNKA(RlA0
, USLASEA                                                       I RO  1  0         6aS      287.411        40 DIOn 0ATZoS(O               CLOSSOOONRAOUIWNHMOD
1, 8I0SURAEStA                                                  I      304         304      144,418        30 DI8PNDATXUSrA              O                                                >LOOOONTOWffR0
&  tAIDD7,DNTSYSMlU6D                 ' 
L ZMSI#8UWI#                                                    I     1.301       L5        619.952        92 A*B9ATKaSm                 4       Wt 8COOP8TIWISE ANOA
8  tWSUAALTA                                                    I      90          950      4130           62 OASnDATKIIrA             IN CWB8IO 4n WEl ANODA
7  UR3ANMAMAG<UUT  POE F&INFRASS3JIIU                            1     2.500       2.0      1.187,64       1U  SP   nI                        30M8VA0  Elt WTKl 20 S+EA
VVDftNPROGKb                                                                                                                          PSW$b
4  PROIEIMA  AOWTaAelMo                                          I     1,600       1.,0      760.00$           DICW                      P1880).lKw. I# OIB15 lUNC
IV           _
I WIIStALtAMBROPO*ANWATIESY5S  DhYT.S?DY("              t              2.30       2,300     10 7       1 70 DICE                           0IN co18AtIW11w88 Wt xs+S IsxA
2  URIUA?UTSIUDYIORSURAKARTA                                     I      8o          88       48.02          48 8SO -8RAAN                I4CLADSBCOOS8ATISWE TEIISEA
S       3UWLTRE8rNt W SAASD ORNJRAAD B                          1      400         400      100.024        45 D0ASTu1sI ma                (EOSSCOO?86014W1  DIOA
| GICRAND TOTAL                                      |                     LAO8IOC2U
1I nL87)ETTOLVB           71E CDVBrnA      NOPOTiU crD    A PROVnLA I)LOCALAGE N
P&MITYPRm



- 41 -                                             ANNEX 7
Page 1
INDONESIA - SEMARANG-SURAKARTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
9311994      1995  1  1996      1997      1998  |   99        _
ID  Name     _.                .J uaia 141113                              41 I I I      I |   I I |      31 |       
1  KOTAMADYA SEMARANG                       313D   l   W                .   1         19 [_9 ~
2     Water Supply                          313w   - 3  _         ,  , .      ,    ___  , I
3         Detailed Design & Supervision     313w                 iv
4         Land acquisition                260.8w   -         //     /7.   ,//
5         Procurement of equipment        260.7w      1                /       ///             /  
6         Civil works construction          313w                    ,    /_ __
7      Drainage & Flood Control             313w
8         Detaitled Design & Supervision    313w           _  _,_'
9         Land acquisition                208.5w         --                                            li
10         Procurement of equipment          104w               f |
11         Civil works cons tion           260.7w               
12     Human Waste Disposal Management      313w       .
13         Detailed Design & Supervision    313w
14         Land acquisition                1                                           / 56.3w          J
15         Procurement of equipment        208.5w
16         Civil works construction         261w w                                                         E
17     Solid Waste Disposal Management      313w        p m;   11
18         Detailed Design & Supervision    313w      _                   /
1_9 Land acquisiton                                                       .
20         Procurement of equipment        260.6w
21         Civil works construction        260.6w
22     KIPIMIIP                              31
23         Detailed Design & Supervision     313w
24         Civil works construction        260.7w                I        I         I                   1
25     Urban Renewal                         313w
26         Detailed Design & Supervision     313w        _
27         Civil works construction        260.7w
Ii:  I 'i
28     Penataan Bangunan (Fisik)           156.4w      I   W         m
29         Detailed Design & Supervision   156.4w
30         Civil works construction        104.2w            _
31     Urban Roads & Transportation          313w      _                                -
32         Detailed Design & Superison       313w
33         Land acquisition                104.2w
34         Procurement of equipment        260.7w
35         CMI works construction          260.7w
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Project. SSUDP IV Semarang3 - Sure    Critical   Emlyl _"l       Prog3ress    _            Summary 
Date: 1/6/94                      Noncritcal                   Milestone 



- 42-                                              ANNEX  7
Page 2
INDONESIA  SEMARANG-SURAKARTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEOULE
9311994  i1995         1996      1997      1998  11999
ID  Name                                 Duration         33    |            1996       1 3                  | t  _4_
36 KOTAMADYA SURAKARTA                       313w
37     Water Supply                          313w      i       i
38         Detailed Design & Supervision     313w  ' /                                                            1>/7/  g/ W   ,.Y,Mi.%/!
39         Land acquisition                260.7w      .
40)        Procurement of equipment        260.7w
41         Civil works construction        260.7w
42     Drainage & Flood Control              313w      i
_~~~~~~~~~
43         Detaied Design & Supervision      313w            R              /
44         Procurementof equipment         104.2w                                        e
45         Civil works construction          261w
46     Human Waste Disposal Management       313w             _      
47         Detailed Design & Supervision     313w                              /
48         Land acquisition                 52.2w
49         Procurement of equipment        260.7w
50         Civil works construction        260.7w
51     Solid Waste Disposal Management      313w 
S2         Detailed Design & Supervision    313w
53         Land acquisiton                    52wI
54         Procurement of equipment        260.7w
55         Civil works construction        260.7w
56     KIP/MIIP                             31
57         Detailed Design & Supervision     313w
58         CJvl works construction         260.7w
59     Urban Renewal                         31
60         Detailed Design & Supervision     313w                         I         I
81         CMI works construction             52w            _
62     Penataan Sangunan (Fisik)           104.3w
63         Detailed Design & Supervision   104.3w    _l
64         Civil works construction         52.1w            _
65     Urban Roads & Transportation          313w    _                                 m
66         Detailed Design & Supervision     313w
67         Land acquisiton                 158.3w
68         Procuremnent of equipment       260.7w                         I
_ ~      ~~~~~~~~                      I
69         Civil works construction        260.7w
Project: SSUDP IV Semarang - Sura    Critical  _       _        Progress                    Summary
Date: 1/6J94                      Noncritical                  Milestone  *
2



- 43 -
Annex 8
INDONESIA
SEMARANG-SURAKARTA URBAN DEVELOPNMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY OF PROcuREmET ARRANGEMENTSI.
Total Value for                               Number of
CatelrON             Total                CorWract
Contract Details               ICB           LCB         Contracts            ICBa LCB
Semr
1. ClvuNorks
D)rainlage                    -        51,223            29                -        29
KIP/MIP                       -         7,911            10                -        10
Urban Roads               7,812        66,469            40                1        30
Solid Waste                   -         5,146             5                -         5
Sanitation                6,153        17,644             3                1        21
SVater Supply             7,093        39,400             9                1         8
Other                         -         8,851             4               -          4
Subtotal Civil Work          21,058        196,644          100                3       107
H. Goods (Equipmt & Mateia)
Drainage                   1,407         1,444            6                1          5
Urban Roads                    -         1,816            6                -         6
Solid Waste                  600         3,855            15               1         14
Sanitaton                  4,081         1,739            6                1          5
Water Supply              70,721           641             5               3          2
Subtotal Goods               76,809         11,495           38                6        32
Total Semarang            97,867       208,139           138               9        139
Surakarta
1. Civi Works
Drainage                       -         8,233            17               -         17
;iPIMIP                        -         7,099            5                -          5
UrbanRoads                11,001        35,027           29                1        28
Solid Waste                    -          708             3                -          3
Sanitation                 9,730         4,673            8                1          7
Water Supply               6,849             -            2                1          1
Other                          -         4,968            3                -         3
Subtotal CivilWorks          27,580        60,708            68                3        65
H. Goods (Equimnent &   aterials)
Drainage                   3,108           998            5                2         3
UrbanRoads                     -         1,461            5                -         5
Solid Waste                  713         2,729           12                1         11
Sanitation                 1,960         1,479            8                1         7
Water Supply              15,631         2,218             4               3          1
Subtotal Goods               21,412         8,885            34                7        27
Total Surakarta           48,992        69593            102               10       92
TOTAL PROJECT            142M2         77.732           ZdQ                19
/I  All amounts shown are Rp milion Proposed conta  packes are preliminary, and actu arrngemen may
differ.



- 44 -
Annex 9
ENDONESIA
SEMARANG-SURAKARTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
EsTiMATED SCHEDuLE OF Do    _      S
Quarter Ending Profile Cum % Quarterly Cumulative Cumulative
Fiscal Year       c          Loan a    (US$ m)   (US$ m)   % of LOWt
1995        Dec 31, 1994                   3.4        3.4
Mar 31, 1995                  5.8         9.1
Jun 30, 1995      6%           5.8       14.9         9%
1996        Sep 30, 1995                  5.8        20.7
Dec 31, 1995                   9.9       30.6
Mar 31, 1996                   9.9       40.4
Jun 30, 1996     26%           9.9       50.3        29%
1997        Sep 30, 1996                  9.9        60.1
Dec31, 1996                   10.9       71.0
Mar 31, 1997                  10.9       82.0
Jun 30, 1997     50%          10.9       92.9        53%
1998       Sep 30, 1997                   10.9      103.8
Dec 31, 1997                   8.5      112.3
Mar 31, 1998                   8.5      120.9
Jun 30, 1998     74%           8.5      129.7        74%
1999       Sep 30, 1998                   8.5       137.9
Dec 31, 1998                   9.3      147.2
Mar 31, 1999                   9.3      156.6
Jun30, 1999      90%           9.3      165.9        95%
2000        Sep 30, 1999                   4.1      169.9
Dec 31, 1999                  4.1       174.0       100%
Mar 31, 2000    100%
La  Stnard disbursemn profile for Asia, urban projects, from Board approval.
kDisrments Depected to be faster than standard profile in early years due to major
equipment prourement for water supply components.
l, Loan effectveness date assumed as September 1994; LAn closing date: Sep 30, 1999.



- 45 -
Annex 10
page 1
MNONESA
SEMARANG SURAKTA URBA DEVELOPMENT PROJEC
KeU lmplem    on and Performance Indicators
Indicators                                     Reporting           Reportng to:
frequency and
responsibility
1. Availability of funds                       Annual
By sub-sector, for next fiscal              (1) PFO, by         (1) CPFO
year, from Pusat, Level I and                  city
Level II Governments                        (2) CPPO,            (2) TKPP/IMG
consolidated        and IBRD
2. Procurement progress                        Quarterly
Status report, by sub-sector,               (1) PMO/PMU, by   (1) CPMO
against original plan, showing                 city
ICB and LCB separately                      (2) CPMO,            (2) TKPP/IMG
consolidated        and IBRD
3. Expenditures against plan                   Annual
By sub-sector, for this fiscal              (1) PPO, by         (1) CPFO
year and to-date, including:                   city
-local government funding prcenag          (2) CPPO,            (2) TKPP/IMG
for O&M requirements                          conolidated         and B1RD
showing funding by Pusat, Level I
and Level U, and IBRD
4. Disbursements from IBRD Loan                Quarterly
By sub-caegories, as in loan                CPFO                 TKPP/IMG
agreement, for the qurter,                                       and IBRD
this fiscal year and to date
5. Physical progress                           Quarterly
By sub-sector, including:                   (1) PMU/pMo,         (1) CPMO
-solid waste collection coverage              by city
-access to sanitation facility             (2) CPMO,            (2) TKPP/IMG
against plan, for the quarter,                 consolidated        and IBRD
this fiscal year and to date



- 46 -
Annex 10
page 2
6. Environmental Issues                        Quarterly
By sub-sector, against plan,                (1) PMUIPMO,         (1) CPMO
with explanatory narrative, if                 by city
required                                    (2) CPMO,            (2) TKPP/IMG
consolidated        and IBRD
7. Resettlement Issues                         Quarterly
By sub-sector, against plan,                (1) PMU/PMO,         (1) CPMO
with explanatory narrative                     by city
(2) CPMO,           (2) TKPP/IMG
consolidated        and IBRD
8. RIAP                                        Annual
Progress against plan, this                 (1) PPO, by         (1) CPFO
fscal year and to date                         city
(2) CPFO,           (2) TKPP/IMG
consolidated        and IBRD
9. PDAM Monitoring ndicators                   Annual
including:                                  (1) PDAM/PMU/    (1) CPMOICPFO
-piped water supply coverage                  PFO, by city
-unaccounted for water (UPW)                (2) CPMO/CPFO,    (2) TKPP/IMG
Progress against fore Jsts this                consolidated        and IBRD
fiscal year and to date
10. TA / Consultng Services                    Quarterly
Progress against plan,                      (1) PMU/PMO,         (1) CPMO
especially start date                          by city
(2) CPMO,           (2) TKPP/IMG
consolidated        and IBRD



$8IARANG4URAKARTAURIAN OEVELOPMdT PROJECT                                   Kotamadva Semaranci - Financial Projection                                                                                         Annex 11
Page 1
R98 MMan
Groe8h      Pect Period 19495. 19989                                 Gowh
INCOMEIxpENXEfUE                   19s889    19890   1990.91   19912   199M273        Re    1993194   1994195   1995196   t99697   1997198   198199        Rate   193992000 2C000t   200102   20023   200304   200405
559      s71       1320     3419      1078   9093   S              PROJECT3ONS                                      3-99                PROJECTIONS
LOCAL REVENUE                                       1I        l         1        -                   -2                                      1         1                   2                            -1        2
LoC Tames                              8786    6O62       8,151     8,917     9.880    0%         9.8S62    13.925    16.963    19,739    23.150    27.25   18%       30.969    35204    40.028    45,484    51.709    s8807
L    aC4ieggs                          5,474    6.884     8.489     9,297     9.470    6%        11.755    12382    15.481    17,502    20,440    24.417   17%        27,821    31.623    35.828    40c533    45.872    51.904
Laea E ruaea                            217       289       479       634       512    3%          524       707       825       962      1,123    1.311   17%         1.33      1,794     2.098     2,455    2.872     3359
Dqerm bm                                613       688       680       749       453                464       625       730       852       994      1.160              1,357     1.588     1.857    2,173     2.542     2.973
'3ligrfteeues             _839                   1.440    2.984     2278      3.85                 60        68        830       950      1,109     1329               1.655     1,820     2.130     2,493    2.917     3413
0OTA=OALRE VENUE                      13.488    1.715    22.002    25.295    25.274    7%        23.209    28.337    34,829    40.005    468817    55.473   14%       63,237    72,029    81941    93.137   105910   120498
ASSIGNED REVENUES                         -1                                      I                   I                  I                  .1         I                                       1           1      1
ILorda ad"q Tax                        1,511    2Z141     3,069     3,065     3.915   13%         4,689     5.895     7,006     8,324    9.887    11,739   20%        14,096    16.927    20.326    24.408    29.309    35.195
g               _w Aaknud ReWfMS        130       228       492       642     1.118               .683      1.855     2.049     2.269     2.519    2.801    11%        3.128     3493      3.914     4398     4951      558"
ITOTAL ASSIGNE  REVENUJES              18640      .389     3.561     3.707     5,034   19%         6.4       .8       90806    10.5903   12,408    149541   18%        17.221    20,420    24,241    28 805    34.261    40,7831
GRANTS FROI HIGHER LEVELS                                              -1        -1                   1                  1         1                  -2                  -1                   1
RukmE3aea'Grt                          8,108    7,041     7.832     8,929    W0M629    6%        12,486    14.581    17,031    19.895    23,244    27.160   17%       31.739    37.093    43.354    50,676    59.239    69,253
Paetewm Gut                                                                      93                 112      119       126       134       12        151    6%           160      169       179       190       201       214
Rodsasa                                           879       994     1,600     1,791   34%         1,925     2.041     2.163    2t293     2.431     2,577    6%         2.738     2,909     3.090     3.283    3.489     3.707
Ogw  ruaGrama                          3,048     2.822    6.540     8,152     9,879   23%        11,588    13.519    18,814    16,499    21,640    25.315   17%       29.613    34.141    40.523    47,404    98.453    64.868
SSUDP  SPAsB    M                                                                                           4875      60857     8372    1o,173     7.416
TOTALGRANTS                           11.153    10.442    15366    16.680    22,391   21%        26.080    35.135    41t192    49i194    57630    62617    19S        64249    74,812    87,147   101,53   118 382   138042
LOANS RAISED                      -4
OSIIrFO                                7,853     6.748    2.866     7.939     2300
SS8UOP UDLs                                                                                                 4.000     3,708     8.130     7.243     4                                                                     2921
TOTAL M     om                         7.853    6.748     2.6       7           300                  0      4.000     3705      5130     7.243     4.923                   0        0         0         0         0
EICOLMK E                         34.134    36.274    43.54    5621    54,99    13            558632    75.223   68.781   104922   124-096   137 884   20%        144,707   167.261   193 330   223,496   2MM53    9
ROUTINE EXPENDITURE
IR ^m* e t                            14.68    14.=22   t18242    22.552    25,653   19%         30.839    34,140    37.685    42.142    48.991    52,523   11%       58.898    66.106    74,425    83.9a2    93.974   107,639
ssu 0P      - alcre leO &                                                                                   3.326     3.776    4.589      5.332    8.07                6.46      6.848     7.248     7,673    8.125     8.603
ojriaSmcl                               789      1.489     1.972     1.773    3,042               5.321    10365      9292      4839      3.928    9372                9.1t0     8929      86D0      a319      9039     77s8
TOTAtROUTIEEMPEN IURE                 158670    16281    20,214    24,325    28695   19%         36.160    47,831    50953    81.570    56.251    68.002   13S        74,431    S1M8I    90.273    99,974   111138   124000
OEKLOPMENT EXPENDITURE
SSU P -  Tkil Prum                                                                                         13.346    15.339    22.022    26,278    16.026
OVW     =mro_                         180M7    18.694    19.959    30.281    20.850    2%        19472    14.046    22.489    31.330    4.566    53.526               70.27     85380   103.057   123522   147.415   175281
TOTAL tCVELOPUENT EXPENDITURE    1t8017    t6.694    19.959    30.321    20.850    2%            19.472    27.392    37,828    63.382    67.644    69,552   18%       70.275    85.380   13057   123522   147A45   175,281
TOTALEXPENDtTURE                      33.687    34.976    40.173    4.606    498544   11%        558632    758223    88.781   104,922   124.094   137,553   18%      144.707   167.261   193328   223496   268.553   299,281
IDE3TCERAGERATIO                         106        7.7      7 7       8.7       5.0                 21        13        21       4.9       7.7       41                  51        6.3       79        97       108      1471



RAN          RTAURBAJ4O  O6%694TPROJUCT                                 Kotamadya Surararta - Financial Pro&ection                                                                                        Annex 11
Page 2
"Kw  loam  icetssssd hu 1R- 198 I9
WCOSIUPINITURfl           E       19889 198S0   199081   119182   1992193            RR      19304   10946   1996196   199687   1907196   1698             R9ale   10680  2061   20187   20023   2034   20048
t0093 t9              PROJECTONS                                     90.3                 PROJ"CTIONS
LOCALREV~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UU                                                                              -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1  -1  I
LoctlTa                               1.716     1.918    2194      20        2.70s   11%         2.4       3.617     4.        4.926    5,714     6.700   18%         7.347     6.03      8.82s     9.687    1O.64o    11.6o
tLaociO a                             3,744     4,413    4,762      M770     6.327   16%         6.488     7.403     9o0    90,720    11,181    12111    13%         132b0    14,487    15p,87    17253    18,.6    20.671
Lodbt4_esw                              so        so        63        97       11s   35%           137      t44       165       16s       175       184    6%           198       207      210       232       240       261
D       q _n6%m.                        6S        70        92       to?       148   26%           140       182       175      181       too       20   8%             2t7       230      244       259       274       290
MO-T         R    "                                                  "731  134  231  162  1st      1        22        231       24        260       277    12           29        311      329       340       370       392
~OtM. LO C RE SNU8        -           6ses3    -s8814    7.3I  :   8.72      9.492   14%         9.s66   11.642    13.ees    15.2U      17.620    19.484   15%       21301    232S7    25A28    277E0    30.366    33184
AED a 043t Tax                                                                                                                                                           -1
I Lat_&~W Tel                          666       823      1.066     1.213    1.408   16%         1.600     2.424     2,7U8    3,096      3.647     3.98A   tn%        4.746     6.646     6.718     7.999     9.603    11.3081
-  AftUgdRev.uma                       70       134       187       222       824                 940       862       970     1.092     1230      1.383    %          1.S30    1.692    1t671      2070      2230      2.34
TOTALASS6I#      REtENUES              628       967     124S      134       t232   34%          t740      32S7      3.723     4.1U     4.77      5.373    1          6,275     7.337         .ss7    to.o6s   it.7s3    13,30s
iGANT8FR0  IC*MH6  LEWO                                                                                                                                                   1               .58                    1
R    Eiai          t                  3,7      4,401     3.829     4,438     5.648   20%         69249     7.0a0     724       8.932    10.069    1.360   13%        12780    14.410    16l238    18.2S7    20.617    23233
Ric        t                           40          0         094      36        81                  34       89       100       112       126       142   33%           16        17        188      206       226       248
Roa~bWmsQu4                            460      1.490      934      1,463    1.625   28%         1.747     1.82      1.963     2.81     2.206     t.338    6%         2479      2.627     2.786     2,962     3.129    3.317          I
OOwhyresRR4                           t136s     1,439    2t71      3,887     4.035   23%         4649      6.129     6.780     6.616     734s     8281   13%          0.330    10.523    11.S3    13.373    15.076    16.994
M OM                 tus                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2.997  6.62  6286  6.371  6.1
LOTMN SRAIIlS                         5666      7.339    7.496     s.633    tt2S9   23%         1tS7S    17.096    21s69      22928    26118    28.623   18%         24,768    27.732    31.073    34.828    39s04    43.792
O1R0 p.                                597       432 226
"S8  8RP I -ALm                                                                                         2.690     I'm9      1.964     2.189     2j170
TOT A NS                        697       422                             0 M                        690         6      I4       2tE89     2 170                        0             0         0         0
TOTAL                                12672    1563       18t,03    20B      23,013   20%        27        34.14    4119       44       6603    66649    1            52335    s.357 2s08s    72668    81207
RWTINE   W1ENMURE
BRud                                  7.879    9.413     9,53    11251    13,6E4   19%         16,083    16.9o    17,957    20,27    2t7s9    25,632    11%         28.462    31.624   3U,142    41.059    43,418    4827S
ISsuo1P.hU1e_O                                                                                             1.688     1.892     2214      3.207    3,724               4.078     4.319     4.575     484       5,134     8.43e
loebISmnIcO                  ~~~~      ~~~~493  76  1.110  1.176    1.174               I.20       923       88        844       782       708               3.617     3.14      294        82      264        .8
1eT0    R         E    UR372    t0t166    10,703    1242B    ION    18%                         16;284    18.46t   20.734    23275    26.74       30.054        0    307    39.087    42i71        467472   51          22
DEVEtOPWNENT       4ff 2674                                                                                                                       3004          0      197      9 E                    4 
081 DJ.9Pr  6F8,4    i.Aoo                                                                                                     9.366    11,900    12,387
Obr0@_4P_                             4.320     -260      6.16    7?618      8.472   24%         8,a9      9,169    1o2ss    11.678    11.9t      1320s               1B27S    19,26     22,377    26.919    30.112    34.851
TIMOTPEUT6J                   RE      4.328     5260      6.616     7618     &472   24%         8aast    18.063    20.460    21.33    23855    2563S   18%            16276    19288    32377    25010    30112    34.851
T%OTA EXPE EmR                       12.       18424    16.218    20.045    23.330   20%        26.175    34.614    41t194    44?208    50.603    a6.604    1%       S62.336   ss367    83088    72S6B    S1,207    S0824
1                                        48cERA o  i.s o7 46           .8 3s  33                              4.7       64        70        8.2      9.7                 22         .        36       122        665M



PDAM Semarana - Key Financial Indicato                                                                                                                    Amnex 12
Page 1
P1MM Kftatpfuy S,MMg                                                                                 A01601
AUmWu    e - P1M       K 611  x 0e IW                                                                                               MCtrOrORINe (NOICATORS                                                             ONORt3 INaCAToRs
I   _    _S AOCUWAATEO                                          190        100       100       101       1002      1003       1004      19fS      10#e      1ff7      108        1009t     20lo0     201 2g02            2003      200        2005
TARIFFt 8REW ASMSUMEO                                          Auit d   Aj*d    Au4    Ax0               Am          55%        Du      2as         0%        11%        0        1ts        0%       11%         0%       11%        0%       11%
tSlPPI.YA4  DEMNO
PcPIbi.0                                                      1201.0    124.0  1i..2   .274A1   1.20A4    1.25.    1351.7    .WSA    1406.0                 434O    14e2.s   1AS01       1621.3    1,5516    1.62.5   1,614.0   1,646.1    1678.6
is podopsMI                                                      0.0%     2t.6%     24.2%     32.6%      36.0%     30.0%     40.7%     44.J%     4.0%       643%      606 %     63.t%     60.66    71.t        73n896    75.7%     77.6%     79.2%
M1v6Ntc_M.       M-woe                                          2944      31.20     46.78      5620      6145      66.17     74.17     06.17    102.17    1181.7    13417    150.17    100.17    176.17    1e6.17    1te.17    20617    216.17
.klCoMedumm.000                                                            1.76     15.5e      6.6        6.16      4.72      8.00     12.0      1too       16.0     1s60       1600      16.00  10.00 tO      10.00     10.00     10.00     10.00
Cmn6UM0MMANOCgOu0                                                36.1      363        242       20.6      28.8      27.0      27.1       20.1      2.        24        262       259.      259        26        27.0      274       27.       20.2
FW08tV&M.SOid-0003                                               124       13.2       13.6       7.e      21.1      22.1      24.2       27.0      32.8      37A       42.1      46.6      51.7      S62        0.2       644       66.?      732
56.   eM0g6*r01mw                                                 54%       4%        56%       47%       46%        45%       44%       40%       36%        33%       20%       26%       20%       20        20         20%       20%       20%
PAMMgwn.mPm64c6-MM u'ow                                         27.17     26.02     30AS      32.07      36.64     4040      43.00     45.00       0O.      5,.77     tsse      03W7      00.03     75S.7       1.20 e2.01         82.75     08.02
P1M IWi          CapbcOyt-Mf6adv                                4.20      46.20     40.20     48.20      43.02     430       83.10     62.76     627e       76.2      78295     76.28     01.23     012        01.23    10821    106.2      10.21
Wpudm I    I  un8oT-Mm2m                                       6.00      0.00       0.00      6.00      6.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00      6.00      0.00       0.00
MM Ro*Mbn ad Piidm   -  ff0                                     27.17     20.02      30.a      32.97     36.04     4040      43.       46.0       60.es     55.77    6Soe 8      3.0a7    692       75s7        1.28     66.01     92.75       0.2
MAWN83ffW
O*MA*oow06RUA-                                                    475       308       224       1s0        sI         so        60       0so        e0        0o        60         6o       6o         60        0o        6o        6o         0
be" d        _,..                                                220        216       561       507       673        673      t#t       1034      1228      1416       11o       1062      IS        1762      1862      1002       2082      212
EN*%ympom 100 0       0_dIi                                       7.6       7.0      11.s       10.8       63        6.7      12.0      12.0       12.0      i2.0      12.0      11.0      1.O       10.        10.0      10.0      to        1o.0
%_        #of,IM., w                                           MA         .2.7%     62S%        0.3%     .4.0%      0.0%     66.3%A     12        1.6%      1.%       13.0%      2.6%     10.7%      46%        6.7%      5US       5t1%      4.%
PROJerT 01WLOPMEN
D iPissti Cad (R MM"b                                                                   0         0         0          0    14,088    36,760    e3.et0    82.116   121.400    U7,510   155425   108110   10SD1eS   212.242   21,37t   224,t93
ftakoA t        Q.6OM (SM(LUto                                                        0.0        6.        0.0       0.0       7.1       17.5      30.3      43.0      67*       76.1      n.3       9003       00.      1.oo8     103.7     108*
a ki"Z   OP Pri LOW (Rtp MM=                                                            a         0         0          0     4.762    1e8120    37.40    57.T8    78440    06.63         06,633    06M3       00.33    96.93 e0           033 .8
autJIDPPs*gIAU nJSfUI)                                                                0.0        0.0 e      .0       0.0       2.3        to       17        27.3      37.3      46.0      46.0      40.0      48.0       46.0      40.0      46.0
WebIaum       t                                                  0.0% o     .0%      6.0%       0.0%      0.0 O.0% O           .1%     23.1%     47.7%      73.3%    100.0%     23A4%    123AS    123A4%    123A%    123A% I13%    121,.4%
FKM
POO  Pr.dA   DidCoi.Rphn3pv&mW                                    00        116        s6s      103       220       217        290       340       201       422       466       6          031       no0       5M0 St1             626        663                     .5
POWMM Iw6       *MW_id- R 3pA      Id                             164      t1t        23        33        37n       370        6s1       s78       61        tt4        702       6ss       Mt        004        M07      DI5       67          Mr7
606,Wtgr Rise. Rp5 b04                                                                                              697        630       e84       7et       739       7         02         M         81        Be       1.01      1,7       1,135
Pl    CMgtSd ^ ,ftodD.eRt-te  odd                                 337       376       647       662       064        678       017       003       955       075        M       1         1.205     I.220    t1224       12s       tts.17    121O
AM WPOW T rt           0.hues                                     216       278       406       371       413        826       036       784        Ms       06.        007     1.002     1,48       1.164     1,170     1.311     1,2       1.B8
Am3t3lmrwus                                                               26.%      456.%      436    11S          5.S        0.0%     23A%       14.%       S'S      -1.0%      9.0%      ..3%      11.0%      0.%      12.0%      0.7%     12
Cubfosttos"C COO8 Re0.946                                           0        A        2.3        1.        3*        2.        0.0       0.3        1.2       2.        1.6         6       I.5 A      I A       1.2       1.1       14        2.0
RoftmRmoi A                            .on%o=                                       *7 .4.%  .6.1%  7A%    ..%  54%  4%       O.5%      3.5%     7?%        6.0%       e.        9.3%      6.s%     1O.6%      9.7%      123%      12%       17,1
% Oft       OetDm                                               soe* 80%  500.0%   643%      73.2%      55.3%     6.0%      662%      ss.1%    58.7%       0ees%    6D0%       67.0%      2t1%     454%      36.0%      2.3%      2r.1%     21.%
CaNsTAMr 19tt PRUCE MMLYSS
POAM Pod.OIPCod   .R         pts PW d                             o10       168       1s$        m3       242       217        210       308       324       341       3 6 70e                       3ts        351       362       M4?       34
PDWPxdV                . .C es      g                            222        283       298       400       404       362        420       452       467       484       802       836        812       462       473       464       434       425
pooftPsv w flouif   who              _                           223t       261       3o        408       406       370       4ef        st        5M         s         M        on         a"        on         M        s oo                472
Wf0T%icdRi10 .RO 4bMr                                              a          0         8         0         0 o57              867       597       867       807       807 0M7 M87                    607        97       5it7      087       t7
PA0odsafSd4,wMotoWR.oosdd                                        285        311       408       418       445       360       460        M0        607       we         M8       403        4ss       474       474       475       460       470
Pl EW   Iuid*f&     id0W      tu3o-    M                          M         407       er7       784       744       86         799       793       230       723       71i        7st8     606        651         B       027                  7 sn
POA   todd       t. ki0. . ReA                                   489t      612        817       784       761       676      eoa         ows       ttto 747            781 M38             070 7Mt8 7on  we M             7         6M4       eV7
hmOu7u (Rm                                                        313       319       612       429       464       et6        602       705       763 7M2             740        7         721       78        72s       7M7       73        710
_MT MN(ItM)                                                                           567       400       3t        821        400       52 M       4t41     5         st8        32       402        810       480       33        474       408
hunqlwIwmu                                                                2t.       3%  *        2%       5.8      3%        .2        1.           M        3,t7    4.%         4.1%     41%        5M2      .4.7%        M2% * 41%          M.
u t"iu"t                i TOW16                                                                         .2%        362       .4.S%     11S7%      .7?A%      3.4%      ?A%       2.5%  te ss         38%       4.0%      4.0%      40%        5Di
UU,(Re108_bs,Is,eoAu                                            t34        451        210       208       278       282       201        20        30        317      3S27       23         34        357 3ts             37x  m              402
ORmoAL P88=ft 9WTOB rRS IOt1
VAWILE OS9RMClTR                                            Mt tM %420R) AVt AGI                                                   VAR1A8E OR 833CAtY                        ONO= tMt IERASE
Co. .lA                                                                   S,681     4.61                                             Mcou6     40F.W     lt3 ( g                  1.       1S.3       4.3
04k--96hP6Ift p6806                                               1.1       6A4       4.                                            DhostC Rp  ibb, 3Ya  An (                     1.2      II.?       39
R@R11RdAnatit                                                    4A        7.4%      1.S t6S                                        DeW+ow                                      05.3%   3.7%   t7.1%
-             -         -         -         -         -         -         --_-                                    -__ __                                          --



SEMARANG.SURAKARTA URBkAN DEVELOPMENTPROJECT                         PDAM Surakarta - Key Financial Indicators                                                                                    Annex 12
Page 2
IWEL.L ONLY DEVELOPMENT
I INTEREST ACCUJMULATED                                 1989      1990      1991     1992      1993      1994     1995      1996     1997      1998      1999     2000     2001      2002      2003     2004
Tariff Iuncase Assumfed                                    0%       0%        0%      S0%        0%       25%       0%       25%       0%       30%        0%      30%        0%      12%        0%       12%
DEzMAND
POPULATION OF SERVICE AREA.- 000                          525      531       535      539       545       549      554       560      564       570       574      579       584      W88       593      596
POPULATION SERVED             .000                        184      204       208      227       230       263      279       293      310       328       338      381       364      378       383      393
Numberof Conrections                                   20,727   21,458   23,086    24.355    25,253    29,790    32,460    35,131    38,293   41,562   44,089    46.082   49.346   51,614    53.882   56.170
Increae in Coqiaclona                                              731     1,629     i.269      696     4,537    2,670     2,671     3,162    3,269    2.528      2.592    2,684    2.268     2.2658    2.286
Consuimplion M3Manthironneo,                             33.2      35 4     360       35.5     38.1      33.4      32.8      32 3     318       31.2     309       31.0     30 4      300      295       295
Forecast VolumeSold     - 000M3a                        8.247     9,122    9,974    10.380    10,927    1 1,945    12,771    13.606    14.594    15,5661    16.348    17.368    17.9188   18,553    19.103    19.897
% Unaooounted-for Water                                 39.3%     41.1%    368%      36.0%    340%      310%      280%     260%      240%      220%     210%      200%     200%      200%     200%      200%
Water Productio       - 000 M3                         13,594    15.474    15.793    16,219   '16,556    17.312    17,738    18,386    19,203    19,960   20.694   21,710   22,483    23.191    23,879    24,871
MANAGEMENT,
IIDays Accounts Reevble                                  145      III        60        58       75        75       75        75        75       75        75       75        75        75       75        75
Numberof EmnpIoe                                          245      245       259      264       265       310      334       358       387      416       441      467       493      516       539      562
Employees per 100oconnections                              1 2      1 1 1    I          1 1      10        10       10        10        10       10        10       10        10       10        1 0       10
% Increase #ofewnploiees                               $NNA        00%      57%       19%       04%     17 0%      77%      72%       81%       75%      60%       59%      56%       47%      45%       43%
PROJECT DEVELOPMENT
U,n
Cwuml Prqect Cost.- SSUDP (Rp MA)                                              0        0       370      5479    20282    27541    31641    33879    33879    33879    33879    33879    33879    33879                 C>
CimuI Project Cost .US$ iIIlon       2010                                    00        00        02       27       101      13 7      15 7      169      16.9      169      189       169      169      1169
Cumultlve OtlwIenvestmlent (Rp M)                         805     1323      1798     2456      2456      2475     2492      2495     2498      2502      5467     9518    12816    1588       19129    24145
DisbursemeNnt Profile, IUIDP                                                          00%       11%     162%      59 9%    813%      934%    1000%    1000%    1000%    1000%    1000%    1000%    1000%
FINANCIAL
Tariff in current prlcs (Rp/M3)                           248      248       245      291       406       444      495       559      624       720       818      950      1071     1131      1202     1283
Avwrage tariff inrease                                             01%      -12%     184%      398%      95%      113%      129%     116%      154%     137%      160%     128%       56%      84%       671%
Contributton toinvestment -Ave of3 years                                   146%    166.4%    1729%      286%      17 1%     157%     34 1%    241%    1569%       64 6%    89 4%    144 0%    1595%      00%
R oR on Reaued Assets excl mnt                           50%      .0 6%     -54%     -24%      35%       69%       24%      -0 1%     0 7%     41%       41%       98%     142%      136%     156%      183%
% Debt on Debt plus Equdy                               6268%    61.5%     599%      58 3%    470%      474%      606%     64.2%     64 7%    63.7%     814%      568%     512%      4586%    401%      34 4%
1993 CONSTANT PRICE ANALYSIS.
AvenegeTariff(RpM3)                                       343      322       295      320       406       421      445       476      503       551       594     5353       898      698       704       712
H-ousehmold Tariff (RpIM3)                                                   306      332       362       386      407       434      457       498       534      582       823      626       627      630
TarifIncreas                                                     .59%       -8 4%     82%     27.1%      3.8%      55%      70%       5.8%     94%       7.8%     100%      89%       01%      0.8%      11%
Saswy (Rp 000)ftnmt0weelt-th                              335      358       295      337       347       358      368       379      391       403       415      42?       440      453       487      481
Opeatona Eiipend./M3 Sold                                 230      286       303      327       345       351      372       394       392      387       385      380       383      384       387      391
CRITICAL FINANCiAL. INDICATORS
VARIABLE OR INDICATOR            1994-2003            ANIMMU   MAX0MU  AVERAGE                                          1994.2003                     MINIMU   MAJMU  AVERAE
Cash                                                    1.501    13,635    6,442                                        Debt Seivice Ratbo                1.0      04        27
Cash l UMonth Operatirg Expenses                          3.4      115.      88s                                        Contr to invest.- Ave 3Yeam       116%    180%       73%
Twoif InreaeConsan Pri-                                  0.1i%    100%      5.7%                                        Dayps Accounts ReceovatiI         76        75       75
R oR on Revakied Asetsexcl. 1st                         -0.1%     15.8%     7.1%                                        Oebt/(detit + equity)            40%       65%       56%



- 51 -
Annex 13
INDONESIA
Semarang - Surakarta Urban Development Project
SUMMARY OF ECONOMIC EVALUATION
SEMARANG
URBIA ROADS
Investmen Costs             ERRs                   M     h
(in Rp ndillon)          (avenage)              BWC Ratios
Five New  rIdges                     8,232                   37%                      0.7
NineWIdening                         4,395                   44%                      1A
Twenty-three Rec!ng                 22,719                  450%                      1.3
DRIAGE & FLOOD CONTROL
Affeted Atea             Current           icrease in Land Va       1/
(ha)            Land Value (RpIm)         Required (RpAn)
East Seinaran                        273                    15,000                  28,000
Central Semnarang                     41                    20,000                  62,000
WedSemaran                           540                   150,000                  1515
WATER SUPPLY
*FRR                                           13%
I(AM nvesSnwt & Opmea      from 1994 to 294)    1
SURAKARTA
URBAN ROADS
inwesirmnt Costs            ERRts                  Minimum
OIn Rp m_Ion)            (average)               BIC Ratios
AN Ring Road (New Road)             11,549                   17%                      1.7
TlWee Wn                             240                     31%                      1.3
8even Res_racin                      8,634                  t50%                      3
DRAINAGE & FLOOD CONTROL
Affected Amea            Current           Increase In Land Value      I
(ha)            Land Value (Rp;m2)       Requred (Rphn)
Five Sub-projects                    109                    70,000                            71,600
A. Yanl Punm Staion                   2                                 2/
WATER SUPPLY
IFRR                                           1296
(AR kinvem s & Ope      fron ftm 1994 to 2004)
Notes:
1/ Inaeases I nd Wvalue required to break-een wIth Invsstment and O&M cos
2 Beneft are due to u hnired road affic, curently Imeded for seral hous
during and after anls, rthr an to land vae  eases.



- 52 -
Annex 14
Page 1
SEMARANG - SURAKARTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Location:              Lowe Kai Banger (river), East Semang
Resettlement Site.     Kaang Roto, 7 km fauth  east
Co/suttSurvey Results (84%fe parficipation)
Suf  rt for the Trpe of omploymef                                           t
Fully Agree                             13%              Private sector                        30%
Agree                                   75%              SmaUl business                        20%o
Not agree                                2%              Government & miitary                   90/0
No respmse/opinion                      10% Y            Infonna sectr                         18%
Other                                23%1
Reocatloo Preferences
Resettle to kamang Roto                                     52%
(Seviced plots)
Move with cash compensation                                 1Wo
-Note decide (at time  _suv)                                30%
Consultaion with Reseiving Popultion in Karang Rote
Overall support for new resetlement                                                        94%
Need pubLhc health center                                                                  570h
Need better trsporta    facilities                                                         53%
Need local mar                                                                             38%
Need improved water supply, sanitation & draiage                                           24%
INeed improvements to electric power suppl                                                 200%
Note: All the impvm       requ ested above will be impmented by the City of Seang m Karag Roto
as part of the projec
AGREED RESETLMENT BUDGET FOR KARANG ROTO
Item                         Unit              Cost ln Rp.
LId                   Land & Compesation                                                 377,400,000
Survey & Site Plans                             7.5 ha              9,125,000
Site Prepartion                                 7.5 ha            150,000,000
Alowance              Relocation Allowane                                                  6,390,000
House Construction Allowmce                                        95,850,000
Infrasruncture        Access Roads (earthwos)                         2.5 klm            214,725,000
Water Supy Stdpipes                              10                65,000,000
ToiletBathig/Washing Facilities                   6                37,200,000
Drainage                                       2.5 kmn            246,925,000
Sodal                 Heat Care Facility                                 1                15,000,000
Faciitis              Local Madret                                       1                10,000,000
StreetLighing                                  2.5 km               7,500,000
Surfcing of Acess Roads                        2.5 km             150,000,000
Primay School                                     1                48,000,000
(Non M uslim) Cemetuy                             1                 2,000,000
Complition of Commmny HSl                         1                25,000,000
Small Mosque & Churc                             2+1               45,000,000



- 53 -
Annex 14
Page 2
IMPLEMENTATION OF
SETLEMBNT & REHABILTATION PLAN
OvSqll Responsibility:     City of Semarang through the Secretary & the Head of Bappeda II
(J)    Drahge Project -    under Public Works Agecy of City of Semarang - responsible for
clearing land and construct  drain of Kali Banger; will take over
land after affected families have moved.
(ii)   KEP Projet -         under City of Semarang Housing Agency - responsible for
implementation of physical infr cture improvemens in Karang
Roto resettlement site.
Oiii)   R         Project - under City of Semarang Housing Agency - responsible for land and
compensation aspects, payment of allowaces, plot allocations, house
constucon assistance, social facilit, issuing of land ctificats
("titles"), headed by the Resettement Project Manager, assited by
the municipal team for land acquisition.
Responsibility:    BAPEDALDA (Semarang municipal environmenal protection agency)
Support by:       NGO involved in original consultation.
Based on:         Data from surveys & inteviews.
Intervals:        6 monfts and 2 years after completion of land acquisition.
Ky hndlcators:    Completion of physical infastructure
Completion of social facilities
Qualiy of services
Faimess & adequacy of compenation & allowances
Satisfaction with overall arrangements.



- 54 -
Annex 15
"SPABP Spedal Grant" Channel Financing
Sub-project components to be financed by IBRD loan proceeds which are passed as
grants to local level through the SPABP channel will normally also have a counterpart financing
amount from the local govermments' own revenue sources (PADS, normal Inpres grants, etc.).
Local governments will prepare each year a draft budget submission representing their
implementation plans for sub-projects to be financed from SPABP special grant in the forthcoming
budget year of their approved medium-term expenditure program (PJMs). These draft budgets would
be submitted through the Province (with review by the provncial Technical Team (PPMU)) to central
government. After central review by Bappenas, Ministry of Finance and Ministry of Home Affairs.
DG Budget of the Ministry of Finance would issue an authorization (SKO) to the Treasury (KPKN)
office in the provincial capital to disburse up to specified sums, to be drawn on the project Special
Account (para 4.23) for each relevant local government in respect of contract payments properly
authorized under local government DIPDA budgetary procedures.
Local governments would then prepare draft development budget authorizations
(DUPDA) for the relevant sub-projects, specifying, as Rp Rekoning Khusus (RK, Special Account),
the amount of funding to be provided by IBRD through the project Special Account, in accordance
with the specified disbursement percentages on eligible expenditure. The DUPDA would also show
the counterpart funding amount(s) and source(s) to be provided from the local government's own
normal revenue sources. The local governments would also make appropriate provisions in their draft
development budgets (APBD Pembangunan) for these expenditures and their funding sources.
Following APBD approval by the local Representative Councils (DPRD) and ratification by provincial
governor, DUPDAs would be individually approved by Governor with the advice of the provincial
Technical Team (PPMU), and then by local government mayor, thereby becoming DIPDAs
authorizing the implementation of the relevant sub-projects. These procedures are standard in
Indonesian local governments.
Each implem    on contract would be written specifying one funding source as being
from KPKN, represendng the IBRD funding share, and one (or possibly more, although one only is
highly desirable) supplementary local funding source. Disbursement procedures and documentation
requiments for each source and sample standard contract documents have been developed for this
procedure under previous projects and will be used for local contracts under the project.
For each stage, payment the contractor would be paid through the issue of two (or, in
exceptional cases, more) payment orders: one (or more) drawn on the appropriate treasurer for local
counterpart funding source, and one issued by the KPKN in the provincial capital. Before certifying
the latter payment order, KPKN would verify that the counterpart payment order(s) had been drawn
for the correct amount in accordance with the specified IBRD financing proportion. DG Budget of
the Ministry of Finance would issue a Circular Letter to KPKN in Semarang instructing them to
undertake this duty of verifying that the couterpart funding contribution has been made. Again,
local contractors would not have to go to Jakarta to be paid.



Semarang-Surakarta Urban Development Project                                             Annex 16
Supervison Staffing and Schedule
Mission FY  Mission  Mission  Task  Task Trans Trans Water Water R&E R&En Pcmt Pcmt Legal Legal  Fin   Fin  RSI RSI lotal Total GRAND
Start  Duration Mgr  Mgr  Eng  Eng & San & San  nv.   v.  Spec Spec Spec Spec Anal Anal (S) (S)                          TOTAI.
Date  (Weeks)  (S)   (S)   (S)  (S)  Eng   Eng  Spec Spec (TD) (TD)  (S)   (S)  (C)  (C)
(C)   (C)  (TD) (TD)
M     H    M    H    M        H    M    H    M        1I   M     H M    M     11       M     l  M  1    MiH
1     95     7/94      2.0  2.0   1.5  1.0  0.5   1.5   0.5  1.0  0.5   -    -    -           -     2.0   1.0  2.0 1.5  9.5  5.5        1 5.U
2     95    12/94      2.0  2.0   1.0  1.0  0.5   2.0   2.0  1.0   -         -    1.0   1.0   -      1.0  0.5  1.5 0.5  9.5   5.5    15.0
3     96     7/95      2.0  2.0   2.0  1.0  0.5   1.5   0.5  1.0   -         -    -    -      -     2.0   -    2.0  1.5  9.5  4.5    14.0
4     96     1/96      2.0  2.0   1.0   -    -       1.5   0.5  1.5  0.5   -    -    -        -      1.5   0.5  2.0  1.0  8.5  3.5    12.0
5     97     7/96      2.0  2.0   0.5  1.0  0.5   2.0   0.5   -    -         -    -    -      -      1.5   0.5  2.0 0.5  8.5  2.5       11.0
6     97     1/97      1.5  1.5   1.0   -    -       1.5   0.5  1.0   -      -    -    -      -     1.0   0.5  1.5 (0.5  6.5  2.5        9.0
7     98     7/97      2.0  2.0   0.5  1.0   -       1.5   0.5   -    -      -    -    -      -     1.5  0.5  2.0 0.5   8.0  2.0    10.0
8     98     1/98      1.5  1.5   1.0   -    -       1.5   -     1.0   -     -    -    -      -     1.0   -    1.5 0.5  6.5  1.5        8.0
9     99     7/98      2.0  2.0   0.5  1.0   -       1.5   0.5   -    -      -    -    -             1.5  0.5  2.0 0.5   8.0  2.0    10.0
10    99    11/98      1.5  1.5   0.5  1.0   -       1.0   -     1.0   -     -    -    -      -      1.0   -    1.5 0.5   7.0  1.0       8.0
Note:
M = Mission
H = Home Office
S = Bank Staff
C = Consultant
TD = Technical Department
RSI Resident Mission Indonesia
SSUDPSUP.XLS                                                                                                                               5/11/94



- 56 -
Annex 17
INDONESIA
SEMARANG-SURAKARTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents Available in the Project File
Project File No.             Project Vile Name
F88862            Elements of Project Implementation Plan
F88863            Project Preparation Report (PPR)
F88864            PJM Semarang
F88865            PJM Surakarta
F88866            PJM Water Supply Semarang
F88867            PJM Water Supply Surakarta
F88868            Urban Renewal (Perumahan Rakyat)
F88869            LIDAP Semarang
P88870            LIDAP Surakarta
F88871            Environmental Assessment Summary Report
Site Operation Plan TPA Jatibarang
F88872            Resettlement Plan Kali Banger Drainage Project
F88873            Summary Report (Position Paper) Semarang
F88874            Summary Report (Position Paper) Surakarta
Draft Project Implementation Agreement (PIA)
F88876            Outline Designs Traffic Management Semarang
F88877            Outline Designs Traffic Management Surakarta
F88879            Draft Terms of Reference Technical Assistance Projects Semarang
F88881            Draft Terms of Reference Technical Assistance Projects Surakarta
P88882            Supporting Document for Project Justification
Bahasa Indonesia
F88883            RIAP Semarang
F88884            RIAP Surakarta
F88885            ANDAL Drainage Semarang
F88886            RKL Drainage Semarang
F88887            RPL Drainage Semarang
F88888            RPK Drainage Semarang (Resettlement Plan)
F88889            ANDAL Solid Waste Semarang
F88890            RKL Solid Waste Semarang
F88891            RPL Solid Waste Senarang
F88892            ANDAL Sanitation Semarang
F88893            RKL Sanitation Semarang
P88894            RPL Sanitation Semarang
F88895            ANDAL Sanitation Surakarta
F88896            RKL Sanitation Surakarta
F88897            RPL Sanitation Surakarta
F88899            Project Digest Semarang Volume I
F88900            Project Digest Semarang Volume n
F88901            Project Digest Surakarta Volume I
F88902            Project Digest Surakarta Volume II
P88903            Draft Project Implementation Agreement Semarang
F88904            Draft Project Implementation Agreement Surakarta



IBRD 25468
"-'J"  '  OORMOPOUTAM ARM1s                                     INDONESIA
__,8 Itve~                                                                     SEMARANG - SURAKARTA URBAN
J9J -\; '__ lS 2w                                                                            DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
J__                            't  <  '3' -tlgJAWA TENGAH
<< KA.NAN AN                                                              EZ,,' S ''As'8 - -                   , Deelopment Zones  Growth Center Hierarchy
a " \Kc ''   fi  e-                                 .Stra tic                                        Firt Closs
Gr1t)   -;5 o ii  trobic    owts   C  Second Class
Growth                        c     Third Class
_____________   C-= jj5'--- ,, e 41 I | Stagnant                            Major Roads
Conservation                         Railroods
_________________________________________________________________________ _  W  Borders               Kabupaten(disttrict)  Boundaries
Province Boundaries
4  1090                                        110        
0   10  20  30  40  50
iepa {           I    1                    KILOMETERS
TOrr,;                                                              JAVA  SEAr                                                                    Loae
- 7   BA     T-                                                                                                                                      B         To SuRy
to p                                                                                           Suraboyo
Purboln   8c_
8-~
I [NDIAN  OCEAN                        -' -_.  YOGYAKARTA                                                       The boundaries, colors.
denominations and any
other information shown
an this map, do not
K                                        imply, on ~~~~~~~~~~~the part of
80                                                                                                              '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TheWorl'1d Bank Group.
N                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~any judgment on the legal
status of any territory,
or any endorsement
or acceptance of such
10910                                                                                                                      boundaries.
MARCH 1994



IBRD 25469
KABUPATEN
KABUPATEN                                         JAVA  SEA                                                                    DEMAK
KENDAL_'  
Drainage Subproiets
r  -1  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*Drainage PUAD A.Yani System
8", ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~?Drainage Pomulorsih A.R. Saleh
1           : 7  Ronggolawo S.K.Ayu Bridge
a          ~~~~Bulu Drainage
s*~~~~,, ~~~               5   ~K. Bangerl
6 K Banggerfll
31                                                                             7  K. Bongger III
1~~~        8~I  K. Tenggang System
J#        ~~~9 Karigowe Secandary System
0         ~~~~0 K Sringin
1' Kali Tumpang Rehabilitation
;  ~~~~   \             / f  bX~~~~~LNDFILL SfTE      _H4j                                                >                            \    huby
be irrpromo                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~To Surabaya
INDONESIA
SEMARANG - SURAKARTA
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
- !SEMARANG INFRASTRUCTURE IMPROVEMENTS
0                ~~~~MAP I
.      PROPOSED PROJECT
- - - -   DRAINAGE IMPROVEMENTS
a          ~~~~WATER TREATMENT PLANT
/    , J/ A  SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT
I \ I  1 | //  - - - -    EAST AND WEST INTERCEPTORS
EXENSION AREAS FOR SOLID WASTE
COLLECTION SERVICE
PUMPING STATIONS
0 / \g/  e _ RESERVOIRS
WATER TREATMENT PLANT
SOUD WASTE SERVCE AREAS
*KA _>:OBLPATEN                                 -    MAJOR ROADS
MABPATENG                                                RAILROADS
, RIVERS
The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other informotion
shown on this map do not impl  on the port of The World Bank                                                     0   1   2   3   4   5                      KECAMATAN(SUB-DISTRICT1 BOUNDARIES
Group. ony judgment on the legal stotus of any territory, or any                                                 I         I    I   I   I                   CITY OP SEMARANG MUNICIPAL BOUNDARIES
endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                  To Surkodr  Yaogyuksal                     KILOMETERS
MARCH 1994



IBRD 25470
KABUPAT                                          JAVA SNA                                                                     KABUPATEN
KENDAL                                                                                                                         DEMAK               h ma
INDONESIA
SEMARANG - SURAKARTA
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
0        .MARANG INFRASTRUCTURE IMPROVEMENTS
*                        <.   !,-_,/ ,'MAP 11
*    PROPOSED PROJECT
ROAD REHABIUTATtON(CURBS AND SIDEWALKS)
NEW RING ROAD CONSTRUCTION~
0  /      )KAMPUNG IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM SITES(KIP)
[I] iANmAREMT IMPROvEmENT PROGRAM Srs(MP)
%  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~  ~  ~  ~   ~  ~  ~  ~  ~  ~  ~  ~  ~  ~ ~  ______    RAILROADS
KECM1ATAN(SUB-DISTRICT) BOUNDAIES
KABUPATEN                                       .   CITY OF SEMARANG MUNICIPAL BOUNDARIES
' -            ~SEMARANG
The boundaries, colors, denominations and  any other information                                                                                0   1   2   3   4
shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Sonk                                                                                   I   I   I   1   1   I
Group, ony judgment on the legal sftaus of any territory, or any
endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                 To Sukort  Yogyokarto                                                     KILOMETERS
MAFCH 1994



IBRD 25471
ToS    an                                                                                            The  boundories.  cot,
denominafions and ony
other information sho.rn
on this map do .:ot
mp. tIon  the  part of
The  Worild  Bank  Group.
2ny J Hudgment on the logao
status of any te,rritry,
or any endorsment
or ~acceptance of Such
gg
To modiun
41.0,                                                                 INDONESIA
6               ~~SEMARANG - SURAKARTA
s-00 JIAYrmiPumpStotion                              A          /----1 RURBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Dranag_Su_ro__                                                                                                                   .SURAKARTA INFRASTRUCTURE IMPROVEMENTS
J>it. Joke Tinkir Drain
2  iI.ItasanudPn Dump PrationMAROS                                                                                            S                                PRO       P       I
J7.HonudinDroi A n                                                         -                                                                         - -       D- AItNAGE IMPROVEMENTS
3  JiSiamet Piyadi Drain                                                                                                             To Wonogi|;                  FREQUENTLY FLOODED AREA
4  JI.Gajohmada - Ronggawasito Drain                                                                                                                              PUMP STATIONS
J I.A.Yani Puimp Station                                                                                                                                AL      SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT
6  ilOemangan Pump Station  WIAJOR ROADS                                                                    _________  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~NEW GROUNDWATER WELLS DEVELOPMENT AREA
6  A.Demongan Pump Station  MAJOR ROADS ~ ~ ~       ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~    ~ ~ CD             PRPOED  ESRVIR
7  Arun - Blun Surakafto Drain                   RAIL ROADS                                                                  t(                                    RPSDRSROR
8  Kali Boro Rehabilitation                      RIVERS                                                                                                           AREA SERVED EY SEWEPAGE SYSTEMS
9  Kali Jenes RehabilWienKECAMAATAN(SUB.DISTRICT) BOUNDARIES                                                                                la        EXISTING RESERVOIR
9   aI Kedneg RehaiLitaiong                       CITY OP SURAKARTA MUNICIPAL BOUNDARY                                                                   (        EXISTING PUMP STATIONS
10 KGedang Kopi Lining
A       FLUSHING INLETS
11  Kali Sumber Rehabilitation            0       0.5      1.0      1.5      2.0
I        I                          I                                                                      . . . .   INTERCEPTORS
i  Pump WWTP North Domangon                             iJLOMETERS                                                                                                 EXISTING SEWERAGE PIPE LINES
MARCH 1994



IBRD 25472
~~~~~~~~SEMARANG - SURAKARTA
. \ I I -* ~~~~~~~~URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
X           t                         sS~~~~~~URAKRTA INFRASTRUCTURE IMPROVEMENTS
t L  /2tD  i       ffi  t   *                 ~~~~~~~PROPOSED PROJECT
To SemaraVg ~ ~       ~       ~        ToWnoii                      AORRADIPRVMET
\   ~ ~ ~      8<   Lv TO Wonosrin ~~~~~~~~(REHABIUTATIO0N,DRAJN &SIDE WALKS)
Y  -t _ t   /   2-9                           ~~~~~~~~~ KAPMUNG IMPRO>VEMENT PROGRAM SITES(KIP)
)t  I  I S    !   ;                           n~~~~~~~~~~~ MARKET IM^PROVEMlENT PROGRAM SlTES(MIPj
/  g             ,.                     |         ;1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~INFRASTRUCTURE FOR LOWINCOME AREA
/   /  ;                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FUTURE RING ROAD
The boundaries, colors,            I                                      
denominatins ond  ony                                                                                                                          -          AOIOD
on this me p do not
imply, on  the  port of           4JRAIL ROADS
Th0e World  Bank  Groupfor
any judgment on the le,aal                                                                                                                  .- -         RIVERS
sitatus of any  teirri#ory        j                                           0       0.5     1.0     1.5      2.0                                        EAATNSBDTRC   OUAIS
o r   a n y   e n d o rs e m e nt            _________________________________'a                         alit_I          D O N E S I
or acceptance of such                                                                      KILOMETERS                                       - SCIRTY OF SURAKARTA MUNICIPAL BOUNDARY
MARCH 1994



