Environmental                       ZJr
Assessment/Analysis                    
Reports
Report E0032
Indonesia -
Semarang-Surakarta
Urban Development Project
EA Category A
Environmental Assessment
Summary
August 1993
This report has been prepared by the Borrower or its Consultant



Republic of Indonesia
Minimty of Public Works
Diretonte General Cipta Karys
aDifectote Bina Program
SSUDP
L L5
SEMARANGSURAKA
Urban Development Program
Appraisal and Implementation Support
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT SUMMARY
WORLD BANK FORMAT
AUGUST 1993
DHV Consultants BV
in asmociation with                              PT Indah Karya
Lahmeyer International GMBh                      PT Ciria Jasa



TABLE OF CONTENTS
page
1.    INTROUUCTTON                                                           1
2.    PROJECT DESCRIPTION                                                    2
3.    BASELINE DATA
3.1   Semarang                                                         2
3.1.1 Regional Context                                          2
3.'.2 Population                                                2
3.1.3 Geology                                                   3
3.1.4 Hydrology and Climate                                     3
3.1.5 Groundwater                                               3
3.1.6 Infrastructure Deficiencies                               3
3.2   Surakarta
3.2.1 Regional Context                                          4
3.2.2 Population                                                4
3.2.3 Geology                                                   5
3.2.4 Hydrology and Climate                                     5
3.2.5 Groundwater                                               5
3.2.6 Infrastructure Deficiencies                               5
4.    IMPACTS                                                                5
S.   ANALYSIS OF ALTERNATIVES                                               8
6.    MITIGATION PLANS
6.1   Drainage sector: Kali Banger Semarang Resettlement              11
6.1.1 The population to be resettled                           11
6.1.2 The resettlement area                                    12
6.1.3 Mitigating measures                                      13
6.2   Solid Waste sector: Final Disposal Site Semarang                14
6.3   Sanitation sector: Sewerage Semarang                            15
6.4   Sanitation sector: Sewerage Surakarta                           15
7.    MONITORING and EVALUATION
7.1   Land Acquisition and Resettlement                               16
7.1.1 Kali Banger Semarang                                     16
7.1.2 Central Government Roads Projects                        17
7.1.3 Waste Water Treatment Plants in Semarang                 17
and Surakarta
7.2   Solid Waste Disposal Semarang (TPA Jatibarang)                  17
7.3   Sanitation                                                      17
i



7.3.1 Effluent aid Croundwater Quality around Waste              17
Water Treat'-:nt Plants
7.3.2 Damage to River Banks and Buildings                        18
7-3.3 Sedimentation                                              18
7.4   Traffic DisruDtion                                               18
7.5   Noise and Dust                                                   19
B.    rNSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS                                              19
9.    COMMUNITY PARTICIPATION                                                20
TABLES
2.1   Main Project Comoonents SSUOP
3.1   Hydrology and Cii...dte
4.1   Key Data Kali Banger Drainage Project
4.2   People Directly Affected by the Project
6. .   Status of Land Ownership
7.1   Summary of MaJor Negative Impacts,  Proposed mitigating Measures  and
Monitoring
7.2   Key Parameters for Monitoring of Water Quality
FIGURES
Pigure 1    Environinental Impact Semarang
Figure 2    Environmertal Impact Surakarta
ii



1.    INTRODUCTION
In order to improve the living conditions of the rapidly increasing urban
population the Government of Indonesia intends to focus on three principal
aspects regarding the provision of urban services in municipalities:
-     expansion of infrastructure and services in a planned and coordinated
manner and improvement of operation and maintenance;
-     decentralization of preparation and much of the implementation of urban
development policies to local government level and strengthening of all
levels of government by institutional development and human resources
development;
-     increasing financial capability of local governments by increasing local
revenues.
Against this background the Integrated Urban Development Programme- (IUIDP) has
been lnitiated. The IBRD supports a number of IUIDP projects in Indonesia. The
scope of the IUIDP programme covers the following sectors: urban planning, water
supply, sanitation, urban roads, drainage, solid waste management, kampung
improvement (KIP), market infrastructure improvement (MIIP) and urban renewal.
A directive of the Directorate General Cipta Karya (DGCK/1-4-1985) requires all
local and provincial governments wishing to participate in any DGCK sector
programme to formulate IUIDP proposals. It is envisaged that these IUIDP
programmes are prepared as multi-sectoral multi-year (5-7 years) development
plans, called Program Jangka Menengah (PJM).
The Semarang Surakarta Urban Development Project (SSUDP) fits within the national
IUIDP approach. Implementation is planned to start in fiscal year 1994/95. All
projects under the programme have been screened for environmental impact.
Preliminary environmental assessments (PIL) were prepared for all sectors. The
assessments showed that for most sectors the potential adverse environmental
impact of the program is limited. Only for four sectors it was recommended that
full environmental impact assessments (ANDAL) be prepared: for the Sanitation
programs in both Semarang and Surakarta, for the Kali Banger drainage project in
Semarang-and for the Solid Waste Disposal Site (TPA Jatibarang) in Semarang. (see
figure 1 and 2)
The legal base for environmental protection and management is formulated in Act
CUU) number 4 of 1982 and Government Regulation (PP) number 29 of 1986 which
requir-es any proposed project which is likely to have significant impact on the
environment to be accompanied by an environmental impact assessment. There are
more than 20 subsequent acts, regulations, decrees and guidelines relating to
environmental management issued by the Ministry of Population and Environment,
the Ministry of Home Affairs, the Ministry of Public Works, the Governor of
Central Java and the Mayors of Semarang and Surakarta.
The four ANDAL studies were prepared in the period from August 1992 until January
1993. The first draft summary reports were submitted to the IBRD in November
1992. The draft findings of the study were discussed with the local governments
of Semarang and Surakarta, with the Central Java Regional Commission for the
Environment (Komda) and local NGO's in October 1992. The Central Government
Commission for the Environment (Kompus) discussed the draft reports in December
1992 and approved the final reports in April 1993.
Each of the four ANDAL studies consists of the following volumes
1



-     Environmental Impact Assessment Report (ANDAL)
Environmental Management Plan (RKL)
-     Environmental Monitoring Plan (RPL)
-     Summary report
Separate volumes were prepared covering the Resettlement Plan for the Kali Banger
drainage project and the Site Operation Plan for the Jatibarang solid waste
disposal site. This brings the total number of volumes at 18.
2.    PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Semarang is the capital city of Central Java Province and has a population of
about 1,300 ?000 people. Surakarta is the second largest city of Central Java with
a population of about 540,000. The Semarang Surakarta Urban Development Project
ls an integrated programme for the sectors urban planning, water supply,
sanitation, urban roads, drainase, solid waste management, kampung improvement,
market infrastructure improvement and urban renewal. It includes all expenditure
In these sectors for investment and operation and maintenance for the period
1994/95 - 1998/99. It also includes improvements in urban management, programme
management and financial management through institutional improvements, human
resources development and technical assistance.
The main project components are summarized in Table 2.1.
3.    BASELINE DATA
3.1   Seraarang
3.1.1 Regional Context
Semarang is the provincial capital and main port of Central Java Province. It is
located on the north coast of Java, the most densely populated island in the
Republic of Indonesia and lies 540 km east of the capital Jakarta at longitude
1080-East, latitude 70 South.
Topographically the Kotamadya consists of a flat coastal plain with an elevation
of 0-25m, which gives way to hilly areas to the south (elevation up to 325m).
Traditionally development was concentrated on the coastal plain and lowland
areas. In recent years, the lack of building land has led to increasing
development in the hilly areas and along the main roads.
The Municipality (Kotamadya) of Semarang covers an area of about 373 km2. The
IUIDP planning area covers part of the Kotamadya and includes all areas that have
a clear urban character, be it residential or industrial, that have already been
developed or that will be developed r* the near future.
3.1.2 Population
The population of Semarang has grown from 1,025,000 in 1980 to 1,249,500 in 1990.
This represents an average growth rate of 2X. This population growth is twice as
high as the provincial average. ourinS the IUIOP planning period an average
annual population growth of 1.86X is assumed. The population in the year 2000 is
estimated at 1,511,000 people of which about 1,420,000 (=94X) ls considered to
be urban population.
2



Table 2.1:  Main Project Components SSUDP
Sector                         Programme Semarang                                                 Programme Surakarta
1. Urban Planning  - Preparation of Urban and Metropolitan Master Plan                 - Preparation of Urban and Metropolitan Master Plan
- Preparation of Urban and Land Information Systems               - Preparation of Urban and Land Information systems
- Preparation of District Plans and Detailed Plans                - Preparation of.Distrlct Plans and Detailld Plans
- Preparation of Building Preservation Plans                      - Preparation of Building Preservation Plans
2. Water Supply    - Refurbishment and upgrading of a Water Treatment Plant    - Development of 10 new doepwells
- Construction of two new Drink Water Treatment Plants            - Well maintenance programme
- Well maintenance programme                                      *  ater losses (UFW) reduction programme
- Water losses (UFW) reduction programme                          -W ater Resources study
- 550 km of new distribution pipelines                            - Extension and lnfill of the distribution network
-    o,000 new house connection and 300 now public taps           - 18,000 new house connections and 125 new public taps
3. Sanitation        - Waste Water Treatment Plant (29 ha)                              - Rehabilitation of the Mojosongo Sewer System (65 ha)
- 7 Pumping stations                                              - Rehabilitation of the Jobroe  Sewerage System (55 ha)
- Septage Treatment Plant (4 ha)                                  - 2 Waste Water Treatment Plants
- 14 km sewer Interceptor and trunk sewers                        - Septags Treatment Plant (1.5 ha)
- 59 ha pilot project separate sewer system                       - Credit Scheme On-Site Sanitation (2300 households)
- Credit Scheme on-Site Sanitation (4500 households)               - 200 MCK's and 2 desludging trucks
- 272 MCK's and 5 desludging trucks
4. Drainage          - improvement of 28 km primary drains                              - improvement of 3 km primary drains
- improvement of 126 km of secondary and tertiary drains    - improvement 17 km of secondary and tertiary drains
- periodic maintenance and equipment                              - improvement of Demangan and A. Yani pumping stations
- periodic maintenance and equipment
5. Urban Roads       - improvement of.7S km of urban roads                              - construction of 4.7 km of now-roads (ring road)
- periodic maintenance of 78 km of urban roads                     - Improvement of 36 km of urban roads
- construction of 4 new bridges                                    - periodic maintenance of 50 km of urban roads
- traffic management program                                       - construction of 3 new bridges (part of ring road)
- traffic management program
- preparation of an urban transportation plan
6. Solid Waste       - Improvement of the Jatibarang Final Disposal Site                - Upgrading of the Putri Cempo final Disposal Site
Management        - Closure works at the old Disposal Sites                          - Site location study for new Final Disposal Site
- Site  location study for new Final Disposal Site                 - 32 open dump trucks, 14 armroll trucks, 2 compactor
- Land acquisition for now disposal site (11 ha)                     trucks and a transportion pool
- 4 open dump trucks,S armroll truckw ,5 compactor trucks   -I wheel loader,1 bulidozer,l back hoe and 91 gerobak
- I tracked loader, I back hoe and 182 gerobaks
7. Urban Renewal/  - Infrastructure development In low Income housing area              -Infrastructure development In low income housing area
KIP/lIIP         - Housing rehabilitation through credit scheme                     - Housing rehabilitation through credit scheme
- Kampung Improvement Programme 412 ha                               g Kampung Improvement Programme 389 ha
- Market Improvement Programme 19 markets                          - Market Improvement Programme 29 markets
8. Other             - Improvement Operation and Maintenance for all                    - Improvement Operation and Maintenance for all
infrastructure sectors                                             infrastructure sectors
- Institutional Improvements and human resources                  - Institutional improvements and human resources
development                                                       development
- local revenue improvement action plan                           - local revonue improvement action plan
- Technical Assistance                                             - Technical Assistance



--SEMARANG
FIGURE, NO, 3-|G.=
TITLE
SETTLEMENT ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~r* *.l
JUA - SEA                                                                                 ENVRONMENTAL IMPACT
.SEMARANG
LEGEND
0It                                                                                                                                   1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(  I  iJ.  4101IWAY PL ANNED
a.       !:flAiiOl     *,     i iLi                                                                                          MAIN ROAD$
AIRP ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--...RAI'LWAV
-.-.-    tCAMAT4N BOUNDARY
-                                                                                                                      - U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UNICIPAL BOUNDARY
r~i WASTE WATER TACATVENT
ftANr
0rF SITE 3ANITATICON
MALI :ANGER
INORM AUZAT ION
N AR3ANaRgTO
REETT LEVENT AREA
opD.'~~~.   ~~        INTIICEPToU11 SEwERs
INTtONATEO URBAN INrRASTRUCTURE
DEVECLPMENT PROJECT
I IU I E)
SEMARANtO- TUNA VARTA
StAI3E IV
JAVA -. SrA
CfNrA'A'AU r
0    I    2    3    4km 
~~~ a.~~~~~ ~INDIAY N   'Cr AN                             -- 
kr'I V.11



Household size is decreasing rapidly. According to the Census the average
household size decreased from 5.18 in 1980 to 4.65 in 1990. As a result the need
for residential land increases faster than the growth of the population would
indicate. Population densities are as high as 210 people per ha in the central
part of town and are below 10 people per ha in the Kecamatans Mijen and Gunung
Pati which are semi rural. The built-up or partly built-up area of the Kotamadya
is around 13,500 hectares, just over 1/3rd of the total area of the Kotamadya.
3.1.3 Geology
The geological condition of Semarang municipality is identified to consist of
lithological units, as follows:
-     the greater part of northern Semarang is covered by surface sediment
forming alluvium as a result of Kali Garang delta formation; in general
this consists of sand, clay and gravel layer.
-     The southern part of Semarang has lithological bracket and lava andesite
in the volcanic sediment.
-     The hilly area,  such as East  Srondol,  Banyumanik and  surroundings,
consists of volcanic breccia and red soil with thickness of 50-200m.
Soil permeability greater than 10 1me/day is categorized as water intrusive
ground, whereas soil permeability smaller than 10 1/ma/day is water non-intrusive
ground (impermeable). Previous percolation tests found that the ground
infiltration capacity in the northern areas is 21 l/m2/day which classifies it
as permeable soil.
3.1.4 Hydrology and Climate
The table below shows hydrological and climatological data based on records of
the Semarang Airport Meterological Station between 1980 and 1989. Air quality is
generally good and there is no major noise and dust nuisance.
Table 3.1: Hydrology and Climate
Description (monthly)    Average(monthly)  Dry season  Wet season
1. Rainfall (mm)                205              62           495
2. Rainy days (days)             12               3            20
3. Temperature ( C)              27.4            28.4          26.5
4. Direction of wind              -           E & SE           NW
5. Force of wind (knot)                           17           45
3.1.5 Groundwater
Groundwater in the southern hilly areas is In general of good quality but in
northern Semarang the groundwater is of too poor quality to be used for
consumption. High levels of HCOA and SO4 were found. Continuous quality
monitoring data are not available. The groundwater table stands at -0.60m.
3.1.6 Infrastructure Deficiencies
The rapid increase in the urban population and the extension cf the urbanised
area has not been matched with corresponding development of infrastructure and
urban services. Improvements were carried out by the Municipal and Provincial
3



authorities but these have been limited due to lack of funds. This has resulted
in many sectors in a deterioration of the standard of services available whereas
in newly developed areas not all essential services could be provided. The roads
network needs to be improved especially in the fast developing eastern parts of
town. The water supply system needs to be extended to cover newly developed urban
areas. Raw water supply must be increased to match with the demand for piped
water supply. Drainage urgently needs to be improved i.e. in the older parts of
town where flooding occurs frequently. Infrastructure in existing low income
residential areas and in and around markets needs to be improved in close
cooperation with the residents involved.
3.2   Surakarta
3.2.1 Regional Context
Surakarta which is also known as Solo is situated at a position between latitude
7- South and longitude 110 East.
Surakarta is the second largest city in Central Java Province. It is centrally
located in the fertile lowland areas of Central Java which are one of the most
densely populated rural areas in the world. Its wider hinterland (Kabupaten
Boyolali, Wonogiri, Karanganyar, Sragen, Klaten and Sukoharjo) has a population
in excess of 5 million. Topographically the Kotamadya Is flat with an average
elevation of 92 meters. Only to the North (Kecamatan Gondang Rejo), does the land
rise appreciably. The city is partly bounded by Bengawan Solo, the largest river
in Java and is crossed by several of its tributaries.
The pace of development today is substantial. Surakarta is the third most
important location in Central Java (after Semarang and Pekalongan) for private
investment projects (commercial, industrial and residential) notified to BKPMD.
The area of tne Kotamadya is 4,400 hectares of which only 12% (400 hectares) is
not built-up. Much of the new development is occurring outside the Kotamadya
boundaries to the East, South and West. Apart from Solo Baru new town in the
South this concerns mainly ribbon development along the main roads. Within the
town, redevelopment is creating large new banks, shopping centres and cinema
complexes. The planning area for IUIDP covers the entire Kotar iya area.
3.2.2 Population
According to the Census the population of Surakarta has grown from 469,413 in
1980 to 503,827 in 1990. The modest growth rate of 0.71% per year is due to the
lack of developable land within the Kotamadya boundaries. The population in many
areas adjacent to the Kotamadya is increasing rapidly. The current population of
Greater Surakarta is one million and could increase to around 1,140,000 by the
end of the century (1.3% growth per annum).
For population growth during the PJM period an average rate of 0.98% per annum
was used. The population in the Kotamadya in the year 2000 is estimated at
584,000 people. Because of the high degree of urbanization the entire population
is considered to be urban.
Household size is decreasing rapidly. According to the Census the average
household size dropped from 5.0 in 1980 to 4.6 in 1990. As a result the number
of households increased by 1.7% annually as against 0.71% for population. This
4



SURAKARTA
FIGUFNE NO  2
TITLE
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
k   .,Ao                        11                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~SUFiAl<ARTA
I~  t    ',   ,               I                                    I           ;LEGEND
MAIN ROADS
AI WJ00W                                                     M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AIL ROADS
RIVERS
-KOTAMADYA BOUNDARY
., -     KECAMATAN BOUNDARY
EXISTING SEWERAGE
A!       F                ,-< w            i<i*'l.                ^' i                                                     |           I IUPUMP STATION
KE.                                                     PER.UMNAS M|JOSONGO
AV ors                                           M4911                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SYSTEM
-    -PROPOSED EX TENTICN Of MAIN
TRUNK ALONO K.ANYAR
PROPOSED TREATMLNT WORK
13 FOR MOJOSONGO SYSTEM
IM LAWEVAN   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~FtIY LA?OLD CITY SYSTEM
JEIRES SYSTEM
MANGMJNEOARAN STYSEM
KASUNANAN SVSTEM
dr                         ro stra                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROpOSED LOCATION
1!9.          ~~CENTRAL WWTP
P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
II ic   ip                                                                 ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INTEGRATED URBAN INF~RASTRUCTURE
at a co                                                                                              i ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IUIDP)
SEMARANG - ElURAKAR rA
STAGE IV
LWPOEDWArION
p  SMNAITARrA CirY                            ~~~~~~JAVA - SErA
FINAL 4111
UEMTAL * JAVA-~2   mAAT
0.4                                 ~~~~~~~~0 03is  0.70 IIS as    M
4                                      m~~~~~~~~~~~~____________                          WA1
A$1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WNQff



trend is likely to continue, which implies that the need for residential land
increases faster than the population growth would indicate. The gross population
density is around 117 persons per hectare. Especially in the central parts of
town high densities occur.
3-2.3 Geology
The geological condition of Surakarta is for the greater part classified as clay
and sand (grey regosol). The land surface in the eastern part and in the city
centre consists of mud sediment. The northern hilly area consists of chalky
rocks. Sedimentation due to erosion is found along Bengawan Solo river. The soil
condition can be described as follows :
-     upper layer of sandy clay, thickness 20 - 30 m;
-     lower  layer  with  different  composition  depending  on  the  location
consisting of sandy clay, gravel and sand gravel, etc.
In general soil permeability is high. Several locations were measured, e.g. Putri
Cempo solid waste disposal site (585 l/m2/day), WWTP Kedung Tungkul (711
l/m2/day) and Sangkrah at the Kali Jenes (357 l/mz/day).
3.2.4 Hydrology and Climate
Surakarta has a tropical climate. The maximum yearly temperature is 34C and the
minimum is 21'C. The average humidity is 74.8X. The average wind velocity is 10.5
knots with direction varying according to the season. The rainy season lasts from
November to April, with average rainfall of 2,200 mm annually. Average rain
frequency is 12-15 days/month. The highest rainfall is in February and the lowest
in August.
3.2.5 Groundwater
The groundwater table in Surakarta varies. In the older parts of the city the
table is 2-3m below ground level and in the outer parts of town, especially in
the north (Mojosongo) the water table stands at 15-30m below ground level,
depending on the season.
3.2.6 Infrastructure Deficiencies
In the peripheral areas the infrastructural problems are less severe than in the
city itself. The IUIDP programme will therefor focus on the Kotamadya area. The
piped water supply network needs reinforcement; drainage problems affect many
residential areas; roads are poorly maintained and in need of realignment and
reconstruction; sanitation is inadequate and living conditions in several
kampungs urgently need Improvement.
4.    IMPACTS
Environmental impacts of the project have been identified at the various stages
of project implementation from planning through to commissioning and operation
and maintenance. Impacts have been presented ln the Preliminary Environmental
Assessment (PIL) reports in the form of matrices of impact on the physical,
biological and sociological environment against project activities. Broad
mitigating measures have also been identified and discussed in the Environmental
Management and Monitoring (RKL and RPL) reports.
5



The SSUDP project is expected to have a positive overall impact on the
environment. It would provide a clean water supply to many more families, reduce
the non-sanitary disposal of human and solid wastes, decrease flooding and
improve the living environment especially in the low income residential areas
through the Urban Renewal component, including a KIP program and for market
places a MIIP program. Negative impacts of the project such as noise, dust
emission, socio-economic problems and traffic disruption during the construction
phase are minor and relatively short term. No land use changes of significance
would result from project implementation. Land acquisition requirements of the
project are relatively small and would not create undue social hardship except
for the following projects in the drainage and the urban roads sector.
Drainage sector
-     the normalization and widening of Kali Banger in Semarang will have a
positive impact on the living and business environment of the 41 ha area
that is drained by this river. At present the area Is frequently flooded.
The project will improve public health and the value of properties is
expected to increase. However, the project necessitates the resettlement
of 790 families. The project will be implemented in a period of three
years. Some key data about the areas of land and number of people affected
are summarized in the table below. An ANDAL study has been prepared,
including mitigating measures and a resettlement plan.
Table 4.1: Key Data Kali Banger Drainage Project
Section of Kali Banger
NO   DESCRIPTION                                          j TOTAL
I-1993/94 II-1994/95 III-1995/96
Implementation Schedule
1 1 length of section(m)   1,043      1,159       1,128       3,330
2 |Right of Way (m)            57        43          28          _
LAND ACQUISITION & CLEARING
I   Private land (mz)     27,780    10,4x9       13,751      51,980
2   Government land (m2)   1,487      7,645       2,548      11,680
3   Build-'igs (m2)        18,902     7,145       8,640      34,687
PEO LE AFFECTED
1   Not moving, because      45 hh     45 hh        73 hh    163 hh
land/house   only
partially affected
2   Moving (resettlement   395 hh    195 hh        200 hh    790 hh
because land/house
fully demolished
Urban Roads Sector
-     four road widening projects in Semarang could result in the need for
resettlement: Jl.Pedurungan-Citarum, Jl.Pamularsih, Jl.Genuk-Pedurungan
and Jl.Pedurungan-Mrican. These projects are last minute additions to the
program initiated by central government (Bina Marga) and scheduled to be
implemented in the fourth and fifth year of the programme. Alignments have
not yet been fixed. Environmental assessments could therefore not yet be
prepared, but will be submitted to the Bank in the year before actual
implementation is to take place. These projects should be considered as
programmatic parts of the programme.
6



Apart from the resettlement element, the preliminary environmental impact
assessment (PIL) process identified major environmental issues as a result of the
SSUDP project in the Sanitation sector and in the Solid Waste Management sector.
Full ANDAL studies have been prepared for these infrastructure sectors to further
clarify the implications and to propose mitigating measures.
Sanitation Sector
-     The project includes the construction of the first phase of a sewer system
for Semarang. Semarang has no sewer system yet. The first phase includes
the construction of a waste water treatment plant and the installation of
interceptor sewers along both sides of Kali Semarang. This will prevent
raw sewage from reaching the river and thus will drastically improve the
quality of the water in Kali Semarang. As a pilot project an area of 59 ha
in the old city will be fully provided with sewers. Depending on the
results of the pilot project, the sewer system will be extended to serve
other areas of the city.
The project will benefit 131,000 people living in the Kali Semarang
catchment area. Adverse effects are expected because of the land needed
for the Treatment Plant-(29 ha). This land is at present privately owned
by 12 different owners and is being used for fish ponds providing a living
for 98 families. Other adverse impacts concern the construction of the
interceptor sewers under the narrow, 3 to 4 m wide, inspection roads along
the Semarang river. These sewers with diameters ranging from 0.45 up to
1.5 m will be constructed to a maximum depth of 7 m over a length of about
4 km along both sides of the Kali Semarang. During the construction period
the accessibility of the buildings along these roads will be problematic.
This affects about 4,700 households, some shops, home industries and
schocls. Apart from that, the buildings along the inspection roads as well
as the river banks could be damaged because of the construction
activities.
-     For Surakarta city the project includes the rehabilitation of two existing
sewer systems: Mojosongo and the Old Dutch system. The effluent of both
systens will be treated in two separate Treatment Plants to be built under
the project. At present all septage flows without any treatment in the
rivers draining the urban area ending up in the Bengawan Solo river.
Treatment will improve the surface water quality i.e.of the Bengawan Solo.
This river is included in the national clean river program (Prokasih).
The Mojosongo sewer system serves a 65 ha low income residential area with
a population of 18,000 people who will directly benefit from the project.
Adverse environmental impacts are expected as a result of the construction
of the treatment plant for which 3 ha of agricultural land has to be
cleared-
The Old Dutch sewer system will serve a population of about 168,000
people. Adverse environmental impact is expected because resettlement
might be needed to clear land for construction of one or more treatment
plants totalling 11 ha. The proposed aerator in the Kali Jenes could
result in flooding because of backwater flowing into the drainage system
and could cause odour, noise and mosquito breeding problems in a
residential environment.
The ANDAL study for the Sanitation sectors in Semarang and Surakarta deals with
the impact of the construction as well as the operation of the systems, proposes
7



mitigating measures and includes a management and monitoring plan.
Solid Waste Management Sector
-     An ANDAL study for the Solid Waste Management sector has been prepared for
Semarang. The study covers environmental considerations of the operation
of the existing final solid waste disposal site (TPA) in Jatibarang which
only started operating in March 1992. However, the site is very difficult
to manage in an environmentally sustainable manner due to the extremely
difficult terrain. Not far from the TPA is Bambangkerap village. The 180
families living there experience nuisance of flies,  odour and other
inconveniences. The ANDAL study includes a site operation plan with
mitigating measures and also results in the rscommendation to relocate the
disposal site as soon as possible.
Other adverse impacts
No significant adverse impact is expected with respect to the projects
proposed for the Water Supply, Urban Renewal, KIP and MIIP sectors.
However, minor impacts like traffic disruption, noise and dust nuisance
could occur during construction. This relates to all projects in all
sectors. Problems with odour, flies and rodents could occur in case drains
and sewers are nor reguTarly cleaned, if solid waste is not properly
handled and if treatment plants are not properly operated. The RKL's and
RPL's describe the measures needed to mitigate these impacts.
A summary of population affected by the project, beneficially or adversely, is
presented in table 4.2.
5.    ANALYSIS OF ALTERNATIVES
Drainage Sector
The normalization of Kali Banger results from the drainage master plan and is a
continuation of the drainage improvement programme (DRIP) of the Urban V
Extension Project. The existing 2 to 10 m wide channel is to be widened to
between 7 and 25 m over a total length of about 5,000 m. The new right of way has
been approved by local government regulation (Perda 2/1985). About 1,T0O m of the
normalization of Kali Banger has already been implemented in 1988/89, the last
part of 3,300 m will be implemented under the present SSUDP project.
Realistic alternatives for widening of Kali Banger do not exist. The river flows
through the downtown area Into the Java Sea. Widening is a must to solve the
frequent and heavy flooding problems of the densely populated catchment area of
Kali Banger. The scale of resettlement required canno' be reduced because people
live on the present embankments.
The Provincial and Municipal authorities have proposed that the affected families
be resettled to Keluruhan Karangroto because this area houses the families that
have been relocated in earlier stages of the Kali Sanger normalization program.
These families appear to be satisfied with their new living environment and are
happy to accept the people from their previous kampung. Government owned land is
still available in Karangroto.
Urban Roads Sector
The need for improvement of the road system of both cites has been studied
extensively during the five year plan preparation process. The only new road
links included in the program are the proposed Northern Surakarta Ring Road and
8



Table 4.2: People Directly Affected by the Project
Sectar                           Benefic;aries                              Adversely Affected
Raids                  The entire population of Semarang 11.304,000)          Re3ettlerent micht be needed for
ana Surakarta (540,000) will benefit from the         a limited number o; people living5       -
improved roads and transport system                   along 4 roads to be wioened in
Semarang. Precise numbers depend
on further detailed studies
Drainage             - Improved drainage will benefit the en:ire            - Resettlerent is needed for 790
population of both cities. About 185,000 people   households living along Kali
live in areas currently prone to flooding in          ganger. The property of 156  hh
Semarang (854 ha) and 5',000 people in Surakar-   will partly be appropriated but
ta (2.1 ha)                                           the people c3n stay.
Solid waste          - In Seoarang 797,000 and in Surakarta £36,000    - Adversely affected are 180 house-
Nanagement             people are being served by the Solid Waste             holds living in Sambarker3p
coalection system.                                    viiiase ciose to TPA Jatibarane.
Sanitation           - In Semarang 131,000 people will benefit from    - For the new 29 ha Treatment Plant
the new sewer system.                                 in Semarang 12 people lose their
- In Surakarta 185,000 people will benefit from          land and 98 families lose their
the rehaoilitated and expanded sewer systems.         livelihood (fishfarm)
- People living downstrean Surakarta alcng the    - In Surakarta 3 ha of agricultural
Sengawan Solo river will have cleaner water           land is lost to build a Treatmenti
Plant.
- The construction of the intercep-
tor sewers in Semarang affects
the accessibility of 4,700 house-
holds, some shops and businesses
during the construction period.
Water Supply         - In Semarang 545,000 people receive piped water  - Nuisance durinS construction for
supply, in Surakarta 224,000.                         people living near the sites
Urban RenewaltKIP/  - In Semarang 30,000 people will have an improved - Nuisance during construction for
NIIP                    living environment, in Surakarta 45,000. The          people living near the sites
improved markets will benefit the entire
population



the extension of the Northern Semarang Ring Road. All other projects concern
improvement of existing roads, periodic maintenance and traffic management. Only
few roads will be widened. All project proposals are in conformity with existing
urban master plans.
Four road widening projects, all scheduled to be implemented in the fourth and
fifth year of the programme in Semarang could result in the need for limited
resettlement: Jl.Pamularsih, Jl.Pedurungan-Mrican, Jl.Pedurungan-Citarum and
Jl.Genuk-Pedurungan. The first two projects are to create a continuous east-west
secondary collector in the southern part of the city which is badly needed and
already included in the Urban Master Plans since 1975. In this densely populated
u-ban area existing alignments will be followed in order to prevent demolition
of buildings and resettlement as much as possible. Different design options will
be considered during the design stage to minimize the need for resettlement.
Jl.Pedurungan-Citarum and Jl.Genuk-Pedurungan need to be widened to give better
access to new residential areas in the fast developing eastern part of the city
where the road network is hardly developed. Until recently this area was mainly
rural and still now large patches of open land exist. Alternative alignments and
design options can and will be considered to minimize disruption. This will be
dane in the first two years of the project concurrent with the preparation of the
new metropolitan and urban master plans.
Environmental assessments (Andal) could not yet be prepared, but will be
submitted to the Bank in the year before actual implementation is to take place.
These projects should be considered as programmatic parts of the programme.
Sanitation Sector Semarang
Semarang has no sewer system yet. The existing open storm water drains are being
used to collect both storm water and sanitary flows. This leads to insanitary
conditions and pollution of the rivers and ground water, representing a health
risk especially for people living along the rivers and people using shallow well
water.
It is not possible to deal with the problem in the same way throughout the city.
In the central, low laying areas of town the population densities are high (above
200 people per ha) and the soil and groundwater conditions not suitable to use
septic tanks because of the high ground water table and the impervious soil. The
only proper solution for this part of town is a sewer system. In other areas of
the city, where population densities are lower and soil and groundwater
conditions more favourable, on-site sanitation by means of private septic tanks
and leaching pits is a suitable option. The project includes the provision of
private and public on-site facilities, as well as the construction of a sludge
treatment plant.
For the off-site sanitation system, two alternatives have been considered: a
combined system for sewage and storm water and a totally separate system. Because
of practical, financial and economical considerations a combined system is
selected, although a separate system would be preferable on grounds of health and
appearance. A pilot project for a separate sewer system is included in the
program to gain experience.
Because of budgetary reasons, the project only includes a first phase consisting
of the construction of interceotor sewers along Kali Semarang, a Waste Water
Treatment Plant (15 ha) and a Sludge Treatment Plant (3 ha), and a full separate
9



sewer system in a pilot project area of 59 ha. The project will serve 131,000
people, which is approximately 69x of the population of Semarang living in the
878 ha catchment of Kali Semarang.
The interceptor sewers will be constructed along both sides of Kali Semarang
under the inspection roads. It has been considered to build the interceptors in
the river bed which would reduce traffic disruption during the construction
phase. However, it appeared that this alternative option would create technical
problems concerning the design of manholes and regulators and difficulties with
operation and maintenance, i.e. access, inspection and dewatering.
The long term sewerage plan (after 1999) envisages to serve the main part of the
city using additional interceptors along other rivers, expansion of the treatflent
plant and increasing the number of house connections. All areas with population
densities of more than 150 people per ha will then be served.
Sanitation Sector Surakarta
Surakarta has two independent off-site waste water disposal systems. One is the
central city system, a combined sewerage and waste water system constructed in
1940 in the Dutch colonial period and serving the city centre area of
approximately 1140 ha. The second is a separate sewerage system, constructed in
1983 and serving a low income housing area of 65 ha in Mojosongo in the northern
part of Surakarta. Both systems collect and discharge the waste water flows
without any treatment into rivers.
The Mojosongo system is operational and in relative good condition. The Old
Dutch system was not operational for quite some time because of sedimentation
and  lack  of maintenance.  However,  local  government  has  recently  (1991)
rehabilitated about 7O0 of the system.
The long term sewerage plan, prepared in 1992, includes the construction of
interceptor sewers along rivers to collect the flows from the ex.sting, to be
upgraded systems, and to treat the flows before discharging them into the rivers.
All areas with high population densities (above 150 people per ha) will thus be
served. The remainder of the city, where population densities are lower and
ground water and soil conditions in general more favourable, will be served with
on-site facilities.
The project includes the construction of a sludge treatment facility at the
existing land-fill site, the purchase of pumping vehicles and the proyision of
private and public on-site facilities.
The off-site component of the present project includes a first phase of the long
term plan. The Mojosongo system will be repaired and rehabilitated where needed
and the waste water flows will be collected and transported to a Treatment Plant
to be built as part of the project.
The rehabilitation of the 'Old Dutch' sewer system will be completed in 1993
(Jebres area, 55 ha). According to the urban master plan, the sewage of the
system was intended to be treated in one central treatment plant in the southern
part of the city. However, it appeared to be very difficult to find a suitable
and affordable location. A follow-up study by a local consultant proposed to
build three separate smaller treatment plants on specified locations. Another
proposal was to temporarily treat only part of the sewage by constructing an
aerator in the Jenes river until a more suitable solution would be found.
10



The Andal study was instrumental ln deciding to return to the original master
plan proposal and build one central treatment plant for the Old Dutch system. The
plant is included in the SSUDP project. A location has been found at the
confluence of Kali Pepe and the Bengawan Solo rivers. Construction of part of the
interceptor system is postponed for budgetary reasons until after 1999.
Solid Waste Management Sector
Problems in the Solid Waste Management sector concentrate on the final disposal
site (TPA) in Semarang. The Jatibarang TPA started operating in March 1992 but
already now presents an unacceptable environmental management problem due to the
extremely difficult terrain. The Andal study clarifies the problems and proposes
mitigating measures and has more or less served as an eye opener for local
officials. Alternatives considered include direct closure of the site, an
emergency plan to mitigate the direct environmental hazards and the possibility
of finding an alternative site to start operating immediately. However, an
alternative site is not readily available. The Andal study therefore proposes to
select a new site for final solid waste disposal as soon as possible. For the
existing site a strict site operation plan has been prepared as part of the Andal
to achieve a more acceptable situation for as long as the site is still operated.
All actions needed have been included in the project.
6.    MITIGATION PLANS
Full Andal studies, including mitigating measures and environmental management
(RKL) and monitoring plans (RPL) have been prepared for sectors where potentially
serious adverse environmental impacts have been identified:
1.    Drainage sector   : Kali Banger Semarang resettlement;
2.    Solid Waste sector: Final Disposal Site Semarang;
3.    Sanitation sector : Sewerage Semarang;
4.    Sanitation sector : Sewerage Surakarta.
Environmental assessments for the national government roads projects will be
submitted to the Bank in the year before actual implementation is to take place.
6.1   Drainage sector: Kali Banger Semarang resettlement:
Mitigating measures have been based on a thorough analysis of the present
situation in the Kali Banger area and in the proposed resettlement location in
Karangroto in East Semarang. The population to be relocated as well as the
receiving population were interviewed and discussions with the affected
population have taken place. Local community leaders and NGO's have been involved
in the entire process. The main findings are summarized below.
6.1.1 The population to be resettled
The socio-economic survey among the population to be resettled received a
response of 797 households out of a total of 953 affected households (84X). The
majority of the respondents are employed by private companies (30x) as labourers.
Other professions include businessmen (20%), government employees & military
(9X), industrial sector (3X), informal sector (18X), and (20X) others (no clear
employment, brokers and no answers). Education levels are in general low with 15x
of the respondents without any formal education and 61X primary school education.
Table 6.1 presents a breakdown of the status of land ownership.
11



Table 6.1     Status of land ownership
Land Title            full appropria-  partial appropriation   total
tion needed           needed
a. Sertifikat  Hak Milik            157                  66              223
b. Sertifikat  Hak Bangunan         261                  T0              331
c. Sertifikat  Hak Usaha              1                   0                1
d- Tanah Yasan                        1                   1                2
e. Letter D                          29                   4               33
f. Tanah Negara                      49                   1               50
g. Others                            21                   3               24
T o t a 1              519                 145             664
Out of the 664 title holders, 43 live somewhere else and have rented out their
property. The national land regulation (UU No. 5/1960 and Permendagri 15/1975)
states that people will receive compensation if they have a land certificate
and/or land from prescriptive law. Group a, b and c, ln total 555 households
(hh), have full formal land rights and will receive full compans3tion .for ther
land and buildings. People holding adat (traditional law) land titles (d + e
= 35 hh) will receive 100% compensation for their buildings and 90% for the land.
People living on state owned land (Tanah Negara = 50 hh) and the group without
formal land titles (-others-) will receive 100% compensation for their buildings
and 75% for the land.
Futhermore, additional to the households mentioned in the above table, a group
of 169 households living in the area as houserenters will be affected. These
people have no formal right to compensation. Finally, the land status for an
additional group of 120 households is not yet clear. These people have claimed
property rights but this could not be confirmed.
The average income of respondents is about Rp.135,000.-/month and average
expenditures about Rp.119,000,-/month. A vast majority (79%) has an average
household income of less than of Rp.150,000,-/month.
As the majority of respondents have low incomes their capability to pay
instalments for a new house Is limited: 34% of the respondents say they can only
afford a maximum monthly instalment of Rp.10,000,-; 61% of the respondents are
willing and capable to pay between Rp.10,000 and Rp.25,000.-/month and 5% can
spend more than Rp.25,000.-/month.
The need for widening and normalization of Kali Banger is in general acknowledged
by the people interviewed: 88- of the respondents agrees fully with the program,
2% of the respondents disagrees and 10% did not express an opinion.
6.1.2 The resettlement area
Karangroto is situated in East Semarang at a distance of approximately 7 km from
the Kali Banger area. The population in Karangroto consists of 1,176 hh of which
457 hh were resettled into this area during the previous Semarang Drainage
Project under Urban V.
12



The KarangrOto area covers about 296 ha. At present 10% of the land is being used
for residential purposes and 90% for agriculture i.e. bananas, non-irrigated rice
fields, food crops, etc. The residential area for previous Urban-V resettlers
covers 8.7 ha. The area available for new resettlers from Kali Banger is about
7.5 ha divided in three separate blocks. The land is government owned.
For the previous resettlement project some facilities were constructed, like an
access road, public sanitary facilities (MCK) and two elementary schools. A
public hall is now under construction. Clean water of good quality is provided
through three deep wells.
The socio-economic survey among the receiving population covered 99 households
consisting of 49 hh from the original population and 50 hh from the previously
resettled population. The results of the survey show that the entire population
in Karangroto agrees with the proposed resettlement program. However, only 6% of
the respondent agreed completely whereas about 94% of the people interviewed
agreed but expressed the need to provide additional facilities and services like
a public health centre (57T), local market (37%), rehabilitation of access roads
and street lighting (41%), public transport, sanitary facilities, additional
electricity connections and clean water supply.
6.1.3 Mitigating measures
The resettlement plan details the measures deemed necessary to mitigate the
impact of the resettlement component of the Kali Banger drainage project. Most
important will be to give fair compensation for property at stake, to disseminate
information and discuss relevant issues with the affected population and to
provide adequate facilities in the resettlement area.
The affected population will be compensated in cash and in kind. The cash
compensation is based on government regulations. The Mayor will issue a decree
concerning the basic land price. The compensation for buildings depends on the
type of construction, age, size and utilities, regulated under a decree of the
Directorate of Cipta Karya.
The compensation in kind consists of serviced plots of 80 m2, 100 m2 or 120m- in
the Karangroto resettlement area for which the resettled people will receive full
formal property rights. The plots will be at least the size of the property lost.
The SSUDP program includes the provision of infrastructure in the resettlement
area as part of the KIP program. This includes access roads, drainage, public
sanitary facilities (MCK's) and additional water supply. Other facilities like
a public health centre, mosque, power supply etc. will be provided under
concurrent programs. The local municipal housing agency (Dinas Perumahan) will
be in charge of provision of facilities and infrastructure through their KIP
project unit.
The total amount of compensation in cash and in kind can be considered equal to
market value.
For a group of 120 households the land status is not fully clear. This will be
clarified in the near future, facilitated by the ongoing IBRO funded community
consultation assistance project. This project serves as a follow-up of the Andal
study and includes continued NGO involvement. The NGO's will also provide
assistance to renters who have no formal right to be compensated and who will
have to negotiate with the lessors.
13



The resettlement plan has been discussed with local government and agreement in
principle has been reached.
6.2   Solid Waste sector: Final Disposal Site Semarang:
The solid waste collection system covers most of the urbanized area of Semarang.
The population served Is about 797,000 persons in the year 1993 and is planned
to increase up to 1,165,000 persons in 1999 (80X of the total populat on). The
total volume of waste produced is projected to increase from 174,000 i /year in
1993 to 235,000 m'/year in 1999. Four sites for solid waste disposal (TPA) have
recently been closed because they either reached their design capacity or they
were not manageable in an environmentally sustainable manner (Mangunharjo, Gombel
Lama, Kedungmundu and Tapak). Currently only one site is being operated:
Jatibarang (44.5 ha), located in a remote area in the hills approximately 10 km
southwest of the city centre. The nearest village is desa Bambankerap to the east
of the TPA at a distance of approximately 800 m with a population of 180
households. About 40 scavengers live at the site in a residential facility
provided by the Dinas Kebersihan.
Operations at Jatibarang started in March 1992. The total number of trucks
operating is about 50 and one truck makes 3-4 trips/day on average. Waste is
being dumped directly over the edge of a very steep, almost vertical slope.
Compaction does not take place and the wastes are not being covered with soil
because of the difficult accessibility of the terrain for heavy equipment. In
January 1993, the accumulated waste became supersaturated from the heavy rains
and started sliding downhill towards a small river in the valley below the site.
Consequently a cut-off drain was constructed in an effort to divert the storm
water to stop the slide and to reduce leachate generation. A leachate treatment
plant was taken into operation in August 1993.
The Andal study concluded that the way TPA Jatibarang is being operated presents
an unacceptable environmental management problem. A new site must be selected as
soon as possible. Funds for Technical Assistance to conduct a site selection
study and to buy land have been included in the SSUDP program. For as long as the
Jatibarang TPA is still being operated the following mitigating measures as
included in the Site Operation Plan are urgently required:
-     construction of a sealed all weather access road to the lower levels of
the site which are not so steep and can be operated properly;
-     operations should be restricted to properly manageable sections totalling
about 15 ha;
-     the provision of a new tracked loader to provide a pressure at the tracks
of the machine of 70 Kpa;
-     the provision of additional pre-treatment of the leachate produced at the
TPA. This will involve the construction of an additional anaerobic pond
and continuous pumping and recirculation of the leachate over the refuse
prior to discharge through the existing oxidation ponds to the Kali
Cebong;
-     the provision of fire fighting equipment;
-     the provision of subsurface leachate collection and stormwater collection
together with the construction of silt traps;
-     additional excavation to provide cover material and additional landfill
capacity.
The SSU0P program includes funds needed for the above actions, civil works and
equipment. It is also envisaged to provide training to the field operators. The
14



RKL/RPL and the Jatibarang Site Operation Plan describe all measures in more
detail especially the actions needed to achieve sanitary landfill conditions as
well as an emergency plan to mitigate the present hazardous situation. It is
estimated that the Jatibarang site will offer enough capacity for another 6-7
years provided that proper compaction can be achieved.
The SSUDP program also includes funds for proper closure of the other Solid Waste
Disposal sites that were taken out of operation recently. Actions needed for
proper site closure as detailed ln the RKL/RPL include fences, leachate and gas
management, soil cover and erosion control, surface water management and
environmental monitoring.
6.3 Sanitation sector: Sewerage Semaranq
The Waste Water Treatment Plant will be built on a 15 ha site close to the sea
with possible future extension of another 14 ha. The land is at present privately
owned by 12 different owners. Nobody lives on the land. The nearest settlement
is more than 1,000 m away. The land is being used for fish ponds, providing a
living for 98 families. Proper compensation for land needed for the treatment
plant must be provided. During the Andal study, discussions between land owners,
land users and local authorities were held aiming at mutual agreement about
compensation and procedures. This resulted in consensus about the compensation
to be paid: on average Rp.8,916,000 for each land owner and Rp.1,620,000 for each
cultivating fish farmer.
Disruption of accessibility of houses and businesses along the Kali Semarang as
a result of the construction of the interceptor sewers will be minimized as much
as possible. Possible damage to buildings along the inspection road and to the
river banks must be prevented. The main mitigating measures proposed in the Andal
study are:
-     dissemination of information and consultation with the affected population
throughout the construction period;
-     traffic management measures to be detailed in the final engineering design
stage;
-     the contractor should guarantee access for emergency vehicles and should
not be allowed to store materials at the construction site;
-     the contractor will receive detailed instructions on prevention of damage
to buildings and river banks;
-     dissemination  of  information  to  the  general  public  through  local
newspapers and radio.    -
6.4   Sanitation sector: Sewerage Surakarta
As a result of the Andal study the original proposals for the Surakarta sewerage
project have been changed drastically in an effort to minimize adverse
environmental impact.
Mojosongo System
The Mojosongo system treatment plant was planned to be build on a site where
people had already settled. Construction of the plant would result in substantial
resettlement. This was acknowledged in an early stage of the Andal study. After
intensive consultation with local government an alternative site of 3 ha was
found not far from the original location. This site is suitable from a technical
as well as an environmental point of view. The land is not inhabited but is used
for dry agriculture. Half the area is privately owned, the other half is
15



government land. Costs for land acquisition and proper compensation for people
cultivating the land have been included in the program.
-Old Dutch Svstem
According to the urban master plan, the sewage of the  Old Dutch  sewer system
was intended to be treated in one central treatment plant of about 11 ha in the
southern part of the city. However, it appeared to be very difficult to find a
suitable and affordable location because most of the land is densely populated
and land prices are high. A follow-up study by a local consultant proposed to
build three separate smaller treatment plants of about 11 ha in total on
specified locations. Another proposal was to temporarily treat only part of the
sewage by constructing an aerator in the Jenes river until a more suitable
solution would be found.
All these proposals have been considered during the Andal study. The proposed
aerator has been dropped because the environmental costs far outweigh the
benefits. The three separate treatment plant locations as proposed by the local
consultant appear to be inhabited by large numbers of people. Resettlement will
be very costly and will have a serious social impact.
Because of the social and environmental constraints the Andal study proposes to
use more advanced technology for treatment meaning that a much smaller site would
be sufficient which would minimize the need for resettlement and reduce the
adverse environmental impact. After intensive consultation with all levels of
government this approach was endorsed. A location for the plant was found at the
confluence of the Kali Pepe and Bengawan Solo rivers. This area of 2.5 ha is
suitable when using UASB, Carousel or related technology. The land is not
inhabited so there is no need for resettlement. Investment costs and expenditure
for operation and maintenance of the plant have been included in the program.
Construction of part of the interceptor system is postponed for budgetary reasons
until after 1999.
7.    MONITORING and EVALUATION
The environmental monitoring plans CRPL) detail the actions required for
monitoring and evaluation in compliance with environmental standards. The main
actions are summarized below and in table 7.1.
7.1   Land Acquisition and Resettlement
7.1.1 Kali Banger Semarang
The data collected with interviews and additional surveys In the affected areas
will be used as a base for monitoring during the actual plan implementation, land
acquisition and resettlement. Six months after the land acquisition is completed
a follow-up questionnaire survey is scheduled to ascertain that the arrangements
were indeed fair and satisfactory. Another survey is planned two years later to
evaluate the situation in the resettlement area and to monitor the provision of
facilities and services. In this way it will be possible to make timely
adjustments If necessary.
The evaluation will be the responsibility of the municipal environmental
protection agency (Bapedalda) established in Semarang in April 1993. The process
will be monitored by a local NGO that was also involved in plan preparation.
Monitoring of progress with provision of infrastructure and social facilities In
16



Table 7.1 : Sumary of Major Negative Iepacta, Proposed Mitigating Measures and Monitoring
Impact                      Mitigation                  Responsible Agency             Monitoring              Responhible Agency
1.   Land Aceuisltion icnd Resettlm 1t
1.1  Mali Banger        - community concultaticn                 - TP3T              - Follow-up survey based on        - Bapedalda
drainage project  - Resettlement to Karangroto             - PIU Drainage         Andal questionnaire              - NGO
resettlement       - compensation In cash and kind         - PIU KIP           - 1I00 assistance                   - Dinas Perumahan
- provision of urban services in
resettlement area
1.2  Possibly           Andal will be prepared and submitted  - Bina Uarga           The central and local government - Bapedalda
resettlement for  one year before project implementa-                          agencies Involved in plan           - NGo
outer years roads tion. Careful study of alternative                            preparation should take care of  - PPHO, PHO
projects           design options should minimize the                           timely preparation of Andal;
need for resettlement                                       monitoring by PPMO/PMO
1,3  Lose of fishponds - use more advanced technology to         - Land Acquisition - Evaluation survey   mnonths       - fapedalda (SM)
and farmland for          reduce need for land (8KA)               Committees          afterwards                       - 1I0O
construction of waste  - community consultation                   (Panltia-g1TP3T)  - 1400 assistance                   - TKP2SDALH (SKA)
water treatment plants - proper compensation                     - PIU Sanitation
2.   Solid Wast
Environmental      - treatment of leachate                 - Dinas Kebersihan Monitor lasachate  groundwater   - lapedalda
hazards Disposal  - construct access road                                       and surface water quality
Site Semarang,    - Implement Site Operation Plan
YPA Jatibarang    - Commission study to find a new TPA
location
- Proper closure of old TPA's
3.   Sonitatn
3,1 Discharge ot        All sewage and leachate will be          - PDAH              Regular testing of groundwater,  - Sapedalda (SHO)
polluted effluent treated before being discharged. The                          surface water anu leachate         - TKP2SDALH (SKA)
old Dutch system in Surakarta will
also be completed with a Treatment
Plant
3.2  Damage of River   Strict Instructiens to contractors to - PIU Sanitation   Regular inspections and strict   - DPU
Banks and Buildings    be included in contracts                                      supervision of construction        - DTK
(Sewerage Semarang)                                                                  actvi ties
3.3  Sedimentation      Regular cleaning, maintenance;improve - PDAM                 Regular Inspections and six        - lapedalda (SHO)
(Drains and Sewers)    solid waste collection system            - OPU                monthly sediment testing           - TKP28DALH (91A)
- Dina. Kebers1han
4,  Traffic Disruotior Traffic management and public             - OLLAJR            Monitoring of traffic flows and  - Sapedalda (SH0)
(Drainage, Roads,  Information                              - Polantas          changes of traffic patterns         - TKP29DALH (OKA)
Sanitation)                                                                      during the construction period
5.  Noise and Dust      Strict instructions to contractors to - DPU                  Regular inspections and strict   - Bapedalda (540)
(Drainage, Roads,  be included in contracts; Traffic        - OLLAJR            supervision of construction         - TKP29DALH (9KA)
Sanitation)         management                               - Polantas          activities



the resettlements area will be the responsibility of the housing agency (Dinas
Perumahan).
7.1.2 Central Government Roads Projects
The eventual need for land acquisition and resettlement as a result of the outer
year roads projects initiated by central government needs to be studied indepth
by the national agency Bina Marga. This agency will also prepare the Andal
studies and resettlement plans required. The provincial and municipal project
management offices (PPMO and PMO) and Bapedalda will monitor the timely
preparation and submission of Andal studies and resettlement plans one year
before actual implementation is to take place.
7.1.3 Waste Water Treatment plants in Semarang and Surakarta
For the waste water treatment plants in Semarang and Surakarta land will be
acquired and cleared. Nobody is living there but the land is used for agriculture
and fishponds. Consensus about compensation has been reached. The local Teams for
Land Acquisition (TP3T and Pantia-9) will be responsible for the follow-up.
Evaluation will take place six months after completion of land acquisition. The
process will be monitored by a local NGO, by Bapedalda in Semarang and in
Surakarta by a similar municipal environmental team as Bapedalda with similar
responsibilities but organised on an ad hoc basis, TKP2SDALH. Surakarta does not
have a Bapedalda yet.
7.2   Solid Waste Disposal Semarang (TPA Jatibarang)
The implementation of the Site Operatlon Plan for the Jatibarang disposal site
in Semarang is the responsibility of the local Dinas Kebersihan (DKP) under
supervision of the local environmental protection agency (Bapedalda). In close
cooperation with the Sanitary Engineer of the Bapedalda, the DKP will monitor the
situation, i.e. the quality of the leachate as well as the groundwater in the
neighbouring Bambankerap village. The data collected during the Andal study, i e.
concerning surface water quality, will serve as base data for evaluation of
future water quality testing. Key parameters to be monitored are Ph and DO (site
measurement) and laboratory testing of BOD5, COD, NO, NO , Fe and heavy metals
(Zn, Ni, Cd, Cu, Cr and Pb). In case alarming leveis of pollution are found,
Bapedalda will first warn all agencies involved about the pollution and will
advise the Mayor who will then issue instructions on actions required. DKP and
Bapedalda will step up the monitoring frequency to see whether the pollution
levels change or not and will advise about additional actions including
information to the public.
7.3   Sanitation
7.3.1 Effluent and Groundwater Quality around Waste Water Treatment Plants
The environmental parameters to be monitored are the influent, effluent,
receiving stream and groundwater quality related to the waste water and septage
treatment plants. Groundwater quality must be controlled in an area of 2 knr
around the site. The data collected during the Andal study, i.e. concerning
surface water quality, will serve as base data for evaluation of future water
quality testing. Key parameters to be monitored and the frequency of monitoring
are listed in table 7.2. The responsible agency is the PDAM, assisted and
supervised by Bapedalda in Semarang and by TKP2SDALH in Surakarta.
17



Table 7.2: Key Parameters for Monitoring of Water Quality
Key Parameters              unit    A    B    C    D    E
1. p H                               m    m    s    s    s
2. BOD5                     mg/l    m    m    s    s    s
3. D                        mg/l    m    m    s    s    s
4. Suspended Solid          mg/l    s    s    s    s    s
5. N02-n                    mg/l    s    s    s    s    m
6. FC -Faecal coliform  MPN/100ml  m    m    s    s    m
7. Discharge (Q)            1/sec   d    d    _   m    -
8. Faecal streptococci  MPN/100ml _   -    -        -    _m
9. N03-n                    mg/l _    -    -        -    _m
Notes:
A :Influent parameter (monitoring and frequency)
E   Effluent paramster (monitoring and frequency)
C :Sludge  parameter (monitoring and frequency)
O   River water (100 a upstream and SO m downstream of discharge
point)
E :Ground water parameter (monitoring and frequency).
d   daily frequency
n   monthly froquency
s   six monthly frequency
7,3.2 Damage to River Banks and Buildings
The interceptor sewer system to be constructed under the narrow inspection roads
along both sides of Kali Semarang could potentially damage the river banks and
the buildings close to the construction site. Construction work is under
responsibility of PIU Sanitation. The situation will be monitored daily by the
construction engineer of the local public works office (DPU) and by Dinas Tata
Kota (DTK).
7.3.3 Sedimentation
Sedimentation and dumping of solid wastes in the drainage channels may restrict
the flows in the drains and their capacity and cause odours and mosquito breeding
because of stagnant water and rotting processes. The Solid Waste Management
component of the SSUDP program for which the Dinas Keberslhan Is responsible,
will improve the solid waste collection system drastically which is expected to
reduce the volumes of wastes being dumped illegally in drains and rivers. The
situation will be monitored by the Drainage Engineer of the local Public Works
Office (DPU).
Sedimentation in the Interceptor Sewers will hamper proper functioning of the
sewer system and may cause unnecessary overflow of sewage into rivers and drains.
The substance of the sediment should be monitored as well. Pollutant parameters
to be analyzed on a six monthly basis are COD, BOD-, organic content and fat, oil
and grease. Responsible for monitoring sedimentation in the sewer system is the
Sanitary Engineer of the PDAM, assisted and supervised by Bapedalda in Semarang
and by TKP2SDALH in Surakarta.
7.4   Traffic Disruption
Traffic dis-uption as a consequence of the drainage, roads and sewerage projects
will  be minimized.  Responsible  for  monitoring  the  implementation  of  the
mitigating measures is the Traffic Enginedr of the Local Traffic Agency (DLLAJR)
18



and Polantas. The Traffic Engineer will also monitor the traffic flows and
changes in traffic patterns as a result of construction activities and assure
that appropriate measures will be taken and that affected people will receive
timely information. Supervision and monitoring will be done by 8apedalda
(Semarang) and TKP2SDALH (Surakarta).
T.5  Noise and Dust
Noise and dust nuisance may result from all construction activities, especially
in the drainage, roads and sanitation sectors. The Bapedalda in Semarang is
responsible for monitoring of sound and dust emiss-ion at construction sites,
based on the Provincial Regulation (Perda 1/1990) for environmental monitoring.
The responsible agency in Surakarta is the local environmental team (TKP2SDALH).
The local Public Works Office (DPU) supervises construction activities and will
cooperate with the environmental agencies to keep noise and dust at acceptable
levels. The maximum ambient standard for dust is 0.26 mg/m3. Noise levels in
residential areas should not exceed 60 dBA. Observations are planned on a weekly
basis. Traffic noise will be reduced by traffic management measures under
responsibility of DLLAJR and Polantas.
8.    INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
The institutional arrangements for the implementation of the SSUDP program have
been detailed in the Local Institution Development Action Plan (LIDAP). The main
actions can be summarized as follows.
Separate project implementation units (PIU's) at local government level will be
responsible for the implementation of the program. These units will be assisted
by supervising agencies especially established at local level, the so-called PMO
and PMU. Training of staff and consultancy assistance will be provided under the
project. At provincial level support will be provided by the PPMO and PPMU
agencies.
In Semarang a local environmental protection agency (Bapedalda) has recently been
established. This agency will be responsible for supervision and monitoring of
all environmental aspects. In Surakarta a similar agency, with similar
responsibilities but organised on an ad hoc base, is the local environmental team
(TKP2SDALH).
The sewerage systems will be managed by the local Water Enterprises (PDAM). The
Solid Waste Disposal site is managed by the municipal Dinas Kebersihan (Public
Cleansing Department).
Land acquisition is the responsibility of the local Team for Land Acquisition
(Panitia-9), chaired by the Municipal Secretary (Sekwiloa). In case the land to
be acquired is less than 5 ha a local team called TP3T, chaired by the PIU
Project Manager (Pemimpin Proyek) is in charge.
Implementation of the drainage works is the responsibility of the PIU Drainage
unit within the Public Works office (PU). Implementation of infrastructural works
in the resettlement area is the responsibility of the PIU-KIP unit within the
municipal housing agency (Dinas Perumahan). This Dinas Perumahan is also
responsible for monitoring provision of social infrastructure by the relevant
municipal agencies.
19



9.    COMMUNITY PARTICIPATION
Community consultation has been an integrated part of the plan preparation
process. Home questionnaire surveys were held to establish the real demand and
preferences for urban services and to assess affordability based on income of the
target population.
The Andal studies included more active community involvement. The affected
population was interviewed and draft proposals were discussed in specially
organized meetings. Specific attention was given to the population to be
resettled as a result of the project. Home questionnaire surveys were conducted
among the affected population and in the resettlement area. The results of the
surveys and the draft plans were discussed intensively- In September 1992
meetings were organized with the people to be resettled. Almost 100 people
attended the meeting, including local community leaders, religious leaders and
representatives from local NGO's. Another meeting was was organized to discuss
the draft resettlement plan with the receiving population in Karangroto and their
community and religious leaders. About TO people attended this meeting. The
discussions were held in a very positive atmosphere. Local NGO's were involved
during the entire process. The aspirations of the people were taken into account
in the final drafting of the resettlement plan. An ongoing IBRD funded follow-up
study is especially intended to further enhance community participation and
includes active NGO involvement.
Active community participation will be encouraged in the kampung improvement
programs (KIP). The government acknowledges that emphasizing development of
physical facilities without simultaneously giving attention to community
involvement may have caused inefficiencies and lack of community commitment in
the past. Therefore the government wishes to enhance community involvement in
every stage of the KIP programs: planning, implementation, monitoring,
utilization and maintenance. To this purpose the community based development
approach was launched, the so-called New National KIP Strategy. The strategy is
based on three key elements called Tri Bina: (1) development of the physical
environment, (2) human resources and social development and (3) economic
development. The existing neighbourhood organisations (LKMD) will play an
important role in the enhancement of community participation in the KIP programs.
Training for LKMD staff is included in the project.
20






