Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.:      22395
PERFORMANCE AlUDIT REPORT
INDONESIA
SECOND JABOTABEK URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 3219-IND)
SEMARANG-SURAKARTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 3749-IN1D)
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT FOR LOW-INCOME COMMUNITIES
(LOAN 3629-IND)
June 20, 2001
Sector and Thematic Evaluation Group
Operations Evaluation Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents (Effective March 30, 2001)
Cturrency Unit: Indonesian rupiah (Rp)
Rp 1 = US$00001
US$1 =Rs. 10,000
Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADB                  Asian Development Bank
BAPPENAS             National Development Planning Agency
CAS                  Country Assistance Strategy
DG Cipta Karya       Directorate General of Human Settlements
DKI Jakarta          Jakarta Special Capital Province
ERR                  Economic rate of return
GDP                  Gross domestic product
GNP                  Gross national product
GOI                  Government of Indonesia
ICR                  Implementation Completion Report
IDA                  International Development Association
INPRES               Central Government Grant to Local Government Program
iUIDP                Integrated Urban Infrastructure Development Project
JABOTABEK            Region comprising Jakarta, Bogor, Tangerang, and Bekasi
KIP                  Kampung Improvement Program
MHA                  Ministry of Home Affairs
MHE                  Ministry of Health
OED                  Operations Evaluation Department
OP                   Operational Policy (of the World Bank)
PDAM                 Local Government Water Enterprise
PRSP                 Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (of the World Bank)
NGO                  Nongovernmental organization
PALYJA               PAM Lyonnaise Jaya (concessionaire for Western Jakarta)
PAM JAYA             Jakarta Municipal Water Supply Company
PERPAMSI             Indonesian Water Distributors' Association
SSP                  Sector Strategy Paper (of the World Bank)
TPJ                  Thames PAM Jaya (concessionaire for Eastern Jakarta)
UPS                  Village-level organization for WSSLIC
VAP                  Village Action Plan
WSSLIC               Water Supply and Sanitation for Low-Income Communities (Project)
Fiscal Year
Government of Indonesia: April 1 - March 31
Director-General, Operations Evaluation          : Mr. Robert Picciotto
Director, Operations Evaluation Department          Mr. Gregory K. Ingram
Manager, Sector and Thematic Evaluation          : Mr. Alain Barbu
Task Manager                                     : Mr. Klas Ringskog



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
The World Bank
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of the Director-General
Operations Evaluation
June 20, 2001
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Performance Audit Report on Indonesia
Second Jabotabek Urban Development Project (Loan 3219-IND)
Semarang-Surakarta Urban Development Project (Loan 3749-IND)
Water Supply and Sanitatiotn Project in Low-Income Communities
Project (Loan 3629-IND)
The attached cluster audit of three projects to Indonesia focuses on their water supply and
sanitation objectives and components in an attempt to learn sector-wide lessons and offer
recommendations for sector policy reform. The lessons learned and the recommendations were presented
at a Water Supply and Sanitation Sector Policy seminar in Jakarta on May 21-23, 2001, with wide
representation from the Indonesian water supply and sanitation sector and from international financing
agencies. Subsequently, it is likely that the audit lessons and recommendations will be helpful in shaping
the next generation of water supply and sanitation projects with domestic funding and external financing
from the World Bank and possibly from other external financing agencies.
The audit comprises three projects. The first, the Second Jabotabek Urban Development Project
encompassing water supply and drainage works in the Greater Jakarta area, was approved on June 5,
1990, and closed on December 31, 1997, with a one-year extension. Second, the Semarang-Surakarta
Urban Development Project was approved on June 7, 1994, and was extended a third time to September
30, 2001, from the original closing date of September 30, 1999, to allow for disbursement of some water
supply works. Third, the Water Supply and Sanitation in Low-Income Communities Project was
approved on June 24, 1993, and closed on November 39, 1999, with a 14-month extension from the
original closing date of September 30, 1998. Performance of all three projects was influenced by the deep
political and economic crisis that affects Indonesia since 1997.
The three audits represent an effort by OED to broaden its customary project audit format to
include an analysis of the adequacy of the Bank's sector assistance. Besides analyzing each project, the
cluster audit identifies constraints and recipes for success that could apply to the entire Indonesian water
supply and sewerage sector. The lessons come at a significant point in the sector dialogue between the
World Bank and Indonesia where ongoing projects are coining to an end and where the future direction
of sector assistance is unclear. The performance audit report demonstrates that the focus of future
assistance should aim at creating appropriate legislation, regulation, and policies for the sector. Such a
policy-based assistance strategy would improve the development and impact of future lending and reach
further down to the smaller municipalities where the needs are the greatest.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used3 by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



2
OED rates the outcome of the Second Jabotabek Urban Development Project satisfactory, its
institutional development impact modest, sustainability unlikely and both Bank and borrower
performance satisfactory. The rating of the Semarang-Surakarta Urban Development Project is
problematic since the two project cities differed widely in all aspects. The audit provides details on their
divergent performance and outcome. In the weighted summary rating OED rates the outcome of the
Semarang-Surakarta project moderately unsatisfactory, its institutional development impact modest,
sustainability unlikely, Bank performance satisfactory and borrower performance unsatisfactory. Finally,
OED rates the outcome of the Water Supply and Sanitation in Low-Income Communities project
satisfactory, its institutional development impact substantial, sustainability likely, and both Bank and
borrower performance satisfactory. The ratings are broadly consistent with the ICR ratings for the
Second Jabotabek and WSSLIC projects.
The cross-sectoral lessons refer to five aspects of the development of the Indonesian water supply
and sanitation sector and of the Bank's assistance:
*      The lending paradigm of integrated urban development infrastructure projects (where water
supply and sanitation investments were one, albeit the largest of several components) seems to
have delayed vital reforms in the water supply and sanitation sector. Future Bank sector
assistance would be more effective, and the results more sustainable, if it were provided by
stand-alone water supply and sanitation projects with a focus on financial and institutional
reform.
The lack of credible regulation and, most importantly, the lack of tariff regulation have led to a
culture where service providers do not feel sufficiently accountable to consumers with regard to
the quality and cost of service. Sector-wide regulation is much overdue to force service providers
to pay greater attention to the operation and maintenance of existing systems rather than on
investing in additional capacity..
*      Greater private sector participation offers the best solution to strengthening the insufficient
capacity of the municipal water supply and sanitation companies to operate and maintain the
systems built. Yet, the experience from private sector participation in Jakarta has been slow in
improving the quality of service and coverage, which is due to insufficient incentives for the two
private operators to improve service, which in turn is due to lack of regulation
*      The two audited urban water supply and sanitation projects (Second Jabotabek in Jakarta and the
Semarang/Surakarta project) indicate that sound and sustainable water resources management
has not yet been implemented at the local level. The result has been unsustainable mining of
groundwater and land subsidence with high economic costs.
*      The emphasis in the Water Supply and Sanitation in Low-Income Communities (WSSLIC)
project on user participation, sanitary excreta disposal, and health education has been successful
in improving the health and well-being of the rural populations. The WSSLIC lessons of greater
community involvement are applicable to urban water supply and sanitation projects in
Indonesia.
Attachment



Contents
Principal Ratings ....................................                                                                             iii
Key Staff Responsible ......................................                                                                       Hi
Preface ....................................v
1. Introduction .....................................I
Country and Sector Background .....................................1
Project Objectives and Components .....................................2
2. Outcome ....................................3
Relevance .....................................3
Efficacy .....................................3
Efficiency .....................................7
Overall Outcome .....................................9
3. Institutional Development Impact .....................................9
Jabotabek (Jakarta) Project .....................................9
Semarang-Surakarta Project .................................... 10
Water Supply and Sanitation in Low-Income Communities Project ................... 10
4. Sustainability .....................................                                                                            11
Second Jabotabek (Jakarta) Project ................................... 11
Semarang-Surakarta Project ................................... 12
Water Supply and Sanitation in Low  Income Communities Project ................... 13
5. Bank Performance ...........................................................                                                    13
6. Borrower Performance ...........................................................                                                14
7.  Lessons and Recommendations ...........................................................                                        15
Annex A. Basic Data Sheets ........................................................... 23
Annex B. OED  Project Evaluation Criteria ........................................................... 33
Annex C. Comments from the Borrower                                       ................................................ 39
This report was prepared by klas Ringskog (Task Mainager), who audited the three projects in
March 2001. William B. Hurlbut edited the report. Helen Phillip provided administrative support.



ii
Tables
Table 1. Water Supply and Sewerage Performance Indicators for Second Jabotabek Project
(Jakarta, Loan 3219-IND) ....................................................................4
Table 2. Water Supply and Wastewater Performance Indicators for Semarang-Surakarta .............                         6
Table 3. Targeted and Realized Numbers of Villages and Population Served with Water from the
WSSLIC Project ................................................................6
Table 4. Chemical and Bacteriological Quality of Drinking Water, and of Soil Quality Before and
After Project Village Intervention .....................               ...............................................6
Table 5. Changes in Infant Mortality in Project Areas of the WSSLIC Project Over the Project
Implementation Period ....................................................................8
Table 6. Evolution of Water Supply Tariffs in Jakarta, Semarang and Surakarta, 1997-2000 ......I I1
Table 7. Water Supply and Sewerage Service Levels in Selected Countries, 1997 ..................... 16



iii
Principal Ratings
Second Jabotabek Urban Development   Outcome          Sustainability  Institutional    Bank        Borrower
Project (Loan 3219-IND)                                              Development   Performance   Performance
ICR                                  Satisfactory   Uncertain      Partial        Satisfactory    Satisfactory
Audit                                Satisfactory   Unlikely       Modest         Satisfactory    Satisfactory
Water Supply and Sanitation for Low-    Outcome       Sustainability  Institutional    Bank        Borrower
Income communities (Loan 3629-4ND)                                   Development   Performance    Perforrnance
ICR                                  Satisfactory    Likely        Partial        Satisfactory    Satisfactory
Audit                                Satisfactory    Likely        Substantial    Satisfactory    Satisfactory
Semarang-Surakarta Urban               Outcome         Susrlainability  Institutional    Bank       Borrower
Development Project (Loan 3749-IND)                                  Development   Performance    Performance
ICR (tentative)                      Pending        Pending        Pending        Pending        Pending
Audit                                Moderately      Unlikely      Modest         Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory
unsatisfactory
Permitted Ratings
Outcome                              Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory,
Moderately Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory
Sustainability                       Highly Likely, Likely, Unlikely, Highly Unlikely, Not
Evaluable
Institutional Development Impact     High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible
Bank Performance                     Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance                 Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory
Key Staff Responsible
Second Jabotabek (Loan 3219-IND)       Task Manager             Division Chief       Country Director
Appraisal                            Ali Memon                Anupham Khanna       D C Rao
Completion                           Alain Locussol           Keshav Varma         Dennis de Tray
WSSLIC (Loan 3629-IND)                 Task Manager             Division Chief       Country Director
Appraisal                            Erdogan Pancaroglu       Himelda Martinez     Marianne Haug
Completion                           Howard Bamum             Alan Ruby            Marc Baird
Semarang-Surakarta (Loan 3749-4ND)     Task Manager             Division Chief       Country Director
Appraisal                            Heinz Unger              Anupham Khanna       Marianne Haug
Completion                           Risyana Sukarma          Keshav Varma         Marc Baird






v
Preface
This Performance Audit Report (PAR) covers three water supply and sanitation projects: the
Second Jabotabek Urban Development Project (Loan 3219-IND), which financed the expansion
of water supply and drainage in Jakarta; the Semarang-Surakarta Urban Development Project
(Loan 3749-IND), of which a major share financed water supply, sewerage and drainage, and the
Water Supply and Sanitation for Low-Income Communities Project (Loan 3629-IND), which
financed water supply, sanitation, and health education in rural villages. The audit has focused
exclusively on the water supply, sanitation, and health education aspects of the three projects to
allow cross-sectoral lessons to be drawn with regard to the World Bank assistance strategy in the
water supply and sanitation sector. The audit lessons and recommendations (made at the request
of the EAP Region) was discussed at a joint World Bank-Asian Development Bank Water Supply
and Sanitation Sector Policy Seminar, on May 21-23, 2001 in Jakarta.
Loan 3219-IND, in the amount of US$190.0 million equivalent, was approved on June 5, 1990,
became effective on February 27, 1991, and closed on December 31, 1997, one year after the
original closing date of December 31, 1996. At the time of closing the Bank canceled an unused
balance of approximately US$15.3 million.
Loan 3749-IND in the amount of US$174.0 million equivalent was approved on June 7, 1994,
became effective on October 20, 1994, and was to close on March 31, 2001, two years and six
months after the original closing date of September 30, 1998. The project is substantially
completed, but the closing date was extended yet one more time to September 30, 2001 in order
to allow water supply works in Semarang to be financed under the loan. At the time of closing it
is expected that the Bank will have canceled approximately US$41.4 million. The Semarang-
Surakarta project has been included in the cluster audit because it contains valuable lessons that
are relevant sector-wide in Indonesia and for Bank water supply and sewerage projects in general.
Loan 3629-IND in the amount of US$123.3 million equivalent was approved on June 24, 1993,
became effective on October 25, 1993, and closed on November 30, 1999, one year and two
months after the original closing date of September 30, 1998. At the time of closing the Bank
canceled an unused balance of approximately US$15.3 million
The PAR is based on Staff Appraisal Reports, Implementation Completion Reports, credit
agreements, project documents, and discussions with Bank staff. In addition, an Operations
Evaluation Department mission visited Indonesia in March 2001 for discussions with borrowers,
project executing agencies, with the two private operators in Jakarta, and direct beneficiaries of
the loans.
Following customary procedures, copies of the draft PAR were sent to the relevant government
officials and agencies for review and comments. Comments were received from the Ministry of
Settlements and Regional Infrastructure and are included as Annex C.






1
1.    Introduction
1.    The present cluster audit of three projects with major water supply and sanitation
components has made possible an evaluation of past sector development strategies, supported by
the Bank. The Second Jabotabek (Jakarta) and the Semarang-Surakarta urban development
projects supported the urban development strategy of the Government of Indonesia. Since 1987
that strategy has been to:
*     Strengthen the capacity of local governments to build, operate, and maintain local
services
*     Improve the planning and programming of urban infrastructure investments
*     Mobilize local revenues and optimize their use
*     Implement coordinated financing and administration systems for local services
*     Strengthen consultative processes at various le vels of government, particularly the
participation of municipalities and districts.
2.    The Water Supply and Sanitation for Low-Income Communities supported the
government's three-pronged rural strategy comprising potable water, sanitary excreta disposal
(sanitation), and health education, with the close and continuous coordination of the three
involved ministries-Human Settlements (Cipta Karya), Home Affairs, and Health-as well as
the national development planning agency BAPPENAS. The three projects were evaluated using
OED's five evaluation criteria: outcome; institutional cevelopment impact (IDI); sustainability;
Bank performance; and borrower performance. (For definitions see Annex B.) The three project
evaluations will be used by the EAP Region to analyze in greater detail the adequacy and success
of the government's water supply and sanitation sector development strategy in improving the
coverage and quality of services; creating capable institutions to plan, implement, and operate the
infrastructure provided; and doing so in a sustainable fashion. For this reason, and at the request
of the Region, the audit offers recommendations based on the lessons learned.
Country and Sector Background
3.    The Republic of Indonesia straddles a large archipelago with a combined land area of
about 1.9 million square kilometers and with a total population of some 210 million. Total
population is growing at 1.5 percent per annum. Urban growth rates are more than twice as much
and the urban share has risen to 40 percent. Indonesia is rich in natural resources, which propelled
three decades of strong economic growth until the Asian financial crisis hit in 1997. Per capita
GNP that had reached US$1,110 in 1997 dropped sharply to US$580 in 1999 following a deep
depreciation of the rupiah. Growth has now resumed but at a lower rate than before. Infant
mortality was estimated at 43 per thousand live births in 1998, and adult illiteracy is about 12
percent.
4.    An administrative reform in 1987 made local governments responsible for providing
water supply and sanitation services. Most local governments have chosen to set up nominally
autonomous municipal water companies, PDAMs. There are now about 300 PDAMs in the
country's 27 provinces. Most PDAMs are small: 72 percent are in municipalities with fewer than
10,000 people, another 25 percent are in municipalities with 10,000-100,000 people, and only 3
percent are in municipalities with more than 100,000 people. About 36 percent of the urban
population had access to public piped systems in 1994. the last year for which reliable data on
coverage are available. Sewerage coverage is almost negligible and treatment levels worse. The
unconnected population draw water from shallow wells and make use of septic tanks or open
canals for disposing of their sewage. Shallow groundwater is increasingly contaminated. The



2
elevated public health risk is mitigated by consumers who are accustomed to boiling their
drinking water. Piped water supply service coverage is low in rural areas, whereas sanitation
coverage may be comparable to that in urban areas.
5.    The Ministry of Home Affairs is responsible for supervising local governments and
PDAMs, while the Directorate General of Human Settlements (DG Cipta Karya) assists in
developing those water supply projects funded by the central government. The national agency,
BAPPENAS, is in charge of planning in all sectors and the Ministry of Health is ultimately
responsible for monitoring and assuring adequate environmental health standards. No sector
agency regulates either quality of service or the level of tariffs. Most investments in the sector
have been funded by direct budgetary support and debt serviced by the central government. Most
PDAMs are in a perilous financial situation and have insufficient revenue to pay for adequate
operations and maintenance, let alone replace and expand ageing systems and service debt.
Project Objectives and Components
6.    The objectives of the Second Jabotabek Urban Development Project (Loan 3219-
IND) in Jakarta were to implement a program of physical investments, technical assistance, and
policies for urban water supply, wastewater disposal, drainage, and water resource/quality
management which would:
*     Balance the existing treatment capacity with required transmission and distribution
networks
-     Increase the piped water supply from about 28 percent of the population to about 50
percent
Result in improved service for the poor through construction of standpipes and removal
of monopoly on water sales to vendors
*     Improve wastewater disposal
*     Strengthen the management, staffing, and financial viability of water supply and
sewerage institutions
--    Strengthens Jabotabek water resource planning capabilities.
7.    The objectives of the Semarang-Surakarta Urban Development Project (Loan 3749-
IND) were to
*     Improve the provision of urban infrastructure and services and the efficiency of urban
investments
*     Promote stronger, more autonomous, and financially more independent municipal
governments
*     Contribute towards urban poverty alleviation, mainly through better access to essential
services and an improved urban environment.
8.    The objectives of the Water Supply and Sanitation Project in Low Income
Communities (WSSLIC, Loan 3629-IND) were to:
* Provide safe, adequate and easily accessible water supply and sanitation services and
support hygiene/health education for poor communities in underserved and unserved
rural villages outside Java and on Java itself through sustainable and community-based
arrangements. The underlying expectation was that the provision of water supply and
sanitation, supported by essential hygiene and sanitation education, would improve the
health status and productivity of the poor comnmunities.



3
2.  Outcome
9.    Project outcome is a composite of the project's relevance, efficacy, and efficiency. (See
Annex B for definitions and ratings scales.)
Relevance
10.   Relevance measures how well the project was aligned with the current development goals
of the government and with the Bank's current assistance strategy to Indonesia. By that token,
OED rates the relevance of all three projects "high"' because they supported the effort to
correct for infrastructure bottlenecks, an explicit goal of the Bank Country Assistance Strategy.
The Bank sector strategy is aimed at (a) providing assistance for essential investments in
maintenance and rehabilitation; and (b) improving the policy and legal framework of key sectors
(among them the water sector) to facilitate competitive private sector investment. Additionally,
the relevance of the WSSLIC project was strengthened by the fact that it addressed the needs of
the rural population (about 60 percent of the total population) who had lower income levels and
environmental health service levels. The WSSLIC project supported the main elements of
Indonesia's national statement on its Poverty Reduction Strategy to strengthen local governance,
provide effective core public services (among which is health), build community infrastructure,
strengthen community organizations, promote sustainable rural development, and accelerate
development in remote areas as main elements. All three projects had poverty alleviation as an
explicit objective: the two urban ones aimed at improve the access of the poor to essential
services, and the WSSLIC restricted financing to such rural villages that had been screened
according to the National Program for Poverty Alleviation.
Efficacy
11.   Rating the efficacy of the three projects is best guided by the projects' physical,
administrative, and financial accomplishments as detailed in Tables 1-4. The situation of eight
key performance indicators are shown the year before the project, and for the year 2000 which is
the latest year after the project for which data are available. The change in the key performance
indicators is then assumed to measure the additional imnpact of the project.



4
Table 1. Water Supply and Sewerage Performance Indicators for Second Jabotabek Project
(Jakarta, Loan 3219-IND)
Indicator/Year                     1990           1997                         2000
PAM Thames       PALYJA       Composite
Share of household connected to
waterl                             35%            52%            60%            40%           48%
Share of households connected       2%            2%          Not within     Not within        2%
to sewerage                                                    contract       contract
Share of households with           N.A.           N.A.           82%            90%           81%
continuous water service
Share of households with water     N.A.           N.A.           N.A.           N.A.           N.A.
with residual chlorine
Unaccounted water (Metered         54%            56%            47%            48%           48%
consumption/production)
Employees per '000 water            9.6            4.8           5.3            5.6            5.5
connectons (number)
Working ratio (Cash operating      72%            61%            65%           100%           78%
costs/operabng revenue)
Share of wastewater treated         0%            0%             0%             0%             0%
N.A. = Not AvailableTPJ =PAM Thames=Private operator for East Jakarta  PALYJA=Private operator for West
Jakarta
Comment on the efficacy of the Second Jabotabek project:
e   The project did increase the share of households connected to water to roughly the
forecast level. However, the objective of raising service levels of the poor by increasing
the number of public hydrants from 2,100 before the project to 4,900 after the project did
not take place. The number of hydrants actually decreased to 1,500, the explanation being
a marked preference of the poor in favor of house connections or purchases from water
vendors
*   The supply of water to the distribution system did increase which in turn reduced
intermittent supplies although not completely
*   The share of households sewered is estimated to have remained roughly constant and
wastewater treatment is absent. The two private operators, PAM Thames and PALYJA
are not contractually obliged to provide wastewater services. However, drainage works
were implemented as planned and significantly reduced the risk of flooding
*   The management and staffing of the services improved as a result of the contracting with
two experienced international water supply operators and staff productivity was roughly
doubled. The increase in productivity is expected to continue as a consequence of a
recent renegotiation of the contracts of the two private operators who will have greater
latitude in offering incentive packages to PAM Jaya employees who wish to retire
*   The financial viability had not yet improved as of March 2000 as shown by the increase
in the working ratio of the two operators. The reasons for the increase in working ratio
from 1997 to 2000 include the restrictions on incentive packages to PAM Jaya
employees, the delay in approving a tariff increase combined with high inflation rates and
the challenge for the private operators in reducing the initially high levels of unaccounted
water. However, a tariff increase of roughly 35 % approved on March 29, 2001 should
improve the working ratios of the two operators.
In the absence of good regulation there are varying estimates of the service coverage. The 52% in 1997 refers to the
entire Jakarta service area and is the estimate of the Bank mission contained in the Implementation Completion Report.
One of the private operators, TPJ, responsible for water supply service only in East Jakarta reports that they have
managed to increase service levels from 49% in 1997 to 60% in 2000. The other private operator, PALYJA,
responsible for water supply services only in West Jakarta, reports that they have managed to increase service coverage
in their service area from 38% in 1997 to 49% in 2000.



5
*   A study was made of the water resource mana-gement but did not include the Jabotabek
area. As a result mining of ground water is likely continuing in the Jabotabek area with
land subsidence as a consequence. The situation is unsustainable and unless reversed will
make gravity drainage impossible in increasingly large areas. For the same reason, the
risk of damage to the coastal aquifer from saline intrusion is increasing with the lowering
of the aquifer.



6
Table 2. Water Supply and Wastewater Performance Indicators for Semarang-Surakarta
City of Semarang      City of Surakarta
Indicator/Year                                                1993        2001       1994       2000
Share of household connected to water                          45          53         30         63
Share of households connected to sewerage                       0          0          3           6
Share of households with continuous water service              20          15         5          98
Share of households with water with residual chlorine          N.A.       N.A.       N.A.        100
Unaccounted water (Metered consumption/production)             41          41         38         29
Employees per '000 water connections (number)                  9.0        6.0        13.8        7.5
Working ratio ((Cash operating costs/cash operating revenue)    50         70         91         37
Share of wastewater treated                                     0          0           0          0
N.A. = Not Available
Comment on the efficacy of the Semarang-Surakarta sub-projects:
*   The Surakarta PDAM  had high efficacy in improving the provision of water supply, both
measured by coverage, quality and efficiency. hi contrast, as of March 2001 the
Semarang PDAM had not been successful in improving the coverage, quality and
efficiency of its water supply service. The Surakarta PDAM did manage to increase the
coverage of sewerage under the project while the Semarang PDAM in the end canceled
its sewerage component.
*   The Surakarta PDAM had been successful in improving its efficiency and financial
viability while the Semarang PDAM had been unsuccessful
*   The Surakarta PDAM  had managed to serve more poor ( through the higher service
coverage and continuity) while the Semarang PDAM had been unsuccessful
Table 3. Targeted and Realized Numbers of Villages and Population Served with Water
from the WSSLIC Project
Project Areas          Targeted No of       Realized No of     Targeted Population   Realized Population
Villages             Villages             Served               Served
Central Java                225                  396                 469,000              788,000
Maluku                      115                   176                146,000              220,000
East Nusa Tenggara          241                  329                 360,000              489,000
North Sulawesi              239                  361                 336,000              505,000
Central Sulawesi            324                  394                 308,000              394,000
South East Sulawesi         240                  240                 259,000              544,000
Total WSSLIC                1414                 2020               1,988,000            2905,000
Table 4. Chemical and Bacteriological Quality of Drinking Water, and of Soil Quality
Before and After Project Village Intervention
Project Area    Acceptable Chemical Water     Acceptable Bacteriological    Existence of Worm Eggs in
Quality (l%)                  Quality (V.)               Soil Samples (%)
Before         After          Before         After          Before          After
Project        Project        Project        Project        Project        Project
Central Java        89             97             28             51             23             19
Maluku              75             95             91             97             80             35
East Nusa           78             53             48             48             29             15
Tenggara
North              100             100            28             41             12              5
Sulawesi
Central             95             91             45             89             43              18
Sulawesi



7
South East       98           1 00    |    56           76      |     6            4
Sulawesi                              l 
12.    Summarizing then, the three projects vary in performance. The WSSLIC project
surpassed its targets by a wide margin and bacteriological and chemical water quality improved in
all project areas. The Surakarta project also improved ithe coverage, quality, and efficiency of
services and may be the best performing PDAM in Indonesia. The Jakarta PDAM improved
coverage of service, but in later years the improvements slowed, despite the presence of the two
private operators. The Semarang PDAM is the lagging performer, in part because the anticipated
increase in potable water production is substantially delayed. Although coverage in Semarang
increased the share of consumers with continuous water service dropped from an already low
20% to 15%, jeopardizing the safety of the water supplied. In all three projects the number of
public hydrants catering to the poor primarily fell over the project period. It may be that high
water supply connection fees that amount to as much as US$ 65 - a large sum for the poorest
households - slow connection rates although financing of connection fees were provided in the
East Jakarta private operator contract and by the Semarang and Surakarta PDAMs.2 It could also
be that poor consumers simply prefer house connectioins to public standposts as some surveys
seem to indicate.
13.    The efficacy of the three projects in improvingl explicit and implicit targets is measured
by the performance indicators. OED rates the efficacy of the WSSLIC project "high," of the
Jakarta (Jabotabek) project "substantial," and of the weighted Semarang-Surakarta project
as "modest." The efficacy of the WSSLIC regarding the provision of safe water is difficult to
quantify because there is no continuous monitoring of the quality of water supplied. However,
access and supplied water quantities undoubtedly increased and surpassed the targets by a wide
margin. The WSSLIC project's efficacy in reaching the targets of expanded use of latrines is less
well documented. The program itself financed the construction of some 3,000 public toilets,
slightly fewer than 1,000 school latrines, and some 20,000 private latrines on a pilot basis.
However, it is likely that a considerably more latrines were built as a result of the substantial
health and hygiene education financed under the project. In some of the Central Java villages
visited by the audit mission, the communities had conditioned the provision of individual water
service connections on the households installing a private latrine. In other villages, households
built private latrines on their own volition as a consequence of the health education campaign and
the improvement in water service. The WSSLIC project did finance the testing of the chemical
and bacteriological quality of the drinking water provided to villages before and after the
completion of the village water systems, and of the existence of worm eggs (as an indication of
unsanitary defecation habits) before and after the inteivention in each village. The test results
hardly respond to the requirements of controlled, scientific surveys but do provide a rough idea of
the improvement of water provided and of soil contamination. The results do indicate a higher
share of acceptable water quality following the project intervention and of a reduced incidence of
worm eggs. The only exception to the positive evolution is East Nusa Tenggara.
Efficiency
14.    The efficiency of the three projects also varies considerably. OED rates the efficiency of
the Surakarta subproject "high" as it probably represents best practice in the Indonesia water
supply sector in terms of cost effectiveness and economic returns. Its investment efficiency is
2 One of the private operators, TPJ, subsidizes the connection cost and only charges US$ 7 for connecting low income
households. TPJ reports that "all customers, who have requested a connection and where a supply pipe exists or will
be installed, is connected to the network."



8
high due to the easily staged expansion of well supply, the pace of which can be easily adjusted to
fit the growth of demand. Metering is universal, and the operating efficiency has risen further.
15.    The efficiency of the Semarang subproject is rated "negligible" because the selected
production scheme (comprising a 42 kilometer-long open canal and a treatment plant, both still
under construction) represents a vulnerable and ultimately expensive solution to bring more water
to the city. At the time of preparation the use of a rich spring south of Semarang was considered,
but it proved impossible to gain rights to the spring flow. The spring flow was estimated at
between 500 and 1,000 liters per second, which would no doubt have been the least-cost solution
to increasing water production to Semarang had it been possible to reach an agreement on using
the spring to supply the city. Considering the failure to be able to draw water from the least-cost
spring the selected investment solution of the 42 km canal/treatment plant was selected as the
least cost solution at the time of appraisal. The delay in finishing the scheme has accelerated the
overexploitation of the coastal aquifer with the result that land subsidence has accelerated. This
has caused irreversible damage and coastal sections of the city are now more prone to flooding
since they do not drain by gravity, as they did previously. The weighted average rating of the
combined Semarang-Surakarta project is problematic because of the divergent performance of the
two sub-projects.
16.    The efficiency of the WSSLIC project is rated "high." The efficiency of this project can
be measured in two ways: against benchmarks of costs of providing rural water, sanitary excreta
disposal, and health education through alternative programs, and through a cost/benefit analysis
of the program itself. By the first "cost-efficiency" test, the WSSLIC had a relatively high
efficiency, at least in those areas where water by gravity was readily available. Visited project
villages in Central Java reported investment costs in the order of US$25 per household and
operating costs varying between US$0. 1-0.3 per household and month. These represent low
costs. In contrast to the low capital investment costs WSSLIC's relative share of costs for
institutional development and capacity building is relatively high It is explained by the emphasis
on health education, training and community development and, less felicitously, by the relatively
cumbersome project administration where four government branches were involved: the Ministry
of Health, the Ministry of Home Affairs, the Ministry of Public Works, and the National
Development Planning Bureau (BAPPENAS). None of the four was assigned the lead role with
the result that extensive coordination became necessary
17.    Rigorous cost/benefit analysis is difficult to undertake for project villages. One study
(University of Indonesia & Dr. Carol Hetler, PhD, 1999) reports decreases in diarrhea among
babies of 18 percent following the provision of clean water, and of decreases of 15 percent
following the provision of family latrines. It is uncertain, though, how well these results apply to
the project villages.
18.    Infant mortality is commonly used as an indicator of improved environmental health.
Again, infant mortality dropped substantially during the course of project implementation but it is
doubtful that the positive trend can be attributed entirely to the project.
Table 5. Changes in Infant Mortality in Project Areas of the WSSLIC Project Over the
Project Implementation Period
Project Area                               Infant Mortality (per thousand live births)
Start of project               End of project
Central Java                               51                             48
Maluku                                      68                            49
East Nusa Tenggara                          71                            47



9
North Sulawesi                           66                          48
Central Sulawesi                         87                           64
South-East Sulawesi                      79                           54
Overall Outcome
19.   OED rates the outcome of the Jabotabek (Jakarta) and WSSLIC projects "satisfactory"
and of the combined Semarang-Surakarta project as "moderately unsatisfactory" in view of the
negligible efficacy and efficiency of the Semarang project.
3.    Institutional Development Imipact
Jabotabek (Jakarta) Project
20.    The project promised or tried to achieve much more in institutional development than it
could ultimately deliver.
*      In the later years of project implementation, in parallel to the Bank loan, a PHRD grant
was granted to finance studies to prepare for competitive bids of two contracts to operate
the West and East areas of Jakarta's water distribution system. ( It should be noted that
the loan did not at any time contain as an objective achieving private sector participation
in Jakarta.) The process was short-circuited by a GOI decision to negotiate directly with
two private operators, Thames Water and Lyonnaise des Eaux, which had submritted
unsolicited bids in collaboration with Indonesian private groups close to the Suharto
regime. Two "concession" contracts resulted from the direct negotiations. One is between
the erstwhile PDAM operator, PAM Jaya, and the U.K. operator, Thames International,
for the East part of Jakarta. The other contract, for the West part of the Jakarta, is
between PAM Jaya and the French international water supply and wastewater operator,
Lyonnaise des Eaux. Following the departure of President Suharto in 1998 Thames Water
and Lyonnaise des Eaux purchased the shares of their respective partners and became
sole operators in their respective service areas.
*      The regulation of the two operator contracts is unclear and at present ineffective. Yet, the
Bank financed a study in 1999 that made well-focused suggestions on how the regulation
of the two contracts could be improved. In the meantime, PAM Jaya continues as a de
facto regulator of the two contracts since it is the signatory on behalf of the Jakarta
municipality. The lack of clear rules for tariff'regulation is most damaging for the long-
term viability of the private operator contracts as evidenced by the three-year delay for
the private operators in obtaining a tariff increase in spite of high inflation rates.
*      Wastewater disposal does not seem to have improved appreciably as a result of the
project, nor has the institutional capacity to manage wastewater improved. ( It should be
noted that none of the private operators is responsible for operating or investing in
Jakarta's rudimentary sewerage system.) The quality of the shallow groundwater in the
region is actually deteriorating because of lack of a sewerage system.
*     The water resources management does not seem to have improved substantially as a
result of the project. Overexploitation of groundwater continues and land subsidence
remains a problem with serious long-term eff'ects on groundwater quality and on the
facility to drain sewage and rainwater. Yet, a study to improve water resources
management in the Jabotabek region was financed under the project.



10
21.   In view of the above shortcomings OED rates the institutional development impact of
the Second Jabotabek (Jakarta) project "modest."
Semarang-Surakarta Project
22.   The varying performance of the Surakarta and Semarang projects can be explained to a
large degree by the institutional development impact in the two water supply and sanitation
companies. The energetic general manager in the Surakarta PDAM has been employed for about
20 years in the PDAM and was promoted to his present position after serving as the technical
director of the PDAM. He has focused on improving the efficiency of operations and on
expanding the system's capacity to supply water to end rationing. The improved service made it
possible to get a substantial tariff increase approved with a subsequent lowering of the working
ratio (cash operating cost/cash operating revenue) to 37 percent. The general manager is now
exploring the possibility of cementing the higher distribution efficiency through the dividing the
distribution system into sub-districts, which would be subcontracted with private operators who
would be paid on the basis of collected water sales. OED rates the institutional development
impact for the Surakarta subproject "substantial." In contrast, OED rates the institutional
development impact for the Semarang PDAM "negligible." The weighted combined rating
of the two sub-projects is rated "modest. The PDAM suffered from management instability.
The present general manager is relatively recent in his position but has good credentials after
having worked in the Government Audit Bureau. At one time, there was interest in exploring
some level of private sector participation for the conveyance and treatment of water, but the effort
produced no results.
Water Supply and Sanitation in Low-Income Communities Project
23.   The project's institutional development impact occurred at two levels: (i) in govemment
agencies; and (iii) in the villages themselves. A substantial proportion (roughly 16 percent each)
of the total project cost was expended to support a lasting improvement in the institutional
capacity to plan, implement, and operate and maintain the projects in the villages. As noted
elsewhere, project management was quite complex with the Ministries of Health, Home Affairs
and Public Works plus the national planning agency BAPPENAS intervening at four levels: at the
central, provincial, district, and subdistrict levels. It is doubtful that the substantial expenditure in
project management and training of the participating government agencies resulted in anything
more than a modest institutional development impact. In contrast, at the village level the impact
was higher. Village Water Supply and Sanitation Committees were established in each project
village and their members, and a number of villagers, were trained. At project completion about
16 percent of Village Water Committees were reportedly not functioning whereas 84 percent
were fully operational. Audit field visits to selected project villages confirmed the positive
institutional development impact from the project. The Village Water Committees had been
successful in expanding service coverage of both water supply and sanitary excreta disposal and
in keeping the systems operating without relying on outside financing of operations and
maintenance expenditure. OED rates the overall institutional development impact of the
WSSLIC project "substantial" in view of the impact at the village level.



11
4.     Sustainability
Second Jabotabek (Jakarta) Project
24.    The financial sustainability affects both the operational and administrative sustainability
of the water supply and drainage systems in Jakarta. The water supply system has three contracts
for which financial sustainability must be analyzed. The first is supply contracts for raw water.
Here the operating revenue was reported to be sufficient to pay for the modest operations and
maintenance costs of the system. The other two contracts are those between PAM Jaya and the
two operators, PAM Thames and PALYJA. The two operators bill PAM Jaya for the operating
and annualized investment costs of their service areas. The original intent was to enable PAM
Jaya to pay for these costs out of the operating revenue that the two pnrvate operators collect and
pass on to PAM Jaya. The operating revenue has been consistently below the operating and
maintenance costs, however, due to the failure to adjust tariffs and due to the challenge of
reducing the initially high levels of unaccounted-water.3 The upshot has been an operating deficit
that the two operators have agreed to finance, so far, against an presumed ultimate guarantee from
the Municipality of Jakarta in its capacity as owner of PAM Jaya.4 hi the meantime, the two
operators have unpaid and growing claims on PAM Jaya that have technically bankrupted PAM
Jaya, as its equity has now tumed negative. As a consequence, the financial sustainability of the
wastewater and drainage works financed under the project depends entirely on the ability and
willingness of the Jakarta Municipality to approve the necessary tariff increases and to provide
the necessary financial revenue from its tax revenue for financing any shortfall in operating costs
and to finance the necessary investments. So far, the corresponding works have remained
operational, but it has been at the price of deferred maintenance. In view of this financial
insufficiency, OED rates the sustainability of the project in its present form in the absence of
predictable tariff regulation as "unlikely."
25.    The rating of a lack of sustainability of the two private operator contracts is also due to
the depth of the macro-economic crisis that hit Indonesia in 1997 and 1998. The impact on the
tariffs of the private operators, TPJ and PALYJA, and of the Semarang and Surakarta PDAMs
was severe as the table below shows:
Table 6. Evolution of Water Supply Tariffs in Jakarta, Semarang and Surakarta, 1997-2000
Year  Water Tariff in current Rps./m3    Water tariff in year constant    Water tariff in current US$/mn
Rps./m3, prices of the year 2000
Jakarta Semarang Surakarta Jakarta Semarang Surakarta Jakarta Semarang Surakar
1997    1,620       710          570       3,190       1,400       1,120       0.56       0.24         0.19
3One of the private operators, TPJ, reports that they have managed to reduce unaccounted water from more than 59%
in 1997 to 49% to date in the year 2001. The second private operator, PALYJA, reports that they have managed to
reduce unaccounted water from an initial 58% in to 47% in the year 2000. Both operators assess the state of the
network to be deplorable.
4 The Ministry of Settlements and Regional Infrastructure in its comments ( see Annex C, page 1) is not convinced that
the financial risk of the contracts with the two private operators will fall on DKI Jakarta.



12
1998    1,740       780         610       2,170       980         760        0.17       0.08        0.06
1999    1,830       980         640       1,900      1,010        660        0.23       0.12        0.08
2000    1,860       960         750       1,860       960         750        0.22       0.11        0.09
The consumer price index in Indonesia was 1995=100, 1996=108, 1997=115, 1998=182, 1999=219 and 2000=227.
The US$/Rp. exchange rate was 2,910 in 1997, 10,000 in 1998, 7,860 in 1999 and 8,420 in 2000.
The data show how fast the value of the tariff has eroded, both in constant domestic prices and in
US$. In the case of the two Jakarta private operator contracts the year 2000 tariff in domestic
prices is worth about 58% of the 1997 tariff and measured in US$ the year 2000 tariff is worth
about 39% of the year 1997 tariff. It is unlikely that a contract that was negotiated on the basis of
the 1997 tariffs would be remain viable in the face of such changes. The steep depreciation of the
tariff in foreign exchange is of particular concern to private operators who incur a higher portion
of their costs in foreign currency than domestic operators do.
Semarang-Surakarta Project
26.    Given the robustness of its groundwater-based production, its strong financial results, and
the local government support as evidenced by the tariff increase in November 2000, the Surakarta
PDAM is resilient to changes in its operating environment in future years. Accordingly, OED
rates the sustainability of the Surakarta subproject "likely." The rating illustrates how
important it is to control investment and operating costs against the background of a water tariff
which lost 33% of its value in constant domestic prices and 53% of its value in US$. ( See Table
7)
27.    In contrast, OED rates the sustainability of the Semarang subproject "unlikely."
There are three reasons for the rating. The first is the present unsatisfactory financial situation of
the PDAM. A tariff increase, requested by the PDAM, has been further delayed for the not
unreasonable reason that as long as service quality continues to deteriorate, pending the
commissioning of the treatment plant and conveyance system under construction, tariff increases
would be difficult to implement politically and socially. Table 7 shows that the value of the year
2000 tariff is only about 69% in constant domestic prices and 46% in US$. As a consequence, the
financial situation of the PDAM Semarang is precarious and the PDAM cannot service the some
of its debt, notably the World Bank debt.5 The second reason is the fact that the Kelambu-Kudu
conveyance and treatment plant is still not ready. Once commissioned, the sustainability of
operations will be precarious. The operating risks of such a complicated production scheme are
considerable. An immediate concern is the fact that the PDAM Semarang has no contractual
assurance that it will receive the necessary quantity of raw waterfrom the Kelambu-Kudu canal.
This supply risk is of great concern and the Bank supervision team is making a belated effort in
rectifying the absence of such a contractual guarantee from the central government, which owns
the dam from which raw water is to be captured. The absence of a contract of assured raw water
deliveries renders all private sector participation moot since no private operator would be willing
to assume the implied supply risk. The third reason is environmental and relates to the subsidence
of the coastal areas of the city of Semarang due to over-pumping from the aquifer. As noted
5The Ministry of Settlements and Regional Infrastructure comments ( see Annex C, page 2) that " The inability of
PDAM Semarang to service its debt is not unique in Indonesia ... much of the problem has resulted from the economic
crisis..."



13
above, the irreversible damage has made gravity drainage impossible for the coastal areas and
large investments will be necessary to collect and dispose of rainwater and sewage from these
areas. The over-pumping is brought about by lack of control over groundwater extraction, and by
the fact that groundwater costs less to extract than relying on the presently unreliable PDAM-
operated system. The combined OED rating of the sustainability of the combined Semarang-
Surakarta project is "unlikely" given the larger size of the Semarang project and the
severity of the problems facing the Semarang PDAM.
Water Supply and Sanitation in Low Income Communities Project
28.   The sustainability of the village systems to produce continuous benefits depends on a
number of factors of which the technical, financial, and institutional sustainability are central. The
technical resilience of the water supply systems has been helped by the relative abundance of
water in many villages and by the bias in favor of robust gravity systems. Overall, about 70
percent of the water systems are piped systems and 30 percent non-piped. Pumped water systems
were avoided, wherever practical, and only about 7 percent of the systems depend on pumped
supplies. The financial resilience is helped by the requirement that operations and maintenance
costs should be paid on a continuous basis by the communities themselves. Monthly collections
of the necessary funds are made through the Village AWater Committees and appear to be
acceptable to the communities, possibly as a result of the substantial effort in community
development and health education. Finally as noted, the Village Water Committees are
functioning in the vast majority of villages which provides for the institutional resilience. For the
above reasons, OED rates the sustainability of the project "likely."
5.  Bank Performance
29.   The Bank performance must be judged against the background of the lending paradigm
of Integrated Urban Infrastructure Development (IUID) which the Semarang-Surakarta project
exemplifies. Against the background of the experience of the Semarang-Surakarta project the
usefulness of this paradigm to the water supply and sanitation sector must be questioned. The
sheer task of preparing, appraising, and supervising rmulti-faceted projects with seven or more
components is daunting. The main components of this IUID project were water
supply/sewerage/drainage and urban transport. The two components have different requirements
and must address divergent issues. The focus for water supply/sewerage/drainage must
necessarily be on institutional reform, financial viability, and ultimately, on the utility. Lumping
the sector together with a number of other sectors risks delaying water supply sector policy
reform, which seems to have been the case in Semarang and under most other fUID-projects in
Indonesia. The second consideration for rating Bank performance is the macro-economic crisis
that arrived in 1997 and affected all Bank projects negatively. The third consideration is the
transfer of political power from the Suharto regime to the Habibie and Wahid govemments. The
fourth consideration is the decentralization away from the previous excessive control by the
central govemment in Jakarta to local governments that followed the fall of the Suharto regime.
The performance of the Bank in the Second Jabotabek project is rated "satisfactory" and was
facilitated by the fact that this project comprised only water supply and drainage components
which facilitated its implementation. The Bank performance under the Second Jabotabek project
was also facilitated by the fact that the project had been largely completed in 1997 when the
economic and political crisis hit Indonesia. Against this background of political and economic
challenges OED rates the Bank performance under the Second Jabotabek and Semarang-
Surakarta projects "satisfactory."



14
30.   The quality at entry of the WSSLIC project was high. The project was demand-driven,
put much emphasis on community development and training, and recognized that a three-pronged
approach of safe water, sanitary excreta disposal, and health education is necessary to improve
the health status of the benefiting village population. The supervision of the project benefited
from the support of the Bank-supported Regional Water Supply Program, which provided close
supervision from the World Bank's Jakarta office. OED rates the Bank performance under the
WSSLIC project as "satisfactory".
6.  Borrower Performance
31.   OED rates the borrower performance "satisfactory" for the Second Jabotabek
(Jakarta) and the WSSLIC projects and rates the borrower performance of the Semarang-
Surakarta project as "unsatisfactory". In the latter case OED recognizes that there were wide
divergences in performance between the two sub-borrowers with the Surakarta PDAM
performing substantially better than the Semarang PDAM. The Semarang project suffered
particularly from difficulties related to the selection of the source for raw water, to procurement
issues and to a delay in adjusting the tariff to compensate for inflation. Had the Semarang project
not been slowed by the implementation delays caused by the local government and PDAM
Semarang it could have been just as successful as the Surakarta project. However, the difficulties
with governance at the local level in relation to procurement and the failure of the central
government to live up to its contractual undertaking to provide the funding to complete the 42 km
raw water canal in the end delayed project completion by a number of years. There were also
substantial delays in Surakarta over the definition of raw water sources but they were in the end
successfully resolved in favor of wells. The weighted rating of Borrower performance is
"unsatisfactory" in view of Semarang's larger investment program and more intractable
implementation problems.
32.   The performance of PAM Jaya the borrower under the Second Jabotabek project is rated
"satisfactory" in part explained by the fact that the project comprised only water supply and
drainage investments and in part helped by the fact that it had been largely completed when the
political and economic crisis hit in 1997. The two borrowers in Semarang and Surakarta faced the
same political and economic difficulties noted above but responded in different ways. The
Surakarta PDAM was favored by greater managerial stability and support of tariff increases,
while the Semarang PDAM suffered for their lack.
33.   Although borrower performance for the Water Supply and Sanitation in Low Income
Communities Project was satisfactory overall, it must be qualified. Project management was
complex and coordinated between three ministries and BAPPENAS at four different hierarchal
levels of the Indonesian administrative system. The choice of government agencies for project
management made it necessary to match project implementation with the Government of
Indonesia annual budget cycle. This created difficulties due to delays in counterpart funds. Often
counterpart funding was not available until in August, that is, four months after the beginning of
the annual fiscal year. At the other end of the fiscal year the cut-off date of March 31 in the
availability of counterpart funds was strictly followed with the result that many projects had eight
months or less to be designed and built. This introduced poor construction quality in a number of
villages. Fortunately, the Village Water Committees were often in a position to correct for these
deficiencies and make the necessary repairs.



15
7.  Lessons and Recommendations
34.    The three water supply and sanitation projects offer a number of lessons that are of
immediate relevance for Indonesia's development strategy in the water supply and sanitation
sector and for the Bank's assistance strategy. Five aspects of the projects deserve attention and
will be analyzed in succession:
*      The effect on the urban water supply and sanitation sector of the lending paradigm of
integrated urban development infrastructure projects
*      The consequences of the lack of credible sector regulation and, most importantly, the lack
of tariff regulation
*      The experience from private sector participation in the sector to improve the quality of
service and coverage
*      The experience from water resources management under the two audited urban water
supply and sanitation projects
*      The lessons from the Water Supply and Sanilation in Low-Income Communities
(WSSLIC) project that are applicable to urban water supply and sanitation projects.
Lesson One: Integrated Urban Development Infralstructure projects have slowed water
policy reform
35.   In the mid- I 980s the GOI introduced the paradigm of integrated urban infrastructure
development programming (IUIDP), which grouped water supply, sewerage, and drainage
investments with other urban investments such as urban transport, solid waste management,
kampung (neighborhood) upgrading, and others. The IUIDP focus was to shift the paradigm from
an almost exclusively central government responsibility for the development of all urban
infrastructure to a much greater role for local governments in this area. This intention was well-
taken since it would transfer the decision-making authority closer to the actual service providers
and consumers. The development paradigm also became the lending paradigm for the
international financing agencies such as the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank
(ADB). The two audited urban water supply and sanitation projects, Second Jabotabek IUID and
Semarang-Surakarta IUDP allow an evaluation of whether the IUDP paradigm has been effective
for reaching the general sector objectives of efflcient, sustainable service-for-all
36.    The IUIDP paradigm assumes that the focus of urban development is about achieving a
balanced urban investment program in support of urban growth. A key objective was to shift the
investment planning away from central planning driven by line ministries to integrated and local
planning. 6The IUIDP was also born out of the realization that generous central government
support of investments in the past had not been balanced by a capacity to operate and maintain
the constructed systems. IUIDP was to give greater emphasis to creating this institutional capacity
through the creation of locally incorporated PDAMs for the water supply and sanitation sector.
The focal point of the program is logically the local government with its local council and mayor.
The limited-term political mandate of either the local council or the mayor necessarily has a
bearing on their support of long-term investments such as water supply and sanitation and on the
support of the financial and administrative policies that need underpin them. Grouping a large
number of disparate urban investment components together may have created the (mistaken and
unintended) impression that successful urban development is explained more by sufficient
6 The Ministry of Settlements and Regional Infrastructure in their comments on the draft PAR ( see Annex C, page 1)
notes that " The IUIDP does not relate with a single sector performance. The relationship between IUIDP and a sector
is mutually exclusive."



16
investment than by successful operations, maintenance, and judicial expansion of service delivery
capacity. In the event, the experience of the two audited IUIDP projects is that an enabling policy
framework that could underpin sustainable water supply, sanitation, and drainage development is
still lacking in Indonesia after three decades of considerable external and internal domestic
financial and technical assistance. As will become apparent from the analysis of the other cross-
sectoral themes, Indonesia lacks a financial sector policy, tariff regulation, effective regulation of
service quality, a policy vis-a-vis the private sector, and of effective water resource management
at the local level. It is likely that the IUIDP paradigm can explain some of these deficiencies
because of its focus on discrete local investment rather than on policy reform and the financing of
investments that would create and support incentives to effectively implement policy reform at
the local level. It should be noted that the World Bank itself had also reached the same conclusion
as evidenced by the preparation of a 1997 water supply policy paper, and by the rmid-term review
of the Semarang-Surakarta project. The World Bank initiated work to set up a bench-marking
system for the water supply and sanitation sector, financed under another project than those
contained in this audit report.
37.    IUJID projects have been cumbersome for the World Bank to implement.7 The mere
challenge of preparing and implementing such disparate projects has been considerable. The
World Bank recognized in the mid- 1 990s that the IUIDP paradigm was not resulting in the
desired creation of local government capacity in the form of viable PDAMs to operate and
maintain the built systems. In 1997 a report "Indonesia - Urban Water Supply Sector Policy
Framework" was prepared that suggested the necessary reforms that might be supported by future
free-standing water supply and sanitation projects financed in part by the World Bank.
Unfortunately, political and economic instability has delayed the implementation of the suggested
policy reforms. The IUDP has not served the water supply and sanitation sector well because it
has failed to create the sustainable capacity to operate and maintain systems and because it has
failed to raise service coverage and quality. The 1997 Bank Urban Water Supply sector report
estimated that about 29 % of the urban population received public water through house
connections, and another 6% through public hydrants for a total urban water supply coverage of
35%. Urban coverage is negligible. Although inter-country comparisons must be used with
caution given socio-cultural and hydrographic differences the Indonesian water supply and
sewerage coverage levels lag those of a number countries at similar income levels as the table
below shows:
Table 7. Water Supply and Sewerage Service Levels in Selected Countries
Country            Per capita GNP,         Urban water           Urban sewerage
1997               coverage,%             coverage,%
Bolivia                 950                    74%                    41%
Bulgaria                1,140                  98%                     18%
China                   860                   95%                    65%
7The Ministry of Settlements and Regional Infrastructure in their comments ( see Annex C, page 2 provides additional
information on the original objectives of the IUIDP. In particular, they suggest " that the problems encountered by the
Bank in the implementation of IUIDP are not due to the characteristics of the program, but rather the problems
associated with consultant procurement, Bank and Government procedures (e.g. budgeting and counterpart funding)
SLA processing and the impact of the economic crisis."



17
Indonesia              1,110                 35%              Lessthan 1%
Philippines             1,220                60%                   4%
Recommendation One: Future World Bank assistance should be tied to policy reform
38.   Future World Bank assistance to the sector is recommended if it is structured to give
financial incentives in support of policy reform in areas such as:
The adoption of financial policies in the urban sector that would make the flows of
central government funding to PDAMs transparent and where the amounts of financing
would depend on the success of borrowing PDAMs to improve the sustainability of their
operating cash flows so as to guarantee the repayment of an increasing portion of the
central government funding
The adoption of tariff regulation (including subsidy policies) and quality regulation of
water supply and sanitation services since consumers should not be required to pay for
inefficient service but only for service that meets the benchmarks of efficiency and
quality of service providers in Indonesia. Subsidies need to be transparent as to who will
receive them and should be increasingly targeted to facilitate the access of the poor to the
systems
*     The institutional policies in the sector to specify how local government control of
PDAMs and private operators would be exercised and how local capacity to operate and
maintain systems would be strengthened, inter alia, through greater private sector
participation. The further weakening of an already inadequate capacity of the PDAMs to
provide comprehensive and satisfactory services in the aftermath of the 1997 political and
economic crisis is likely to be reversed through wider and deeper private sector
participation.
Lesson Two: Insufficient policy focus has led to a lack of credible sector regulation
39.   The lack of accountability of results can explain much of the failure to operate and
maintain the built systems in an efficient and sustainable fashion. Before the PDAMs were
created in the late 1 980s the central government essentially concentrated on building capacity that
was then handed over to local government for operations with little concern for creating the
incentives and capacity to actually discharge the assumed responsibility. The creation of PDAMs
was assumed to improve the quality of operations and maintenance, but in the absence of
accountability and regulation little progress was made. The arrival of two private operators in
Jakarta, PAM Thames and PALYJA, called attention to the lack of regulation since private sector
participation pitted the interests of private operators against those of the public sector. This focus
is faulty, however, and should be replaced by a concern to regulate the quality and cost of service
in the benefit of consumers. In this sense, regulation is equally necessary whether a privately or
publicly owned company is responsible for operations and investment. In contrast, at present,
Indonesia lacks impartial and professional regulation in the water supply and sanitation sector.
Not surprisingly, the result is lack of consistent data to judge the quality and coverage of service
in the some 300 PDAMs responsible for managing urban water supply and sanitation services.
40.    The World Bank has been aware of the need to create sector regulation, but the absence
of a policy-reform-based project has delayed effective regulation. The World Bank has limited
itself of financing a benchmarking study for the sector through the association of water supply
service providers, PERPAMSI. The study is still not completed, but is largely limited to



18
collecting data on some 40 performance indicators for about one-third of the 300 PDAMs. In
addition to the difficulties of collecting representative and reliable data, the benchmarking study
is facing the problem of how it could become sustainable. So far it has been financed under a
World Bank loan, but neither PERPAMSI nor any GOI ministry have indicated their willingness
and capacity to continue funding the periodic collection, analysis, and dissemination of
performance indicators.
41.    The absence of explicit and predictable tariff regulation is particularly damaging. Water
supply and sanitation tariffs do not respond to a number of criteria in order to promote efficient,
equitable, and sustainable sector development. In spite of tariff policy guidelines from the
Ministry of Home Affairs these have not been implemented and at present tariffs generally do
not:
*      Reflect costs with the result the cash flow from operations is unsustainable which reduces
the possibility for institutional autonomy
*      Reflect the costs of efficient service providers and because of this consumers are forced
to pay for inefficiencies
*      Have transparent, targeted subsidies which in turn makes it difficult for the poor to
connect to the systems
*      Base themselves on reliably metered service so that consumers fail to get the proper
signals what their consumption cost which reduces their incentives to control wastage
=      Include simple formulas of adjustment based on explicit criteria so that consumers and
providers can predict what future tariff levels will be in real terms. As a consequence,
political interference in the approval of tariff adjustments is excessive and ultimately
damages the coverage, quality and efficiency of services to the detriment of consumers.
42.    Present water supply and sanitation tariffs do not meet any of the minimum criteria. They
fail to generate sustainable cash flows from operations, which relegates the sector to depend on an
unpredictable and often unreliable govemment budgets to fund maintenance and investment.!
Tariffs are authorized even though there is a wide range of operating and investment efficiencies
between individual systems. The City of Surakarta has managed to reduce the level of
unaccounted-water to 29 percent whereas most other systems are as high as 50 percent. Subsidies
to the sector are unpredictable and difficult to quantify since they are tied to the availability and
terms of financing. More seriously, poor consumers will as a rule remain unconnected since they
cannot afford the relatively high connection charges. As a consequence, they will buy water from
vendors who charge them in the range of US$2.5 per 4.0 per cubic meter as compared to water
through house connections for as little as US$0.10 per cubic meter. Tariff structures are
cumbersome and it is difficult to track who is subsidized and by how much. Finally, tariff
adjustments are often delayed because they are caught up in local political concerns, which
ultimately reduces the possibilities of operators to provide for quality service to consumers.
Recommendation Two: Water supply and sanitation sector regulation is much overdue
43.    Sector regulation should be established soon that covers both the quality and price of
service. The regulation should meet the following criteria:
8 The Ministry of Settlements and Regional Infrastructure comments ( Annex C, page 3) that the passage of Laws 22
and 22/1999 make it highly unlikely that there could be any central government grant funding. This circumstance
makes it even more important that tariffregulation and efficient operations be introduced to produce sustainable
operating cash flows.



19
*      Regulation should be national in order to allow yardstick regulation between different
systems' performance and use the scarce qualified staff as efficiently as possible.
Regulation at the provincial or local government level would be impossible because there
are not sufficient qualified staff at these levels to discharge professionally the regulatory
duties. In addition, the risk of "capture" of the regulator by either local political or service
provider interests increases with anything below national regulation.
*     Regulation should allow for gradual improvements and start with the annual collection
and dissemination of the most essential data in order to gain rapid initial collaboration
from the individual PDAMs. Suggested initial core performance indicators are listed
below and will likely be complemented with others as the regulator gains experience and
the need for additional information growvs.
Service Coverage
Percentage of households connected to piped water
Percentage of households connected to public sewerage
Percentage of households with continuous supply
Percentage of households with disinfected supplies
Service Efficiency
Percentage Accounted-for Water (Metered water consumption/metered water
production)
Number of employees per thousand water supply customers.
Service Sustainability
Working ratio (Cash operating expenditure/Cash operating revenue)
Share of sewage that is treated
*     Regulation of the price of service should initially focus on collecting data of the average
cost of service; the average tariff; the highest tariff (in order to gauge the risk that these
consumers exit from the system by investing in their own systems); the lowest tariff (in
order to gauge whether the tariff is affordable to the poor); the connection cost (in order
to gauge whether access to the system is not unduly restricted to the poor); and a copy of
the tariff structure. The effort should be made to modernize and simplify the criteria for
calculating and adjusting the level and structure of water supply tariffs in order to make
tariff adjustments predictable and based on costs of service less the amounts of subsidies.
In turn, subsidies should be transparent and targeted at making it as easy as possible for
the poor to connect to the public systems in order to offer competition to private water
vendors
*     The size of staff of the regulatory agency should be as modest as possible through the
subcontracting of much of the data collection and analysis of data to the private sector,
such as accounting firms.
Lesson Three: Private sector participation Costs are high when the enabling environment is
risky
44.   Increased use of private operators is natural to supplement the weak capacity of many
PDAMs. The two private operator contracts in Jakarta are the most significant private operator
contracts so far, but there appears to be much latent interest from other local governments and
from the central government. The motivation seems to be the belief that private operators will
bring investment financing that is now scarce. These expectations are largely misplaced in the



20
present economic and political situation where risks are high. The two private contracts in Jakarta
with PAM Thames and PALYJA have indeed brought private financing of capital expenditure but
the ultimate risk may likely fall on the Provincial Government of Jakarta or on the Central
Government since the operating cash flow cannot guarantee repayment of investments in the
absence of adequate tariff regulation. The lack of clear regulation, and particularly the lack of
tariff regulation, has also hampered progress, particularly since the erstwhile public operator,
PAM Jaya, has been assigned the role of "regulator." (Making the former public service provider
the defacto or dejure regulator of its successor private operator is apt to produce conflicts based
on the experience elsewhere in the world such as under the Aguas Argentinas concession in
Buenos Aires. This also seems to have been the case in Jakarta). The fact that the two private
operator contracts were both unsolicited and that the GOI elected not to use the assistance of the
Bank to prepare for and monitor the negotiations and contracting also prompted modified
ownership of the two private operators after the change of Government in 1998. In truth it should
be said that it would likely have been necessary to renegotiate even competitively procured
private operator contracts in the face of the depth and speed of the financial and political crisis
that hit Indonesia, starting in 1997.
Recommendation Three: Mitigate the risks to induce greater use of private operators
45.    OED recommends a much expanded use of private operators to operate, maintain, and
expand urban water supply and sanitation systems. The general model proposed is one of
concessions (where the private operator assumes both operating risks and the full risks associated
with financing investments) or lease contracts ( where the private operator assumes operating
risks including the risk of collecting tariffs but not the risk associated with financing
investments). In no instance is it recommended that publicly owned assets be sold to private
operators. However, the modality of preparing, contracting, and regulating private operators will
have to be radically different from the direct negotiations that took place in Jakarta. First, many
PDAMs are so small that they may stand a better chance of attracting private operators if they
group together. This could likely take place over time by adding smaller PDAMs to a larger one
with a private operator. In general, local governments and councils are weak and have no
experience with preparing and bidding private operator contracts. They would need technical
assistance, possibly under a World Bank sector reform project, to succeed in managing the
necessary competitive, equitable, and transparent process of achieving a sustainable contract. The
expectations of the public sector in terms of private financing of capital investment need to be
tempered by the realization that the only lasting guarantee of such investments is a sustainable
cash flow from operations. In turn, this requirement puts the onus on the public sector to accept
regulation based on the principle of user charges that reflect the full costs of service.
Lesson Four: It is difficult to apply sound water resources management at the city level
46.   The World Bank has supported policy reform of the way water resources are managed in
Indonesia under a sector policy reform project, WATSAL. The projects in Jakarta and Semarang
afford an opportunity to observe whether the policy reforms promoted by the central government
and the World Bank have created the necessary conditions at the project level for efficient and
sustainable water resources management. The two project cities have failed to implement
sustainable water resources management. Groundwater extraction continues largely unregulated,
stimulated by extraction fees that are so low as to make private wells more economical. In
addition, the effective monitoring and control of groundwater extraction appears weak. For
instance, in Semarang there are 400 registered private wells, but the number of unregistered wells
is estimated at 1,300. The result has been overexploitation of groundwater through private
domestic and industrial wells, sinking groundwater levels, land subsidence, and the risk of saline
contamination from the sea in coastal areas. Land subsidence has serious long-term consequences



21
and have already made gravity drainage and sewerage impossible in some coastal areas of Jakarta
and particularly of Semarang. The difficulties of finding the least-cost solutions for more raw
water in Semarang and Surakarta provide another example of the lack of implementation at the
local and regional level of the centrally approved policies of sound and sustainable water
resources management.
Recommendation Four: Sustainable water supply and wastewater services require sound
water resources management at the project level
47.   Future urban water supply and sanitation projects need to consider and implement the
minimum conditions of sustainable water resources management. In particular, they need to
consider that:
*     At the time of planning an expansion of production capacity an inventory of all possible
sources of additional raw water is necessary and the source should be selected on the
basis of the least cost. No source should be excluded a priori but ownership should be
made explicit and compensated if a city appropriates the water to satisfy demand growth.
*     Groundwater extraction should be licensed and monitored in all instances and should be
subject to fees that reflect its external costs such as wastewater collection, treatment, and
disposal as well as the effects of land subsidence.
*     The management of water resources should consider the option of demand management
before authorizing any expansion of supply since demand management as a rule
represents the least cost of balancing demand and supply.
Lesson Five: Sustainable water supplies and sanitation depend on user participation and
health education
48.   The Water Supply and Sanitation Project in Low-Income Communities (WSSLIC) offers
a number of lessons that could well be applied in the planning and implementation of urban
projects. First, the WSSLIC methodology of planning and implementing the "tripod" of safe
water, sanitary excreta disposal, and health education is superior to what has been practiced in the
urban sector. In the latter the focus has been on providing more water production with less regard
to its efficient distribution and even less to the collection, treatment, and environmentally safe
disposal. Second, WSSLIC has increasingly enlisted the opinions, preferences, and cooperation of
consumers in the planning and implementation of its projects. This has been tried only on an
exceptional basis under urban projects.
Recommendation Five: Consumers need be involved in the preparation and regulation of
water supply and sanitation
49.   Present and future consumers need be involved at each step of the preparation and
implementation of water supply and sanitation projects. First, at the time of preparation the
proposed projects should be discussed at a public hearing and subsequently the selected project
and discussion should be disseminated widely. Costs of different options and their consequences
on tariff levels should be transparent and guide thie decision. Public hearings could facilitate the
acceptance of future tariff increases when a publ-ic vote is taken on the necessary, transparent
increases. In this way, consumers are allowed to freely express their demand and the subsequent
vote of the local council becomes one of ratification only. Second, consumers should be
encouraged to hold providers accountable for the quality of service. Such consumer articulation is
in its infancy in Indonesia but should be facilitated by the recommended sector regulation. Third,
environmental and health education should be a .outine component under urban water supply and



22
sanitation projects in order to promote consumption patterns and, in particular, safe practices of
excreta disposal.



23                                 Annex A
Annex A. Basic Data Sheets
SECOND JABOTABEK URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3219-IND)
Key Project Data (Amounts in US$ million)
Appraisal            Actual or           Actual as % of
Estimate          current estimate    Appraisal estimate
Total project costs            306.9                265.93                87%
Loan amount                    190.0                190.0                 100%
Project Components
*      Improvements to the distribution system of the Jakarta water supply company, PDAM
Jaya
*      Laying the dual Pejompongan raw water transmission pipeline
*      Laying the Cisadane treated water transmission main to the distribution system
Full development of the (already initiated) Jakarta Sewerage and Sanitation project
(financed by the Bank under Loan 2632-IND)
Dredging and rehabilitation of existing canals and drains, and construction of tidal gates
in two locations
*      A water resources management study ancl support for improved institutional
arrangements for water resources management in the Jabotabek region.
Cumulative Estimate and Actual Disbursements
FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95   FY96   FY97   FY98
Appraisal estimate      5.20    17.10   40.30   74.10   116.40  146.40  190.0   190.0
Actual (US$M)           5.14    17.04   40.24   74.09   116.38  150.82  168.36  174.59
Actual as % of estimate   100    100    lOC      100     100     103     89      91
Date of Final disbursement:    April 30, 1998
Project Dates
Original                      Actual
Identification                          N/A                          2/7/88
Preparation                             3/39                          3/89
Pre-appraisal                           6/89                          6/89
Appraisal                               10/89                       11/28/89
Negotiations                            3/39                         5/l/90
Board Presentations                     5/90                         6/5/90
Signing                                 5/90                         7/6/90
Effectiveness                           7/90                         1/27/91
Project Completion                     6/30/96                      6/30/97
Loan Closing                            12,/31                      12/31/97



24                                       Annex A
Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
Actual Weeks                    Actual US$000
Through pre-appraisal                           98/8                             203.2
Appraisal-effectiveness                         54.7                             109.0
Supervision                                     183.5                           363.3
Completion                                      17.5                             40.1
Total                                           354.5                           715.6
Mission Data
Performance rating,
Date        No. of        Specialization
(month/year)    persons        represented     Implementation Development
Status      objectives
Through appraisal     11/87           3          FA, SE, Econ
Through appraisal      2/88          6        EE, SE, TA(2), WE(2)
Through appraisal      6/88           6        FA,SE, Ec(2), E, Sc
Through appraisal      8/88           1               FA
Appraisal to Board     7/89           8
Appraisal to Board    11/89          14        FA(3), SE, EE, TS,
Econ(3),0(2), ME, E(2)
Supervision 1          7/90          6        FA(2), TS, E, 0, P0        2             1
Supervision 2         11/90          5          FA, E, 0(2), SE          2             1
Supervision 3          3/91          3             0, SE, FA             2             1
Supervision 4          7/91          4            FA, SE, 0(2)           2             1
Supervision 5          3/92          4          FA, SE, Econ, E          2            2
Supervision 6         10/92          3             FA, SE, E             2             2
Supervision 7         6/93           4            FA, SE(2), E           3            2
Supervision 8         11/93          3             FA, SE(2)             2             2
Supervision 9         11/93          2              FA, SE               2             2
Supervision 10         6/94           1               SE                 S            S
Supervision 11         6/95           1               SE
Supervision 12        11/95          3             SE, FA, 0             S            S
Supervision 13         6/96                          SE, 0               S             S
Supervision 14        11/96          3             SE, FA, 0             S             S
Supervision 15         3/97           1               SE
Supervision 16        10/97           1               SE                 S             S
Supervision 17        12/97          5          SE, E, FA(2), 0                        S
9. 1: Highly satisfactory; 2: Satisfactory; 3: Unsatisfactory; N/R; Not Rates.



25                                        Annex A
Other Project Data
Borrower/Executing Agency:
FOLLOW-ON OPERATIONS
Operation                                           Loan no.          Amount            Board date
(US$ mil/ion)
Sulawesi Ian Jaya Urban Development Project           3340             100.0               1991
Surabaya Urban Development Project                    3726             175.0               1994
Semarang-Surakarta Urban Development Project          3749             174.0               1994
Kalimantan Urban Development Project                  3854             136.0               1995
Second East Java Urban Development Project            4017             142.7               1996
Second Sulawesi Urban Development Project             4105             155.0               1997
Bali Urban Infrastructure                             4155             110.0               1997



26                                Annex A
INDONESIA SEMARANGSURAKARTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3749-IND)
Key Project Data (Amounts in US$ million)
Appraisal           Actual or          Actual as % of
Estimate         current estimate   Appraisal estimate
Total project costs          297.3                187.9                 63
Loan amount                   174                 132.6                 76
Project Components
(a) Urban roads and transport; (b) water supply and distribution systems; (c) storm drainage and
flood control; (d) solid waste collection and disposal; (e) human waste disposal through sewerage
and on-site sanitation facilities; (f) multi-sectoral program for kampung (low-income area)
improvements and market improvements; (g) programs for the development and strengthening of
local institutions; (h) programs to increase local revenue generation; and (i) technical assistance
for implementation. The water supply, sewerage and drainage components constituted about 60
percent of the project base cost, excluding implementation support, operations and maintenance
overheads and taxes. The project has been included in the water supply and sanitation cluster
audit given that the water supply and sanitation predominated
Cumulative Estimate and Actual Disbursements
FY95    FY96    FY97    FY98    FY99    FY00    FY01
Appraisal estimate     14.9    50.3    92.2       129.7    165.9    174     174
Actual (US$M)          11       30       54.6    78        89.1    92.8    100.3
Actual as % of estimate  74     60       59       60       54      53       58
Date of Final disbursement:
Project Dates
Original                    Actual
Identification                       12/90/90                    12/20/90
Preparation                          4/13/93                     4/13/93
Preappraisal                          N/A
Appraisal                            10/15/93                    10/15/93
Negotiations                         4/14/94                     4/14/94
Board Presentations                  06/7/94                      6/7/94
Signing                              6/22/94                     6/22/94
Effectiveness                        10/20/94                    10/20/94
Project Completion                   9/30/99                     9/30/01
Loan Closing                         9/30/99                     9/30/01



2'7                                       Annex A
Mission Data
Performance rating]
Date         No. of        Specialization
(month/year)    persons        represented'o    Implementation Development
Status      objectives
Appraisal to Board   10-11/93          8
Supervision 1          12/94           6
Supervision 2          4/95            3      ME,UT,Mg920,Ec,Env,
WS,FA
Supervision 3          8/95            6      ME,UT,Mg(2),Ec,LM,E
Nv,WS,FA
Supervision 4          2/96            6         SE,Op,FA,UT,Mg
Supervision 5          5/96            5         SE,Op,FA,Mg,rS
Supervision 6          10/97           9       S E,Mg,Env,UT,FA(2),
Ec,ME,WSS
Supervision 7          4/98            4         Mg,ME,FA,WSS
Supervision 8          5/99            5         Mg,ME,SE,FA,RS
Supervision 9          3/00            4         ME,FA,Clt,WS/SE
Supervision 10         9/00            6      WS/SE,ME,FA,UD,Op,
UT
Supervision 11         3/01            6      WS/SE,ME,FA,Op,UD,
Env
Other Project Data
Borrower/Executing Agency:
FOLLOW-ON OPERATIONS
Operation                                           Loan no.          Amount            Board date
(US$ million)
Kalimantan Urban Development Project                   38
Second East Java Urban Development Project
Second Sulawesi Urban Development Project
Bali Urban Infrastructure Project
10. WS/SE: Water Supply/Sanitary Engineer
FA: Financial Analyst; LM: Land Management Specialist; Op: Operations Officer; Env: Environmental Specialist; Rs:
Resettlement Specialist: Cul: Cultural Heritage Specialist; UD: Urban Development Specialist
I 1. 1: Highly satisfactory; 2: Satisfactory; 3: Unsatisfactory., N/R; Not Rates.



28                                   Annex A
INDONESIA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION FOR LOW-INCOME
COMMUNITIES PROJECT
(LOAN 3629-IND)
Key Project Data (Amounts in US$ million)
Appraisal             Actual or           Actual as % of
Estimate           current estimate     Appraisal estimate
Total project costs             80.0                   45.1                  56%
Loan amount                     80.0                   45.1                  56%
Project Components
(1) Support for direct infrastructure development; and (ii) support for institutional development
and capacity building. In turn, the two main components comprised a number of subcomponents
as shown below:
Table 8. Components of the Water Supply and Sanitation in Low-Income Communities
Project
Project Component                      Appraised Cost            Relative Share of Total Cost
(US$ millions)                    11%)
Water supply infrastructure investment     60.6                            49
Sanitation infrastructure investment       16.0                            13
Subtotal Direct Infrastructure             76.6                            62
Investment
Hygiene and sanitation education            7.0                             6
Training and community institutional       20.4                            17
development
Technical assistance                       10.2                             8
Project management                          9.1                             7
Subtotal Institutonal/Capacity             46.7                            38
Development
Total Appraised Project Cost               123.3                           100
The relative share of the component for institutional development and capacity building is
relatively high and is explained by the emphasis on health education, training and community
development and, less felicitously, by the relatively cumbersome project administration where
four government branches were involved: the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Home Affairs,
the Ministry of Public Works, and the National Development Planning Bureau (BAPPENAS).
None of the four was assigned the lead role with the result that extensive coordination became
necessary
Cumulative Estimate and Actual Disbursements
FY94    FY95   FY96   FY97   FY98   FY99   FY200
Appraisal estimate               60.0     20.0    40.0    60.0    76.0    80.0    0.0
Revised (1996)                   3.2      14.4    24.8    40-0    54.4    62.1    69.0
Actual                           2.0      5.6      21.1    32.7    42.2    44.3    45.1
Actual as % of revised estimate    62.5   38.9    85.1    81.8    77.6    71.3    65.4



29                               Annex A
Date of Final disbursement:    March 31, 2000
Project Dates
Original                    Actual
Appraisal                           12/11/92                   12/11/92
Approval                            6/24/93                    06/24/93
Effectiveness                       10/25/93                   10/25/93
Closing Date                        9/30/98                    11/30/99
Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
Actual Weeks             Actual US$000
Identification/Preparation            136.6                     430.4
Appraisal                              57.8                     198.7
Supervision                           202.3                     532.2
Total                                 396.7                     1161.3



30                                       Annex A
Mission Data
Performance rating'2
Date        No. of        Specialization
(monthlyear)    persons        represented     Implementation Development
Status      objectives
Identification/Prepa   6/91          8       RW(3), E, 0(2), CD, F
ration
Appraisal              1/93          9       RW(3), E, 0(2), CD, F
Negotiation            5/93           7      RW(2), E, 0(2), DO, L
Supervision 1         10/93          6       E, RW (2), 0, 0/PH, CD      S            S
Supervision 2          6/94          3          E, 0/PH, HE/CD          HS            S
Supervision 3         4/95           4        E, 0/PH, RW, HE/CD        HS            S
Supervision 4          6/95          4          E, RW, HE, 0/PH         HS            S
Supervision 5         11/95          6       E(2), OPH, RW(2), HE       S            S
Supervision 6          1/96          1                0
Supervision 7         4/96            5       E, O/PH, HE, RW(2)        U             S
Supervision 8         10/96          4          E, 0/PH, HE RW           S            S
Supervision 9         7/97           4          E, O/PH, RW (2)          S            S
Supervision 10        3/98           4          E, RW(2), 0/PH           S            S
Supervision I1        9/98           5           E, RW (2), HE           S            S
Supervision 12         3/99          5        E, RW(2), HE, 0/PH         U             S
Supervision 13         7/99          4          E, RW(2), O/PH           S            S
ICR                   11/99          3            PH,RW, 0
ICR                   2/00           3            PH, RW, E
12. 1: Highly satisfactory; 2: Satisfactory; 3: Unsatisfactory; N/R; Not Rates.



31                                       Annex A
Other Project Data
Borrower/Executing Agency:
FOLLOW-ON OPERATIONS
Operation                                          Loan no.          Amount            Board date
(US$ million)
Second Water Supply & Sanitation for Low-Income                  US$77.4 million      May 16, 2000
Communities






33                                  Annex B
Annex B. OED Project Evaluation Criteria
Definitions of Eight Key Criteria
1.     Relevance of Objectives
Definition: the extent to which the project's objectives are consistent with the country's current
development priorities and with current Bank countly and sectoral assistance strategies and
corporate goals (expressed in PRSPs, CASs, SSPs, OPs)
Ratings
(i)    Each type of objective will be rated as follows:
High            Project objectives of this type play a key role in the country's current development
priorities and the Bank's current country assistance strategy, and are fully
consistent with the Bank's current sectoral assistance strategy and corporate goals
and policies
Substantial     Project objectives of this type are mostly consistent (minor shortcomnings only)
with the country's current development priorities, the Bank's current country and
sectoral assistance strategies, anc[ the Bank's current corporate goals and policies
Modest          Project objectives of this type have one or more significant inconsistencies with the
country's current development priorities, the Bank's current country and sectoral
assistance strategies, or the Bank's current corporate goals and policies
Negligible      Project objectives of this type are mostly inconsistent with, and possibly
counterproductive to, the country's current development priorities, the Bank's
current country and sectoral assistance strategies, or the Bank's current corporate
goals and policies
(ii)    Overall relevance will be rated as follows:
High            Most of the major objectives were highly relevant
Substantial     Most of the major objectives were at least substantially relevant
Modest          Most of the major objectives were not highly or substantially relevant
Negligible      Most of the major objectives were irrelevant or negligibly relevant
2.     Efficacy
Definition: the extent to which the project's objectives were achieved, or expected to be achieved,
taking into account their relative importance
Ratings
(i)    Each type of objective will be rated as follows:
High            Objectives of this type were fully met, or expected to be fully met, with no
shortcomings
Substantial     Objectives of this type generally were met, or expected to be met, with only minor
shortcomings



34                                  Annex B
Modest          Objectives of this type were met, or expected to be met, but with significant
shortcomings
Negligible      Objectives of this type were not met, or expected not to be met, due to major
shortcomings
(ii)    Overall efficacy will be rated as follows:
High            Major objectives were fully met, or expected to be fully met, with no shortcomings
Substantial     Major objectives were met, or expected to be met, with only minor shortcomings
Modest          Major objectives were met, or expected to be met, but with significant
shortcomings
Negligible      Most objectives were not met, or expected not to be met, due to major
shortcomings
3.     Efficiency
Definition: the extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than
the opportunity cost of capital and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives
Ratings
High            Project represents sector/industry best practice in terms of cost effectiveness, and
economic returns (if estimates are available) greatly exceed the opportunity cost of
capital
Substantial     Project meets sector/industry standards in terms of cost effectiveness, and
economic returns (if estimates are available) exceed the opportunity cost of capital
Modest          Project fails to meet sector/industry standards in terms of cost effectiveness, and
economic returns (if estimates are available) are near the opportunity cost of
capital
Negligible      Project is well below sector/industry standards in terms of cost effectiveness, and
economic returns (if estimates are available) are significantly below the
opportunity cost of capital
4.     Sustainability
Definition: the resilience to risk of net benefitsflows over time. Assessments ofsustainability take into
account nine factors, including technical, financial, and economic:
* Technical resilience
* Financial resilience (including policies on cost recovery)
* Economic resilience
* Social support (including conditions subject to Safeguard Policies)
* Environmental resilience
*  Government ownership (including by central governments and agencies, and availability
of O&M funds)
* Other stakeholder ownership (including local participation, beneficiary incentives, civil
society/NGOs, private sector)
* Institutional support (including supportive legal/regulatory framework, and
organizational and management effectiveness)
* Resilience to exogenous influences (including terns of trade, economic shocks, regional
political and security situations)



35                                     Annex B
Ratings
(i)     Each factor will be rated as follows:
High              The factor clearly is currently met and highly likely to continue, contributing to
sustainability of net benefits
Substantial       The factor is currently met and likely to continue, contributing to sustainability of
net benefits
Modest            The factor may currently be met, but it seems unlikely to continue, to the detriment
of sustainability of net benefits
Negligible        The factor is currently not met and is highly unlikely to be met, to the detriment of
sustainability of net benefits
(ii)    Overall sustainability will be rated as follows:
Highly Likely         Project net benefits flow meets most of the relevant factors deternining overall
resilience at the "high level", with all others rated at the "substantial" level
Likely                Project net benefits flow meets all relevant factors determining overall
resilience at the "substantial" level
Unlikely              Project net benefits flow meets some but not all relevant factors deternining
overall resilience at the "substantial" level
Highly Unlikely       Project net benefits flow meets few of the relevant factors determining overall
resilience at the "substantial"' level
Not Evaluable         Insufficient information available to make a judgment
5.      Institutional Development Impact (IDI)
Definition: the extent to which a project improves the ability of a country or region to make more
efficient, equitable and sustainable use of its human, financial, and natural resources through: (a)
better definition, stability, transparency, enforceability, and predictability of institutional
arrangements and/or (b) better alignment of the mission and capacity of an organization with its
mandate, which derives from these institutional arrangements. IDI includes both intended and
unintended effects of a project.
Ratings
(i) Each objective type will be rated as follows:
High              Project objectives of this type made, or are expected to make, a critical
contribution to the country's/region's ability to effectively use human, financial,
and natural resources
Substantial       Project objectives of this type made, or are expected to make, a significant
contribution to the country's/region's ability to effectively use human, financial,
and natural resources
Modest            Project objectives of this type increased, or are expected to increase, to a limited
extent the country's/region's ability to effectively use human, financial, and natural
resources



36                                    Annex B
Negligible       Project objectives of this type made, or are expected to make, little or no
contribution to the country's/region's ability to effectively use human, financial,
and natural resources
(ii) Overall institutional development impact will be rated as follows:
High            Project as a whole made, or is expected to make, a critical contribution to the
country's/region's ability to effectively use human, financial, and natural
resources, either through the achievement of the project's stated ID objectives or
through unintended effects
Substantial      Project as a whole made, or is expected to make, a significant contribution to the
country's/region's ability to effectively use human, financial, and natural
resources, either through the achievement of the project's stated ID objectives or
through unintended effects
Modest           Project as a whole increased, or is expected to increase, to a limited extent the
country's/region's ability to effectively use human, financial, and natural
resources, either through the achievement of the project's stated ID objectives or
through unintended effects
Negligible       Project as a whole made, or is expected to make, little or no contribution to the
country's/region's ability to effectively use human, financial, and natural
resources, either through the achievement of the project's stated ID objectives or
through unintended effects
6.   Outcome
Definition: the extent to which the project's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected
to be achieved, efficiently. The outcome criterion takes into account relevance at the time of the
evaluation: whether the operation's objectives are consistent with the country's current development
priorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporate goals;
efficacy: whether the operation is expected to achieve its stated goals; and efficiency: the relation of
results to costs.
Ratings
Highly Satisfactory          Project achieved or exceeded, or is expected to achieve or exceed, all
its major relevant objectives efficiently without major shortcomnings
Satisfactory                 Project achieved, or is expected to achieve, most of its major relevant
objectives efficiently with only minor shortcomings
Moderately Satisfactory      Project achieved, or is expected to achieve, most of its major relevant
objectives efficiently but with either significant shortcomings or
modest overall relevance
Moderately Unsatisfactory   Project is expected to achieve its major relevant objectives with major
shortcomings or is expected to achieve only some of its major relevant
objectives, yet achieve positive efficiency
Unsatisfactory               Project has failed to achieve, and is not expected to achieve, most of
its major relevant objectives with only minor development benefits
Highly Unsatisfactory        Project has failed to achieve, and is not expected to achieve, any of its
major relevant objectives with no worthwhile development benefits
7.   Bank Performance



37                                 Annex B
Definition: The extent to which services provided by ihe bank ensured quality at entry and supported
implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate transition
arrangements for regular operation of the project)
Ratings
Highly Satisfactory    Bank performance was rated as Highly Satisfactory on both quality at entry
and supervision, or Highly Satisfactory on the one dimension with
significantly higher impact on project performance and at least Satisfactory
on the other
Satisfactory         Bank performance was rated at least Satisfactory on both quality at entry and
supervision, or Satisfactory on the one dimension with significantly higher
impact on project performrance and no less than Unsatisfactory on the other
Unsatisfactory       Bank perfornance was not rated at least Satisfactory on both quality at entry
and supervision, or Unsatisfactory on the one dimension with significantly
higher impact on project performnance and no higher than Satisfactory on the
other
Highly Unsatisfactory  Bank performance was rated as Highly Unsatisfactory on both quality at
entry and supervision, or Highly Unsatisfactory on the one dimension with
significantly higher impact on project performance and no higher than
Unsatisfactory on the other
8.    Borrower Performance
Definition: the extent to which the borrower assumed ownership and responsibility to ensure quality
ofpreparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and agreements, towards the
achievement of development objectives and sustainability
Ratings
Highly Satisfactory      Borrower performance was rated Highly Satisfactory on at least two of
the three performance factors
Satisfactory             Borrower performance was rated at least Satisfactory on two of the three
factors
Unsatisfactory           Borrower performance was not rated at least Satisfactory on two of the
three factors
Highly Unsatisfactory    Borrower performance was rated Highly Unsatisfactory on at least two
of the three factors






39                            Annex C
Comments from the Borrower
PREPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
MINISTRY OF SETTLEMENTS AND REGIONAL INFRASTRUCTURE  JJ
.JL. Pattimura No. 20 K.bayoran Baru-Jakarta Seatan 211.0 Tct. (62-21) 72796156. Fax. 72796155
Our Ref HL..02bl-Ik//13,                                         IS June2001
Mr. Alain Barbu
Mvlanager,
Sector and Thematic Evaluations Group
Operations Evaluation Department (OED)
The World Bank
1818 Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
U-S-A
Re: 2nd Jabotabek Urban Development Project (Loan 3219-IND)
Semarang - Surakarta Urban Development Project (Loan 3749-MID)
Water Supply and Sanitation Project for Low-Income Communities (Loan 3629-lND)
Dear Mr. Barbu,
Thank you for your letter dated 18 M'ay 2001 and after reviewing the report together with a
group of persons who has been direct:ly involved in the project, we are pleased to submit to
you our following comrnents on the report:
1. It is noted that the audit focuses only on the water supply and sanitation aspects of the
two U-DP's. The PAR has concluded that under IUIDP, the pace of water policy reforms
has slowed; we believe this represents a failure in understanding the rIDP concept.
Under the government's policy and approach at that time, ItIDP basically meant a
significant change from a centralized sectoral process towards a more integrated and
decentralized planning and prograumming system. It does not relate with a single sector
performance. The relationship between IUTDP and a sector is mutually exclusive;
2. For SSUJDP, the loan is still on-going in order to complete remaining works in Semarang.
We would therefore expect the priacipal ratings for this project to become higher than the
PAR, following completion of all components;
3 Similar to our recent comments on EIB / SIJ, we consider that the PAR refers to TUTDP as
a project, and does not sufficiently address the program achievements to decentralize
public works affairs more than I 0 years prior to Law 22/1999, and
4. We consider that OED should have given much more attention to WSSLIC to assess the
value and sustainability of a project approach that requires Institutional / Capacity
Development components that cost more than 60% of the Direct Infrastructure
Investment. We doubt that such an approach should be considered sustainable.
In addition, we would like to question what is the yardstick for evaluating the performance of
the Indonesian water supply and sanitation sector to be slow or low. T he report does not refer
to any performance standard before IUIDP, without IUIDP, or other mechanism as an
I



40                            Annex C
alternative to UJIDP approach. The only reference the report makes is to compare Indonesia's
sector performance with other countries in the world. The cornparison is not relevant and is
totally misleading. It is suggested that a continuation of the previous sector projects would
have faced very similar implementation constraints as the Governrment continues to develop
responsibility to the regions and promote larger regional financial contributions to replace the
earlier central funded programn.
Please find attached our complete comments on the draft Performance Audit Report which
we trust will assist you in preparing the final documentation.
Thanking you for your kind attention.
~~~~11~X    sincerely,
@ OfREKTOA JPL X
I3 TATA E.(T     
Director  eral of Ir an and Rural Development
cc.:
1. Mdm. Erna Witoelar, Mfinister of Settlements and Regional Infrastructure (MSRD)
2. Mr. Keshav Varma, Director Urban Development Sector Unit, East Asia and Pacific
Region, The World Bank, Washington
3 Mr. Mark Baird, Country Director Indonesia, The World Bank RSI
4. Dr. Tr. Dedi Masykur Riyadi, Deputy V, Bappenas
5. Dr. Ir. Sunarno, Director Geeneral of Water Resources Development, MSRD
6. Prof. Dr. Urnar Fahnii Achmadi, Director General of Communicable Diseases Control
and Environmental Health, Ministry of Health
7. Prof Dr. Ir. Budhy Tjahjati S. S, Assistant Minister, MSRD
8. ir Budiharjo Sukmadi, Vice Governor of DKI Jakarta
9. Prof Dr. Meyasto, Head of Bappeda (Planning Board) Central Java Province
2



41                            Annex C
SECOND JADOTABEEK URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 3219-1ND)
SEMARANG-SIJRAKARTA URBAN DEVElLOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 3749-IND)
WATER SUPPLY AN]D SANITATION PROJECT FOR LOW-INCOME
COMMUNITIES (LOAN 3629-IND)
Comments on Performance Audit Report
11 June 2001
GENERAL
1, It is noted that the audit report specifically focuses on water supply and sanitation
components of all three projects, and is therefore not evaluating the overall performance
of the 2nd Jabotabek project or the Semerang-Surakarta UTDP.
2. SSUDP is still on-going, with the specific purpose of finalizing investments in the water
treatment plant and providing raw water fi-om the Kelarnbu-Kudu canal. Once these
facilities are completed, it is assessed that the audit for Semarang city water supply
component will be higher than the current ranking.
3. It is also noted that 2'd Jabotabek did not at any time contain as an objective achieving
prvate sector participation in Jakarta. Yet the audit contains substantial reference to the
unsolicited bids and the performance of the 2 concession contracts in Jakarta that resulted
from the direct negotiations. It also indicates ihat as a result of the two operator contracts,
project sustainability is unlikely. In contrast, the government is of the opinion that the
Jakarta water supply system will continue to operate and expand in accordance with on-
going contract reviews by DKI Jakarta. The audit contains very little reference to Bank
funded Jabotabek investments-
4. It is noted that under WSSLIC the cost of ,Institutional/Capacity Development support
represents more than 60% of the Direct Infrastructure Investment. It is suggested that this
very high proportion of cost be the subject of further analysis by OED because it is most
unlikely that this level of expenditure coutld be justified again for other regions of
Indonesia. The Government also notes the institutional complexity of a project that
involves so many agencies at central, provincial and local levels involving more than 200
project managers. These issues are mentioned in Annex A, but are not brought forward
significantly into the main body of the audit. Lastly, WSSLIC's performance could be
considered exceptional, but this may have occurred largely because of the amount of
remaining loan funds (following 1997 devaluation) that were then organized to target
about 400/o more villages in the project areas.
DETAILED COMMENTS
5. Para 5. Delete the words "and now its successor PERDA".
6. ParaJZ The wording in the last sentence seems to be inconsistent with the reasons
presented in the previous sentence.
7. Para 15. The final SSUDP weighting will probably be less problematic after the raw
water and treatment facilities in Semarang are completed this year.
S. Para 19, 1' bullet The Government is not convinced that the financial risk will fall on
DI Jakarta.
1



42                              Annex C
9. Pra 26. The inability of PDAM Semararig to service its debt is not unique in Indonesia,
and this should be emphasized because much of the problem has resulted from the
economic crisis that was not a consequence of the project. OED should explain that the
Bank, through TAP4I is supporting the Government to promote private sector
participation in this municipality and neighboring local governrents.
10, Para 30 Given that Semarang's implementation difficulties are being resolved under an
extension of the SSUDP loan, it is suggested that the rating for Borrower Perforrnance be
held in abeyance until conclusion of the works. Assuming completion according to
present plans, it is suggested that the rating would then be increased to "satisfactory".
II - Para 35. The statement "the IUJDP paradigm  assumes that the focus of urban
development is about achieving a balanced urban investnent program in support of
urban growth" is not correct. It is recommended to adjust the PAR to read "the IUIP
paradigm assumes local governments can decide what is best in terms of allocation of
their resources for sector priorities that are most relevant to the specific community needs,
affordability, and willingness to pay". We also point out that IUIP was not bom for the
reasons presented in the Audit.
12. Para 35-(also . The statement "the WIUDP was borne out of the realization that generouis
central government support for investment has not been balanced by the capacily to
operate and maintain the constructed system" is not correct because this was never the
background to IUIDP or its planned intention- Achieving optimal balance of investment
with operation and maintenance is totally a sector issue and domain, and not of IUIDP.
13. Para 35 (also). The statement "IlUIDP was to give greater emphasis to creating this
instituhional capacity through the creation of locally incorporated PDAMs for zhe water
.supply and sanitation sector" is not correct. In fact, these were the policies and objectives
of earlier sector projects that then were adopted under ILTIDP to ensure consistency of
approach.
14. Para 36. It is suggested that the problems experienced by the Bank in the implementation
of IUIDP are not due to the characteristics of the program, but rather the problems
associated with consultant procurement, Bank and Government procedures (e.g.
budgeting and counterpart funding), SLA processing and the impact of the economic
crisis. These conditions have tested many projects in Indonesia, especially those that have
strongly promoted decentralization and regional autonomy. It is suggested that this
paragraph is reworded.
15. Para 36 (also). The statement "III1iDP has not served the water supply and sanitation
sector well etc." is also not correct. These objectives are mainly the concern of the each
sector and are not caused by the 1UTDP approach.'
16. Table 7. A simple comparison with other countries is not considered relevant because it
does not take into consideration the geopolitical differences. For example, in Bolivia the
communities do not have such easy access to shallow wells. Comparing Indonesia to
China is even more irrelevant because of the nature of the urban development and also the
communist political system that tends to be more dictatorial and could not possibly be
applied in Indonesia. We suggest that Table 7 is removed from the PAR.
'The PAR does not refer to any perfornmance standard before IUIDP, without IUIDP, or oth& mechanisms that
arc an altemaive to the lUllP approach. it is suggested that a continuation of tlc previous sector projects
would havc faced very similar implcmentation constraints as dte Gavernent coninues to devolve respon-
sibility to dhe regions and promote larger regional finacidal contributions to replace the earlier cent-al funded
programs.
2



43                            Annex C
17. Para 41. Central government funds are not available for maintenance other than for
exceptional circumstances, and investment fuinds in the sector are equally scarce. With the
passage of Laws 22 and 25/1999, central finding is even more unlikely and this will
classify the sustainability of all granted programs as "Hl.ighly Unlikely".
18. Para 42 In the context of autonomy, some regional regulation will be necessary, even
though this will need to refer to a national body that would set common approaches and
standards, and also act as a final arbitrator "in handling complex issues. The suggested
core performance indicators are considered very simplistic, and should be removed from
the PAR In the 3rd bullet point, it is necessary to mention the possible need for more than
one national regulatory body; it would also be an advantage to build co-operations with
similar regulatory bodies in other countries, particularly in the ASEAN region.
19. Para 43, The reality of the last sentence needs to be given more prominence because it
will help to demonstrate to local governments and their PDAMs that privatization is not
the panacea they are expecting. This is important because of the imminent cessation of
most loan funded programs (that previously were almost the only sources of financial
support to complement own revenue contributions).
20 Para 44. This recommendation is understood, although its implementation will be
constrained for three reasons that are not addiressed (i) the business size of most water
enterprises is not adequate to attract competent PSP (ii) tariffs are controlled poorly by
DPRDs because they do not respond to the basic enterprise financial principles, and (iii)
the private sector in Indonesia is not mature, and a wholesale transfer of public assets will
risk domination by international operators.
21. Par, 45. In line 2, WATSAN = WATSAL. It would be impossible for the two project
cities to implement sustainable water resources management because they have not been
responsible. Following the enactment of Lavw 22/1999, it is questionable whether even
now they could take full responsibility for such affairs, or whether they have the technical
capacity. Also, considering the impact of surface water and ground water abstraction
between neighboring areas, it is obvious that such functions will require a regional (not
local) approach.
22. ;Para 47. Most WSSLIC policies are probably not applicable in urban projects, except in
dealing with local community water supply and sanitation needs. Obviously, the technical
approaches will be very different - no mountain springs, polluted ground water, highly
polluted rivers require that most solutions will be supplied by a public or private operator.
The recommendation is valid; consumers need to be involved but this will need to be
done at different scale and organized in a different manner.
Directorate of Technical Development, DGURD.
15 June 2001
3



