Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
 LOAN NUMBER 3749-0 IND
                               Loan Agreement
                (Semarang - Surakarta Urban Development Project)
                                   between
                             REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
                                     and
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                                AND DEVELOPMENT
                            Dated June 22, 1994
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3749-0 IND
                              LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated June 22, 1994, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the
Bank).
      WHEREAS: the Borrower, having satisfied itself an to the feasibility
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and
      WHEREAS: the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter-alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions
set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements' of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement:
Page  2
      (a)  The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)  In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (1) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which
                  any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
                  inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section
                  3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
       (a)  "Affected Person" and "Affected Persons" means indivi-dually the
person and collectively the persons whose right, title or interest in any
property is acquired or is intended to be acquired or whose property is
otherwise possessed or intended to be possessed and who as a result thereof
has been or would be displaced or dispossessed from his/their habitat or land
or precluded from carrying out his/their business, occupation or work on
account of the execution of Part A.3 (a) of the Project; and "Affected
Family" means the immediate members of the Af f ected Person I a f amily
residing with the Affected Person at the time of said acquisition or posses-
sion of the Affected Person's property.
       (b)  "BAPPEDA Level I" means the provincial development planning
agency, or any successor thereto, of Central Java Province, a political sub-
division of the Borrower.
     (c)  NBPN" means Badan Pertanahan Nasional, the National Land Agency
of the Borrower, or any successor thereto.
     (d)  "Eligible Beneficiaries" means the selected individuals to whom
Sub-loans (as the term is defined herein) are provided out of the proceeds
of the Loan.
     (e)  "Implementing Agencies" means any of the agencies responsible for
Project implementation as set forth under Part B.I. (a) of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
     (f)  "KM Semarang" means Kotamadya Semarang, the Semarang municipal
government.
     (g)  "KM Surakartaw means Kotamadya Surakarta, the Surakarta municipal
government.
     (h)  "MPW" means the Borrower's Ministry of Public Works or any
successor thereto.
     (i)  "PDAM" means Perusahaan Daerah Air Minum, a local water supply
enterprise, established and operating pursuant to the provisions of the
Borrower's Law No. 5 of 1962, Law No. 5 of 1974, Decree No. 26 of 1975 of
the Borrower's Ministry of Home Affairs, and Joint Decree of the Borrower's
Ministry of Home Affairs No.3 of 1984 and the Borrower's Ministry of Public
Works No. 26/KPTS of 1984, as any of the same may be amended from time to
time.
     (j)  "PDAM Semarang " means the PDAM established and operating in
Semarang, as hereinafter defined.
     (k)  "PDAM Surakarta " means the PDAM established and operating in
Surakarta, as hereinafter defined.
     (l)  "Semarang PIA" means the Project Implementation Agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and the Mayor of KM Semarang on behalf of
KM Semarang and PDAM Semarang pursuant to Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement.
     (m)  "Surakarta PIA" means the Project Implementation Agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and the Mayor of KM Surakarta on behalf
of KM Surakarta and PDAM Surakarta pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of this
Page  3
Agreement.
     (n)  "PIAS" means, collectively, the Semarang PIA and the Surakarta
PIA.
     (o)  "Resettlement and Rehabilitation Action Plan" means the Semarang
Drainage and Flood Control Compensation and Resettlement Plan, dated August
25, 1993, and amended by Letter of Instruction issued by the Mayor of
Semarang dated January 22, 1994, prepared by KM Semarang, for carrying out
the resettlement and rehabilitation of each Affected Person and Affected
Family, as such plan may be amended from time to time by agreement between
the Borrower and the Bank, pursuant to the terms and conditions described
in Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
     (p)  "RIAP" means the Revenue Improvement Action Plan describing a
program of actions to increase local revenue generation at the level of the
Kotamadya.
     (q)  "Semarang SLAS" means, the subsidiary loan agreements to be entered
into between:
         (i)   the Borrower and KM Semarang; and
         (ii)  the Borrower and PDAM Semarang, respectively, pursuant to
               Section 3.03 (c) of this Agreement.
     (r)  "Surakarta SLAS" means, the subsidiary loan agreements entered
into between:
         (i)   the Borrower and KM Surakarta; and
         (ii)  the Borrower and PDAM Surakarta, respectively, "SLAS" means,
               collectively, the Semarang SLAs and the Surakarta SLAS.
     (t)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02
(b) of this Agreement.
     (u)  "Semarang" means the Semarang municipality, a political sub-
division of the Borrower, or any successor or successors there-to.
     (v)  "Surakarta" means the Surakarta municipality, a political sub-
division of the Borrower, or any successor or successors thereto.
     (w)  "Subsidiary Agreements" means, collectively, the Semarang PIA,
the Surakarta PIA, the Semarang SLAs and the Surakarta SLAS.
     (x)  "fiscal year" or "FY" means the Borrower's and the Kotamadya fiscal
year which runs from April I to March 31.
     (y)  "PDAM FY" means any of the PDAMol fiscal year which runs from
January 1 to December 31.
     (z)  "Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation
advances granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of
letters dated December 20, 1990 and May 10, 1991; and February 24, 1993 and
March 29, 1993.
                                ARTICLE II
                                 The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement in various
currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of
one hundred seventy four million dollars ($174,000,000), being the sum of
withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the
Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
Page  4
to the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in US Dollars a special deposit account in Bank Indonesia on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.  Deposits into, and payments out
of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 7 to this Agreement.
     (c)  Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount
required to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance
withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges
thereon.  The unwithdrawn balance of  the authorized amount of the Project
Preparation Advance shall be thereupon cancelled.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1999 or such later
date as the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
     Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate
for each Interest Period @al to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined
in respect to the preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of
1%).  On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate applicable
during such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable after the and of each Semester, the Bank
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
respect of such Semester.
     (c)  For the purposes of this Section:
         (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date
               immediately preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of
               this Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in which
               this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably
               determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per
               annum, of the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
               thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund:
               (A)  the Bank's investments; and
               (B)  loans which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
bearing interest rates determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph
(a) of this Section.
         (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second six
months of a calendar year.
     (d)  on such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months,
notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (e) (iii) of this Section
shall be amended to read as follows:
         "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of
               the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a
               rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified
               Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Quarter,
               plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the
               dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
               Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
               outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated
Page  5
               at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
          "(b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the
Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined
in respect of such      Quarter."
         "(c)  (iii)  'Quarter, means a three-month period commencing   on
January 1, April 1, July 1 or October I in   a calendar year."
     Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually
on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
       Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this
end, shall carry out the Project through the Implementing Agencies, all with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering, environmental, social and
resettlement practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Notwithstanding the generalities of Section 3.01 (a) of this
Section, the Borrower shall ensure that grant funds are transferred to KM
Semarang and KM Surakarta, in a timely manner in order to carry out their
respective Parts of the Project.
     (c)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this
Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation
Program set forth in Schedule S to this Agreement.
     Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement
of the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall enter into the Semarang PIA with
KM Semarang and PDAM Semarang, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank including those set forth in Part A.1 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     (b)  The Borrower shall enter into the Surakarta PIA with KM Surakarta
and PDAM Surakarta on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank including
those set forth in Part A. 1 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The Borrower shall make available out of the proceeds of the Loan:
         (i)   ten million three hundred thousand dollars ($10,300,000) and
               forty two million one hundred thousand dollars ($42,100,000)
               equivalent, to KM Semarang and PDAM Semarang, respectively,
               under the Semarang SLA; and
         (ii)  four million six hundred thousand dollars ($4,600,000) and
               nine million five hundred thousand dollars ($9,500,000)
               equivalent, to KM Surakarta and PDAM Surakarta, respectively,
               under the Surakarta SLA, on terms and conditions satisfactory
               to the Bank.
     (d)  The SLAs shall, inter alia, include the following provisions:
         (i)   the interest payable on the principal amount of the subsidiary
               loan withdrawn from time to time shall be fixed at an annual
               rate of 11.5%;
Page  6
         (ii)  the commitment charge payable on the principal amount of the
               subsidiary loan not withdrawn from time to time shall be
               equivalent to the rate determined under Section 2.04 of this
               Agreement;
         (iii) the term of each subsidiary loan shall be 20 (twenty) years,
   including a grace period of 5 (five) years.
         (iv)  financial and other covenants pursuant to the provisions of
   Parts A.2 and A.3 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and
         (v)   the Borrower shall bear the foreign exchange risk and interest
variations.
     (e)  The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the PIAs and SLAs
in such manner as to:
         (i)   protect the interests of the Bank and the Borrower;
         (ii)   comply with its obligations under this Agreement; and
         (iii)  achieve the objectives of the Project;
     (f)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not
assign, amend, abrogate or waive the PIAs or SLAs or any provisions thereof.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the
Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
         (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a)
               of this Section including those for the special Account for
               each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
               auditing principles consistently applied, by independent audi-
               tors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
               later than six months after the end of each
               such year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
               scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
               requested; and
         (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Borrower shall:
         (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
               paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting
               such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received
               the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last
               withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment out of the Special
               Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
               bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such
               expenditures;
         (iii)  enable the Bankle representatives to examine such records;
Page  7
and
         (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in the
               annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and
               that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by
               said auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure
               submitted during such fiscal year, together with the
               procedures and internal controls involved in their
               preparation, can be relied upon to support the related
               withdrawals.
                                 ARTICLE V
                           Remedies of the Bank
     Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (1) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  KM Semarang or PDAM Semarang shall have failed to perform any
of their respective obligations under the Semarang PIA.
     (b)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the
Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make
it improbable that KM Semarang or PDAM Semarang will be able to perform any
of their respective obligations under the Semarang PIA.
     (c)  KM Surakarta or PDAM Surakarta shall have failed to
perform anyof their respective obligations under the Surakarta PIA.
     (d)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the LoanAgreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shallmake it improbable that KM Surakarta or PDAM Surakarta
will be able to perform any of their respective obligations under the
Surakarta PIA.
     (e)  The laws and regulations establishing KM Semarang and KM Surakarta
or PDAM Semarang and PDAM Surakarta shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, or repealed so as to affect materially and adversely the ability
of KM Semarang and KM Surakarta or PDAM Semarang and PDAM Surakarta to
perform any of their respective obligations under the PIAS.
     (f)  The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of KM Semarang, KM
Surakarta, PDAM Semarang or PDAM Surakarta and or for the suspension of their
respective operations.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  any event specified in paragraphs (a), and (c) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of ninety days
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and
     (b)  any event specified in paragraphs (e) and (f) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.
                                ARTICLE VI
                        Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions, namely, that the PIAs and the
SLAs have been duly approved by all relevant authorities and executed by the
respective parties thereto.
     Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within
the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included
in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the PIAs
and the SLAs have been duly authorized or ratified by their respective
Page  8
parties thereto and are legally binding upon said parties in accordance with
their respective terms.
     Section 6.03. The date one hundred and twenty (120) days after the date
of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VII
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
         Minister of Finance
         c/o Directorate General of Budget Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur
         2-4 P.O. Box 139
         Jakarta 10710
          Indonesia
         Cable address:       Telex:
               FINMINISTRY          45799 DJMLN-IA,
               Jakarta              44319 DEPKEU-IA
     For the Bank:
         International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
            Cable address:    Telex:
                   INTBAFRAD        248423 (RCA),
                   Washington, D.C.  82987 (FTCC),
                                     64145 (WUI) or
                                    197688 (TRT)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereof to, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.
                              REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
                              By /s/ Arifin M. Siregar
Authorized Representative
                              INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
Page  9
                                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                              By /s/ Gautam S. Kaji
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
                                SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed
in each Category:
                                Amount of the
                              Loan AllocatedI of
                                (Expressed in     Expenditures
    Category                  Dollar Eguivalent)  to be Financed
Part A of the Project:
(1) Civil works                   45,800,000      65%
(2) Equipment and                  2,700,000      100% of foreign
    supplies                                      expenditures,
                                                  100% oflocal
                                                  expenditures (ex-
                                                  factory cost) and
                                                  65% of local expen-
                                                  ditures for other
                                                  items procured locally
(3) Consultants' services          3,500,000      100%
    and training
(4) Sub-projects under
    the SLAS:
    (a) KM Semarang               10,300,000      100%
    (b) PDAM Semarang             42,100,000      100%
Part B of the Prolect:
(5) Civil works                   21,800,000      65%
(6) Equipment and supplies         3,000,000      100% of foreign
                                                  expenditures,
                                                  100% of local
                                                  expenditures (ex-
                                                  factory cost) and
                                                  65% of local ex-
                                                  penditures for
                                                  other items
                                                  procured locally
(7) Consultants' services         2,200,000       100%
    and training
(8) Sub-projects under
    the SLAS:
    (a) KM Surakarta              4,600,000       100%
      (b) PDAM Surakarta          9,500,000       100%
Part C of the Proiect
(9) Consultants' services
Page  10
    and training:
(a) employed by the Borrower     14,600,000       80%
(b) employed by provincial
    agencies                      1,100,000       100%
(10) Refunding of Project         1,700,000       Amount due pur-
     Preparation Advance                          suant to Section
                                                  2.02 (c) of this
                                                  Agreement
(11) Unallocated                 11,100,000
      TOTAL                   $ 174,000,000
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)  the term, "foreign expenditures", means expenditures in the currency
of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied
from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
    (b)  the term, "local expenditures", means expenditures in the currency
of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the
Borrower.
    (c)  the term "sub-projects financed under the SLAS", means expenditures
for works, goods, and consultants' services procured by KM Semarang, KM
Surakarta, PDAM Semarang and PDAM Surakarta, in the carrying out of Parts
A.1, A.2, A.3, A.4, A.5, A.6, B.1, B.2, B.3, B.4, B.5 and B.6 of the Project
and financed under the respective SLAS.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement, except that withdrawals,, in an aggregate amount not to
exceed five million dollars ($5,000,000), may be made in respect of
Categories (1), (2), (3), (5), (6), (7), (9) (a) and (9) (b) on account of
payments made for expenditures before that date but after November 1, 1993.
4.  The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for:
    (a)  goods  not  exceeding  two   hundred   thousand   dollars
($200,000);
    (b)  works not  exceeding  one  million  dollars  ($1,000,000)
equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by
notice to the Borrower;
    (c)  the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost
less than $100,000; and
    (d)  the employment of individuals, estimated to cost less
than $50,000.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower to improve,
through the carrying out of sub-projects in Semarang and Surakarta:
     (a)  the provision of urban infrastructure and services;
     (b)  the efficiency of urban investments;
     (c)  the development and strengthening of municipal govern-
ments; and
     (d)  the implementation of urban environmental management and poverty
alleviation activities.
Page  11
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time
to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Semarang
1.   Urban Roads
     (a)  construction and improvement of priority urban roads, including
the construction of new bridges.
     (b)  Carrying out of periodic maintenance of priority urban
roads and routine maintenance of urban roads
     (c)  Carrying out of a traffic management program, including
improvements to road links, intersections, traffic signals, public transport
and pedestrian facilities, parking areas and road safety.
2.   Water Supply
     (a)  Refurbishing and carrying out of maintenance of deepwells  and the
existing water treatment plant at Kali Garang.
     (b)  Increasing the capacity of the existing Gajah Mungkur water
treatment plant.
     (c)  Construction of an intake facility and a water treatment plant at
Kudu.
     (d)  Designing and carrying  out  of  a  water  loss  reduction
program.
     (e)  Expansion of the transmission storage and distribution system
through the installation of pipelines and the construction of water storage
reservoirs and pumping stations.
     (f)  Installation of new water service connections and provision of new
public taps to benefit about 90,000 households.
3.   Drainage
     (a)  Improvement of primary, secondary and tertiary drains.
     (b)  Carrying out of routine maintenance of the drainage
system.
     (c)  Resettlement and rehabilitation of Affected Persons displaced by
the carrying out of drainage works along the river (kali) Banger including:
          (i)   the provision of housing assistance, serviced plots,
                utilities, civic facilities, access roads and transportation
                assistance; and
          (ii)  the administration, monitoring and evaluation thereof.
4.   Sanitation and Sewerage
     (a)  Improvement of off-site sanitation facilities comprising the
construction of:
          (i)   trunk and interceptor sewers;
          (ii)  a waste water treatment facility;
          (iii) pumping stations; and
          (iv)  a pilot area with full sewerage and house connections.
     (b)  Improvement of on-site sanitation facilities comprising:
          (i)   construction of a septage treatment facility;
Page  12
          (ii)  construction of communal lavatory and toilet facilities;
          (iii) provision of sludge collecting vehicles; and
          (iv)  carrying out of a loan program to assist about 4, 500
                individual households with the construction of septic tanks.
5.   Solid WasteManagement
     (a)  Improvement of solid waste di @ sal sites comprising:
          (i)   upgrading of the iatibarang disposal site;
          (ii)  construction of a road to f acilitate access to the
                Jatibarang disposal site; and
          (iii) rehabilitation and closure of existing disposal sites.
     (b)  Selection of the appropriate location and land acquisition for the
construction of a new disposal site.
     (c)  Improvement of the solid waste collection system comprising the
provision of equipment, dump trucks, armroll trucks, loader, backhoe and
handcarts.
6.   Rampung Improvement Program and Market Improvement Program
     (a)  Carrying out of a program to improve urban neighborhood
(Kampung) infrastructure.
     (b)  Carrying out of a program to strengthen social and
economic community development.
     (c)  Rehabilitation and improvement of infrastructure and facilities
in selected markets.
7.   Urban Renewal
     Carrying out of a feasibility study, and preparation and implementation
of an action plan for the improvement of physical infrastructure in the low-
income area in Bandarharjo, on a pilot basis.
8.   Housing Rehabilitation
     Provision of financial assistance to low-income urban households, under
the National Housing Credit Scheme Program (TRIGUNA), for housing
rehabilitation.
9.   Historic Areas Conservation
     Carrying out of a conservation and physical improvement program to
protect historic buildings and areas at Tawang Railway Station and at Kota
Lama.
10.  institutional Development
     (a)  Strengthening of Project management and implementation capabilities
of the Implementing Agencies.
     (b)  Provision of technical assistance in local revenue improvement,
including the installation of a land information system.
     (c)  Carrying out of studies in the following areas: traffic management,
sewerage, drainage and industrial liquid waste.
Part B:   Surakarta
1.   Urban Roads
     (a)  Construction and improvement of priority urban roads, includingthe
construction of new bridges.
Page  13
     (b)  Carrying out of periodic maintenance of priority urban roads
and  routine maintenance of urban roads.
     (c)  Carrying out of a traffic management program, including,
improvements to road links, intersections, traffic signals, public transport
and pedestrian facilities, parking areas and road safety.
     (d)  Carrying out of a study of investment needs and priority activities
for the improvement of urban transport and roads.
2.   Water Supply
     (a)  Construction of new deepwells.
     (b)  Carrying out of a well maintenance program.
     (c)  Designing and carrying out of a water loss reduction
program.
     (d)  Expansion of the distribution system through the installation of
new, and the rehabilitation of existing distribution pipelines and
installation of booster pumps.
     (e)  Installation of new water service connections and provi-
sion of new public taps to benefit about 18,000 households.
     (f)  Carrying out of a study of water resources and water
supply system development and expansion in the Surakarta metropolitan area.
3.   Drainage
     (a)  Improvement of primary, secondary and tertiary drains.
     (b)  Carrying out of routine maintenance of the drainage
system.
     (c)  Improvement of the Demangan and A. Yani pumping stations.
     (d)  Construction of a pumping station at Kali Pepe.
4.   Sanitation and Sewerage
     (a)  Improvement and rehabilitation of the existing sewer system
comprising:
          (i)   construction of an interceptor sewer;
          (ii)  construction of an in-stream waste water treatment plant;
          (iii) rehabilitation of the Mojosongo and Jebres sewerage system;
          (iv)  addition of an oxidation pond sewage treatment facility at
                Kali Anyar; and
          (v)   extension of the main trunk sewers.
      (b) Carrying out of an on-site sanitation program comprising:
          (i)   construction of communal lavatory and toilet facilities;
          (ii)  provision of sludge collecting vehicles; and
          (iii) carrying out of a loan program to assist about 2300
                individual households with the construction of septic tanks.
5.   Solid Waste Management
     (a)  Upgrading of the Putri Cempo final solid waste disposal site.
     (b)  Improvement of a solid waste collection system comprising the
provision of equipment, dump trucks, armroll trucks, compactor trucks, wheel
Page  14
loader, backhoe and handcarts.
6.   Kamipung improvement Program and Market Improvement Program
     (a)  Carrying out of a program to improve urban neighborhood
(Kampung) infrastructure.
     (b)  Carrying out of a program to strengthen social and economic
community development.
     (c)  Rehabilitation and improvement of infrastructure and facilities
in selected markets.
7.   Urban Renewal
     Carrying out of a feasibility study, and preparation and implementation
of an action plan for the improvement of physical infrastructure in the low-
income area in Mojosongo, on a pilot basis.
8.   Housing Rehabilitation
     Provision of financial assistance to low-income urban households, under
the National Housing Credit Scheme Program, (TRIGUNA) for housing
rehabilitation.
9.   Historic Areas Conservation
     Carrying out of a conservation and physical improvement program to
protect selected historic buildings and areas.
10.  Institutional Building
     (a)  Strengthening of Project management capabilities of the
Implementing Agencies, including advisory services and training.
     (b)  Provision of technical assistance, local revenue improvement, and
the installation of a land information system.
     (c)  Carrying out of studies in the following areas: traffic management
and industrial liquid waste.
Part C:   Implementation Support and Training
1.   Provision of advisory services to strengthen the Borrower's Project
implementation capabilities, including the carrying out of a project
management training program.
2.   Provision of technical assistance in the following areas: water  system
development, infrastructure maintenance, seweragool sanitation and urban
management support.
                    *          *          *          *
     The Project is expected to be completed by Narch 31, 1999.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                           Amortization Schedule
                                   Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                  expressed in dollarsl*
February  15,  2000                     3,295,000
Page  15
August  15,  2000                       3,415,000
February  15,  2001                     3,540,000
August  15,  2001                       3,670,000
February  15,  2002                     3,800,000
August  15,  2002                       3,940,000
February  15,  2003                     4,085,000
August  15,  2003                       4,230,000
February  15,  2004                     4,385,000
August  15,  2004                       4,545,000
February  15,  2005                     4,710,000
August  15,  2005                       4,880,000
February  15,  2006                     5,060,000
August  15,  2006                       5,245,000
February  15,  2007                     5,435,000
August  15,  2007                       5,630,000
February  15,  2008                     5,835,000
August  15,  2008                       6,050,000
February  15,  2009                     6,270,000
August  15,  2009                       6,495,000
February  15,  2010                     6,730,000
August  15,  2010                       6,975,000
February  15,  2011                     7,230,000
August  15,  2011                       7,495,000
February  15,  2012                     7,765,000
August  15,  2012                       8,050,000
February  15,  2013                     8,340,000
August  15,  2013                       8,645,000
February  15,  2014                     8,960,000
August  15,  2014                       9,295,000
____________________
* The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of
  the respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04
  and 4.03.
                          Premiums on Prepayment
     Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium
payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid
shall be the percentage specified for the applicable time of prepayment
below:
     Time of Prepayment                Premium
                                  The interest rate (expressed as a
                                  percentage per annum) applicable to
                                  the Loan on the day of
                                  prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years              0.15
     before maturity
More than three years but              0.30
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                0.55
     not more than eleven years
     before maturity
More than eleven years but not         0.80
     more than sixteen years
     before maturity
More than sixteen years but not        0.90
     more than eighteen
     years before maturity
More than eighteen years before        1.00
     maturity
Page  16
                                SCHEDULE 4
                   Procuresent and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those
set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
     (a)  For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in
paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is
delayed beyond the original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid
price will be increased for each week of delay by two pre-disclosed
correction factors acceptable to the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign
currency components and the other to the local currency component of the bid
price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the bid
evaluation.
     (b)  In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with this Part
A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to
be necessary for the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard
bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use
bidding documents based on other internationally recognized standard forms
agreed with the Bank.
2.   Bidders for civil works under Parts A and B of the Project shall be pre-
qualified as provided in paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described
in Part A. 1 hereof, goods manufactured in Indonesia may be granted a margin
of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of
paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs I through 4 of
Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
     In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures described
in Part A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference to domestic
contractors in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs2.55 and 
2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Local Competitive Bidding
     (a)  Civil works, estimated to cost the equivalent of $3,000,000 or less
per contract, up to an aggregate amount of $137,300,000; and
     (b)  Goods, estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or less per
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of
$7,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank.
2.    Shopping
     Goods, estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less per contract,
up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $ 700,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained
from at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance
with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part E:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Page  17
1.   Review of pre-qualification:
     With respect to the pre-qualification of bidders as provided in Part
A.2 hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
     (a)  With respect to each contract for:
          (i)   civil works, estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000
                or more; and
          (ii)  goods, estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more,
                the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix
                1 to the Guidelines shall apply.  Where payments for such
                contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
                procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
                conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished
                to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
                furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first
                payment out of the Special Account in respect to such
                contract.
     (b)  With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix I to
the Guidelines shall apply.  Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account, said procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply
to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be made on the basis of
statements of expenditure.
3.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.   In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the
Borrower shall employ or cause the relevant Implementing Agencies to employ
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.  Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank
in August 1981.     For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall
employ such consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract
for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as
shall have been agreed by the Bank.  Where no relevant standard contract
documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard
forms agreed with the Bank.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to:
     (a)  contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost
less than $100,000 equivalent each; or
     (b)  contracts for the employment of individuals estimated to cost less
than  $50,000 equivalent each.  However, said exceptions to prior Bank review
shall not apply to:
          (i)   the terms of reference for such contracts;
          (ii)  single-source selection of consulting firms;
Page  18
          (iii) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined
                by the Bank;
          (iv)  amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting
                firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or
                above; or
          (v)   amendments to contracts for the employment of
                individual consultants raising the contract value to $
                50,000 equivalent or above.
                              SCHEDULE 5
                        Implementation Program
Part A:   Subsidiary Agreements
1.   Proiect Implementation Agreements (PIAS)
     (a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the PIAs shall include,
enter alia, provisions whereby:
     (b)  (i)   KM Semarang, KM Surakarta, PDAM Semarang and PDAM Surakarta
                shall declare their commitment to the objectives of the
                Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and
                to that end, they shall agree to carry out their respective
                Parts of the Project, with due diligence and efficiency and
                in conformity with appropriate administrative, finan-cial,
                engineering, environmental and resettlement practices, and
                to provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
                services and other resources required therefor.
          (ii)  KM Semarang, KM Surakarta, PDAM Semarang and PDAM Surakarta
                agree that procurement of the goods, works and consultants'
                services required for the Project and to be f inanced out
                of the proceeds of the Loan under this Agreement shall be
                governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     (c)  KM Semarang, KM Surakarta, PDAM Semarang and PDAM Surakarta shall
agree to use the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
exclusively for the purposes of the Project.
          (i)   KM Semarang, KM Surakarta, PDAM Semarang and PDAM Surakarta
                shall agree that the Borrower or the Bank may from time to
                time inspect the goods, works and services under the Project
                including all records and documents relating thereto.
          (ii)  The Borrower may suspend or terminate the right of KM
                Semarang, KM Surakarta, PDAM Semarang and PDAM Surakarta to
                use the proceeds of the Loan made available under the SLAs
                upon their failure to perform any of their respective
                obligations under the PIAs or upon notice by the Bank to the
                Borrower that it intends to exercise its remedies under
                Article V of this Agreement.
     (d)  KM Semarang, KM Surakarta, PDAM Semarang and PDAM Surakarta shall
agree to promptly inform the Borrower and the Bank of any condition which
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of their re @ ctive
Parts of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan under
this Agreement, or the performance of their re @ ctive obligations under the
PIAN.
     (e)  KM Semarang, KM Surakarta, PDAM Semarang and PDAM Surakarta shall
agree to cooperate fully with the Borrower and the Bank to assure that the
purposes of the Loan will be accomplished. To that end, KM Semarang, KM
Surakarta, PDAM Semarang and PDAM Surakarta shall agree to:
          (i)   from time to time, at the request of either the Borrower or
                the Bank, exchange views with the Borrower and/or the Bank
                regarding the progress in carrying out their respective
                Parts of the Project or the performance of their respective
Page  19
                obligations under the PIAS, and other matters relating to
                the purposes of the Loan; and
          (ii)  furnish all such information and documents related thereto
                as may reasonably be requested.  KM Semarang, KM Surakarta,
                PDAM Semarang and PDAM Surakarta shall further agree to
                provide such information and documents as may be required
                by the Borrower to fulfill its supervision, monitoring,
                recording and reporting obligations to the Bank.
     (f)  KM Semarang, KM Surakarta, PDAM Semarang and PDAM Surakarta shall
agree to comply and assist the Borrower in complying with the audit and
accounting covenants in respect of their respective Parts of the Projects.
     (g)   KM Semarang and KM Surakarta shall, by not later than April 1,
1998, provide funds to fully finance the road and drainage operation and
maintenance activities in Semarang and Surakarta as referred to under Parts
A. 1. (b) , A. 3 (b) , B. 1 (b) and A. 3 (b) of the Project.
2.   Subsidiary Loan Aareements between the Borrower and EN Semarang and KM
Surakarta
     Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, and for the purposes of the
provisions of Section 3.03 (d) (iv) of this Agreement, the SLAs shall, inter
alia, include the following covenants:
     (a)  KM Semarang and KM Surakarta shall take all necessary measures to
implement their respective RIAPS, and improve their revenue collection in
accordance with terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank;
     (b)  KM Semarang and KM Surakarta shall, during Project implementation,
periodically review and adjust their charges for solid waste disposal with
a view to obtaining by not later than April 1, 1998, full recovery of
respective costs of operation and maintenance of their respective solid waste
disposal facilities.
     (c)  KM Semarang and KM Surakarta shall, during Project implementation,
periodically review and adjust their sanitation charges with a view to
obtaining by not later than April 1, 1997, full recovery of the costs for
operation and maintenance of the onsite sanitation programs described under
Parts A. 4. (b) and B. 4. (b) of the Project.
3.   Subsidiary Loan Agreements between the Borrower and PDAM SeMarana and
PDAM Surakarta (SLAel
     (a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the SLAs shall,
Interall&, include the following financial covenants:
          (i)   Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree,
                PDAM Semarang and PDAM Surakarta shall produce, for each of
                its fiscal years after their fiscal year ending on December
                31, 1994, gross revenues from all sources equivalent to not
                less than the sum of its operating expenses and depre-
                ciation.
          (ii)  Before September 30 in each of their fiscal years, PDAM
                Semarang and PDAM surakarta shall, on the basis of forecasts
                prepared by said PDAMs and satisfactory to the Borrower and
                the Bank, review whether they would meet the requirements
                set forth in paragraph (i) in respect of such year and the
                next fiscal year and shall furnish to the Borrower and the
                Bank a copy of such review upon its completion.
          (iii) If any such review shows that PDAM Semarang or PDAM
                Surakarta would not meet the requirements not forth in
                paragraph (i) for the fiscal years covered by such review,
                PDAM Semarang or PDAM Surakarta and the Borrower shall
                promptly take all necessary measures in order to meet such
                requirements.
          (iv)  For the purposes of this Section:
Page  20
                (A)   The term "gross revenues from all sources" means the
                      sum of revenues from all sources related to water
                      operation, house connections, and cash consumer
                      contributions in aid of construction, but excluding
                      non-operating income and any other cash inflows;
                (B)   the term, "operating expenses", means the sum of all
                      expenses related to water operatione, including
                      maintenance and administration, but excluding
                      depreciation; and
                 (C)  the term, "depreciation", means the annual provision
                      charged against revenues to depreciate, on a basis
                      acceptable to the Bank, the current value of the water
                      fixed assets in operation as valued from time to time
                      in accordance with methods of valuation satisfactory
                      to the Bank.
            (v)  Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be
                 necessary to value, in terms of the currency of the
                 Borrower, debt payable in another currency" such valuation
                 shall be made on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate
                 of exchange at which such other currency is, at the time
                 of such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of servicing
                 such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis
                 of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
            (vi) Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree,
                 PDAM Semarang and PDAM Surakarta shall not incur any debt
                 unless a reasonable forecast of their revenues and
                 expenditures shows that the estimated net revenues of PDAM
                 for each of their respective fiscal year during the term
                 of the debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.3 times the
                 estimated debt service requirements in such year on all
                 debt including the debt to be incurred.
          (vii)  For the purposes of this Section:
                 (A)  The term "debt" means any indebtedness of PDAM
                      Semarang or PDAM Surakarta maturing by its terms more
                      than one year after the date on which it is originally
                      incurred.
                 (B)  Debt shall be deemed to be incurred:
                      (1)  under a loan contract or agreement or other
                           instrument providing for such debt or for the
                           modification of its terms of payment on the date
                           of such contract, agreement or instrument; and
                      (2)  under a guarantee agreement, on the date the
                           agreement providing for such guarantee has been
                           entered into.
                 (C)  The term, "net revenues", means the difference
                      between:
                      (1)  the sum of revenues from all sources related to
                           operations and net nonoperating income; and
                      (2)  the sum of all expenses related to operations
                           including administration, adequate maintenance,
                           taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, but
                           excluding provision for depreciation, other non-
                           cash operating charges and interest and other
                           charges on debt.
                 (D)  The term, "net non-operating income", means the
                      difference between:
                      (1)  revenues from all sources other than those
                           related to operations; and
Page  21
                      (2)  expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu
                           of taxes, incurred in the generation of revenues
                           in (A) above.
                 (E)  The term, "debt service requirementom, means the
                      aggregate amount of repayments (including sinking fund
                      payments, if any) of, and interest and other charges
                      on, debt.
                 (F)  The term, "reasonable forecast", means a forecast
                      prepared by PDAM Semarang or PDAM Surakarta not
                      earlier than twelve months prior to the incurrence of
                      the debt in question, which both the Bank and the
                      respective PDAM accept as reasonable and as to which
                      the Bank has notified the respective PDAM of its
                      acceptability, provided that no event has occurred
                      since such notification which has, or may reasonably
                      be expected in the future to have, a material adverse
                      effect on the financial condition or future operating
                      results of the respective PDAM.
                 (G)  Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be
                      necessary to value, in terms of the currency of the
                      Borrower, debt payable in another currency, such
                      valuation shall be made on the basis of the prevailing
                      lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency
                      is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the
                      purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence
                      of such rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange
                      acceptable to the Bank.
     (b)  (i)    Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree,
                 PDAM Semarang or PDAM Surakarta shall not make any
                 distribution with respect to their net income, unless,
                 after such distribution has been made, funds from internal
                 sources are equivalent to not less than 20% of the annual
                 average of capital expenditures incurred, or expected to
                 be incurred, for that year, the previous year, and the next
                 following fiscal year.
          (ii)   For the purposes of this Section:
                 (A)  The term, "funds from internal sources", means the
                      difference between:
                      (1)  the sum of revenues from all sources related to
                           operations, consumer deposits and consumer
                           contributions in aid of construction, net non-
                           operating income and any reduction in working
                           capital other than cash; and
                      (2)  the sum of all expenses related to operations,
                           including administration, ad@ate maintenance and
                           taxes and payments in lieu of taxes (excluding
                           provision for depreciation and other non-cash
                           operating charges), debt service requirements,
                           all cash dividends and other cash distribu-tions
                           of surplus, increase in working capital other
                           than cash and other cash outflows other than
                           capital expenditures.
                 (B)  The term, "net non-operating income", means the
                      difference between:
                      (1)  revenues from all sources other than those
                           related to operations; and
                      (2)  expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu
                           of taxes, incurred in the generation of revenues
                           in (A) above.
Page  22
                 (C)  The term, "working capital other than cash", means the
                      difference between current assets, excluding cash, and
                      current liabilities at the end of each fiscal year.
                 (D)  The term, "current assets excluding cash", means all
                      assets, other than cash which could in the ordinary
                      course of business be converted into cash within
                      twelve months, including accounts receivable,
                      marketable securi- ties, inventories and pro-paid
                      expenses properly chargeable to operating expenses
                      within the next fiscal year.
                 (E)  The term, "current liabilities", means all liabilities
                      which will become due and payable or could under
                      circumstances then existing be called for payment
                      within twelve months, including accounts payable,
                      customer advances, debt service requirements, taxes
                      and payments in lieu of taxes, and dividends.
                 (F)  The term, "debt service requirements", means the
                      aggregate amount of repayments (including sinking fund
                      payments, if any) of, and interest and other charges
                      on, debt.
                 (G)  The term, "capital expenditures", means all
                      expenditures on account of fixed assets, including
                      interest charged to construction, related to
                      operations.
                 (H)  Whenever for the purposes of this section it shall be
                      necessary to value, in terms of the currency of the
                      Borrower, debt payable in another currency, such
                      valuation shall be made on the basis of the prevailing
                      lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency
                      is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the
                      purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence
                      of such rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange
                      acceptable to the Bank.
     (d)  The Borrower shall cause each of the PDAMs to periodically review
and adjust their tariffs on the basis of realistic forecasts of revenues and
expenditures, by not later than January 1, 1996, January 1, 1998 and January
1, 2000 for PDAM Semarang, and January 1, 1995, January 1, 1997 and January
1, 1999 for PDAM Surakarta, respectively; and to meet the financial targets
set forth under paragraph 3 of this Schedule.
     (e)  PDAM Semarang and PDAM Surakarta shall, by not later than the first
two years after the implementation of the new sewerage system, referred to
under Parts A.4 (a) and B.4 (a) of the Project obtain full recovery of the
costs of operation and maintenance of said system, through the application
of a surcharge to the water bills charged by the PDAME.
PART B:    implementation Actions
1.   The Borrower shall, throughout Project implementation maintain with
staffing and functions as agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, the
following:
     (a)  Implementing Agencies responsible for Project implementation
including, inter all&, Municipal Public Agency (Dinas PU), Cleansing Agency
(Dinas Kebersihan), Municipal Housing Agency (Dinan Perumahan), Market Agency
(Dinas Pengelola Pasar), BAPPEDA Level II.  KM Semarang, KM Surakarta, PDAM
Semarang, PDAM Surakarta and MPW.
     (b)   Project Implementation Units responsible for Project management
and coordination including, inter all&, Provincial Management and Development
Unit for Water Enterprises (PMDU), Local Project Monitoring Office (PMO),
Project Management Unit (PHU), Project Finance Office (PFO), Provincial
Project Management Unit (PPMU), Provincial Project Finance Office (PPFO) and
Provincial Project Monitoring office (PPMO).
2.   The Directorate General for Human Settlements under MPW shall be
Page  23
responsible for overall technical supervision and management of Project
implementation.
3.   The Borrower shall, by not later than November 30 of each year, review
all budget requests submitted to it by all municipal Implementing Agencies
and issue the respective budget approvals, by not later than January 15, of
each year for the PDAMs and by not later than May 1 of each year for the
respective Kotamadya.
4.   For the purposes of Part A.2. (c) of the Project, the Borrower shall
make all necessary funds available, in a timely manner, for completion of
the Kelambu-Kudu conveyance canal.
5.   For the purposes of Part A.2 (f) of the Project, PDAM Semarang shall
not later than June 30, 1995 approve and implement a water house connection
program for low income families, in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
6.   (a) The Borrower shall, submit for Bank's approval, by February 15 of
each year, commencing in 1995, a proposal covering technical, financial,
economic, institutional and environmental aspects for each new or revised
sub-project under Parts A and 8 of the Project selected for financing under
the Loan.
     (b)   Such proposals shall be prepared by the respective Kotamadya in
accordance with criteria and procedures agreed between the Borrower and the
Bank and as set forth in the respective PIAS.
     (c)  All proposals shall include an environmental assessment and a
management and monitoring plan and, if necessary, a resettlement plan for
Affected Persons to be relocated under the Project.
7.   The Borrower shall, throughout Project Implementation, ensure that all
environmental management and monitoring plans or resettlement plans are
carried out in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
8.   The Borrower shall:
     (a)  carry out every year during the implementation of the Project,
commencing not later than June 30, 1995, annual technical audits, in a manner
acceptable to the Bank, for Project quality assurance, including, inter alia,
performance of civil works, procurement of goods and training programs
financed under Project; and
     (b)  promptly after completing said audits, furnish to the Bank, the
recommendations submitted as part of said audits.
9.   For the purposes of Part B.2 (c) of the Project, the Borrower shall
ensure that PDAM Surakarta establishes, by not later than December 31, 1994,
a Leakage Control Division, in accordance with staffing and responsibilities
agreed between the Borrower and the Bank.
                                SCHEDULE 6
            Resettlement and Rehabilitation Action Plan (RRAP)
Part A:   Institutional Responsibilities
1.   For the purposes of Part A.3 (c) of the Project, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  take all necessary measures to cause KM Semarang to carry out the
RRAP with due diligence and ef f iciency and in a manner satisfactory to the
Borrower and the Bank;
     (b)   ensure that KM Semarang makes available in a phased manner and
in accordance with the implementation timetable included in the RRAP, the
serviced plots in Karang Roto to the Affected Persons;
     (c)  ensure that such serviced plots are made available to the Affected
Persons, at least thirty (30) days prior to their displacement from Kali
Banger; and
Page  24
     (d)  jointly with KM Semarang monitor and evaluate the implementation
of the RRAP and ensure that consultations with Affected Persons are carried
out in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
2.   In the carrying out of the RRAP, KM Semarang shall be assisted by BPN,
MPW and other relevant agencies and Departments of the Borrower.
Part B:    Main features of the RRAP
1.   KM Semarang shall agree to carry out the RRAP in accordance with   terms
agreed between the Borrower and the Bank.
2.   KM Semarang shall further agree to:
     (a)  make available to Affected Persons either cash compensation,
serviced plots, or serviced plots with core houses in adequate numbers and
in accordance with the provisions of the RRAP, the informed preference of
the Affected Family, and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank,
including, without limitation, the following:
          (i)    the serviced plot's total area shall be at least sixty
                 square meters;
          (ii)   each said plot shall be made available to the Affected
                 Person under the right to use (hak guna bangunan) which
                 shall subsequently be converted into full ownership (hak
                 milik) to the said plot.  For this purpose, the Borrower
                 undertakes to expeditiously issue, through the BPN,
                 required certificates of the aforesaid legal rights to
                 Affected Persons;
          (iii)  the total amount to be charged to an Affected Person shall
                 not exceed the lesser of:
                 (A)  the total amount of cash compensation, at replacement
                      value, to be provided to an Affected Person for the
                      land; and
                 (B)  the total cost to KM Semarang for providing the
                      serviced plot, if applicable, and the core house.
          (iv)   cash compensation to Affected Persons for the land and the
                 residential or non-residential structure acquired or
                 possessed therefrom, be calculated at replacement value in
                 accordance with the provisions of the RRAP; and
          (v)    a fixed cash compensation allowance.
     (b)  in addition to the above, provide to Affected Persons: community
facilities and services, improved road access, and transportation assistance;
and
     (c)  ensure that informal traders owning small kioske or businesses in
the river (kali) Banger area are provided with alternative sites to relocate
their businesses to:
          (i)    plots along the improved river (kali) Banger drain; or
          (ii)   a new market (Pasar Waru) to be developed by KM Semarang
                 in the vicinity of the resettlement site.
                                SCHEDULE 7
                              Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term,"eligible Categories", means Categories (1), (2), (3),
(4)(a), (4)(b), (5), (6), (7), (8)(a), (8)(b), (9)(a) and (9)(b) set forth
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
Page  25
     (b)  the term, "eligible expenditures", means expenditures in respect
to the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and
to be f inanced out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time
to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement,- and
     (c)  the term, 'Authorized Allocation", means an amount @iv&lent to $
5,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as
follows:
     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall
          furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or
          deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
          Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests,
          the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
          Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
          amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)  (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
                 shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the
                 Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall
                 specify.
          (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower
                 shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence
                 required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule f or the
                 payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                 requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Bank
                 shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
                 Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount
                 as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been
                 shown by said documents and other evidence to have been
                 paid out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
     All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish
to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was
made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account
in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
     (b)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.
     Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall
follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible xpendituree.
Page  26
     (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out
of the Special Account:
          (i)    was made f or an expenditure or in an amount not eligible
                 pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or
          (ii)   was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank,
                 the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank:
                 (A)  provide such additional evidence as the Bank may
                      request; or
                 (B)  deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank
                      shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal
                      to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
                      not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank shall
                      otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into
                      the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower
                      has provided such evidence or made such deposit or
                      refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the special Account will not be required to cover further
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c)
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
