Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11445-VE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
VENEZUELA
URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
sEPTEMBER 30, 1993
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Bolivar (Bs)
US$1.00 = Bs. 63 (September 92)
US$1.00 = Bs. 85.9 (April 93)
US$1.00 = Bs. 97.1 (September 93)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric system
FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAMETRO            - Caracas Metro Company
CBV                - Central Bank of Venezuela
CVT                - Venezuelan Transport Council
CVTT               - National Traffic Police
CORDIPLAN          - Ministry of Coordination and Planning
DGSTT              - Land Transport Directorate
FONTUR             - National Urban Transport Fund (Fondo Nacional de Transporte Urbano)
FUDECO             - Foundation for the Development of Midwest Region (Fundaci6n para el
Desarrollo de la Regi6n Centro - Occidental)
FUNDACOMUN   - Foundation for Community and Municipal Development (Fundaci6n
para el Desarrollo de la Comunidad y Fomento Municipal)
GOV                - Government of Venezuela
IDB                - Inter-American Development Bank
LCA                - Local Coordination Agency
LORM               - Municipal Law (Ley Organica de Regimen Municipal)
MINDUR             - Ministry of Urban Development
MTC                - Ministry of Transport and Communications
PERL               - Public Enterprise Reform Loan
PMU                - Project Management Unit
PTS                - Public Transport Study
UNDP               - United Nations Development Programme
UT                 - Urban Transport
VOC                - Vehicle Operating Costs



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
VENEZUELA
URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
PROJECT SUMMARY  . ...................................................  iii
I.       BACKGROUND .................................................                                                 1
A. Project Background .............................................   1
B. The Urban Sector .............................................                                            1
C. Municipal Government in Venezuela ................................... 2
D. GOV's Decentralization Strategy ..................................... 3
II. THE URBAN TRANSPORT SECTOR                                                    ..3
A. Overview .3
B. Urban Transport Characteristics .4
C. Institutional Framework .4
D. Regulatory Framework                                              .6
E. Cost Recovery, Pricing and Subsidies .7
F. Sectoral Issues.                                                                                          9
G. Lessons Learned from Past Projects .12
H. Towards a Better Managed Urban Transport System .13
Ill.     THE PROJECT ..................................................   14
A. Origin  ....           .................................................. 14
B. Rationale and Objectives  .......................................... 15
Rationale for Bank Involvement ................................... 15
Objectives ................................................. 15
C. Description ................................................... 16
Part A - Institutional Development and Policy Programs .................. 16
Part B - Infrastructure and Equipment Investment ...................... 19
D. Project Costs .................................................. 23
E. Indicative Investment Needs ........................................ 24
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Venezuela in September,
1992. Mission members included: Messrs. Jorge Rebelo, (Task Manager, Sr. Transport Planner);
Gerhard Menckhoff, (Sr. Urban Transport Specialist); Gerard Uautaud, (Highway Engineer); and John
Cracknell, (Consultant, Traffic Engineer). Messrs. Richard Scurfield and John Flora provided the Peer
Review. Messrs. Asif Faiz, Orville Grimes and Rainer B. Steckhan are respectively the managing
Division Chief, Projects Advisor and Department Director for the operation. Ms. Allison Tumer assisted
in producing this report.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ii
Table of Contents
Page No.
F. Financing  .....................................................  24
G. Project Economic Evaluation
H. Environmental Aspects ........................................... 27
I. Project Risks ................................................... 28
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ............................................ 29
A. Institutional Responsibilities ........................................ 30
B. Contractual Arrangements ......................................... 30
C. Implementation Schedule .......................................... 30
D. Implementation Arrangements ...................................... 30
E. Implementation Program  .......................................... 32
F. Procurement .................................................. 33
G. Disbursements ................................................. 35
H. Auditing   .....................................................  36
I. Monitoring, Reporting and Supervision ................................. 36
V.   AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .................... 37
ANNEXES:
1.       Lessons Learned From  Past Projects ..................................... 40
2.    The Executing Agency: FONTUR ...................................... 48
3.  Municipal Finances in Venezuela .53
4.  Subproject Eligibility Criteria .62
5.  Completed Subproject Appraisals .65
6.  FONTUR Institutional Strengthening Program .72
7.  National Training Program .77
8.   Institutional Devleopment Policy Component Studies .82
9. Traffic Police Component .92
10.   Road Maintenance Component .................................                                                            95
11.   Economic Evaluation .................................                                                                 103
1 2.   Detailed Project Costs .................................                                                             112
13.      Project Implementation and Monitoring .................................  118
14.      Urban Transport Characteristics .................................                                                  131
15.      Documents in the Project File .................................                                                    145
TABLES:
Table 1.1  Population of Principal Cities .2
Table 3.1  Bank and IDB Projects .21
Table 3.2  Summary of Project Costs .24
Table 3.3  Project Financing Plan .25
Table 3.4   Summary of Quantified Subproject Benefits .27
Table 4.1  Procurement Arrangements .34
Table 4.2   Disbursement Profile by Category .35
MAPS:
MAP: IBRD N° 22154



iii
VENEZUELA
URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Republic of Venezuela.
Executina
Aaencies:            National Urban Transport Fund IFONTUR) and the Ministry of Transport and
Communications (MTC).
Amount:              USS 100 million equivalent.
Terms:               Repayment in 15 years, including five years of grace, at the Bank's standard
variable rate.
Project
Obiectives:          The proposed Urban Transport Project aims at improving the quality and
efficiency of urban transport in Venezuelan cities. To assist in achieving this
goal, the primary objective of the project is to improve and strengthen national
and local institutions engaged in the planning, financing, design, and operation
of urban transport systems. In addition, the project will help to increase the
efficiency of traffic and transport operations, to preserve the urban transport
infrastructure through better maintenance and consequently to assist in
reducing user costs and deferring new transport investments. The project is
also expected to contribute to poverty alleviation by facilitating access to
public transport by the poor.
Project
Description:         The project consists of two parts: Part A - an institutional development and
policy program and Part B - an infrastructure and equipment investment
program at the municipal level. Part A accounts for some 17% of the project
cost (US$ 34.8million) and consists of the following components: i) an
institutional strengthening program for FONTUR, ii) an institutional
strengthening program at the municipal level, iii) a national urban transport
sector training program, iv) a traffic police program, v) policy studies and v)
preparation of city subprojects. Part B, which represents some 83% of project
cost (USS 1 65.2million), would provide resources to individual municipalities
for urban transport subprojects. Municipal subprojects will comprise
investments in traffic and transport infrastructure and equipment, and
associated maintenance programs.
Project
Benefits:            The main benefits of Part A (Institutional) will stem from enhanced capabilities
of FONTUR to influence urban transport development through the allocation of
resources to well-conceived programs and project schemes at the local level,
and from increased municipal capabilities. The national training program will
strengthen technical capabilities of the municipalities and the technical
assistance program for traffic police will begin to bring about better use of
existing infrastructure through more effective traffic law enforcement. Part B
of the project will ensure that municipalities can effectively discharge their
responsibilities arising from the Government's decentralization policy. The



iv
investment programs for infrastructure improvements and maintenance should
improve the efficiency and quality of urban transport operations.  The
quantified benefits are in terms of reduced vehicle operating costs and travel
time-savings through reduced traffic congestion. Reductions in congestion will
make a significant contribution to the environment and hence to the quality of
urban life.  The poor should benefit from  the improved public transport
performance because of shorter travel times to and from places of
employment.
Project
Risks:               New policies and directions in urban transport are being envisaged under the
project to be pursued by nascent agencies, and the main implementation risk
is clearly institutional. To reduce this risk, the project places great emphasis
on institutional aspects including the strengthening of FONTUR, a national
training program for national and local level traffic planners, technical
assistance for traffic police, and training and technical assistance for
participating municipalities. Completion of the selection process for FONTUR
technical assistance is a condition of loan effectiveness. Weak municipal
financial capacity and insufficient budgets could result in counterpart funding
problems. To mitigate this problem during the transition to decentralized
provision of urban transport and to ensure that municipalities allocate their
25% share of subproject costs, the municipalities will be: li) subject to a
financial review and (ii) required as part of the subproject agreement to commit
funds in a timely manner. There are also policy risks. While it is accepted that
lack of realistic tariffs has contributed to a decline in the public transport
fleet/supply and costly subsidies to urban transport by GOV, it would be
unrealistic to expect those problems to be resolved quickly. The Project will
contribute to clarification and eventual resolution of the subsidy issue through:
li) a continuing dialogue with the GOV during project implementation and
particularly at the mid-term review, which will assess the progress made by
each municipality with respect to the recommendations of a Public Transport
Study for the municipality; and (ii) studies and pilot programs (e.g. in the
municipality of Maturin) to develop improved targeting of subsidies. The project
risks are expected to be manageable and project conditionality has been
designed to contain them within acceptable limits.



v
Estimated Project Costs
IUSS million)
I Local    Foreign    Total      % of Total
PART A - INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND POUCY
Part Al - FONTUR strengthening                      1.54      2.30       3.84         1.9
Part A2 - Municipal strengthening                   2.27      2.08       4.95        2.5
Part A3 - National Training Program                 2.91      4.31       7.22        3.8
Part A4 - Traffic Police Program                    2.9e      8.22      11.17        5.6
Part A5 - Policy studies                            1.31      1.31       2.e3         1.3
Part AO - Project preparation                       2.50      2.50       5.00        2.5
Sub Total Part A                             13.49      21.32     34.81        17.4
PART B - INFRASTRUCTURE AND EQUIPMENT
Part Bl - Traffic and infrastructure                67.39     38.97     104.35       52.2
land expropriation Part B1                    1.08      0.00       1.08        0.5
Part B2 - Deferred Maintenance                      12.16     6.29       18.45       9.2
Sub Total Part B                             80.83     43.2e      123.88       81.9
Baee Costs                                         94.12      e4.58     158.09       79.3
Physical Contingencies                              10.11     5.54       15.65        7.8
Sub Total                                    104.23    70.12      174.34       87.2
Price Contingencies                                 15.28     10.39     25.86        12.8
Total Project Costs lexcluding taxes)        119.51     80.51     200.00       100
Taxes                                        19.02      0.00      19.62        9.8
Total Project Costs (including taxes)        139.13    80.51     219.62       109.8
Financing Plan
(US$ million)
Source of Funds        Local        Foreign      Taxes       Total     % Total
World Bank              19.49         80.51          -       100.00       44.9
GOV (FONTUR)             67.3            -         19.62      86.92       38.3
Municipalities           32.7               -|                32.70        16.8
Total                   119.49        80.51        19.62     219.62        100
Loan Disbursement Schedule
(USS million)
Bank Fiscal Year     1994         1995   |   1998          1997       1998     1999
Annual            18           18          27          18         17        4
Cumulative         18           36          63           79         98       100
Rate of Return: The estimated economic rate of return for the first year program of Investments In traffic Infrastructure and equipment
program (amounting to about 50% of total project investments) is 32%. The economic rates of ratum for the remairning investments ae
expected to range from 12% to about 100%, with most of thti exceeding 30%.






VENEZUELA
URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A.      Proiect Backaround
1 .1         This project has its origins in two major developments within Venezuela: the growing
urban transport sector crisis in major cities of the country which, in February 1990, erupted into violent
riots and bus strikes; and the Government's efforts to decentralize the responsibility of basic urban
transport services to the municipal level in accordance with the country's Constitution and the 1990
Decentralization Law.
1.2          Early in 1990, the Government of Venezuela (GOV) began a review of its urban
transport policies as part of its overall economic reform program. It requested the Bank to review the
short-term measures it had designed to soften the impact of fuel price adjustments (the price of diesel
in Bs. doubled from December 1988 to February 1989) on public transport users and private sector
operators. A Bank mission visited Venezuela in April 1990, reviewed the measures, and advised the
Govemment to consider these short-term actions in the context of a longer-term strategy for the
sector. The mission also emphasized to the Government the importance of creating a coherent
institutional framework (in order) for overseeing policy formulation and implementation. In April 1990,
the Government established a Steering Group on Urban Transport under the Venezuela Transport
Council (CVT) to define sector objectives and priorities, to review the institutional and regulatory
framework in order to evaluate sector policies and to make recommendations on reform, and to
formulate the Government's short and medium-term sector strategy with technical assistance from the
Bank and other international agencies. In February 1991, GOV requested Bank and IDB assistance for
an urban transport program to support the improvement of urban transport services in Caracas and
other metropolitan areas with more than 100,000 inhabitants.
B.     The Urban Sector
1.3          Main Features: Venezuela is highly urbanized. An estimated 88 percent of Venezuela's
population lives in urban areas, the highest rate in the Americas, and one of the highest in the world.
With an annual growth of 3.3 percent, urbanization is expected to continue, and UN HABITAT
projections indicate that, by the year 2025, 93 percent of Venezuela's population will be urban.
Caracas is the largest urban center in the country, with a metropolitan population of 2.8 million in
1990, but it neither approaches the scale of the region's megacities, e.g. Mexico City and Sio Paulo,
nor dominates the national urban system as Buenos Aires and Montevideo do in their respective
countries. Important secondary centers, notably Maracaibo (pop. 1.4 million) and Valencia (pop. 1.0
million) are potential counter-weights to Caracas. The rapid growth of Venezuelan cities can be
appreciated from the fact that in 1950, there were only two cities in the country with populations in
excess of 200,000, namely Caracas with 680,000 and Maracaibo with 239,000. Today there are ten
(see Table 1.1).
1.4          Venezuela's urban population has increased rapidly (from 4.5 to 5.0 percent per annum
during the 1950-1980 period); by 2010, it will have an urban population more than ten times larger
than in 1950. Currently, the annual urban population growth has fallen to 2.5 percent, but it is still
one of the highest rates in the region. In addition, Venezuela's urbanization has been driven by the
establishment and growth of urban service centers, rather than through the traditional process of
industrialization as the principal drive behind urbanization. The rapid urbanization process in Venezuela



2
has resulted in a major network of urban centers, whose importance is reflected by their size (Table
1 .1). Although Caracas is a large agglomeration by any standard, it does not dominate the country's
urban system. Approximately half the country's urban population lives in the ten largest cities listed
in Table 1 .1, while the other half is concentrated in smaller cities with less than 200,000 inhabitants.
The majority of the urban population lives in the coastal zone between Caracas and Maracaibo in the
west, an urban axis of some 500 kilometers in length.
1.5          Urban growth in Venezuela has
led to the rapid expansion of barrios. While this   Table  1:1 Vezitueil - Pop, tof Principal Cities. 
is a phenomenon that is widespread in Latin                      1990
America and most of the developing world, the
scale and growth of these settlements in  :Caracas                            2.784.042
Venezuela is almost without parallel. When first  Maracaibo'                   1.363.803 
established, barrios consist of ranchos or shacks   Vlencla:                    .031.941i
constructed with shoddy materials.  As the   Maracay                            799 884:
barrios become more consolidated, even without  Barqulslmeto                    745.444
services, residents improve their dwellings with   C' d'dd d''t--i   46     6       730
the use of more permanent materials. In this   Barloay Pt      . .L Crur        429.072
way, single-room brick dwellings are established,   Sa CristXb'l                3 00
as in the case of Caracas. Most cities lack a   Maturin:                        257.683
rational delivery system  to plan and increase      .6 Bivar  i-iii24 .593 ii
coverage of water supply, sanitation, electrical  M6rda                         23:7.575
energy, transportation, and community services   Cumana                         23'  l   '
for these barrios. In the absence of an adequate   Guarena/Guate                 227.610
formal supply  of urban  infrastructure  and   C:iudad&s  -a                    212 2 4-
housing, barrios became the only feasible        A Araua                        208.0
location for low income populations to find and    cabqua                       197.613
establish shelter in Venezuelan cities. Clearly,  Valera             .. .    -169211:
there is a need to develop appropriate delivery   Barinas                       1
mechanisms, commensurate with the financial,  Los Te1ques                       15.261
economic and institutional capabilities of the   Punto.Fib                      153.205
country.                                      Puerto Cabello                    145.759
Coro                              144.006
C.  Municipal Government in Venezuela
1.6          Venezuela   has   269
municipalities, of which 76 have populations exceeding 50,000. Regardless of their population size,
municipalities in Venezuela have traditionally been very weak. Though the 1961 Constitution granted
to municipalities a wide range of fiscal authority and functional responsibilities --e.g. for water,
sewerage, drainage, the distribution and sale of gas and electricity, and for public transport-- in
practice, the Central government actually assumed responsibility for these functions.  The
municipalities have mostly been responsible for solid waste collection and disposal, public markets, fire
fighting, cemeteries, and limited public works, including barrio upgrading and water connections.
1.7          Municipalities have traditionally relied heavily upon central government transfers, rather
than their own revenue, to finance their expenditures. In 1 986, municipal expenditures accounted for
9.1 percent of total public sector spending, but own-source municipal revenue represented only 4
percent of total govemment revenues. The bulk of central government transfers are provided under
a 1976 statute on revenue-sharing commonly referred to as the situado law, whereby a specified
percentage of central government revenues is transferred to state and municipal governments. The
situado transfers to municipalities (0.75 percent of central government revenues prior to the 1989



3
revisions) represent on average 35 to 40 percent of all municipal revenue (see Annex 2). The transfers
are allocated as follows: 50 percent in equal allotments to all municipalities, and 50 percent on a per
capita basis. The result is that smaller municipalities receive significantly higher per capita transfers
than larger municipalities. For example, the nation's largest municipality, Libertador (with 1.8 million
people, including Caracas proper), received situado transfers of roughly US$9 per capita in 1991,
whereas smaller municipalities with populations under 100,000 received US$12 to US$15 per capita.
1.8          Although the Constitution and the Municipal Law (Ley Organica de Regimen Municipal,
LORM, enacted in 1979) provide municipalities legal authority to raise revenue from a wide range of
sources, two municipal taxes account for 90 percent of own-source revenue: the business tax (65%)
and property taxes (25%). The business tax (Patente Industria y Comercio) consists of a low rate tax
on gross sales, generally between 0.2 and 1.0 percent, coupled with a minimum tax and a license fee.
Property tax revenue tends to be modest, accounting for roughly 1 5 percent of total municipal revenue,
including transfers. Generally, rates are low, properties are systematically underassessed, and tax
evasion is widespread.
D.    GOV's Decentralization Strateav1'
1.9           Beginning in 1989, the Government launched a far-reaching decentralization program
aimed at significantly strengthening the role and responsibilities of state and municipal governments.
The 1989 revisions to the Municipal Law (LORM) and the 1990 Decentralization Law have formed the
cornerstone of this strategy. The 1989 revisions to the Municipal Law introduced important electoral
reforms, whereby mayors (who were previously appointed by state governors) would be directly
elected, and council members (who were previously elected from closed party lists) would be elected
representatives of their districts. Municipal elections were held on this basis in late 1 989 and 1 992.
The 1 990 Decentralization Law authorized the transfer of a number of expenditure responsibilities to
the state governments and also substantially increased central government transfers to state and
municipal governments. Under the Decentralization Law, the central government transfers to municipal
governments will increase by 300 percent over four years, from 0.75 percent of central government
revenues in 1989 to 3.0 percent by 1994. In 1991, transfers to the 76 largest municipalities (with
populations exceeding 50,000) totalled US$120 million equivalent.
II. THE URBAN TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.    Overview
2.1          An overview of urban transport in Venezuela reveals serious institutional bottlenecks,
poor cost recovery policies and financial management, and weak integration between transport and
land use planning, which are common to many of the country's urban areas and which should be
addressed expeditiously. This urbanization pattern and the rapid growth of urban populations, together
with a considerable increase of car ownership and use fostered by low fuel prices and poor public
transport, have resulted in chronic road congestion, mainly in Caracas but increasingly in a number of
other cities.
1/ 'Venezuela: Decentralization and Fiscal Issues", IBRD Report No. 111 60-VE, by LAt IN dated October 27,
1992 has a good discussion of GOV's decentralization program.



4
B.    Urban Transport Characteristics and OraanizationZ'
2.2           Venezuela has an estimated fleet of 2.0 million vehicles (1990), of which 73% are
private cars, 6% are vehicles used for public passenger transport, and the rest are motorcycles, trucks,
trailers and semi-trailers. The Capital Region has 42% of the country's cars, and 39% of its public
transport vehicles. In addition to those modes, Caracas has a metro (CAMETRO) with two lines
totalling 40 km. More than 95% of the public transport fleet is privately owned and consists of buses,
por puestos (paratransit services with small or medium-sized buses) and jeeps. The modal share of
urban buses and por puestos ranges from 40% in Maracaibo to nearly 60% in Merida; walking
accounts for about 13-16% of all trips in most cities, and private cars for 29-42%. Other than
walking, there is little non-motorized transport, partly because the hilly topography makes it difficult
to operate bicycles. In Caracas, the metro accounts for nearly 15% of the trips, other public transport
for 28%, cars for 41% and walking for roughly 16%; there is also a growing use of motorcycles.
2.3          In urban areas other than Caracas, a typical home-to-work trip requires transfers
between por puestos and can take as much as 1-2 hours each way. Since the por puesto tariffs are
not integrated, many passengers must pay multiple fares; in these cases, poor people are obliged to
pay a high proportion of their disposable income on transport. In Caracas, the lowest income users
live in ranchos (areas marginales) on the hillsides which can only be served by four wheel drive vehicles
(jeeps), since gradients are steep and other vehicles cannot maneuver safely. A typical home-to-work
trip for a rancho dweller consists of climbing down a hillside stairway to a jeep stop, taking the jeep
to a por puesto stop and transferring to a por puesto to reach the metro. Due to the long distances
and the relatively high traffic congestion in Caracas, it is not uncommon for trips to take over 2 hours
each way. The service level of road-based transport has deteriorated considerably due to lower speeds
caused by traffic congestion. Frequencies tend to be low, reliability is poor, and conditions of comfort
and safety are bad. Furthermore, the lack of appropriate traffic management systems coupled with
poor parking policies and unsafe driving results in an high number of accidents, especially at
intersections.  Traffic safety enforcement is generally absent and some improvements could
significantly reduce the number of accidents.
C.    Institutional Framework
2.4           At the federal level, the Ministry of Transport and Communications (MTC), through its
National Directorate for Land Transport (DGSTT) is responsible for formulating, planning, and
implementing the federal policy in urban transport. In April 1990, in response to the urban transport
related riots, GOV set up an advisory body, the Consejo Venezolano de Transportes (CVT) with
representatives from government (Ministries of Finance, Development, Labor, Transport and
CORDIPLAN), operators (CAMETRO, FEDETRANSPORTE, FERROCAR), industry (FEDECAMARAS),
municipal government (AVECI) and the users to advise on the sector objectives and priorities.
Conscious of the need for a more permanent structure, GOV, in September 1991, created the National
Fund for Urban Transport (FONTUR) which is responsible for channeling federal funds budgeted for
urban transport to the municipalities. FONTUR is also responsible for promoting and implementing the
decentralization of urban transport responsibilities from the federal government to the municipalities
(Annex 2). However, the formulation of urban transport policies continues to be the responsibility of
the DGSTT based on FONTUR's recommendations. There are a number of semi-autonomous
institutions under the MTC. The most important in terms of investment in urban transport is
CAMETRO. Another agency for which the MTC is responsible is the Traffic Police ("Cuerpo de
Vigilancia del Transito Terrestre") which is under the DGSTT.
Z/    Annex 14 gives a detailed description of urban transport modes in the major Venezuelan cities.



5
2.5          The Ministry of Urban Development (MINDUR) is authorized to plan the development
of the urban road network in coordination with MTC but invests little in urban transport. The Interior
Ministry is involved indirectly through its relationship with the state governments. The state
governments in Venezuela invest substantial amounts on transport, mostly through what is known as
the Situado Coordinado, i.e., joint programs financed by transfers and undertaken by means of an
agreement ("Convenio") between each state and the MTC. Small amounts, mostly dedicated to road
maintenance, are also spent out of the states' own budget ("Presupuesto Ordinario-).
2.6          The 1 961 Constitution attributes to the municipalities the responsibility for the provision
of a number of services, including urban transport. However, insufficient financial resources and the
lack of administrative and professional capacities at the local level, usually create a situation in which
these services are provided with assistance from the state and/or federal governments. While the
states and municipalities are free to make their own arrangements, most municipalities are still
dependent on the MTC or the state government for the maintenance of their traffic lights and urban
street network. Construction and financing of new roads in municipalities are often the responsibility
of the states, usually through MTC. Traffic management was until recently (and still is in Caracas) the
responsibility of the Federal Government and regulation of bus services and concessions in urban routes
are the responsibility of the municipalities. The larger the city, the greater is the tendency for the
municipal government to assume the responsibility for road construction and traffic management.
2.7           The Ley Organica Municipal, revised in 1990, seeks to decentralize responsibilities and
to strengthen local organizations, particularly at the municipal level, as it is felt that this leads to
improved responsiveness to local needs and better accountability. Organizations that exist at the
municipal level to handle urban transport vary from a simple traffic and transport division (Merida) to
an Autonomous Transport Institute (Maracaibo) created by the municipalities for that effect. Due to
the lack of definition of the role of each level of government, FONTUR undertook a study on 'The Role
of Government' in the planning, maintenance, regulation, financing and delivery of urban transport
services as part of the preparation for the proposed project. The study recommended three types of
model organizations in staffing for traffic, transport and road maintenance functions at the municipal
level based on the population of the municipality. Assistance to set up municipal-level organizations
based on these models is provided under the technical assistance component of the proposed project.
2.8          For large cities such as Caracas and Barquisimeto, the responsibility for transport and
traffic regulation, traffic engineering, traffic law enforcement, and short and medium range land
use/transport planning is divided among agencies at federal and municipal level, or between different
departments within individual agencies or even between different municipalities within the same
metropolitan area. This diversity sometimes results in agencies with shared responsibilities having
conflicting policies for a particular activity.
2.9           The extent and quality of urban transport coordination and planning vary among the
different regions but all are faced with a similar problem -- (a) how to plan, manage and maintain a
transport system in a metropolitan region consisting of many municipalities, each with its own
administrative powers, when the necessary inputs for, and effects of, this transport system extend
well beyond the administrative boundaries of any one municipality; and (b) how to finance urban
transport projects.   A  possible solution  would be to create metropolitan-wide transport
coordinating/regulatory agencies, which would require special enabling legislation. In some Venezuelan
metropolitan areas, an adaptation of this type of institution already exists and, in others, plans (or, in
some cases, draft legislation) exist to create them.
2.10         In Brazil, for example, such organizations are referred to as Empresa Metropolitana de
Transportes Urbanos (EMTU). In addition to regulation and coordination, some of the existing
organizations are also involved in the operation of transport enterprises. This practice tends to create



6
a conflict of interest, and it is generally undesirable for such organizations to become directly involved
with the ownership or operation of transport enterprises. One of the most urgent issues to be
addressed in urban transport in Venezuela is the sector organization at the three levels of government.
Without a clear definition of roles and the creation of coordinating entities in the metropolitan regions,
the sector will continue to suffer from lack of modal integration, investment duplication and
uncoordinated policies which are, in the end, detrimental to the users and costly to each level of
government.
2.11          Most cities other than Caracas should have no major problems in creating a Local
Coordination Agency (LCA, Mancomunidad) for urban transport, either because they consist of only
one or at the most two municipalities. In Caracas, however, the five existing municipalities are
reluctant to share municipal common services and have not yet come to terms to create a joint LCA.
Attempts to force the creation of such an agency as a condition of the Bank loan are likely to be
unproductive. An alternative proposal is to finance demonstration projects such as HOV (High
Occupancy Vehicle) corridors, transport improvements in areas marginales, and public transport
terminals while at the same time initiating the process for the creation of some type of LCA. This
should evolve from a consensus among the municipalities concerned. To assist in this process, the
proposed project includes a Metropolitan Transport Coordination Study.
2.12         Traffic enforcement is the responsibility of the traffic police which was created in 1956.
It is attached to the MTC. Its officers are drawn from the National Guard. In general, enforcement
of traffic regulations has been largely neglected in Venezuela. The traffic police currently has a force
of 4,000 persons, which is only two-thirds of the number in 1979. Pay is extremely low, and the
Traffic Police corps has been generally starved of funds so that it is poorly equipped. Reportedly, no
funds have been available for uniforms in the last five years, and some 70 percent of the corps'
vehicles are out of commission.
2.13          Enforcement of traffic regulations is also difficult because the Traffic Law (ley de
transito) is outdated. Legislation has been submitted to the Congress on a number of occasions but
no thorough overhaul of the regulations has been achieved. This situation is unfortunate because many
of the most promising options for improving urban transport in cities with more than 200,000
inhabitants are unworkable without an efficient system of enforcement. This includes parking policies,
bus priority measures and other aspects of traffic management. Not only are such policies often
extremely effective but they are generally not costly to implement. The traffic police has formulated
proposals to strengthen the corps, including increasing the pay, improving the working conditions and
purchasing new  equipment.  Such measures could make an important contribution to the
implementation of effective urban transport policies and could, in addition, be self-financing through
increased collection of traffic fines. Technical assistance, training and some infrastructure and
equipment are included under the proposed project to strengthen the traffic police corps.
D.    Reaulatorv Framework
2.14         According to the law, there are no restrictions to the entry of new bus or porpuesto
operators into the market. However, in practice, an operator who is not part of the route association
for a certain area is unlikely to get a concession to operate in that area. Therefore, the restrictions to
market entry are in fact imposed by the associations, which act basically as cartels. Concessions to
operate on a certain route for both buses and por puestos are awarded by the municipalities if the
routes are within one municipality. If the route crosses more than one municipality the concession
should technically be awarded by a local coordination agency for both municipalities ('mancomunidad')
or if the latter does not exist, by the MTC (DGSTT). By law, the concession to operate on a certain
route should be awarded on the basis of public bidding, but this is rarely done. Fares are regulated by



7
the municipalities for the urban routes (within one municipality) or by the MTC (DGSTT) for routes
serving more than one municipality. There is no structured procedure to update fares in either the MTC
or the municipalities. Fare increases are normally forced by the buslpor puesto owners through political
pressure or strike threats, and are not related to increases in the input costs. The power to regulate
taxis, like that of the por puestos, has been exercised by the MTC but is to be transferred to the
municipalities. Metro and metrobus fares are regulated by the MTC since Metro routes link two or
more Caracas municipalities.
E.    Cost Recovery. Pricina and Subsidies
2.15         Government raises revenues from road users through:
(a)    License Fees. There are two annual license fees for the right to use a vehicle on a public road,
one national and the other municipal. The national fee is set at Bs 300 annually and is a flat
fee for all vehicle types. The municipal fee, which is payable every three months, is fixed by
the municipality. Typical fees range from about Bs 30 to around Bs 130 in Libertadores and
Sucre (i.e. metropolitan Caracas). License fees are thus low and do not produce significant
revenue for the public sector;
(b)    Fuel Taxes. These taxes are low by international standards and amount to Bs 2.10 (USC 3) per
liter of gasoline and Bs 1.39 (USC 2.2) per liter of diesel. Retail prices including taxes at the
pump in July of 1992, were USO 8.1 per liter of regular gasoline and US¢ 7.0 per liter of diesel
(US$ 0.31 and 0.26 per US gallon respectively). With the devaluation of the bolivar and the
price freeze, the reported prices per US gallon of regular gasoline and diesel were, as of June
1993, US$ 0.23 and US$ 0.19. This compares with prices per US gallon of US$ 1.55 and
US$ 1.51 respectively for regular gasoline and diesel in Canada, and US$ 1.99 and US$ 1.24
in Brazil. In general, prices of petroleum products are very low in Venezuela; they average
about one-half of international parity prices (Annex 14). Agreement was first reached with the
Government under the Structural Adjustment loan on a plan to progressively raise the prices
of petroleum products to international levels (100% of export opportunity cost). This program
of phased price increases was to continue under the Public Enterprise Reform Loan (3223-VE).
Progress was made under this plan until March 1992, when prices reached a level equivalent
to about 50% of the international border prices. However, the strong public reaction to these
price increases and the political crisis that ensued led the Government to postpone and slow
down further price adjustments.
(c)    Vehicle Sales Taxes. In 1989, the sales tax amounted to 2% of the price of private vehicles
up to Bs 240,000. For more expensive vehicles, 3% had to paid above this figure. For public
transport and goods vehicles, the sales tax is a flat 1.5% of the price. It is expected that these
taxes will be replaced by a value added tax, which will likely be set initially at a flat 10%; and
(d)    Customs Duties. Importers pay customs duties of 50% for fully built vehicles; duties are
variable (below 50%) for knocked-down vehicles and spare parts. Most imported vehicles are
assembled in Venezuela.
The recently approved Highway Management Loan (3553-VE) requires MTC to undertake a road cost
recovery and maintenance funding study which will review existing road user charges and propose the
necessary adjustments.
2.16         Present bus and por puesto fares are lower than total vehicle operating costs. Since
fares do not cover depreciation and cost of capital, replacement of the fleet is only possible when



8
grants or financing are available at subsidized rates. GOV has promoted such financing schemes a few
times on the grounds that they are a compensation for the low fares imposed on operators. This
practice can only be eliminated when fares are deregulated or set at a level which covers long run
variable costs. However, the travel cost for low-income persons for work trips would rise to more than
15% of their income, if such a policy were to be fully implemented.
2.17         While subsidies should be phased out from a strictly economic viewpoint, the social and
political reality requires a gradual approach. In the short run, mechanisms must be found to target
subsidies to the poor while setting fares at a level which allows the operators to be financially healthy.
The proposed project thus includes public transport studies for each participating municipality, whereby
issues related to market entry, fare and route deregulation and subsidies will be examined. The studies
will recommend specific measures to the municipalities, and FONTUR will take into account the
progress made in implementing such recommendations when deciding whether to finance future urban
transport investments in a municipality as part of the project's mid-term review.
2.18         The central government also imposes specific public service obligations, such as the
transport of students at half fares or less. Operators are paid a student subsidy which, however, is
not directly related to the number of students actually carried. In fact, drivers often do not stop to pick
up students because they prefer to board full-fare passengers and still collect the student subsidy,
which they receive from Government on the basis of seats offered. Lack of enforcement and of
accountability have led to major clashes between students and drivers. FONTUR has proposed a
different system by which the subsidy would be paid directly to the students in the form of tickets
which the operator would ultimately use as proof of transport when collecting his subsidy. GOV has
also started to transfer to municipalities the responsibility of administering this federal subsidy. A
study on subsidies, undertaken during the preparation of the proposed project, recommended the
system described above. Those recommendations are now being implemented in a pilot city (Maturin).
This is an attempt to increase the accountability of bus operators and yet provide low transport fares
to the student population. If successful, the scheme will be applied in other cities. It is estimated that
GOV spent US$ 83 million on this type of subsidy in 1991 (Annex 14).
2.19         Another type of subsidy paid by GOV and private employers to employees who earn
less than 15,000 Bs per month (US$ 230) is the 'bono de transporte' which amounts to 800 Bs per
month. While this subsidy was introduced to help defray the transport costs of the low-income
population, it is only paid to formal employees and is paid irrespective of whether they travel by public
transport or not. In other words, it has become a tax-free salary addition to low-income employees
and can no longer be regarded as a transport subsidy in the true sense. In 1991, the GOV paid an
estimated $US 100 million to its employees, while the private sector paid roughly US$ 320 million.
This subsidy paid by the private sector, entails a loss of tax revenues estimated annually at US$ 96
million. Therefore, the GOV spends roughly US$ 196 million per year on this type of subsidy.
2.20         The 'bono de transporte" is a targeted subsidy but unlike the Brazilian 'vale-de-
transporte' which stipulates that employers must pay the difference between urban transport fares and
6% of the wage, it needs to be adjusted periodically for inflation. It also needs to cover a wider
spectrum of the population than the Brazilian system, such as autonomous employees, the informal
sector and the unemployed. The above mentioned study proposes the introduction of a "boleto de
transporte' for the latter groups, through a system of coupons which would be available from a social
security office. This office would buy the tickets at full price from the operator.
2.21         As indicated in para. 2.15, fuel prices average about one-half of international parity
prices and GOV had instituted a program to bring them up to world levels, through periodic
adjustments. This program is uncertain in view of recent political developments. In particular, the poor
(70% of urban households earn less than 3 minimum salaries) are dependent on public transport and



9
the fare increases demanded by operators, which in general are proportionally much higher than the
impact that the periodic fuel price increases have on their operating costs, have sparked violent riots
in the last three years. It should be noted that gasoline comprises only 15% of estimated operating
costs of the "porpuestos". In the case of diesel powered vehicles, fuel represents only 3% of the per
kilometer cost. Nevertheless, the issue of fuel prices continues to be extremely sensitive because fuel
is perceived as having a greater weight in total costs than it actually has. Given its small weight in the
total operating cost, increases in fuel prices should not affect "por puesto' fares significantly. This
conclusion is reinforced when it is remembered that the proportion of diesel vehicles in the fleet has
been increasing rapidly. On the other hand, an increase in gasoline prices may reduce some of the off-
peak travel by autos, and at some point, divert some of the home-to-work peak hour trips to urban
transport. This will further overload the public transport system. Therefore, in the short-term, it is
important that public transport capacity be increased to absorb the additional users diverted from the
automobile.
2.22         With the objective of renewing the over-age (and polluting) urban bus fleet and
promoting affordable public transport without the need for recurrent subsidies, FONTUR initiated in
early 1992 a scheme to support the acquisition of new vehicles by private operators. After the
operator contributes at least 7% of his own funds for the purchase of the vehicle, FONTUR provides
a credit equal to 50% of its purchase price, which over a 5-year period is gradually converted into a
grant if the vehicle provides urban passenger transport and if the operator complies with several
conditions related to service quality, insurance and vehicle inspection. This scheme is supported by
eight commercial banks which provide a loan (repayable over five years, at commercial interest rates)
for the balance of the purchase price. By December 1992, FONTUR had received applications for a
contribution of US$ 33 million to support the purchase of vehicles, of which US$ 6 million had been
approved.
F.    Sectoral Issues
2.23         There are a number of key sectoral issues which must be addressed to improve the
supply of urban transport services and to guarantee their orderly development and sustainability in the
long term. These concerns may be divided into two categories: (i) planning and operational issues
related to transport planning, maintenance, institutional capabilities, congestion ,safety and the
environment; and lii) policy issues such as regulations, fuel pricing and user charges, cost recovery,
fares and tariffs, financial management and subsidies. Each of these issues is examined below:
{i)    Transoort Plannins. There is a need to strengthen the municipalities' capabilities in
transportation planning, traffic management and the economic and financial evaluation
of new investments. Major problems are: (i) the limited availability of professional
staff with adequate technical skills, especially at the municipality level and (ii)
inadequate maintenance organizations and budgets. At both the central and city levels,
urban transport matters are handled through organizational arrangements that are often
inadequate. The formation of new, or the strengthening of existing planning and traffic
engineering units in fast growing medium-size cities would permit better planning and
use of the transport system.  A crucial component of the project pertains to
institutional strenathenina. technical assistance and trainina which will ensure that both
FONTUR and the traffic and transport agencies at the municipality level are adequately
staffed to handle their transport planning responsibilities (Annexes 6 and 7). FONTUR
will be staffed with key internationally and locally recruited personnel prior to
negotiations and the municipalities will not proceed with civil works before key
technical assistance is in post.



10
(ii)    Maintenance. The state of road and street maintenance varies between municipalities,
but lack of adequate maintenance is fairly common. Maintenance activities have less
political visibility than new construction, and are among the first to be reduced in times
of financial austerity.  Most municipalities are not well organized to deal with
maintenance of roads or traffic signals. Improvement of the maintenance of these
assets will be an essential component of the subproject for each municipality. In most
cities, two agencies with maintenance responsibilities are likely to require
strengthening; the local agency for road maintenance and the traffic engineering
agency or traffic police for traffic signals. As far as possible, maintenance operations
will be contracted to the private sector, as there is evidence that this is a more efficient
solution, and there is ample capacitv in the country to provide such services. The
proposed project would attempt to develop the capabilities of the city maintenance
orcanizations to glan, manaoe and supervise the maintenance works (Annex 10).
(iii)   Institutional Manaaement and Coordination. The main concerns are: (a) the fine-tuning
of relations between central, state and municipal governments and a clear definition
of their respective roles in the financing, planning and operation of urban transport
services in accordance with the 1990 Decentralization Law; (b) the creation of an
entity which is formally empowered by each metropolitan region for planning,
coordinating and setting priorities for new investments and modal integration including
tariff setting and cost sharing, in order to assure a minimum of planning continuity.
During project preparation, a study on the 'Role of Government' has clearly defined the
responsibilities of each level of government and has proposed the type of local
agencies which are best suited for municipalities with populations of less than
100,000, between 100,000 and 250,000 and more than 250,000. Furthermore,
FONTUR has initiated another study in which consultants and staff from the
municipalities will propose a specific organization for each of the municipalities included
in the first year program and a plan for its implementation under the project.
(iv)   Traffic Connestion and Safety. The critical need is to increase the supply of adequate
cost-efficient peak hour capacity in order to reduce congestion and guarantee an
acceptable level of service to the average commuter, under reasonable safety
conditions. This can be done by: (a) rehabilitating existing systems and building new
ones which prove to be the least-cost alternative from the technical, economic and,
especially, financial standpoint; (b) improving traffic management through appropriate
traffic engineering equipment, in order to better manage available road space and
reduce congestion; and (c) reducing traffic and transit accidents through a combination
of safety education campaigns, law enforcement and appropriate traffic engineering.
Low cost solutions (such as traffic management measures, parking policies, busways,
bus route rationalization, pedestrian streets, intersection improvements) are not widely
applied to resolve urban transport problems. The proposed project has already made
progress in bringing to the notice of the municipal authorities cost effective solutions
to reduce conaestion and enhance safety. (Annex 5). In addition, the proposed project
includes a component to strengthen the traffic police at the national and local levels
to ensure improved traffic law enforcement (Annex 9).
(v)    Urban Environment. The main concern is the reduction of air and noise pollution in
urban areas through cleaner and quieter systems. The transport-induced environmental
problems in most cities are presently much less severe than in Caracas, which
confronts unique topographical conditions and a high concentration of population and
vehicles. Nevertheless, the problems are of concern and will tend to get worse as the
cities' motorization levels grow. There is evidence that, in Caracas, internationally



11
accepted air quality standards for lead, CO and particulate matter are already being
exceeded, particularly in the central area. The proposed project will include a motor
vehicle emissions control study for Caracas. Three types of measures to reduce traffic
induced pollution will be studied in the proposed project: the regulation and control of
vehicle emissions, traffic and transport demand management and encouragement of
non-motorized transport. With the benefit of experience from the implementation of
pollution control measures in Caracas, it will be possible to determine how best to
control such emissions in the other cities. Reduction of pollutant emissions from
vehicles should also result from the expected reduction in traffic congestion and
increased vehicle speeds anticipated as a result of the implementation of the traffic
engineering and road improvement components of the proposed project. Where
feasible, the development of bikeways will be considered. In central areas, pedestrian
malls will be used to make walking more pleasant and safe. The usefulness of similar
measures in other medium cities will be reviewed in the city studies and where
appropriate, proposals for their implementation will be included in the subprojects for
each municipality. Finally, the creation of an environmental unit in FONTUR staffed
with an environmental specialist (para. 3.41) will help to ensure that environmental
impact assessments are prepared for all for major urban transport investments.
(vi)   Public Transport Regulations. Existing regulations require modifications including the
elimination of regulatory barriers which prevent free entry and/or competition in the
market for provision of public transport services (especially bus services). Route and
fare regulations need to be reformed. During the preparation of the proposed project,
the operation of por puestolbus systems has also emerged as an issue. Some of the
most common problems include: (a) regulatory units do not operate effectively, are
under-funded and the staff are under-trained; (b) fare policies are guided by social
objectives, which result in fares which are insufficient to generate net revenues to
finance bus renewal; no allowance is made for higher quality services operated at
higher than minimum fares; (c) bus routes are slow to adapt to changing patterns and
levels of demand and the growth of the city; (d) while most bus services are provided
by the private sector, entrance to markets is restricted and route concessions are
awarded in a non-transparent manner. Local monopolies prevent the award of
concessions to new operators. Lack of effective competition leads to inefficient bus
operation; (e) bus fleets are often in poor condition and bus standards provide little
comfort and convenience; and (f) buses have an adverse impact on the environment
(noise and exhaust/smoke emissions); these problems are worst in central areas of
cities, where traffic congestion occurs. The proposed project is only expected to make
a modest contribution to the progressive deregulation of the public transport systems.
It appears that present fare levels do not usually allow for an adequate operating profit,
as many bus operators are not undertaking fleet renewal and the level of service is
generally poor. On the other hand, the tradeoff between price and quality is legitimate,
and recommendations for tariff and quality of service reform should relate to the
conditions prevailing in each city. To deal with these issues, the first action included
in the proposed project is a mandatory Public Transport Study in each participating
municipality with specific recommendations on how to create an enabling environment
to foster bus competition and eliminate regulatory or local monopoly barriers which
negatively affect the level of service provided and the financial health of the operators
(Annex 8). The second action will be a mid-term review of the progress made by the
municipalities towards implementation of the recommendations proposed by the study
and accepted by the municipality. This review may recommend canceling any
outstanding investments and technical assistance if a participating municipality does



12
not agree to an action plan to eliminate regulatory barriers and adequate cost-recovery
mechanisms.
(vii)   Fuel Pricino and User Charnes. Agreement to progressively increase fuel prices to
levels which reflect their export opportunity costs was first reached under the
Structural Adjustment Loan and was to continue under the Public Enterprise Reform
Loan. In the latter, it was a condition for the release of the third tranche. However,
since March 1 992, fuel prices have been frozen and due to the devaluation of the
bolivar, they are at present, below 50% of their international parity prices. An increase
in fuel prices would, at some point, act as a disincentive for the use of private
automobiles, diverting some demand from auto to public transport. The latter does not
have the capacity to absorb a significant increase in demand and, therefore, its
capacity should be expanded. An increase in fuel prices would also be used by
operators as a justification to demand higher fares. Based on past experience, the
increases demanded by operators would be proportionately higher than the impact of
fuel price increase on operating costs. In the past, this has generated a violent reaction
from the low income users and from students who are already spending close to 15%
of their incomes on home-to-work trips. An increase of fuel taxes could also provide
the revenues to fund urban transport, but unless they are earmarked for that purpose,
they will most likely be used in other sectors. An appropriate system of road user
charges as required in the Highway Management Loan (3553-VE) will provide the
means to raise revenues for road rehabilitation and maintenance. The proposed project
includes studies of resource mobilization and allocation procedures at the national level
and of resource mobilization, collection mechanisms and cost recovery at the local
level, (para. 3.10). These studies will take into account the recommendations of the
road user charges study financed under the Highways Management Loan, which
started in June 1993.
(viii)   Cost recovery and Financial manaoement. There is a need to address cost recovery
from a more commercial oriented standpoint by: (a) setting tariffs which, when added
to subsidies, cover at least the long run variable costs (defined as out-of-pocket costs
plus depreciation of equipment and cost of capital) of the service provided; (b)
controlling fare evasion; and (c) using appropriate peak and off-peak pricing. The
financial management of the systems will be improved by fostering cooperatives or
other associations which will decrease administrative and other costs incurred by
individual owner operators and by revamping funding mechanisms in order to guarantee
adequate financing for the implementation of new mass transit systems and the
sustainability of the existing systems. Allocation formulas will be reviewed to ensure
that they are fair and representative. These aspects will also be covered in the Public
Transport Study described in Annex 8.
(ix)   Allocation of Resources. There have been no guidelines for the allocation of federal
resources to the states and cities to help finance urban transport projects, though
modest amounts of assistance have been provided for maintaining urban streets and
traffic lights. After a particular urban transport project is identified, the municipality
or state often lobbies the federal government for direct financial assistance. These
requests have been handled on an ad hoc basis. Since federal grants are not allocated
exclusively on the basis of the economic merits of the projects, there has been little
incentive for the municipalities to develop comprehensive transport policies or to
evaluate projects using sound methodologies.  FONTUR has already started the
preparation of standard allocation formulas which take into account variables such as
total population, number of public transport vehicles per inhabitant, ratio of student
------------------ ---  -------------~~~~



13
population to total population, and the ratio of city generated revenues to its total
revenues. These variables were used for the allocation of funds for fleet renewal. The
proposed project will include a resource mobilization study to identify and propose
funding mechanisms at the central level and will review the rules for allocation of these
resources.
(x)    Taraetino of Subsidies. Urban households have been spending increasing proportions
of their incomes on transport (10-23% for the low income groups earning up to two
minimum salaries). The appropriate targeting of urban transport subsidies and their
extension to the informal sector and the unemployed which are not presently covered
by mechanisms such as the "bono de transporte' is a major issue which needs to be
addressed in the short term. Appropriate mechanisms for financing such subsidies
(tariff differentiation, contracted budgetary transfers, etc) and channeling them (tokens,
multimodal passes, differential tariffs) will be reviewed under the project. At the
municipal level, a detailed subsidy review will be included in the Public Transport Study
(Annex 8, Att.1).
G.    Lessons Learned from Post Proiects
2.24         The Bank has financed no urban transport projects in Venezuela. However, the design
of the proposed project takes into account the experience of other Bank-financed urban transport
projects: The 'lessons learned' are based on fifteen Project Completion Reports and/or Project Audit
Reports (PCR/PPAR) for urban transport operation with an allowance made for trends and changes in
project design since the PCR/PPARs were completed. The main lessons identified and the related
actions in the proposed project are given below:
(i) Institutional Strenothening. The organizations dealing with urban transport, tend to be
weak and technically deficient at the federal, state and municipal levels and should be
reorganized and strengthened;
lii) Lack of counterpart funding has greatly influenced the pace of project implementation
and in extreme cases has led to cancellation of project components. The promotion
of sound financial practices in participating cities should take into consideration the
lack, at least in the short term, of financial resources. The financial mix described in
paragraph 1.20 and Annex 10 (25%-50% federal grant, 0%-25% city participation and
50% Bank loan) will reduce the scale of municipal counterpart funding to a realistic
level and provide the incentives for active municipal participation in the project.
(iii) Slow implementation has been a frequently recurring theme. Reasons have included:
lack of familiarity with Bank procedures, overoptimistic scheduling at appraisal, lack of
final engineering designs at appraisal and changes in political commitment and lack of
counterpart funds. These problems should be mitigated in the proposed project by
such measures as: (i) strengthening FONTUR's capacity for financial management and
implementation of Bank procedures, (ii) requiring final engineering design for first year
components, for which technical assistance will be available, as a condition of
disbursement to any city and, (iii) a grant element in the financing, which will
encourage cities to continue their participation in the program, regardless of political
changes.
(iv) Weak institutional cagacitv for the planning, design and implementation of traffic and
highway projects has been a common feature of many projects. In the proposed



14
project, cities will need to demonstrate an acceptable organization and capacity to
fulfill these functions on a permanent basis before project funds are transferred to
them.
(v) Lack of enforcement of traffic regulations, coupled with poor maintenance, are
additional reasons why some schemes failed to achieve their full potential. In the
proposed project, schemes will be designed to be, as far as practical, 'self enforcing".
Physical rather than regulatory means will be encouraged in the design. Participating
municipalities will need to demonstrate that components involving traffic regulation
enforcement include operational specifications which are acceptable to the traffic
police and that the police are prepared to undertake enforcement. If necessary, the
municipal subprojects could include financing of equipment for enforcement; and
(vi) Public transport has received increasing emphasis in Bank projects and it will be an
important aim of this project to improve public transport operations. Each subproject
will help to improve the regulatory framework to encourage efficient and competitive
bus operations and upgrade the infrastructure (paving, traffic schemes, etc.) to enable
buses to operate at an acceptable level of service. The system of route licensing as
operated in most cities is inflexible and slow to react to changing patterns of demand.
The public transport studies will include reviews of the licensing system and of the
finances of public transport operations and include recommendations to improve the
efficiency of public transport.
H.    Toward a Better Manaaed Urban Transport System
2.25         Urban transport policies formulated by FONTUR would be geared towards efficient and
equitable provision of urban transport services that are necessary to restore the economic efficiency
of cities and to respond to the transport needs of low-income groups. Policies would be consistent
with the broader transport sector objectives, as well as with the objectives of the urban sector. In
consonance with the 1990 Decentralization Law, urban transport policies will support decentralization
of urban transport services from the central government to the states and municipalities to allow local
interests to respond more quickly to the changing demands; and simultaneously address the needs of
major metropolitan regions (Caracas, Ciudad Guyana, Merida, Valencia, Maracaibo, Maturin,
Barquisimeto) where urban transportation problems, especially peak hour capacity, congestion and
pollution are becoming serious. The general approach would be to restore incentives to permit
privately-owned systems to operate under competitive conditions. Re-designed regulations and
concessionary agreements, and improved bidding processes would promote competition in the
provision of bus services; and rates would be gradually liberalized in the corridors where there is
effective competition. Appropriate tariffs and financing mechanisms would enable the efficient
operation and development of public transport systems. Local governments would focus attention on
traffic regulation and management, including managing the demand for road use, improving traffic
management and street maintenance, controlling air and noise pollution, monitoring the effects of
regulations and taxation, and promoting integration of the various transport systems and coordination
with land-use development.



15
III. THE PROJECT
A. Backaround
3.1          In early 1990, the Bank carried out a Public Sector Investment Review, which included
the urban transport sector (Report 8588-VE). The review identified serious institutional bottlenecks,
poor cost recovery policies and financial management, and weak integration between transport and
land use planning, in most of the urban areas in Venezuela. In April 1990, a Bank mission visited
Venezuela to assist GOV in a review of its urban transport policies and progress. The Bank emphasized
the importance of creating a coherent institutional framework for urban transport policy and resource
allocation to the urban transport sector. In January 1991, GOV requested assistance from the Bank
and IDB for the preparation of an urban transport project. A Technical Assistance Loan-TAL (Ln No.
3225-VE), approved by the Bank in June 1991, provided the resources for project preparation and
technical assistance in the establishment of appropriate national institutions. In November 1991, GOV
created a Fondo Nacional de Transporte Urbano (National Fund for Urban Transport-FONTUR) with the
responsibility for channeling financial resources and technical assistance to municipalities for urban
transport development. To fulfill this role, FONTUR was provided with a technical secretariat and
designated as the agency responsible for project preparation and execution. The project was prepared
with extensive assistance provided by consultants, funded both by the TAL and by FONTUR's own
resources. Appraisal took place in September 1992 and negotiations were held in Washington in
March 1993.
B. Rationale and Obiectives
3.2          Rationale for Bank Involvement. The Bank's strategy in Venezuela is to support policy
reform and priority investments to stimulate economic growth and social development in the context
of macro-economic stability. The Bank has emphasized efficient resource allocation, increased
efficiency in the public sector, and appropriate targeting and delivery of support systems to the poor.
Within the urban transport sector itself, GOV has taken positive steps to implement such a strategy
through: (i) the creation of FONTUR to improve the efficiency of resource allocation, (ii) the
decentralization of urban transport functions to the municipal level to increase the responsibility and
accountability of local administrations and to improve the cost effectiveness and delivery of services,
(iii) the strengthening of local and national institutions involved in the sector to enable them to plan and
maintain urban transport infrastructure and services, (iv) the introduction of cost-effective traffic
management measures to alleviate transport problems; and (v) the reform of subsidy policies to ensure
appropriate targeting and increased transparency of resource allocation. The proposed project is
consistent with the agreed country strategy. GOV's urban transport sector strategy conforms to Bank
policies in the sector and will be supported through the implementation of the proposed Bank project.
Bank participation has drawn on and incorporate in the proposed project, the experience gained and
lessons learned from Bank-assisted urban transport projects in other countries (see para. 2.24 and
Annex 1).
3.3          Obiectives. The main purpose of the proposed urban transport project is to improve
the quality and efficiency of urban transport in Venezuelan cities. To achieve this goal, the primary
objective of the project is to improve and strengthen national and local institutions engaged in the
planning, financing, design and operation of the urban transport systems. Secondary objectives will
be: (i) to increase the efficiency of traffic and transport operations and (ii) to preserve, through better
maintenance, urban transport infrastructure and reduce user costs. The project is also expected to
contribute to poverty alleviation by improving public transport services for the urban poor.



16
C.  DescriDtion
3.4           The proposed Project would be an integral part of FONTUR's investment program and
would comprise two parts: Part A - an institutional development and policy program and Part B - an
investment program for infrastructure and equipment at the municipal level. In parallel with the Bank
project, IDB also intends to participate in the FONTUR program. Both the Bank and the IDB projects
have the same overall objectives, and will contain similar components but due to different procedural
and procurement requirements will require separate loan agreements with the Government. While the
two projects have been designed to function independently they will support investments in different
cities and contain elements of a common institutional development and policy program to ensure the
successful implementation of each project.
PART A - Institutional Development and Policy Proaram
3.5           Part A will account for some 17 % of the proposed Bank project financing IUS$ 34.8m)
and is directed at the achievement of the primary institutional building objective and as such is the core
of the project. It would consist of the following components: (i) an institutional strengthening program
for FONTUR, (ii) an institutional strengthening program at municipal level, (iii) a national urban transport
sector training program, (iv) a traffic police program, (v) policy studies at the national level; and (vi)
city subproject preparation and policy studies at the municipal level. For all technical assistance (TA)
components (either at FONTUR or municipal levels), initial contracts will be for 1 year. Performance
and effectiveness of the various TA teams will be reviewed by FONTUR and the Bank at 9 months
after the start of each contract. The TA contracts will be extended or modified as a result of the
review.
3.6           PART Al - FONTUR Strenothenina Comoonent. FONTURV' is responsible for the
implementation of national urban transport policy in Venezuela to be achieved through FONTUR's
control of allocation of all GOV funds to the sector4-'. FONTUR will provide funds for investment in
transport infrastructure (including roads, public transport infrastructure and traffic schemes), equipment
(including traffic control devices and buses) and for institutional strengthening. As the executing
agency for any urban transport investment involving central government, including the Bank project,
FONTUR will be responsible for city subproject appraisal, supervision, coordination and monitoring and
for investment agreements with the cities. To help FONTUR fulfill this national role, the institutional
strengthening program will comprise: (i) the provision of international technical assistance to FONTUR
to enable it to become fully established and to develop working methods and procedures, (ii) equipment
and software for the efficient conduct of its operations and, (iii) the provision of consultant services
for engineering design and supervision of city subprojects and for special studies. So that FONTUR
remains a streamlined agency (see Annex 2 for the FONTUR organization chart), day-to-day subproject
supervision activities will be contracted out to private sector consultants. Project funding will provide
resources for the first two years of supervision activities but financing will be increasingly taken over
from FONTUR's resources as the procedures become established. This component was agreed upon
at appraisal and is described in detail in Annex 6, with implementation targets shown in Annex 13. It
will be a condition of effectiveness that the international technical assistance to carry out this
component has been selected (para. 5.2.(c)). This Technical Assistance is classified as Institutional
Development (Capacity Building) Technical Assitance (IDTA).
3/ DGSTT is responsible for the formulation of national urban transport policy (Chapter 11).
41/ FONTUR is not responsible for the allocation of subsidies but is responsible for the development of subsidy
policy (Chapter II).



17
3.7           PART A2 - Municioalitv Strenathenina Comoonent. To support decentralization of
urban transport services as mandated by LORM and the Decentralization Law, this component will
assist in strengthening municipal agencies in the planning, design, management, operation and
maintenance of traffic and transport systems in the cities. It is a criterion of subproject eligibility
(Annex 4) that each municipality has established, or will strengthen, agencies for traffic and transport
planning, maintenance and public transport regulation. These municipal agencies will carry out traffic
and transport planning, bus system reorganization, concession revisions, tariff revisions and
maintenance programs for urban streets and traffic control equipment and devices.  Precise
organizational arrangements will respond to local circumstances and various forms of structure are
possible. For example, combined Traffic and Transport and Bus Regulatory Units may be formed in
some cities, in others, "Institutes" for traffic planning exist and will be strengthened under the project.
It is planned that maintenance activities will be carried out by the private sector and that a
Maintenance Unit (or its equivalent) will be formed or strengthened in each participating city so that
it can carry out contract supervision, training and program planning in an effective manner. The project
will support these institutional developments through: (i) international technical assistance resident
in each city (two specialists in Barquisimeto and Maracaibo, and one in each of Maturin, Merida and
Ciudad Guayana) for a two year period to assist in establishing the new city agencies, defining working
practices, providing on-the-job training to municipal staff, (ii) permanent, national technical assistance
in each project city over the complete period of implementation of the project to work with the
municipal teams and the international consultants; the national consultants will be middle-level or
freshly qualified professionals and will in fact work as counterparts to the international consultants
and/or supplement regular staff in each of the agencies involved, while the latter are being trained; this
procedure ensures that there will be a number of qualified venezuelan nationals, at the local level, to
absorb the transfer of knowhow; and (iii) equipment for traffic operations and maintenance quality
control and testing. Municipal permanent and supplementary staff will be eligible for, and will be
required to attend, the national training program  (see Part A3).  A detailed description of the
Municipality Strengthening component is given in Annex 6. It is a condition of disbursement to the
municipalities that the international technical assistance provided under this component is in place
(para. 5.2 (c)). This Technical Assistance falls under the category of Capacity Building (IDTA).
3.8           PART A3 - National Trainino Proaram for Urban Transoort ComDonent. The objective
of the national training program is to increase the capabilities of staff now working in the urban
transport sector in the disciplines of traffic and transport planning, project evaluation, project
execution, traffic operations and maintenance. The program will benefit staff from the municipalities
and from national agencies; local consulting firms may participate on a fee paying basis. The elements
of the training program will be: (i) a national level, 4 month intensive course at "post-graduate' (or
equivalent practical experience) level for traffic and transport engineers, economists and urban
planners; the course will be held in Venezuela, annually, for 3 years (1994-96); (ii) transport
familiarization courses, held on a regional basis, for city managers to enable them to improve their
understanding of national and local urban transport policies and practices; (iii) technician training
courses and logistic courses (computer applications), held on a regional basis, to expose junior
technical staff to transport and traffic planning and operations techniques; (iv) courses for public
transport operators to provide a background in efficient public transport operation; and (v) overseas
post-graduate studies for a selected group of students from the initial intensive course and for FONTUR
personnel to provide a core of urban transport specialists in the country. The scope of the courses and
the proposed organization, implementation arrangements and frequency of the courses are described
in Annex 7. The actions necessary for the next steps are shown in the Action Plan (Annex 13).
Project financing has been included for the courses and for the necessary equipment for their delivery
(computers, visual display equipment and general office equipment). Given the importance and scope
of this component FONTUR has appointed a Training Coordinator to manage the overall training
program and head the Human Resource Development division (see Annex 2). It will be a condition of



18
effectiveness that the international technical assistance to carry out this component has been selected
(para. 5.2.(b)). This Technical Assistance falls under the Capacity Building category (IDTA).
3.9           PART A4 - Traffic Police ComDonent. The FONTUR program and the city projects place
great emphasis on cost-effective traffic management measures. To ensure that such measures are
successful in operation, good enforcement of traffic regulations is essential. Part A4 comprises a
program at the national and local levels to assist in improving the effectiveness of the traffic police.
At the national level, the program will include: (i) refurbishment, expansion and equipment for the
traffic police training school; (ii) intensive training for traffic police instructors including study tours to
police academies in other countries; and (iii) technical assistance for the review and preparation of new
curricula at the traffic police training school. At the local level, for cities participating in the traffic
subprojects, the police program will include: (i) equipment to assist traffic regulation enforcement
(such as communications, vehicles, etc); and (ii) technical assistance to assist the effective utilization
of the new equipment and to improve operational practices. Estimates have been made of the
resources necessary for the program (Annex 9). A final draft of a study examining traffic police
capabilities, organization, resources, procedures, and proposing a detailed program for this component
was completed prior to negotiations (para.5. 1 (I)). The Technical Assistance sub-component is of the
IDTA type.
3.10          PART A5 - Institutional and Policy Studies Component. This component would include
financing for key policy studies in the transport sector at the national level. The main studies are as
follows, and outline terms of reference are given in Annex 8.
(a)    A5.1 - Review of FONTUR organization and staffing;
(b)    A5.2 - Review of DGSTT organization and function;
(c)    A5.3 - Resource Mobilization and Allocation Procedures at the National Level;
(d)    A5.4 - Review of National Transport Subsidies;
(e)    A5.5 - Review and Revision of the "Ley de Transito";
(f)    A5.6 - Study and Action Plan to Implement and Monitor Targeted Public Transport
Subsidies in a Pilot City (Maturin);
(g)    A5.7 - Development of Resource Mobilization, Collection Mechanisms and Cost
Recovery at the Local Level;
(h)    A5.8 - Pilot Study for the Establishment of a Legal Framework for Transport at the
Local Level;
{i)   A5.9 - Design and Implementation of a Management Information System for Urban
Transport in a Pilot City;
(j)   A5.10 - Motor Vehicle Emissions Control Study for Caracas; and
(k)    A5.1 1 - Caracas Metropolitan Area Transport Coordination Study.
3.11          Studies A5.1 to A5.6 address several issues discussed in para. 2.23 and are essential
for the design of new institutional, regulatory and resource allocation procedures at the national level;
they must be completed not later than 18 months after loan effectiveness. Studies A5.7 to A5.9
should propose models which can be used by the municipalities for cost recovery, for the definition
of a legal framework and to set up their urban transport related management information systems; they
must be completed not later than 24 months after loan effectiveness. Studies A5.10 and A5.1 1 are
specific to Caracas and must be completed not later than 36 months after loan effectiveness (para.
5.1 (m)). Given the importance and scope of the policy studies component at the national level,
FONTUR has appointed a Policy Studies Coordinator who will be part of the Project Management Unit
(PMU). The Technical Assistance required for this component is classified as Substitution Technical
Assistance (STA).



19
3.12         PART A6 - City Preparation Studies Comoonent.  Eligibility criteria for cities to
participate in the FONTUR program have been defined (Annex 4) and 25 cities meet the criteria. To
maintain the momentum of the FONTUR program, it is proposed to finance preparation studies up to
an aggregate amount of US$ 2.5 million under the project. The component will provide for FONTUR
to finance 100% of the cost of the studies while municipalities will provide office facilities and
counterpart staff. Annex 8 provides outline terms of reference for city level preparation study which
will include four integrated sub-studies: (i) Traffic Systems Management, (ii) Public Transport, (iii)
Institutional Development and (iv) Road Maintenance. The cities already appraised (Barquisimeto,
Maracaibo, Maturin, Merida and Ciudad Guayana) have completed the Traffic Systems Management
element and must complete the Public Transport Study not later than 14 months after signing the
relevant subproject agreement (para.5.1 (n)). This study will recommend an action plan which should
include, among others, measures to improve the financial sustainability of urban transport systems and
the targeting of subsidies. During the second annual review after effectiveness and subsequent annual
reviews, the Bank will evaluate the progress made by the municipalities in the implementation of the
action plan. For cities with more than 500,000 population (except Caracas which will be included in
the IDB project), the component will finance Strategic Transport Plan Studies to assess the need for
mass transit systems in the medium and long term; acceptance by FONTUR and the Bank of the results
of the study will be necessary before the city can proceed with feasibility and engineering studies of
the proposed transit systems. The Technical Assistance required in this component is classified as
Substitution Technical Assistance to assist with appraisal and functional design of the proposed
subprojects. Annex 12, Table 12.1A summarizes the types of technical assistance included in the
project and their respective costs.
PART B - Infrastructure and EnuiDment Investment Proaress
3.13  Part B, which represents some 83% of project costs (US$166m), would provide resources to
individual municipalities for urban transport subprojects. City subprojects will comprise investment in
traffic and transport infrastructure and equipment and related maintenance programs.  Related
institutional strengthening is included in Part A.
3.14         PART B1 - Traffic and Transport Infrastructure and Equigment Components. In the first
phase, the five cities of Barquisimeto, Maracaibo, Maturin, Merida and Ciudad Guayana will participate
in Part B of the project. The components in each city will seek to improve the efficiency and quality
of the traffic system. This objective will be met mainly through traffic management schemes, policies
and operational measures aimed at making the most effective use of the existing road network and
facilities. Emphasis will be placed on measures which assist the performance, reduce the costs of
operation, and increase the efficiency and quality of road based public transport. Schemes and policies
will be amenable to expeditious implementation and will alleviate immediate and short term problems.
However, where justified, infrastructure improvements and new construction have been included.
Such infrastructure may include new roads or road paving and widening to increase capacity, correct
structural weaknesses, and to overcome discontinuities in road networks primarily to improve bus
performance, quality and penetration to areas currently not well served by public transport. Typical
measures are described in the following paragraphs and detailed in Annex 5, for each of the five
appraised cities:
(a)    Traffic Systems - Investments would focus on making the best use of the existing
transport system through traffic management methods. Typically, this component
would include the application of traffic mnanagement techniques to key routes,
corridors, and central areas particularly to city centers. The needs of pedestrians and,
where they exist, cyclists would be considered. Typically, investments include: (i)
comprehensive traffic scheme for the central areas involving traffic circulation, bus



20
priority, pedestrian measures, control of street markets/sellers and parking schemes;
(i) corricor improvement programs on main routes including junction improvements,
public transport (bus, taxis) priority, pedestrian measures and limited widening to
eliminate bottlenecks; iii) traffic sinnals improvement programs would be integrated
with central areas and corridors, (iv) iunction imorovements at congested sites or
accident blackspots, and (v) where necessary, lane markings and signing programs;
lb)    Road Infrastructure - Selective investment would be included in new roads to correct
deficiencies in the network (missing links") or to overcome specific capacity problems
or to allow public transport operations to be improved on adjacent roads. In some
cities, paving of roads to increase bus access to low income, usually peripheral areas
and to reduce bus operating costs, has been included.
Cc)    Public Transoort Facilities - This component will include some investment in public
transport facilities to improve quality of service such as local terminals, bus stops etc.
Institutional measures to improve the quality, supply, and economic and financial
viability of bus services are included in Part A6. FONTUR has a subsidized program to
assist private operators and municipal bus companies with bus replacement and
renovation; neither the Bank nor the IDB will participate in the financing of this program
(pars. 2.22). However, this program is expected to improve the quality and operational
conditions of the bus, minibus and jeep fleets.
3.15          PART B2 - Maintenance - This component would help to maintain and preserve
transport infrastructure and facilities (roads, traffic signals and traffic control devices). Based on a
condition survey of main roads in the appraised cities (mainly routes carrying public transport vehicles)
an estimate is available of the deferred maintenance needs. The Project proposes to fund deferred
maintenance such that conventional routine and periodic maintenance can proceed as a normal
maintenance activity. The institutional measures proposed under Part A2 (Municipal Technical
Assistance) will assist with the transition of road maintenance responsibilities from MTC to
municipalities. Annex 10 describes the deferred maintenance program and institutional arrangements
for each of the five appraised cities. The deferred maintenance projects will be carried out by contract.
3.16          Part B3 - Caracas. Transport problems in the metropolitan area of Caracas are of
greater magnitude and complexity than in other Venezuelan cities. Issues include public transport
subsidy, public transport supply, the role of Metrobus, intense traffic congestion, past reliance on
capital intensive solutions, low quality public transportation for the poor and lack of institutional
coordination between the three (soon to be five) constituent municipalities. Resolution of these issues
will take time and it is not possible to address all these issues in the present project. However, it is
of crucial importance that improved coordination in transport matters be achieved between the five
municipalities comprising the Caracas metropolitan region. Thus, under Part A5, the project will
finance a metropolitan area transport coordination study. A selective approach has been adopted to
physical works which involves: Ci) the development of traffic management demonstration projects to
show what might be achieved in critical areas in the short term and to provide prototype measures
which may be applied more widely with resources outside the project, {ii) improving access to "areas
marginales' (low income housing areas, usually located on steep unstable terrain) and (iii) formulation
of policies to address key transport issues including a Short Term Strategic Transport Investment
Review. This component will be financed through a proposed IDB loan.
3.17         Division of Responsibilities between Bank and IDB.  The agreed division of
responsibilities between the Bank and IDB ensures that: (i) each project can function independently,as
a self-standing unit, while maintaining the integrity of the FONTUR program;(ii) only one bank (either
the Bank or IDB) will participate in Part B in any one city and (iii) the schedules of project preparation



21
and loan processing are independent of each other. The proposed division of responsibilities is shown
in Table 3.1.
3.18             Status of Preoaration of Part A. Part Al: the FONTUR strengthening program has been
defined and terms of reference for technical assistance are given in Annex 6. The component will
include international technical assistance and it will be a condition of NeOotiations that contract
procedures for the international technical assistance have been completed. Outline terms of reference
for the remainder of Part Al are given in Annex 6 and key dates are shown in the Action Plan (Annex
13). For Part A2: the municipal strengthening program scope and terms of reference have been
defined in Annex 6 and key implementation key dates are given in the Action Plan (Annex 13). For
Part A3: the national training program has been defined and the scope and the procedures for
implementation are given in Annex 6 and key dates are given in the Action Plan. For Part A4: the
traffic police program has been defined at a concept level and the next stages are defined in the Action
Plan (Annex 13) and in a report prepared by FONTUR with the assistance of specialized consultants.
For Part A5: the outline terms of reference for some of the proposed policy studies, are given in Annex
8. For Part A6: preparation studies outline terms of reference are given in Annex 8; the studies will
include the substudies not already completed in the five project cities and the Action Plan defines that
the public transport studies must be completed not later than 14 months after signing of the relevant
subproject agreement (para 5.1 (n)).
Table 3.1: BANK AND IDB CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE FONTUR PROGRAM
Inter American Development
Component         World Bank (IBRD) Contribution       Bank Contribution
I~~                                  -
PART A Institutional           Al - FONTUR         Entire component                 None
Development and Pollcy Program   strengthening
A2 - Municipal     Barquisimeto, Maracaibo, Maturin,   Caracas, Maracay, Barcelona-
strengthening      Meride and C Guayana             P.de la Cruz
A3 - National      Entire component                  None
training
A4 - Traffic police    Natlonal program (training school,   Possibly Caracas and other
Instructor training and technical  cities to be decided
assistance) and local program in 5
citis appraised (equipment and
technical assistance)
AS - Policy Studies   Entire component              none
AO - Preparation   New cities to be decided; residual   new cities to be decided
studies            substudhes In 5 project cities
PART B - Infrastructure and    Bi - Traffic        5 projoet cities appraised and   Caracas, Maracay, Barcelona-
Equlpment Investment Program   Infrastructure and    others which comply with       P de la Cruz and others which
Equlpment          eligibility criteria             comply with eligibility criteria
B2 - Deferred      5 project cities appraised and   Caracas, Maracay, Barcelona-
Maintenance        others which comply with         P de la Cruz and others which
eligibility criteria             comply with eligibility criterd
B3 - Demonstratlon   none                           Entire component
Projects and Areas
Marginales in
Caracas



22
3.19          Status of PreDaration of Part B. For Part B1, subproject preparation studies for traffic
and transport infrastructure and equipment have been undertaken in five cities proposed for inclusion
in the Bank project, namely, Barquisimeto, Maracaibo, Merida, Maturin and Ciudad Guayana. The
studies were carried out by consultants, supervised by FONTUR with the aid of technical assistance
provided under the Bank Technical Assistance Loan (Ln 3225-VE), and were appraised by the Bank.
City appraisals and the detailed engineering design and bidding documents for the first year investment
program were completed and reviewed by the Bank. Part B2, deferred maintenance, has been
identified at program level in each of the five participating cities. The procedures for implementation
are given in the Action Plan, Annex 13.
3.20          Traffic Infrastructure and EauiDment. Traffic and infrastructure improvements in the
five cities appraised, amounting to US$ 47 million (Annex 12), have been fully evaluated. The final
engineering design and bidding documents for the first year program of this component have been
completed and reviewed by the Bank. Other traffic infrastructure investments in the five cities
appraised have been identified but not yet fully evaluated. As part of each annual review, FONTUR
will propose to the Bank the traffic and infrastructure program for the following year with a full
justification of all the components. The project includes an additional sum of US$ 55 million (Annex
12), estimated on the basis of preliminary reviews and extrapolation, to finance additional economically
viable projects in any of these 5 cities. In addition, these funds can be used to finance traffic
infrastructure and equipment in other cities which comply with the eligibility criteria and project
preparation requirements. FONTUR will request approval from the Bank for any new scheme in the
original cities or any new city participating in the project.
3.21          Eligibility. City participation in the projects will require political commitment from the
relevant city authorities to strengthen their organizations and address important sectoral issues. The
commitment would be reflected in the acceptance by the cities of a series of eligibility conditions for
participation. The eligibility criteria will be incorporated into the Operational Manual and consequently
in FONTUR's subproject agreements with each city. It will be a condition of effectiveness that at least
one city has signed the FONTUR agreement (para. 5.2). Key conditions are summarized below with
a full schedule of conditions given in Annex 4): (a) the development of an integrated transport policy
which will define policies and actions for traffic and transport strategy, public transport (regulation,
fares, routes etc), institutional arrangements for the sector and urban transport infrastructure
maintenance strategy; (b) strengthening of local institutions to handle urban transport responsibilities.
Municipalities will agree to form or to strengthen permanent local units to deal with traffic
management, road maintenance, maintenance of traffic control devices and planning and regulation
of public transport. The type of organization of the units will depend on city size and existing structure
and will follow models defined by FONTUR; (c) an agreement ("convenio') between FONTUR and each
participating city, the key provisions of which would require cities to, inter alia:
(i)    allocate within their annual budgets, adequate resources for maintenance of road and
traffic control devices and for counterpart funds for the sub-project. Road and traffic
signals maintenance will require a plan of action and compliance with the plan will be
monitored during project implementation and would be a condition of access to further
disbursement;
(ii)    ensure, for any scheme, that any significant negative environmental impacts are
identified and necessary mitigating measures proposed;
(iii)   seek the approval of FONTUR and the Bank before initiating any investment in the
transport sector with a total cost of more than an amount equivalent to three times the
aggregate of the approved grants to such eligible municipality or an amount equivalent
to US$ 5 million, whichever amount is higher;



23
(iv)   reduce the risk of slow  implementation by completing final engineering and
documentation for components to be implemented for the first year of the sub-project,
prior to signing the "convenio";
(v)    participating municipalities adhere to the FONTUR Operating Manual (para. 3.22).
3.22         ODeratina Manual.  FONTUR has prepared an Operating Manual which sets out
procedural guidelines to ensure participating municipalities are fully aware of all procedures necessary
for participating and, technical guidelines which will ensure consistency of approach in project
preparation for participating municipalities.  The Manual also includes the eligibility criteria for
municipalities, draft subproject agreements and draft contracts to be utilized. A final version of the
Operational Manual was reviewed by the bank and it is being tested by the participating Municipalities
in the implementation of FONTUR financed projects.
D.  Proiect Costs
3.23          A summary of the project costs is given in Table 3.2. The Bank project will finance
US$ 34.8 million equivalent for Part A and US$ 165.2 million equivalent for subprojects in the five
participating cities in Part B. This gives a total project estimated cost of US$ 200 million equivalent
excluding duties and taxes; the latter are estimated at US$ 19.62 million. The Bank loan will be for
US$ 100 million. The foreign exchange cost of the Project is estimated at US$80.51 million, about
41 % of the total project cost. Base costs were estimated, at prevailing September 1992 prices. Price
contingencies were calculated with anticipated international price escalation rates of 3.7% per year
for the six year project implementation period.
3.24          For Part A, 70%  will be for consultant services (for FONTUR strengthening, for
municipality strengthening, for traffic police technical assistance and for the national training program),
25% for equipment (for the traffic police and FONTUR) and 5% for infrastructure required for
institutional development. Within Part B, the estimated costs for traffic and transport infrastructure,
public transport and deferred maintenance are about US$ 124 million (60% of the project cost).
Physical contingencies were estimated depending upon the appraised sub-projects and the extent of
preparation of the components: 10% for works which final engineering and specifications have been
prepared; 15% for preliminary engineering/feasibility study level and 25% for all conceptual proposals.
3.25         A loan of about US$ 100 million is expected from the IDB to finance projects in
Caracas, Barcelona-Puerto de La Cruz, Maracay, Valencia and other cities which comply with the city
eligibility criteria (para. 3.21 and Annex 4).



24
Table 3.2: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS
(US$ million)
I Local     Foreign   I Total    % of Total
PART A - INSTMTUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND POLICY
Part Al - FONTUR strengthening                    1.54      2.30       3.84         1.9
Part A2 - Municipal strengthering                 2.27      2.69       4.95        2.5
Part A3 - National Training Program               2.91      4.31       7.22        3.6
Part A4 - Traffic Police Program                  2.96      9.22      11.17        5.6
Part A5 - Policy studies                          1.31      1.31       2.63         1.3
Part AS - Project preparation                     2.50      2.50       5.00        2.5
Sub Total Part A                           13.49     21.32      34.81        17.4
PART B - INFRASTRUCTURE AND EQUIPMENT
Part 81 - Traffic and infrastructure             67.39      36.97     104.35       52.2
- land expropriation Part B1                 1.08      0.00       1.08         0.5
Part B2 - Deferred Maintenance                   12.16      6.29       18.45       9.2
Sub Total Part B                           80.63     43.26      123.98       61.9
,ees Ceet.                                 84.12 .4.58          ¶5I.69       78.3
Physical Contingencies                           10.11      5.54       15.65       7.8
Sub Total                                  104.23    70.12      174.34       87.2
Price Contingencies                              15.28      10.39     25.66        12.8
T otal P etjctCostsexiudig taxl  X             119.51    80.51  200.00       100
Taxes                                      19.62      0.00      19.62        9.8
Total Project Costs (including taxes)      139.13    80.51      219.62      109.8
E.  Indicative Investrnent Needs
3.26             The Bank and IDB projects will finance about 45%  of the proposed FONTUR national
program. FONTUR will receive resources from GOV to finance roughly 38% of the program and the
remaining 17% will be financed by the municipalities included in the project.
F. Financina
3.27             The proposed Bank loan of US$ 100 million would finance about 50%  of the total
project cost (excluding land acquisition) net of taxes and duties. About 35.1 % of the net project cost
is estimated as foreign exchange; funding of some local costs is justified in view of the beneficial
institutional, social and environmental impact of the project. The project financing plan is shown in
Table 3.3.



25
Table 3.3: FINANCING PLAN
(US$ million)
Source of Funds  Local   Foreign   Taxes    Total    % Total
World Bank         19.49    80.51             100.00    44.8
GOV (FONTUR)       67.3      -       19.62    86.92     33.3
Municipalities     32.7     .-                32.70     16.3
Total             119.49   80.51    19.62    218.62     100
3.28         The proposed loan would finance 100% of foreign expenditures and 50%  of local
expenditures for the training and consultant services required in Part A, excluding engineering
design/supervision services which will be financed at a rate of 33% of the expenditures incurred by
FONTUR. The goods and equipment required for the implementation of Part A will be financed at 50%
of ex-factory cost. The remainder of Part A would be financed by FONTUR. For Part B of the
Program, the proposed loan would provide 50% (ex taxes and duties) of the costs of all components.
3.29         The remainder of Part B, would be financed as follows: FONTUR would finance 25%
of the cost of a subproject which would be matched by a 25% contribution from the investment
budget of the participating municipalities. The proposed system of matching grants is justified at
present in view of the following circumstances:
{i)    FONTUR's funds originate from fuel taxes and are thus paid by users of services in the
municipalities. The Public Transport Systems (PTS) of most of the municipalities other
than Caracas have benefitted very little from such user charge revenues, which are
collected and allocated to FONTUR by the central government;
(ii)    unlike public utilities which can recover costs associated with Infrastructure
improvements through rate increases, the municipalities can only pay for PTS
infrastructure improvements through an increase in specific municipal taxes. This will
become a practical option when the municipal institutions are built-up, the
decentralization process is completed and fiscal responsibilities are clearly defined. It
is doubtful if the current revenue base is sufficiently large or stable in participating
municipalities to permit major infrastructure investments;
(iii)   in the past, municipalities have received direct transfers in the form of grants to finance
PTS infrastructure; the proposed matching grants system will bring financial discipline
to this process, increase accountability in the use of such funds and give time to the
municipalities to mobilize local resources and establish sound financial management
practices. Following the initial subprojects funded under the Bank loan, all future
financial assistance from FONTUR to the municipalities will be provided on commercial
on-lending terms;
(iv)   the need for rapid and effective support for the decentralization of urban transport
responsibilities to the municipalities which otherwise would be delayed because of the
weak revenue base of the municipalities; and
(v)   the need to correct the past bias in urban transport investments which were heavily
weighted in favor of Caracas for large capital-intensive solutions.



26
3.30         The proceeds of the Bank loan would be transferred to FONTUR by MTC. FONTUR is
not a banking institution and administration of loan proceeds would be dealt with through commercial
banks. While FONTUR would retain the power of approval for loan withdrawals by municipalities,
FONTUR would establish agreements with commercial banks to deal with flows of funds. FONTUR
provided the Bank with full details of loan transfer procedures to the municipalities (para. 5.1 (e)).
3.31          In some cities, more than one municipality will be involved. The eligibility criteria
(Annex 4) require that municipalities reach an agreement on the composition of the sub-project, how
funds will be apportioned and the relative responsibilities for providing the 25% counterpart funding.
Prior to disbursing funds to participants a subproject agreement will have been executed with a
participating city which, inter alia, will confirm any inter-municipality agreements.
G.  Proiect Economic Evaluation
3.32          Traffic conditions vary considerably in the participating cities and at this stage, traffic
congestion is not overly severe. However, vehicle/parking/pedestrian conflicts are increasing and
congestion does occur in central areas and at specific junctions. In many cities, the basic transport
infrastructure is satisfactory but the systems lack management (traffic circulation systems, well
designed junctions and traffic signals etc) and traffic law enforcement to enable the full potential
capacity to be fully utilized. In some cities, there are special problems which influence traffic efficiency
such as Maracaibo where the central area is congested due to street markets and where the majority
of public transport is supplied by 5-seat cars. In other cities, there are deficiencies and discontinuities
in the road network arising from factors such as the past lack of funds and difficult terrain. Some road
maintenance problems exist and could worsen as responsibility is devolved from the local MTC offices
to the municipalities. Accidents are often reported as a problem although inadequate data exist to
provide reliable indices to classify the problems against recognized international norms. The number
of standard buses appears to be diminishing but although quality of public transport in the participating
cities is declining, it is not certain that overall capacity is decreasing. In all cities, the responsibility for
alleviating all transport sector problems now falls on the municipalities. As the cities grow, even with
the relatively modest growth rates anticipated, the problems will worsen and the municipal agencies
do not have the manpower resources, in quantity and quality terms, to deal adequately with them.
3.33          Proiect Benefits. The main benefits of Part A (Institutional) will stem from the increased
capabilities of FONTUR to influence urban transport through the allocation of resources to well planned
and conceived programs and schemes at the local level and of increased capabilities at the local level
itself. The national training program should begin to deal with the problem of technical capabilities of
the municipalities, and the traffic police program should begin to enable better use to be made of
existing infrastructure through better traffic law enforcement. Part B of the Project will ensure that
municipalities begin to use the institutional strengthening included in the project, to take over their
responsibilities arising from  decentralization.  The traffic and infrastructure and the deferred
maintenance investment programs should improve urban transport operations. The quantifiable
benefits, used to justify the physical investments, are in terms of reduced vehicle operating costs, but
just as important in terms of their impact will be time-saving benefits through reduced traffic
congestion. Reductions in congestion will make a significant contribution to the environment and
hence to the quality of urban life. The poor should also benefit from road paving and consequent
improved public transport access to low income areas and shorter travel times to/from places of work.
FONTUR has encouraged cities to include in their subprojects solutions which foster non-motorized
modes of transport such as bicycles and walking. These solutions will principally be of benefit to poorer
users of the urban transport system.



27
3.34         As part of the subproject eligibility (Annex 4), subproject components should have
internal rates of return of at least 1 2% (the estimated cost of capital) and the economic evaluation
should show that each proposed component is an efficient solution to the identified problem. For the
economic evaluation of components, FONTUR developed evaluation guidelines and standardized urban
vehicle operating costs. These procedures are incorporated into the FONTUR Operational Manual and
will be periodically revised as necessary during the execution of the project.
3.35         From the appraisal of the five city subprojects, the project is estimated to have an
overall economic rate of return (ERR, weighted by the investment costs) of about 32%. If time savings
are added, the ERR increases to 79%. This ERR excludes the costs and benefits of the institutional
strengthening program of FONTUR, of the national training program, the traffic police program and the
benefits derived from reduction of accidents and environmental improvements. All these benefits are
important and vital to the success of the programs but quantified evaluation is not possible. The
average rates of return obtained in the evaluated components in the five city subprojects which have
been appraised and a sensitivity analysis reflecting the impact of higher costs and/or lower benefits
are summarized in Table 3.4 and described in more detail in Annex 11.
Table 3.4: SUMMARY OF QUANTIFIED SUBPROJECT BENEFITS
(Economic Rate of Retum (%))
Benefits-25 %
Benefits    Benefits -     + Costs
Base        +25%         25%           +25%
OCS         OCS          OCS
OCS    +    OCS    +    OCS    +    OCS   OCS
only   TS   only   TS   only   TS   only   + TS
Barquisimeto       35    73    47    92    23    52    15    40
Maracaibo          37    92    49   117   24    67    15         52
Maturin            27    89    38   113   15    64        8      48
Merida             17    41    25    53      9     28     4      20
Ciudad Guayana     20    65    26    82    13    49       8      38
Total Part B       32    79    44   100   21    57    13         44
OCS- Operating Cost Savings
TS - Time Savings
H.  Environmental AsDects
3.36         The project will have a beneficial impact on the environment. Traffic management
investments would help relieve congestion in major transport corridors and central areas, resulting in
lower emission of pollutants per vehicle-kilometer. Junction improvements and pedestrian schemes
will improve safety and quality of life. Where paving or resurfacing of access roads has been included,
this will reduce the incidence of airborne dust. Public transport system improvements will contribute
to promote a more efficient form of urban development resulting in a further reduction of travel and



28
emissions. The redesign of urban roads produces opportunities for tree planting, an activity which was
included in the terms of reference for the final engineering design of the first five cities.
3.37         Some road works may have localized adverse impacts, mainly related to excavation for
construction materials and disposal of work site wastes. The problems of excavated material are likely
to be less than in an inter-urban project as the road developments in the project will mostly be to
existing roads for which no further earthworks will be required. Measures to mitigate such impacts
would be specified in the bidding documents for works.
3.38         In general, land and/or property expropriation should be small as proposed project
components are expected mainly to consist of improvements within existing rights of way, traffic
management measures, paving of streets, and road maintenance. However, in some cities, the
proposed subproject may include construction of new road links or major intersections; in such cases
a need for relocation of existing residents may occur. In the case of relocation the Bank guidelines will
be strictly followed. It is a part of city eligibility criteria (Annex 4) that in the event that any
component involves displacement of population, FONTUR would notify the Bank, and would present
a resettlement plan, satisfactory to the Bank, prior to implementation.
3.39         The Operational Manual includes Annex on Environmental Impact Assessment which
describes how to identify, assess and propose mitigating measures for the most common types of
environmental impact. Terms of Reference for preparing the final engineering designs of the
infrastructure improvements proposed require that existing environmental road conditions be reviewed
and that the final designs include specific measures for alleviating conditions where they fail to meet
existing or proposed standards. In addition, an environmental assessment will be required for all
proposals for new works, indicating any adverse environmental consequences and proposing measures
to eliminate them or at least reduce their impact to internationally accepted levels. These assessments
and proposals will relate principally to vehicle emissions, vehicle noise, visual intrusion and community
severance.
3.40         To ensure that environmental impacts are properly evaluated and adequate mitigating
measures are proposed, FONTUR's program's division is staffed with an environmental specialist in
charge of reviewing all phases of subproject preparation and implementation from the environmental
standpoint. More specifically, the specialist's responsibilities will include: (i) ensure that terms of
reference (TOR) for feasibility studies include an environmental impact evaluation of the proposed
solutions; (ii) review the feasibility studies and determine, according to good environmental practices,
whether a specific environmental impact assessment such as a resettlement plan is required, and hire
consultants to carry out such analysis and propose mitigating measures; (iii) in the latter case, seek
the Bank's approval for the proposed measures; (iv) include the proposed measures in the TOR for final
engineering design; review the final engineering design from the environmental standpoint and clear
the project for implementation; and iv) supervise the implementation of the project to ensure that the
municipalities are carrying out their implementation in accordance with the design approved by
FONTUR. Since all the preparation studies under Part A6 will be financed and approved by FONTUR,
it is expected that this arrangement will ensure that subprojects will be carried out according to
environmental practices acceptable to the Bank.
1. Proiect Risks
3.41         The proposed project is the first urban transport lending operation in Venezuela. The
project places great emphasis on institutional strengthening and on management of systems, on cost-
effective schemes --the latter measures generally new to the participating cities. Also, the project will
be implemented in a climate of decentralization of responsibilities to municipalities and those



29
municipalities will take time to become fully established and effective. Indeed, FONTUR itself, a new
agency will also take time to become established. Thus, in summary, new policies and directions in
urban transport are being pursued by new agencies and the main implementation risk is clearly
institutional. The project has placed great emphasis on these aspects and includes FONTUR
strengthening, national training (for national and local technical staff) for traffic planners, traffic police
technical assistance and training and technical assistance to participating municipalities. It will be a
condition of effectiveness that the contract negotiations for FONTUR technical assistance will be
completed. Finally, at negotiations, FONTUR confirmed that it will have an environmental specialist
in its Programs Division to review the environmental impact of any project proposed by the cities.
3.42         Counterpart funding could prove a risk from two aspects. Firstly, weak municipal
financial capacity and consequent lack of budget. To mitigate this problem in this time of transition
to decentralization, the municipalities will receive 75% grant for the investment component(50% Bank
loan and 25% FONTUR grant). To ensure municipality allocation of their 25%, the municipalities will
be: (i) subject to financial review and (ii) required as part of the subproject agreement to commit
funds. Secondly, changes in political commitment at the municipality level could influence the
availability of counterpart funds and thus implementation. This has been mitigated by: (i) the use of
eligibility criteria which apply to all FONTUR funding - thus municipalities must comply with the criteria
even if projects are not financed by the Bank loan; (ii) the incentive provided by the nature of the
financing plan which places a heavy emphasis on grants to the municipalities; and (iii) by limiting the
scale of individual components such that they can be implemented within 18 months (part of the
eligibility criteria - Annex 4) and are thus less likely to political influence.
3.43         There are policy risks; it is accepted that lack of realistic tariffs has contributed to (i)
a decline in the public transport fleet/supply and (ii) costly subsidies to urban transport by GOV. It
would be unrealistic to expect this problem to be resolved in the immediate term. FONTUR itself
proposes to increase the supply of buses through the provision of a line of credit, with a one-time, 'up-
front" subsidy to operators and thence allowing operators to charge commercial fares. The Bank will
not participate in this program. However, the project will contribute to the resolution of the subsidy
issue through: (i) continued dialogue with the GOV at the annual review and particularly during the
mid-term review which will assess the progress made by each municipality towards the
recommendations of its Public Transport Study for the municipality, and (ii) through studies to develop
improved targeting of subsidies and for monitoring pilot targeted subsidy systems (Maturin).
3.44         In view of the considerations outlined, the risks are expected to be manageable and the
conditionality has been designed to contain them within acceptable limits. Offsetting these risks are
the benefits expected from the project and particularly from its institutional strengthening components.
If these components are successful, the benefits in term of improved resource allocation would go well
beyond the direct benefits estimated.



30
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Institutional ResDonsibilities
4.1          The Republic of Venezuela will be the Borrower. FONTUR will be responsible for
implementing the project, in accordance with: (a) contractual arrangements (section IV.B); (b)
implementation schedule (section IV.C); {c) implementation arrangements (section IV.D); (d)
implementation program (section IV.E); (e) procurement arrangements (section IV.F); (f) disbursement
arrangements (section IV.G); (g) auditing arrangements (section IV.H) and (h) monitoring and reporting
arrangements (section IV.1) which will be confirmed during negotiations, and for which detailed
guidelines will be provided in the Operational Manual, satisfactory to the Bank. The Bank will monitor
and supervise the implementation of the project in accordance with a monitoring and supervision plan
(section I and Annex 13).
4.2          For both Parts A (excluding part A4) and B, FONTUR will be the implementing agency
and will assume overall responsibility for continued subproject preparation, appraisal and supervision.
The implementation of the Traffic Police program (Part A4) is the responsibility of MTC (DGSTT) (see
implementation arrangements) but shall be carried out under FONTUR's supervision. To help FONTUR
strengthen its operations and to carry out its obligations, an institutional strengthening program has
been devised (Annex 6). Within individual municipalities, it will be a condition of eligibility, inter alia,
that traffic and transport, public transport and maintenance capabilities be created and/or strengthened.
These strengthened units will be responsible for the day-to-day implementation of the subproject at
local level. It will be a condition of disbursement of Loan funds to the cities that FONTUR submits
evidence to the Bank that the institutional arrangements required in the city eligibility criteria are
formally established and satisfactory to carry out the subproject implementation (para. 5.3 (c)); and
a condition of effectiveness that the international technical assistance provided under Part A2 is in
place (para. 5.2 (c)).
B.  Contractual Arrsnaoments
4.3          The following contractual arrangements will be necessary for the implementation of the
project: (i) agreement between MTC and FONTUR to carry out part A4 of the project which deals with
the national Traffic Police program; (ii) agreement between MTC and municipality to carry out the local
portion of the Traffic Police program; (iii) a participation agreement between FONTUR and each of the
municipalities involved to set forth the general obligations of both parties in the project; and (iv) a
subproject agreement between FONTUR and each municipality establishing the terms and conditions
of each subproject and the respective grant to be made by FONTUR. Prior to negotiations, at least four
municipalities had already signed participation agreements (Maracaibo, Merida, Ciudad Guayana and
Maturin).
C.  Implementation Schedule
4.4          The proposed project is expected to be implemented and the loan disbursed over a six
year period. This is slightly shorter than the conventional seven years in the region but is justified in
view of (i) the status of preparation of participating cities, and (ii) the relatively low-cost nature of the
works proposed. The project would be completed by June 30, 1999, and the Closing Date would be
December 30, 1999.



31
D.  ImDlementation Arranasments
4.5    Proiect Manaaement Unit. FONTUR will establish and maintain a Project Management Unit
(PMU) headed by a Project Coordinator, to manage the implementation of the several components of
the Bank project. The Project Coordinator will report directly to FONTUR's Executive Director (see
Annex 2) and participated in the negotiations of the loan. One of the international consultants financed
under Part A of the project will act as a full time advisor to the Project Coordinator to provide the
technical support and cross-country experience required for managing the project. In addition to the
Project Coordinator who will be responsible for the overall financial management of the project, PMU
will include: (i) a transport economist and policy studies coordinator responsible for the institutional
strengthening program (Parts Al and A2) and overseeing the execution of all the studies and transport
economics aspects of Part A5 of the project; (ii) an engineer, with experience in procurement, to
coordinate Part B of the project; and (iii) a management information systems specialist responsible for
the reporting and supervision of the project. PMU will be supported by a small secretariat which will
include an accountant responsible for project disbursement.
4.6          Traffic Police Prooram Unit. Since the Traffic Police is a division of the DGSTT of MTC,
the actual implementation of the Traffic Police program (Part A4) will be managed by a special Traffic
Police Program Unit (TPPU) of the Traffic Police section of DGSTT, under the PMU's overall
supervision. MTC and FONTUR will sign an agreement which will define the responsibilities of each
party in the execution of Part A4 of the project. The same TPPU will be responsible for the
implementation of the local portion of Part A4 always under PMU's supervision. It will be a condition
of disbursement of Loan funds related to the local portion of the Traffic Police program that each
municipality and MTC sign an agreement establishing the responsibilities of each party in the execution
of the project (see para. 5.4).
4.7          City Proiect Manaaement Unit. The execution of the city subprojects (Part B) will be
governed by the following arrangements: Each city will establish and maintain a city project
management unit (CPMU) responsible for the implementation and supervision of the city subproject.
This unit could be part of one of the agencies required in the city eligibility criteria (para. 4.2). The unit
will be headed by a Project Manager (CPM), responsible for the overall management of the city
subproject, the coordination of all the municipal agencies involved and the interface with FONTUR.
He will be an experienced project manager, preferably a professional engineer, appointed by the mayor
and reporting directly to him. In addition to the project manager, the CPMU will be staffed with an
engineer with experience in design, construction supervision and procurement and supported by a local
consultant financed through the municipal strengthening program.  It will be a condition of
disbursement of Loan funds to any municipality subproject that the CPMU has been established, the
CPM has been appointed, the international technical assistance (Part A2) is in place and that the
municipality has satisfactorily complied with the institutional arrangements included in the conditions
of eligibility (para. 5.3 (c)). During preparation all the municipalities appraised have designated a CPMU
and a CPM. However, since subproject implementation will involve other agencies in the municipality
which didnot participate in project preparation (e.g., the construction and procurement directorates),
it is important that the present set up be formalized to ensure efficient coordination.
4.8          The preparation of the subprojects (economic feasibility study, environmental
assessment, preliminary design, final engineering design and preparation of specifications and bid
documents) will be financed under the project (Part A6) and carried out by consultants selected
according to Bank Guidelines for consultants. The CPMU will actively participate in the drafting of
terms of reference, evaluation of consultants, preparation of the feasibility study and engineering
designs. This process was followed in the case of the five cities appraised and it is crucial to stress



32
the sense of ownership of the project. The overall preparation process will comply with the procedures
described in the Operational Manual. Once the subproject has received FONTUR's approval for
implementation, CPMU will call for bids, evaluate the proposals according to the procurement
procedures described in the Operational Manual, and submit its evaluation and recommendation to
FONTUR's PMU. After receiving PMU's approval to award the project, CPMU will notify the winner
and prepare a contract based on a standard contract approved by FONTUR. FONTUR should receive
copies of the contract for its files. The CPMU will be responsible for the supervision of the subproject
and FONTUR will also carry out periodic supervision, at least for the first lots under implementation to
ensure compliance with the agreed design or specifications. At mid-term review, the Bank will
evaluate ways to simplify this process based on the performance of the municipalities in the first two
years.
E.  ImDlementation Proaram
4.9    The key actions and respective dates of the Implementation Program are:
(a)    FONTUR strengthening (Part Al)- The international technical assistance consultants
must be selected prior to loan effectiveness (paras. 3.6 and 5.2 (c)).
(b)    Municipal strengthening (Part A2)- The international technical assistance consultants
must be in post before any contracts for goods and works are contracted (para. 3.7
and 5.3 (b)).
(c)    National Training (Part A3)- The selection of the technical assistance for the Intensive
Course of the National Training Program must be completed prior to loan effectiveness
(paras. 3.8 and 5.2 (b)).
(d)    Traffic Police Program (Part A4)- Final draft of the study on the Traffic Police Program
was ready prior to Negotiations. (paras. 3.9 and 5.1 (I)).
(e)    Policy studies (Part A5)- Studies A5.1 and A5.2 must be ready, respectively, 1 and 3
months after loan effectiveness; studies A5.3 and A5.4 must be completed not later
than 10 months after loan effectiveness and study A5.5 must be completed not later
than 12 months after loan effectiveness. Studies A5.10 and A5.11 are specific to
Caracas and must be completed not later than 36 months after loan effectiveness.
(paras. 3.11 and 5.1 (m)).
(f)    Preparation studies (Part A6)- The Public Transport Study for any of the participating
municipalities and an action plan based on its recommendations, must be completed
14 months after signing of the relevant subproject agreement. Progress in the
implementation of the action plan will be reviewed during the second annual review,
(mid-term review) and in subsequent annual reviews (paras. 3.12, 5.1 (n) and 5.1 (q)).
(g)    Traffic Infrastructure and equipment (Part B1)- Final engineering design, bidding
documents and equipment specifications for the first year program were completed as
prior to negotiations (paras. 3.14 and 5.1 (o)).
(h)    Deferred Maintenance (Part B2)- Final engineering design, bidding documents and
equipment specifications for the first year program were completed prior to
negotiations (paras. 3.15 and 5.1 (o)).



33
li)    Annual Program for Part B- At each annual review, FONTUR will present the program
for the following year and seek approval from the Bank to proceed with its preparation
and implementation (paras. 4.19 and 5.1 (p)).
(j)    Mid-Term Review- This review will take place 24 months after loan effectiveness, and
will assess the overall performance of the implementation agency and the progress
made by the municipalities towards the recommendations made in the Public Transport
Study. Based on this evaluation it will propose a revised action plan and any corrective
measures necessary to ensure that the project meets its main objectives (paras. 4.20
and 5.1 (q)).
F. Procurement
4.10         Bank procurement guidelines will be followed for the proposed project. The Venezuelan
procurement law (Ley de Licitaciones, August 1990) contains provisions exempting all contracts (civil
works, goods, and services) relating to projects partially or entirely funded by international financing
agencies, from complying with its provisions, ruling that in such cases the application of the respective
agreements will prevail. Civil works under the project would account for about 67 percent of total
project costs, equipment and materials about 7 percent; and consulting services about 26 percent. The
estimated project cost breakdown by procurement method is presented in Table 4.1 below.
4.11         Civil Works. Contracts exceeding the equivalent of US$ 2 million would be procured
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding (ICB). It is expected that three contracts with an
aggregate value of about US$ 39 million may fall into this category. Most other works ($91.6 million)
are of a dispersed nature with contract amounts between US$ 0.75 to 2.0 million and thus would not
be suitable for ICB; therefore, they would be awarded according to local competitive bidding (LCB)
procedures acceptable to the Bank, and nationally advertised to ensure adequate competition. Foreign
bidders would be allowed to participate in the bids, and this would be explicitly stated in the General
Procurement Notice which will be published internationally after credit negotiations. The bulk of civil
works contracts would be improvements to existing traffic infrastructure, including roads, traffic signs
and signals. The provision and installation of traffic signals, estimated to cost an aggregate of $8
million, would be integrated into the respective civil works contracts to ensure properly coordinated
implementation of the traffic schemes, but in the larger cities ICB is proposed. Small works, with
contract values under $100,000 up to an aggregate total of $ 2 million, would be procured by local
shopping based on price quotations from at least three bidders. To avoid fragmentation of civil works
procurement, contracts below $25,000 would not be eligible for financing.
4.12         Land Acauisition. In a few instances, especially the construction of missing links in the
road system, the acquisition of land may be required. Payments for this item, estimated to cost a total
of US$ 1.21 million equivalent, would be based on national procedures for land expropriation and be
financed entirely out of project counterpart funds; therefore, no Bank proceeds would be used for this
purpose.
4.13         Eauipment and Materials. Contracts estimated to cost more than $200,000 equivalent
would be procured on the basis of ICB. It is expected that goods costing a total of US$ 10 million
(55% percent of all goods procured under the project) would fall into the ICB category. Contracts
below $200,000 with an aggregate value of US$ 7.6 million, would be procured in accordance with
LCB procedures nationally advertised and subject to Bank's approval. Contracts for equipment and
materials costing less than $25,000 could be procured through local or international shopping, up to
an aggregate total of $270,000.



34
Table 4.1: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(in US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
ICB         LCB         Other       N.B.F.      TOTAL
1. CIVIL WORKS
Part A-Intrastructure for Inst.                   1.79                                 1.79
Development                                       (.89)                                (.89)
Part B-Traffic Infrastructure        38.98        71.97       1.00 b/                 111.95
(19.49)     (35.99)        (.50)                 (55.98)
Part B-Deferred Maintenance                       17.85       1.00 b/                 18.85
(8.92)       (.50)                  (9.42)
Part B- Land Acquisition                                                   1.21        1.21
2. EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALS
Part A - Inst. Development (inc.     7.23         2.38                                 9.61
vehicles)                            (3.61)       (1.19)                              (4.80)
Part B - Traffic Infrastructure      2.91         5.18         .27 b/                  8.3e
(1.45)       (2.59)       (.14)                  (4.18)
3. CONSULTING SERVICES */
Part A - Training                                              8.11                    8.11
(9.11)                 (8.11)
Part A-Technical Assiatance                                    11.03                  11.03
(5.52)                 (5.52)
Part A - Studies                                               8.57                    8.57
(4.29)                 (4.29)
Part B-Engineering/ Supervision                               20.53                   20.53
(6.84)                 (6.84)
TOTAL                   49.12        99.17        50.51       1.21       200.00
(24.55)     (49.58)      (25.90)                 (100.0)
NOTE: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank loan. N.B.F.: Not Bank-Financed.
*/ Services to be procured in accordance with World Bank Guidelines: Use of Consultants by World Bank Borfowers and by the World
Bank as Executing Agency (Washington, DC, August 1981).
b/ Localfinternational shopping
4.14             Consultina Services. Consulting services would be procured in accordance with World
Bank guidelines for consultants. These services, which include studies, technical assistance, training,
engineering designs and construction supervision, are estimated to cost an aggregate of US$ 48 million
of which US$ 21 million are for engineering design and supervision services. Foreign consultants
would not be subject to prior registration as a condition for being eligible in the selection process.
However, registration would be a pre-condition of being contracted for consulting services, although
not of selection. Foreign firms would have to comply with registration procedures after being notified
of contract award. The registration procedures entail submission of standard forms, provided by



35
FONTUR, in which details about the background, specific experience of the firm and financial
statements for the last three years are requested. The registration procedure is free of charge and
takes less than three days.
4.15            Procurement Review. All bidding packages above US$500,000 for civil works, and all
bidding packages above US$200,000 for equipment and materials, would be subject to the Bank's
prior review of advertising, bidding documents, bid evaluation and contract awards. The above process
would cover about 50% of the estimated total costs for civil works, equipment and materials.
However, in order to ensure that adequate procurement procedures are followed, the first LCB contract
for each municipality would be subject to the Bank's prior review, irrespective of the amount. All
other procurement documentation would be subject to selective ex-post review, at a ratio of not less
than one for every five. FONTUR would retain documentation for these contracts for periodic
examination by Bank staff.
4.16            Coordination of Procurement. As executing agency, FONTUR would assume overall
responsibility for procurement, although the individual municipalities and the Borrower (MTC-Traffic
Police) would be responsible for procuring the items of their respective project components. The
Operating Manual spells out the detailed procurement procedures and contains standard bidding
documents and evaluation guidelines to be used in the procurement of civil works, goods and services.
It also specifies the documents which should be submitted to FONTUR for prior and ex-post review.
FONTUR would also ensure that the aggregate totals for local and international shopping not be
exceeded. To avoid unnecessary delays in the implementation of the project, especially during its initial
phase, the project includes 24 months of advisory services to FONTUR, the municipalities and the
Traffic Police, to assist in the procurement process.
G. Disbursements
4.17            Table 4.2 presents the percentage to be disbursed by loan category.
Table 4.2: LOAN DISBURSEMENT BY CATEGORY
(US$)
Amount                       DIsbusement Rate
Civil Works for Parts A.4 (local) and B          5b870.000          87% of amounts disbursed by FONTUR
Civil Works for Part A.4 Inationall               1.000.000          50% of total expenditures
Equipment and Goods for Parts A.2, A. (local)     4.180.000          87% of amounts disburmed by FONTUR
and B
Equipment and Goods for Parts A. 1 A.3 and A.4    3.800.000          100% of foreign expenditures and
(national)                                                           60% of local expenditures
Consultant services and Training for Parts A.1 (i).  12.120.000      100% of foreign expenditures and
A.3 A.4 (national) and A.S                                           50% of local expenditures
Consultant Services for Part A. 1 0ii (engineering  6,840,000        33% of total expenditures
design/supervision)
Consultant Services for Part A.2 and A.6 58800.000                   1 00% of amounts disbursed by FONTUR for
foreign expenditure and 50% of amounts
disbursed by FONTUR for local expenditure
Unallocated                                      10.3900000
Total                                            100,000.000



36
All disbursements under contracts up to USS500,000 equivalent for works and US$200,000
equivalent for goods would be made on the basis of certified statements of expenditures (SOEs)
prepared by FONTUR. Supporting documentation for the SOEs would be retained by FONTUR and
made available for examination by Bank staff during supervision missions. To expedite project
execution, a Special Account would be opened in the Central Bank of Venezuela with a deposit of up
to US$5.0 million equivalent. This account will be replenished for the amount of withdrawals on
account of eligible expenditures. Authorization is sought for retroactive financing of up to US$10
million equivalent (10% of loan funds) in accordance with Bank standard guidelines. Claims for
retroactive financing would have to be made no later than 12 months before the date of the signature
of the loan (expected date October 30, 1993). The disbursement arrangements were discussed and
agreed during negotiations (para. 5.1 (e)).
H. Auditina
4.18         Auditina. FONTUR would prepare financial statements, audited Special Account and
audited SOE's using external auditors acceptable to the Bank. The Bank would review the external
auditors' terms of reference. FONTUR in turn, would require each implementing agency to engage
external auditors satisfactory to FONTUR to audit their subproject accounts, which should be
separately maintained. FONTUR would review the audits of the subprojects and report to the Bank on
the status and the remedial actions taken, if required. The reports of the subprojects would be
furnished by municipalities to FONTUR within five months of the close of the fiscal year. FONTUR's
audit report and its report of the subproject audits would be presented to the Bank annually no later
that June 30. The project auditing arrangements were discussed and agreed (para 5.1 (d)).
1. Monitorina and Reoortina
4.19         Annual Review and Proiect Plan of Action. In November of each year that the project
is being executed, the Bank and the GOV would conduct a formal joint review of the progress made
in reaching the objectives and in the implementation of the proposed project. The annual review would
provide an opportunity to discuss project issues, in particular: compliance with sub-loan covenants;
institutional development advancements and performance of FONTUR and city agencies and the
technical assistance at national and local levels; execution and analysis of further needs of the training
program; the quality of subproject implementation, including environmental analyses; implementation
of studies, sector policies and actions; implementation of a monitoring program (proposed monitoring
indicators are presented in Annex 13). The discussion and analysis of the issues faced during the year
under review, would lead to the formulation of adjustments and, if necessary, remedial actions
satisfactory to the Bank. The timing and scope of the annual review was confirmed during
negotiations (para.5.1 (p)).
4.20         The project places great emphasis on institutional development in the sector and as
such, implementation must be closely monitored and success evaluated. It is proposed that a mid term
review of the project be held 24 months after loan effectiveness. At the review, the performance of
the project will be assessed and the second period implementation program will be amended as
necessary based on the results of that evaluation (para.5.1 (q)).
4.21         Reportino. It was agreed during Appraisal, and was confirmed at Negotiations, that
FONTUR with the assistance of participating municipalities, would prepare bi-annual progress reports
for the semesters ending on June 30 and December 31. The reports would be furnished to the Bank
within 60 days of the end of the semester. The progress reports would cover past institutional
development and project execution achievements and compare them with appraisal projections and
goals set forth in the Action Plan (Annex 13), and present a critical assessment of problems and issues
arising during project execution.  The reports would also discuss compliance with subproject



37
conditionality by each municipality and actions taken to enforce compliance. In cases of unsatisfactory
progress, the reports would also detail proposals for adjustments and remedial actions. The case for
more periodic (quarterly) reporting would be reviewed at the mid term review. To facilitate adequate
monitoring of the project FONTUR agreed to install not later than ninety days after loan signing a
management information system to track the physical, financial and environmental status of each
component of the project (para. 5.1 (f)).
4.22         Proiect Supervision. The responsibilities for supervising project implementation and a
supervision plan are shown in Annex 13. It is expected that at least three supervision missions per
year staffed by an urban transport engineer/planner and a transport economist will be required to
supervise the proposed project during the first three years of execution (1 993-1996). In addition,
specialists in traffic engineering, training and procurement may accompany the supervision missions
as required. Supervision requirements are expected to be intensive, particularly in the initial years, as
Bank missions would plan to visit every participating city at least once a year. For the first two or
three years, the supervision requirements are estimated at about 1 5 staff-weeks reducing to 13 staff-
weeks in the fourth year, 12 staff-weeks in the fifth and 8 staff-weeks in the last year.
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.1          Following are the agreements reached at negotiations:
A.   Proiect Mana ement:
(a)   that the Project Management Unit (PMU) be structured and adequately staffed and
otherwise supported in the implementation of its responsibility under the project;
FONTUR appointed the head of the Project Management Unit prior to negotiations
(para. 4.5);
(b)   that Procurement be carried out in accordance with Bank guidelines, including (i) the
use of standard bidding documents for the procurement of goods and works, under
LCB and ICB procedures; (ii) use of Bank's guidelines for the selection of consultants;
and (iii) the procurement limits (paras. 4.10 to 4.16);
(c)   that a Special Account in the Central Bank of Venezuela be opened and maintained
(para. 4.17);
(d)   that the Special Account and Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) (i) be audited
according to procedures, and by independent auditors, acceptable to the Bank, and (ii)
that audits be submitted annually no later than June 30 (para. 4.18);
(e)    detailed procedures for the transfer of loan funds to participating municipalities were
agreed with the Bank at negotiations (para.3.30);
(f)   that (i) a Project Monitoring Management Information System satisfactory to the Bank
be installed ninety days after loan signing; (ii) that agreed institutional, physical,
operational and financial performance targets be included in semi-annual and annual
reports to the Bank (para. 4.21);
(g)   that the project be executed, and the system subsequently operated in accordance
with environmental practices satisfactory to the Bank; should implementation of any



38
proposed subproject investment require displacement of population, FONTUR would
notify the Bank thereof, and upon the Bank's request would present a resettlement
plan, satisfactory to the Bank, prior to implementation (para. 3.40);
(h)   the final version of the project Operational Manual was completed and submitted to the
Bank (para. 3.22).
B.   Institutional Development and Policy
(i)   the letter of invitation, terms of reference, evaluation criteria and draft contract to
invite proposals for the international technical assistance for FONTUR strengthening
(Part Al), as described in Annex 6, were completed prior to negotiations (para. 3.6);
(j)    the letter of invitation, terms of reference, evaluation criteria and draft contract to
invite proposals for the international and local technical assistance for municipal
strengthening (Part A2), as described in Annex 6, were completed prior to negotiations
(peara. 3.7);
(k)   the letter of invitation, terms of reference, evaluation criteria and draft contract to
invite proposals for the international technical assistance to carry out the Intensive
Course of the National Training Program were completed prior to negotiations
(para.3.8);
(I)   the draft final study on the Traffic Police Program was completed prior to negotiations
(para.3.9);
(m)   that studies A5.1 and A5.2 be completed respectively 1 and 3 months after loan
effectiveness; studies A5.3 and A5.4 be completed not later than 10 months after loan
effectiveness; study A5.5 be completed not later than 12 months after loan
effectiveness and studies A5.10 and A5.1 1 be completed not later than 36 months
after loan effectiveness (para. 3.1 1);
(n)   that the Public Transport Study for the participating cities including cost-recovery
mechanisms and provisions for targeted subsidies be completed not later than 14
months after signing of the relevant subproject agreement; that an action plan to
implement the recommendations of such study be submitted not later than 60 days
after the Bank provides its comments; and that the progress in the implementation of
such action plan be reviewed during the second annual review and subsequent annual
reviews (para.3.12).
C.   Traffic Infrastructure and Eauipment
(o)   the final engineering design, bidding documents and equipment specifications for the
first year of the Traffic Infrastructure and Equipment program (Part B) were completed
before negotiations (para.3.14).
D.   Annual and Mid Term Review
(p)   that at each annual review, FONTUR will present the program for the following year
and seek approval from the Bank to proceed with its preparation and implementation
(para. 4.19);



39
(q)   that a Mid-Term Review take place 24 months after loan effectiveness, and will review
agreed institutional, operational and financial performance indicators, compliance with
covenants and the recommendations made in the Public Transport Study for each
participating city. Based on this evaluation prepare a revised action plan and any
corrective measures necessary to ensure that the project meets its main objectives
(para. 4.20).
E.   Eliaibility Criteria and Contractual Arranaements
(rl   the city and project eligibility criteria as described in Annex 4 have been adopted by
FONTUR (para.3.21);
(s)   that the draft contracts to be used for the participation, subproject, MTC/FONTUR,
MTC/municipality agreements are submitted to the Bank (para.4.2);
(t)   that not later than 60 days after loan effectiveness, MTC and FONTUR should sign an
agreement to carry out the national portion of the Traffic Police program (para. 4.2).
5.2   Following are the Conditions of Effectiveness:
(a)   the execution of acceptable participation and subproject agreements between FONTUR
and at least one municipality (para. 4.2);
(b)   the selection of the consultants to carry out the Intensive Urban Transport Course as
part of the National Training Program (part A4) (para.3.8);
(c)   the selection of consultants to provide the technical assistance for the FONTUR
strengthening program (Part Al),(para.3.6);
(d)    evidence that GOV's counterpart funds have been made available to FONTUR
(para.3.27).
5.3   Prior to disbursements of Loan funds to any municipality, FONTUR would submit to the Bank:
(a)    signed participation and subproject agreements with that municipality (para. 4.2);
(b)    evidence that a City Project Management Unit has been established and staffed, and
the City Project Manager has been appointed and the international technical assistance
is in place (paras. 4.2 and 4.7);
(c)    evidence that the municipality has satisfactorily complied with the institutional
arrangements included in the conditions of eligibility (para. 4.2).
5.4          As a condition of disbursement of funds related to the national portion of the Traffic
Police Program, FONTUR would submit to the Bank an agreement between MTC and FONTUR similarly,
as a condition of disbursement of funds related to the local portion of the Traffic Police Program,
FONTUR would submit to the Bank a signed agreement between MTC and the municipality (para. 4.6).
5.5          Retroactive financing of up to US$ 10 million for expenditures made after October 30,
1992 is recommended (para. 4.17).
5.6    Recommendation. With the above agreements, the project would be suitable for a Bank loan
of US$ 100 million equivalent for a period of 15 years including 5 years of grace at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate.



40                                  ANNEX 1
VENEZUELA
URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Lessons Learned from Other Urban TransDort Proiects
Backaround
1.   In 1985, the Bank reported' that it had participated in 17 urban transport projects and 32
urban development projects with an urban transport content. Since 1985, other urban transport
projects have been commenced or completed, including Mexico First Urban Transport Project (UTP),
Urban Streets and Transport Project (Chile), Bogota UTP (Colombia), Kingston UTP (Jamaica), Lima
Metropolitan Development Project (Peru), Taegu UTP (Korea), Shanghai (PRC) and Fourth UTP (Brazil),
and other projects are in the course of preparation. Project Completion Reports and/or Project
Performance Audit Reports (PCR/PPAR) are available for a total of 1 5 urban transport projects and
urban development projects where transport components represented more than 30% of total costs.
The relevant projects are summarized in Table 1.1.
2.   This review is based on analyses included in the 15 available PCR/PPAR's for urban transport
projects (Table 1.1), on current trends in urban transport projects and on experience from the First
Urban Transport Project in Mexico.
Relevance of PCR/PPAR's
3.   Table 1 shows that no project for which a PCR/PPAR is available, began after 1981 -10 years
ago- and some projects extend back to 1972 - 19 years. Over these time periods, there have been
significant changes both in the emphasis of urban transport policy and in traffic transport related
technology.
4.   'Policy' changes include, for example, increasing recognition that road traffic is a major
contributor to air pollution, that maintenance is of crucial importance and that there is an increasing
trend towards deregulation and privatization of public transport (bus operation). The PCR/PPAR
projects rarely included such policies.
5.   With respect to technology there have also been changes. Typically, 20 years ago, traffic signal
control systems were mainly based on large computer systems which not only posed procurement
problems but were not always appropriate for the problems faced by, or consistent with capabilities
of, developing cities. Use of personal computers for traffic and transport planning and for operational
applications (e.g., traffic and accident data bases) is now commonplace and has changed the methods
of working. Again, in the area of traffic management design, much has been achieved with busways
(and busways are actively considered now in most projects) but only four of the PCR/PPAR projects
included such techniques (Brazil I and 11, and Ivory Coast I and 11).
6.   It is also noted that at least 5 of the cities in Table 1.1 are very large (population exceeding 5
million), hence not all "lessons learned" may be applicable to the present project.
7.   Thus, the PCR/PPAR's are not ideal as a source of data for the design of current projects.
Clearly, some useful lessons are highlighted and indeed, some have already been incorporated into
more recent projects; for example, over-optimistic project schedules (see below) are not now used and
maintenance is the norm. Additionally, PCR/PPAR's were generally completed.
1/ "Urban Transport" - A World Bank Policy Study, 1986.



41                                 ANNEX 1
Table 1.1: Lessons Learned from Other Urban Transport Projects
LOANI                                                          DATE       LOAN
CREDIT                                        POPULATION,   LOAN         AMOUNT
REF     COUNTRY                T - ---Iion)                  SIGNED       US$
- -- l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~million)- 
851     Malaysia        Kuala Lumpur            1.0       Jun. 1972      16.00
937     Tunisia             Tunis               1.2       Oct. 1973      18.00
952      Iran              Tehran                         Dec. 1973      42.00
1214    Malaysia         Kuala Lumpur            1.0       Feb. 1976      26.00
1282    Phillippines        Manila               5.9       May. 1976      32.00
1347   Cote d'lvoire        Abidjan              1.7       Dec. 1976      44.00
1355      India             Bombay               8.5       Dec. 1976      25.00
687      India             Madras               5.2       Apr. 1977      24.00
1491    Costa Rica         San Jose              0.6       Nov. 1977      16.50
1563      Brazil     5 Metropolitan Areas (1)  1.5-9.0     May. 1978      88.00
1638    Thailand            Bangkok              5.2       Dec. 1978      16.00
1033      India             Calcutta             9.5       Jun. 1980      56.00
1839      Brazil          Porto Alegre           1.5       May. 1980     159.00
1965      Brazil       14 Conurbations (2)                 Mar. 1981      90.00
2048   Cote d'lvoire    Abidjan, Daloa &         1.7       Aug. 1981       51.00
Korhogo
Notes:
1. Curitiba, Porto Alegre, Belo Horizonte, Recife and Salvador
2. Baixada Santista, Distrito Federal, SO Luis, Cuiaba, Florianopolis, Goiania, Macei6, Natal,
Jo5o Pessoa, Vale do Ago, Aracaju, Teresina, Manaus and Victoria
about 10 years after the commencement of projects so the time lag diminishes the usefulness of the
lessons learned.
Performance of ComDleted Proiects
8.   Table 1.2 gives major items of key data for the PCRIPPAR projects; the general performance
trends are considered to be:
(a)   with the exception of two projects 1' loans were near-fully disbursed (100% - 80%);
(b)  final project overall costs generally were in the range 80% to 120%  of appraisal
estimates, although changes in scope occurred in a number of projects;
Ic)  the project implementation schedules estimated at appraisal were always too optimistic -
loan extensions took place for every project; final implementation times were between
about one-and-a half-times to three-times the original appraisal schedule estimate; and
2/ (1) Teheran which was a 'problem project" and the loan canceled, and (2) Bangkok, which was
changed greatly in scope.



42                                    ANNEX 1
(d)  final IRR's given to PCR/PPAR's show somewhat lower values than appraisal estimates
3/. However, the data should be treated with great caution and the differences are not
too significant. Urban transport projects involve a wide range of actions within one
project - infrastructure, traffic management and control, public transport facilities
(including buses), paving, maintenance and rehabilitation; single, project-wide IRR's are
difficult to define either at appraisal or in a PCR.
9.   Thus, quantitative indicators present a moderately successful group of projects, except for
implementation periods which were clearly too optimistic.
'Lessons Learned" as Presented in PCR/PPAR's
10.  Projects contain a wide range of components - both physical and institutional. This, and the
different manner in which the PCR/PPAR's present the 'lessons learned' make generalizations difficult.
Table 3 summarizes the main findings from each PCR/PPAR project O' and, insofar as there are general
themes, they are considered to be the following:
(a)   with the exception of the Bangkok UTP which was significantly changed in scope, most
projects implemented most of the proposed physical works. While some changes did take
place (e.g., the inclusion of a major, non-appraised bus terminal in Salvador under Brazil
I) and while some components were poorly planned (e.g., the Western Busway in Cote
d'lvoire 11), the physical components proposed at appraisal appear to have been: (i)
feasible, (ii) acceptable to decision makers, and (iii) overall estimated project costs were
mostly of the right order, although wide variation in individual components occurred.
Thus, Bank appraisal procedures for physical works, in the case of the PCR/PPAR
projects, appeared to work reasonably well;
(b)  institutional arrangements and components were considerably less successful than
physical measures. Many projects established "traffic and transport units' to plan, design
and supervise schemes. The PCR/PPAR's make reference to the "political' problems of
maintaining the units, of giving the units sufficient authority to act, of staffing the units,
of obtaining adequately trained staff and of sustaining those units after the
implementation of a project. The institutional problem of sustaining traffic management
momentum and capabilities has not yet been solved. Perhaps Brazil came the closest.
In the period mid-1 970's to mid-1 980's, the Brazilian Urban Transport Company EBTU,
Brazil channelled federal and Bank (Brazil UTP I, IlIl and IV Projects) resources to urban
transport investment and was thereby able to promote innovative urban transport
schemes and assisted greatly in establishing sound directions for urban transport in
Brazilian cities (although later there was a tendency for EBTU to expand
bureaucratically!').  However, following central government policy to decentralize
transport investment decisions, EBTU was disbanded;
2/ The major exception was Brazil UT II (Porto Alegre suburban train), where the internal rate of
return was negative but, to date, the project is atypical of urban transport projects in general and
unlike the proposed project in particular.
4/1(1) Teheran is omitted since the problems were unique and are not repeated in any other project
and (2) Brazil Second Urban Transport Project (Porto Alegre suburban train) is omitted as it is not
relevant to Venezuela's Urban Transport Project.
./ The Fourth Brazil Urban Transport Project (later canceled) included proposals for reform of EBTU.



43                                              ANNEX 1
Table 1.2: Summary of Key Data From PCR's and PPAR's
APPRAISAL        FINAL
LOAN                CITY                  LOAN         AMOUNT         AMOUNT          PROJECT        PROJECT       PERCENT
CREDIT                                   AMOUNT        DISBURSED      DISBURSED       COST US$       COST US$        TOTAL
REF.       (for country - see Table 1i  USe Millions  US$ Millions      1%           (million)       (Mill.)        COST
861     Kuala Lumpur                     18.00          16.00          100%           31.61          41.18         130%
937     Tunis                            18.00          17.86           99%           28.62          63.43         187%
962      Tehran                          42.00          24.20           58%           65.90           N/A           N/A
1214     Kuala Lumpur                     28.00          22.00          85%            72.00          67.82          94%
1282     Manila                           32.00          39.50          123%           66.00          91.80         141%
1347     Abidian                         44.00           39.70          90%           122.30         103.90         86%
1365     Bombay                           25.00          25.00          100%           50.51          45.04          89%
887      Madras UD                       24.00          24.00          100%           62.00          62.30         120%
1491     San Jose                         16.60          16.50          100%           31.50          32.10         102%
1583     6 Metropolitan Areas             88.00          88.00          100%          248.90         242.30          97%
1638     Bangkok                          16.00           7.60          48%            34.00          12.50          37%
1033     Calcutta                        56.00           44.80          80%           121.70          98.30          81%
1839     Porto Alegre                    159.00         133.00          84%           312.80         249.40          80%
1965     14 Conurbations                  90.00          90.00          100%          257.00         200.70          78%
2048     Abidjan, Dalea and Korhogo       51.00          50.90          100%          104.00          B8.60          86%
LOAN                              MONTHS FOR      MONTHS FOR        INCREASE
CREDIT          CITY              COMPLETION       COMPLETION        IN             IRR            IRR
REF.     Ifor country-ses Table 1I   APPRAISAL      ACTUAL           TIME         APPRAISAL        FINAL
851      Kuala Lumpur              51               66                39%            37%          6%-30%
937      Tunis                      24              96               300%         18%-17%           10%
952      Tehran                     36              N/A               N/A            28%            N/A
1214      Kuala Lumpur              64               72                33%           31%            31%
1282      Manila                    48               84                76%           22%          8%-29%
1347      Abidjan                   48               84                75%           43%            38%
1366      Bombay                    32               80               160%         26%-40%        10%-40%
887      Madras UD                  54              69                28%            21%            21%
1491      san Jose                  45               76                67%           37%            25%
1683        Met Aresa               42               89                84%        23%-60+ %      10%-60+%
1638      Bangkok                   42               93               121 %          142%           128%
1033      Calcutta                  61               69                18%           23%             ve
1839      Porto Alegre              50               74                48%           19%            11%
1966      14 Conurbations           42               90               114%         N/A 11            N/A
2048      Abidjan, Dalon and        42               6e             63%-86%        16%-41 %
Korhogo
(c)    transport policy measures feature in some, but not all, PCR/PPAR  projects and their
success varies. For example, some failures were recorded in:
Kuala Lumpur II and Bangkok with respect to road pricing;
*      Calcutta and Cote d'lvoire 11 with respect to bus fares; and
*      Brazil UT and IlIl studies regarding bus deregulation and maintenance; but some
policy measures were, at least partly, successfully achieved; for example:
Kuala Lumpur II increases in bus fares;
Bombay  and  Madras increases  in  bus fares, although  not enough  to  meet
covenanted agreements regarding revenue/cost ratios (see below).



44                                   ANNEX I
(d)   enforcement of traffic regulations is an integral part of any traffic management system.
Few of the PCR/PPAR projects mention involvement of, or project components for, the
traffic police - only San Jose, Bombay, Brazil I and Bangkok (in which police equipment
was included, but not procured, and some overseas 'study visits' took place). Many of
the PCR/PPAR cite lack of enforcement as reason for individual scheme failure;
(el   despite the implementation of physical schemes, there are indications that there was a
lack of long term commitment by some cities to accept traffic management measures or
that subsequently changed administrations rejected the traffic management approach,
e.g.:
*    Bangkok never implemented the full program and those measures which were
implemented, were not enforced and were allowed to decay;
*    Kuala Lumpur 11 high-occupancy vehicles (HOV) and bus priority lanes were not
enforced and disappeared; the existing traffic warden force was disbanded;
Manila public transport lanes were not enforced and disappeared;
*    Cote d'lvoire bus lanes were not always enforced and disappeared;
Tunis bus lanes were not enforced and disappeared;
Costa Rica did not finalize corridor schemes until public and Bank pressure forced
the issue; and
*    even in Porto Alegre (Brazil 1), innovative busways are declining in standards and
effectiveness due to apparent neglect.!'
(f)   a number of projects (Bombay, Madras, Cote d'lvoire and Calcutta) invested in public bus
monopoly operations (often buying buses). Except in Calcutta, all the companies are
relatively efficient with, for example, out-turns of 90 + % of the fleet and reasonable
staffing ratios and all companies made operational improvements during project
implementation. Nevertheless, there was "government' reluctance to allow bus fares to
rise adequately to meet agreed revenue cost ratios (covenanted under the loan) and for
financial targets to be met. The "political" difficulties of intervening in publically owned
bus companies are evident; and
(g)   as noted in para 8.(c),project schedules were always too optimistic at appraisal. This
appears to result from some, or all, of the following factors: (i) the difficulties of
implementing traffic schemes - often involving coordinated action between the "public
works department", the traffic police, the public transport regulatory authority, public
transport operators, the new traffic unit and other agencies - appear to have been under-
estimated, (ii) the lack of final designs in a timely manner, (iii) lack of familiarity with Bank
procurement procedures, and (iv) the lack of counterpart funds.
Trends Since Comoletion of the PCR/PPAR Proiects
11.  Since the PCR/PPAR projects were completed, trends in urban transport project preparation and
scope have been:
_/ Not included in the PCR/PPAR but observed from subsequent visits.



45                                    ANNEX 1
(a)   street maintenance components are now the norm (particularly for the LAC region
projects) and components have been, or were, included in Bogota, Kingston, Lima, Brazil
IV (now canceled) and in the First Mexico Urban Transport Project;
(b)   project implementation schedules are geared to the Bank's average regional profile;
(c)   as far as possible, the final designs for at least the first year of implementation are
required for appraisal; and
(d)  the role of the private sector in the provision of public transport services (mainly buses)
and infrastructure management and maintenance (maintenance by contract) is given major
emphasis.
12.  Within the LAC region, only three PCR/PPAR projects are available (San Jose, and Brazil I and
l1l) but many other urban transport projects are under preparation, in progress, or are completed,
including Bogota UTP, Lima MDP (suspended), Brazil IV UTP (canceled), First Mexico UTP, Street and
Maintenance Project for Santiago, Kingston UTP, the Mexico Medium Sized Cities UTP and the Mexico
City Transport Related Air Quality Management Program (AQMP Mexico City). In addition to the points
noted in para 11, a number of common characteristics or directions ("lessons") are noted:
(a)   based on successful programs in Brazil I and IlIl, most of the projects include a low income
area paving program to improve bus accessibility to reduce bus operating costs and to
have a poverty impact; and
(b)  transport related air quality problems are being increasingly considered and form an
important objective of the Santiago project and will be the primary objective of the AQMP
Mexico.
'Lessons Learned" and the ProDosed Venezuela Urban TransDort Proiect
13.  The proposed urban transport project is the first to be considered in Venezuela and thus, there
is no "in-country" experience to draw upon. The design of the proposed project has attempted to
recognize the findings and experience from similar projects outlined in this Annex. The main features
of the proposed project which respond to the "lessons learned" are described in the following
paragraphs. Particular attention has been paid to the Brazil IlIl UTP which involved 14 medium sized
cities and conurbations and, to the Mexico Medium Sized Cities UTP (more than 10 medium sized
cities) which was approved by the end of 1 992. Both projects have direct parallels to the Venezuela
Urban Transport project.
14.  Institutions A successful institutional arrangement will be the key to project success and to
project sustainability. In the past in Venezuela, there has been little incentive for cities/municipalities
to undertake cost-effective transport planning and investment and cities have been starved of
resources for transport investment. The creation of FONTUR is a major advance. In addition to
providing much needed resources, FONTUR's key role will to guide transport investment in cities. This
guidance will be exercised through the eligibility criteria for city participation (Annex 4) will govern
investment of FONTUR funds (including Bank project funds as an integral part of FONTUR's program)
and through FONTUR's appraisal and supervision of city projects. The creation of FONTUR will do
much to create a new attitude to transport planning at the national and local level. Present FONTUR
trends are encouraging. It has been noted in para 1 0.(b) that was a tendency for EBTU (Brazil) to
expand bureaucratically; FONTUR is envisaged as a compact agency which will (as now) use pribvate
sector expertise under contract for day-to-day project monitoring, special tasks and supervision.
Specific technical assistance and training programs for FONTUR have been included in the project.



46                                     ANNEX 1
15.  At the local level, the design and operation of traffic and transport projects require expertise
which is currently largely absent from most medium sized Venezuelan cities. To assist in overcoming
this deficiency, it will be a requirement of project participation (and of the FONTUR program generally)
that a Traffic Engineering/Transport Planning Unit exists, or will be formed, in each city. Experience
shows that it takes time to build up expertise and to establish effective units; thus, each sub project
will incorporate technical assistance to aid cities in establishing the units.
16.  To further assist the long term development of traffic and transport planning, the project will
include a national training program for traffic and transport professionals. Staff from participating cities
and national agencies will benefit from the training.
17.  Maintenance. Maintenance is now a standard component for urban transport projects and the
Venezuela UT project will be no exception. During project preparation, an initial review of maintenance
requirements and activities was carried out in the cities which have been appraised. The review
enabled maintenance components to be defined with accuracy and permitted the preparation of model
terms of reference for development of maintenance components for other cities. Within the appraised
cities, the scope of maintenance components will be follows:
(a)  it will be a condition of participation that each municipality/city has, or will create under
the Project, a competent road and "traffic control device' maintenance planning and
implementation capability. To realize this aim, the sub projects will include (i) technical
assistance to support the creation of the maintenance unit, and liii) equipment necessary
to establish maintenance management (such as testing equipment and personal
computers for inventories since it is anticipated that most maintenance will be carried out
by contract procedures);
(b)   maintenance fails since it is often the first activity to be cut in times of financial restraint
and it will be a condition for participation that each municipality/city will undertake to
include within their annual budgets, adequate funds for the maintenance of works
executed under the sub projects; and
(c)  to enable the new  maintenance units to initiate their activities against a sound
background, each city/municipality sub-project is likely to include financing of civil works
to correct problems of deferred maintenance,
18.  Counterpart Fundina. In Venezuela, devolution of responsibilities to cities/municipalities is a
relatively recent policy. At the moment, financial resource mobilization of cities is weak and the ability
of cities to find counterpart funds is severely limited. It would be unrealistic for an urban transport
project, with relatively low investments in any city, to correct the resource mobilization weakness.
Thus, to limit the demand for counterpart funds and to ensure that the necessary counterpart funds
are available for successful implementation, the project proposes (i) to use a system of matching grants
rather than loans for each city (municipalities will match FONTUR's contribution), (ii) to place an
emphasis on low cost schemes to reduce overall investment requirements, and (iii) to require that cities
include a commitment in their annual budgets necessary to meet counterpart funding needs.
19.  Implementation Schedule. Long implementation, and thus slow disbursements, have been
problems in previous projects. This may be traced to:
(a)  lack of familiarity of local staff with Bank procedures. This will be particularly acute in
the medium sized cities. A training program is proposed but training programs take time
for benefits to be realized and, even then, there is no substitute for practical application.
Much will depend on the capabilities of FONTUR as supervising agency. The project will
require that FONTUR increases its staffing, employ technical assistance and provide a
"consultancy" service to medium sized cities in the preparation of data necessary for



47                                   ANNEX 1
processing a Bank project. A Procedural Manual is also proposed to assist familiarize
cities with the procedures and responsibilities involved in sub project implementation;
(b)  lack of political commitment.  If implementation times become protracted, political
changes may occur in a city and implementation could be jeopardized. However, planning
and design of traffic projects is always complex, involves many agencies and takes time.
These factors must be balanced. While it is a major objective of the sub projects to
promote an "integrated approach" to transport planning, cities will be urged to keep sub
projects as simple as possible, consistent with resolving transport problems. Short
implementation periods will be preferred. To further ensure commitment, it will be
necessary for cities to demonstrate, at appraisal, a consensus of view on the sub projects
among the involved agencies (public works, police, planning group, public transport
operators and "political decision makers");
(c)  lack of final engineering designs for physical works. It is proposed that any participating
city should have the first year (or 25% of the sub project whichever is the minimum) of
final engineering designs (including bidding documents) available (i) by the time of
presentation of the Project to the Bank's Board (for the first six cities which have been
appraised) and, (ii) by the time of FONTUR's appraisal and Bank review for subsequent
sub projects.
20.  Enforcement. A number of the previous PCR/PPAR projects listed enforcement problems as:
(i) the reasons for the failure of scheme operations, and (ii) a contributory reason for the decay and
eventual disappearance of traffic schemes. In the proposed project, schemes will be designed as far
as practicable, to be "self enforcing", and physical rather than regulatory means will be encouraged.
Moreover, under the proposed Project it will be necessary for any participating city to demonstrate that
components involving traffic regulation enforcement are acceptable to the local traffic police and that
the police are prepared to undertake enforcement.
21.  However, the Project recognizes the unique problems of traffic law enforcement in Venezuela
and includes a significant national component to assist in improving the currently poor situation. The
component will comprise (i) national training and technical assistance and (ii) equipment, such as
communications and vehicles). The latter would be geared to the participating cities.
22.  Environment. It will be a condition of participation that cities/municipalities undertake to adopt,
and to comply with, the Article 38 of the Venezuela Municipal Government Act. This requires
municipalities to protect the environment and it will be necessary for municipalities to take all actions
to implement the law in respect of traffic related environmental impacts. Within each sub project
evaluation, an assessment of traffic related environmental impacts was conducted. If serious adverse
impacts are identified, remedial actions were required prior to acceptance of the relevant component.



48                                  ANNEX 2
VENEZUELA
URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
The Executina Agency: FONTUR
1.    FONTUR (Fondo Nacional de Transporte Urbano - National Urban Transport Fund) was
established on September 5, 1991, by Decree No. 1827 of the National Executive. FONTUR was
created as a non-profit Public Foundation with the objective of promoting, developing and supporting
the implementation of urban transport programs and projects aimed at contributing to the improvement
of the quality of life of the urban population especially of the low-income groups.
2.    The primary objectives of FONTUR, as outlined in the abovementioned decree, are to:
*     Identify and mobilize financial resources from several sources with the objective of
chanelling them into urban transport;
*     Promote the financing of programs and transport projects targeted primarily at the low
income population groups;
=     Provide specialized technical assistance and promote institutional strengthening and
training for institutions participating in its projects and programs.
*     Promote the development and implementation of techniques, methodologies, systems
and procedures which support the rationalization of investment processes and
expenditures in urban transport.
3.    FONTUR's first operation in 1992 was a public transport vehicle fleet renewal and upgrading
program.  This program  provides financing to private bus/por puesto/jeep companies and/or
owner/operators registered with the municipalities as public transport operators. The financing consists
of a one time grant of approximatelly 50% of the cost of the vehicle, a commercial bank loan at market
rates for the other 47% and a down payment by the operator for the balance. The operator is required
to maintain the vehicle in public service for the duration of the loan to prevent him from buying the
vehicle through this mechanism and, afterwards, shift it to uses other than urban transport. The
municipality is required to enter in an operating contract with the operator. This contract will include
the requirements for provision of efficient level of service, a periodic tariff review plan, subsidy
mechanisms and schemes which will allow the operator to operate in conditions which account for
depreciation and cost of capital. The 50% grant to the operator is seen as a one time only grant from
GOV to compensate operators for tariffs which have been traditionally lower than the long run variable
costs and which did not allow for renewal or expansion of the fleet creating, thereby, serious peak
hour capacity problems and rundown vehicles.
4.    FONTUR is already providing financing for a number of short term or emergency improvements
in the major municipalities of the country. This short term improvement program is going on while
FONTUR works with the IBRD and IDB in the preparation of the medium and long term program to
improve the quality of urban transport in municipalities with more than 100,000 inhabitants. In
addition, FONTUR is working with the mayors to implement the transfer of responsibility for the
administration of student susbsidies from MTC to the municipalities. Furthermore, in the city of
Maturin, FONTUR is testing a new system to increase the accountability of operators in the collection
of student subsidies.
5.    FONTUR has hired local consultants to design its organization (see chart pg. 52). FONTUR's
management is well aware of the experiences in Brazil with EBTU and is making a conscious effort to



49                                    ANNEX 2
keep its size and staffing low and to create an image of a non political body with transparent programs,
to add credibility to any financial allocation responsibilities. The Project itself will aim at strengthening
the existing structure of FONTUR, by providing appropriate training and technical assistance at all
levels.
6.    Although this is its first Bank-financed project, FONTUR is not a newcomer to international
relations. FONTUR has maintained close links with ABC (Brazilian Agency for Cooperation) with which
it has mounted a number of joint events. The program with ABC, which precedes the official
establishment of FONTUR, has offered a series of short courses and seminars to FONTUR's staff and
representatives of the municipalities in areas such as traffic engineering, transport planning, reserved
bus lanes, subsidies and financing mechanisms. FONTUR has also invited representatives of the US
Federal Highway Administration to get their advice in several areas related to urban transport. Exposure
of FONTUR to the municipalities has been increasing steadily through the short term emergency
program and there is a constant interface between FONTUR's technical personnel and the technical
units in the main municipalities.
7.    Currently FONTUR has a staff of 35 of which 33%  are technical; all are based at the
headquarters in Caracas. In order to build up operational teams directly responsible for implementing
the Project, FONTUR will receive technical assistance and training. Furthermore, FONTUR will set up
a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) conversant with Bank procurement, supervision and disbursement
procedures. Prior to negotiations, FONTUR will produce a Project Operational Manual which will
describe the procedures to be followed by the municipalities participating in the proposed Credit.
8.    FONTUR had a total 1992 budget of 2.7 billion bolivars (US$ 43.5 Million) of which 70% were
used to finance the upgrading and acquisition of buses/por puestos/jeeps, a major priority for the
government; 4% for technical assistance and institutional development of municipalities; 25% for short
term improvements to urban transport in municipalities and 1 % for FONTUR's staff salaries, office
equipment and provisions. FONTUR's revenues are not earmarked although they come from fuel taxes.
FONTUR must every year present a program and request a budget from the Executive Branch with a
clear justification of the areas of application of these funds. A study to review existing resource
mobilization mechanisms and innovative allocation formulas is included in the proposed project.
9.    Figure 1 shows FONTUR's organization and in the next paragraphs a description of of the
functions of the divisions which are more likely to affect the proposed project.
Proarams Division (Gerencia de Proaramas)
10.   The objective of this division is to undertake the identification, preparation, appraisal and
selection of programs, submitted by the municipalities, in infrastructure, public transport and
institutional strengthening in order to ensure their compliance with the goals set by FONTUR's
management. More specifically its functions are:
*     to undertake the technical, economic, environmental and financial evaluation of the
projects submitted to FONTUR to assess their feasibility.
*     to develop methodologies for the formulation, evaluation and management of urban
transport projects, infrastructure, public transport and institutional strengthening.
*     to prepare technical assistance, consulting services and training programs in urban
transport projects.
*     to offer guidelines for the preparation and presentation of programs to FONTUR.



50                                   ANNEX 2
*     to present and propose to the technical committee the projects which comply with
the prerequisites approved by FONTUR and financial institutions.
11.   The Programs Division has 3 units: Infrastructure, Public Transport and Institutional
Strengthening.
Ooerations Division (Gerencia de Operaciones)
12.   The objectives of this division are to promote FONTUR's programs with the municipalities
and municipal bodies as well as to ensure that the projects to be financed comply with all
prerequisites for their approval. Once the project is approved, to carry out the implementation,
follow up and technical control of the project from the central government standpoint and its ex-
post evaluation. More specifically, the main functions of this division are:
*     to promote FONTUR's programs and projects at the municipal level.
*     to assist the municipalities, municipal agencies, and operators.
*     to participate in the supervision of works and projects under implementation.
*     to undertake the technical follow-up of the contracts for studies and/or services
signed with FONTUR and dealing with pre-investment, technical assistance, training,
and to clear the payment of invoices by the treasury.
*     to carry out the follow-up and monitoring of the physical execution and operations
management of the projects based on the scheduling agreed.
*     to coordinate with the management of the Programs division management the
supervision, technical evaluation and preparation of progress reports to verify the
compliance with targets, budgets and terms of the signed agreements.
*     to undertake the ex-post evaluation of projects financed by FONTUR and prepare a
project completion report describing the lessons learned.
*     to identify the technical assistance needed to promote the strengthening of the
organizations in charge of executing the programs and/or projects in urban
transport.
*     to keep records on the status of each project under implementation, especially
physical execution and disbursements.
The Operations Division has three geographical units: Western, Central and Eastern.
Administration Division (Gerencia de Administracion de Covenio)
13.   The objective of this division is to establish the interface with the financial institutions
which provide resources for the FONTUR programs and projects, by providing them with reports on
the operating and financial progress of the projects. It will also ensure the timely flow of funds
between FONTUR and the executing agencies.
*     It will administer the "convenios" with the financial institutions.
*     It will enforce the covenants agreed with those financial institutions.



51                                   ANNEX 2
*     It will produce and mail the follow-up reports to the financial institutions.
*     It will coordinate and monitor from the financial and treasury standpoints the
"fideicomisos" in which FONTUR participates.
*     It will undertake all the necessary steps with the financial institutions to ensure the
timely flow of funds to the programs and projects handled by FONTUR.
*     It will keep the records on the status of the 'convenios" both on its physical
implementation as well as on its financial progress.
*     It will develop the administrative proceedures which will govern the operations and
dealings of FONTUR with the financial institution in each 'convenio".
This Division has 2 units: Bilateral Agreements and Fiduciary Trusts.



52                                   ANNEX 2
FONDO NACIONAL DE TRANSPORTE URBANO
(FONTUR)
ORGANIGRAMA GENERAL
JUNTA DIRECTIVA
DIRECCION EJECUTIA]
CONSULTORIA      _T
JURIDICA                   _                  CONTRALORIA
INTERNA
RELACIONES                            -::0: 0 00- :0:;j:  GERENCUA DE   k  ;77 
INSTITUCIONALES                        _  ... t; ti tt; 0 -ti- i  DE
FINANCIAMIENM
PROWECT MANAaEME T
GERENCIA DE
ADMINI8TRACION
I I            __            I                         T 
GERENCIA DE               GERENCUA DE                GERENCIA DE
OPERACIONES     _PROGRAMAS                           DE CONVENIOS
REGION                              PROGRAMA
OCCIDENTAL                              DE                       DIVISION
_       _       ~~~~INFRAESTRtUCTURA        FIDEICOMISOS
REGION  §                   |  PROGRAMA
DE
TRANSPORTE
PUBUCO
|REGION 
PROGRAMA
DE
FORTALECIMIENTO
INSTrTUCfONAL



53                                   ANNEX 3
VENEZUELA
URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Municipal Finances in Venezuela
1.    This annex presents a view of municipal finances in Venezuela; Section A describes the
structure of municipal finances; Section B outlines the debt-capacity limitations to be used under the
project and provides calculations for potential borrowing as of 1991; and Section C presents the
financial situation of the five municipalities which will be included in the project's first year program.
A. The Structure of Municipal Finances in Venezuela
2.    In 1989, municipal revenues in Venezuela were roughly equally divided between central
government transfers, representing 49.7% of total revenues, and own revenues, representing 50.3%
of total revenues.
Transfers
3.    Given the high degree of dependence on the petroleum sector, intergovernmental transfers from
the national to subnational governments play a large role. Municipal transfers are comprised largely
of the situado municipal, part of the situado constitutional, which is a grant program funded out of
general government revenues and distributed to the states according to a formula that specifies that
70% of funds are allocated on a per capita basis, with the rest allocated equally across the states.
As stated in the Decentralization Act, the amount of the situado constitutional is increasing since 1989
by one percent per year to 20% of central government revenues by 1 994; moreover, 50% of the funds
are supposed to be used for investment projects.
4.    Situado Municipal. Part of the situado constitutional is passed on to municipalities. Up to
1989, municipalities had access to 5% of the situado constitutional (i.e., 10% of the 50% of the
situado the states could use to finance recurrent expenditures; the remaining 50% was to finance
investment programs). This amount was distributed among the municipalities in the same way as the
situado constitutional: 70% on a per capita basis; and 30% allocated equally across the municipalities.
The amendment of the LORM (the municipal law) increased the municipal situado which is now
computed as a percentage of the total constitutional situado. That percentage in increasing from 10%
in 1989 to 20% in 1999 (1 % a year).
5.    The 'situado' is a transparent way of distributing central government revenues to the states
but is still far from being an efficient distributive process. It is true that the 30% equal allocation
across the states serves to increase slightly the redistributive impact of this grant program, as the
population of the low population states is disproportionately poor. However, a better way to pursue
this effect could be achieved including explicit measures of need --e.g., per capita income-- and of tax
effort in the allocation formula. It seems that as the terms of the situado constitutional are set in the
constitution, and that its basic structure could be difficult to change. To pursue more focussed
distribution programs, the government is considering a temporary redistribution fund. However, it may
be worth to consider a change/improvement in the formula of the situado constitutional and to avoid
the proliferation of parallel distribution funds. The main problem at present is however the lack of basic
economic data at state level that could be used in the improved formula for the situado.



54                                     ANNEX 3
Own Revenues
6.     The Business Tax on Industry and Commerce (PIC): The primary source of revenues at the
municipio level is a tax on local businesses -- the Patente Industria y Comercio (PIC). In the largest
municipalities, the PIC accounts for about 60% of the local revenues. The basic structure consists of
a low rate tax on gross sales, coupled with a minimum tax and a license fee; rates in the communities
visited were in the neighborhood of 0.2-1.0% of sales. Despite some proposals (e.g. FUDECO) to
exclude from the base the purchase of goods on which the tax was already paid, the PIC remains a
transactions tax, that is, a tax on gross sales by all enterprises.
7.     The Property Tax: The second major source of revenue at the local level is the property tax.
The structure and problems of the property tax in Venezuela appear to be typical of many developing
countries. The tax is generally assessed on both residential and non-residential property, and the latter
type of property often faces differentially high rates. Rates are low, properties are systematically
underassessed and evasion is widespread. Local governments have understood this situation and are
committed to improving the tax base. In several municipalities visited by the project team, (e.g. Punto
Fijo), efforts were being devoted to creating or improving computer-based cadastral surveys in order
to make assessments correspond more closely to market values. Two problems were noticed. The
first one is that local jurisdictions have little if any power enforce the property tax (in contrast to the
PIC, in which case non-paying businesses can be shut down).  It would be urgent in these
circumstances to provide local governments with such power, including the right to foreclose on
properties that are sufficiently delinquent in their tax payments.
8.    The second problem is the political incentive to raise taxes. To address this aspect, the
government is considering ways to include in the situado a measure of tax effort (or the relation
between tax collection and tax capacity) so as to 'reward' the local governments who are doing better
in terms of tax collection. This is a very interesting point which the final report will address in detail
with examples from other countries with reset to the design of the incentive scheme.
There is significant potential for increasing local revenues through improved collection and increased
rates. Using a residential property tax to finance local services is widely viewed as desirable. Taxes
on non-residential property can also be justified to some extent as benefit taxes; indeed, for the
reasons noted above, replacing the PIC with the property tax would be desirable as long as taxes were
at least loosely related to benefits received.
9.     Land Taxes. Local governments rely to a small extent on separate land taxes (sometimes
conditioned on the land being vacant). In addition, some times, land values are determined separately
from the values of capital improvements. This suggests some potential for increased revenues from
increased land taxes (including reassessments). Land taxes are desirable on efficiency grounds to the
extent they are used to finance 'pure' rather than congested local public services and if they offset
increases in property values attributable to public services; in addition, they are desirable on equity
grounds to the extent that land ownership is concentrated among the rich. Increased use of land taxes
is an option at the local level, although the base is relatively small to make land taxes a major source
of revenue.
10.   The Motor Vehicle Tax (MVT). The MVT, (levied on vehicle ownership) is very common in most
parts of the world. It is easy to collect and to enforce. It can be a local tax provided tax rates do not
vary too much across jurisdictions --large differences tend to favor displacement of enterprises with
large vehicle fleets-- and that the revenues are associated with the benefits, e.g., resources used to
finance urban/local road infrastructure.'
lin developing and transition countries, the Vehicle Tax has another advantage. In countries where income
tax evasion is widespread and car ownership is low, a high rate Vehicle Tax on private cars has a strong
redistributive affect.



55                                      ANNEX 3
11.   In Venezuela, the MVT or Patente de Vehfculos" is a municipal tax. In large municipalities, it
is the third source of tax revenue though at a great distance from the business tax and the property
tax. The tax base is a function of the size and use of the vehicle. Table 3.1 shows the tax rates for
the various types of vehicles. Public administration vehicles, as well as the vehicles of welfare and
cultural associations are exempted. The tax is collected quarterly.
TABLE 3.1: VEHCLE TAX RATES ACCORDING TO TYPES OF VEIICLE
Quarterly tax rates
Base Rate           Additional Rate
Cars under 1000kg                           25 Bs          + 5 Bs per additional 500kg
Trucks under 2000kg load capacity           40 Bs          + 10 Bs per additional 2000kg
Pickup trucks under 2000kg load capacity    35 Bs          +40 Bs above 2000kg
Trailers under 5000kg load capacity         65 Bs          + 10 Bs per additional 1000kg
Public Iransport buses under 30 seats       60 Bs          + 8 Bs per additional seat
Private transport buses under 30 seats      30 Bs          +40 Bs above 30 seats
Motorcycles                                 15 Bs
Note: In January 1992 the exchange rate was US$ 1 = 62 Bs. In September 1993, USS 1 = 97.1 Bs.
Source: Ordenanza Sobre Patente de Vehfculos, Gaceta Municipal, Santiago Mariiio, 19 Deciembre 1987, Art. 9.
12.   Venezuela's MVT suffers from two major problems at present: it has not been updated in the
last 30 years and is difficult to enforce. The MTC is a flat rate defined in terms of vehicle size. In the
sixties, when the average cost price was about 15,000 Bs, the owner would have paid 100 Bs a
month or the equivalent of a sales tax of 0.67%. In 1992, the same car may cost 1,500,000 Bs. The
annual tax remains at the same 100 Bs (US$ 1.61), which is equivalent to a tax rate of 0.0067%. At
such low rates, the tax yields and so low that do not pay collection. Incentives of local governments
to enforce tax collection is minimal and tax evasion is rampant. The mission estimated that the MTV's
yields would increase 2.5% because the account of better enforcement and 100 times if rates were
updated to the real level of 30 year ago. In these conditions, the MVT would be the most important
municipal revenue source after the situado.
13.   To 'rehabilitate' the MVT as a local revenue source, four steps would be necessary: (a)
enforce compliance; (b) update tax rates; (c) update information/register on the base (vehicle fleet);
and Id) improve tax effectiveness. The details are explained below.
(a)  Enforcement compliance -- evasion of the MVT (motor vehicle tax) is widespread. Estimates
for the municipality of Valencia (table 3.2) suggest that actual tax revenue is less than one-
third of its potential if evasion were eliminated. The first condition for this to become reality
would be for local governments to gain easy access to an updated register. Before 1 987, any
renewal of license plates (by the Direccion Nacional del Trdnsito), was conditional upon proof
of payment of the Municipal Vehicle Tax in the last five years. In 1987, the law changed.
Since then plate renewal is no longer conditional on the payment of tax. In addition, the new
law has established a national registration fee (without the Municipal Vehicle Tax), since the
new national registration tax was considered to be a substitute to the local Vehicle Tax. As
a result, the periodic renewal of license plates no longer exists. Even when the car is sold,
vehicle owners no longer have to pay their overdue Vehicle Tax. The requirement that the
municipal Vehicle Tax should have been paid prior to any registration renewal should be
brought back into the law.



56                                   ANNEX 3
(b)  Update Tax Rates -- the current tax rate is low (25 Bs, or US$0.40 for a car). If tax rates were
updated to their real level 30 years ago revenues would increase 40 times the current level.
(And still be lower than in many other countries). (See Table 5.9) This increase in tax rates
together with full compliance could make the Vehicle Tax the first source of tax revenues for
the municipalities. Any increase in rates should be determined at the central level to avoid
wide variations across localities. One suggestion would be to establish a minimum standard
and a margin of variation for local governments to fix their rates within a 10-20% margin.
(c)  Update Information on Tax Base -- At present, Venezuela's municipalities have no way to
identify the vehicle owners who failed to register their vehicle with the local Treasury
department, for they have no access to the National Permanent Register for Vehicles (Registro
Automotor Permanente), under the responsibility of the Direcci6n Nacional del Trdnsito (in the
MTC). A recent study (Acedo & Barrientos, 1991) proposed that the information of the
national register should be made available to the municipalities to allow them more efficiency
in collecting the Vehicle Tax.
(d)    Design a more effective system -- Since municipalities have no way to find the tax evaders
through the National Permanent Register for Vehicles and annual registration no longer present
an opportunity to recover overdue Vehicle Tax. The only policy tool available to the
municipalities is on-the-street controls. In most countries where vehicle taxes exist, the control
is carried out by the traffic police, which has also supervision responsibilities for drivers' license
and car insurance. In Venezuela, VT monitoring is not a responsibility of the national police.
Municipal fiscal agents could monitor but they are not authorized to stop cars in the streets.
To deal with this problem, the municipality of Santiago Mariiio issued warnings through
propaganda on the local radio broadcast network. The revenues from the Vehicle Tax doubled.
14.   However, the national register has several problems. Prior to 1987, the owner of a new vehicle
had to apply for a new registration card to get his/her license plates. The fee for registering a car was
about 80 Bs. Both the registration and the license plates had to be renewed every 5 years, which
permitted updating information on the fleet. In 1987, the system changed. The registration system
became national and private cars were levied with a national tax of 250 Bs (US$ ) in addition to the
registration fee. Unfortunately, the new system was found unconstitutional and never worked. The
final result was that both the annual and the 5-year renewal scheme disappeared. The information
available on the vehicle fleet at present comes from the registration of transactions on new and used
cars, but it is impossible to know whether vehicles are registered and if they are still on the road.



57                                       ANNEX 3
Table 3.2: Potential and Actual Revenues of the Vehicle Tax
(Valenia Municipality in 1989)
Carabobo Stste                1,453
Vehicle Fleet (1000vh)                   136       6        37       1         17         197
Valencia Municipalit
Population 1990 "              916
BEsatited fleet (1000vh) 21              105       5        28       1          1         152
Tax Rates (Bs/Yer) 31                   100      200      240      240        60
Potential revenue (1000 Bs)             10,494    968      6811     260        766       19,299
Actual revenue (1000 Bs)                                                                 7,146
Actual as % of Potential                                                                  37%
Sources: Carabobo vehicle flet- OCEI, Anuario estadfstco 1990, p.432.
"Population = Census 1990 Particular, AIquiler, Carga, Colectivo, Motocicleta.
vValencia vehicle fleet has been calculad on the asumption that motorization rates ae twice as high in the
municipality than they ae in die rest of the State
Tax rates - Municipio de Santiago Marijio.
15.    Rehabilitating the Vehicle Tax requires that state police control and enforce payment. The fine
for default could enter the state budget to help finance enforcement. To help the process two systems
could be used: one is a tag on the license plate, as in Brazil, or a sticker on the windshield like in
Morocco and in France. Similar stickers, called 'calcomanles' were used in Venezuela until some years
ago. However, as inflation eroded the nominal value of the MTV, the cost of producing the stickers
became greater than the net revenue of the Vehicle Tax. The practice of the sticker would be
appropriate but the tax rates must be updated first.
16.    Vehicle Tax - A Municipal tax? There are strong arguments for the MTV to be a municipal or
a state tax. In line with the benefit principle, The allocation will depend on which level of government
will have the responsibilities for road construction and maintenance. Our opinion is that the MVT in
Venezuela should be organized so as to reflect the share of local responsibility and financing of
different levels of government. Unfortunately there are no good data that would allow us to make this
estimate in this report but those values exist in the country and could be used to justify an efficient
sharing mechanism to help states and municipalities to finance road-related expenditures. Rates should
not vary too much across states in order to minimize allocative inefficiencies. Enforcement costs
would remain low if it were possible to have the state police with the responsibility for its enforcement.
17.   Table 3.3 compares the potential revenues accruing from the state Vehicle Tax to the present
Situado. With 'reasonable rates* and normal enforcement the MTV could increase states' revenues
by more than 70 times. This assumes the MVT on private cars, taxicabs and public transport
minibuses would increase increase 100 times (to compensate for inflation in the last 30 years); rates
on trucks motorcycles and buses, 50 times.  Since the user charges on trucks are grossly



58                                        ANNEX 3
underestimated in Venezuela, as compared to their cost in terms of road deterioration, it would be
reasonable to increase the VT rates as function of axle load capacity.
Table 3.3: Potential Revenues from a Stae Vehide Tax
Tax Rates (Bs/Year)           | 100         200        240   T 240   |         60      ll
Proposed Tax Rates (Bs/Year)     10,000    20,000    12,000      12,000       3,000
Actual Revenue (Mbs)              148       20         107         5           18          297
Estimated Potential Revenue (Mbs)    14,840  1,960    5,340       228          876        23,24
Situado Constitucional 1990 (Mbs)                                        I                66,562
Sources: Vehicle Fleet = OCEI, Anuanio Estadfsico 1990, p.432. Tax Rate-  Municipio de Santiago Marino
Mission estimates.
18.    The following table compares the potential revenues from a state Vehicle Tax with a higher rate
on trucks (48,00OBs on the average) to the present Situado by state. In this case the revenue from
the tax will almost double the disposable budget of the states with the largest populations and, on the
average, increase state budgets by 60%.



59                                      ANNEX 3
Table 3.4: Potential Vehicle Tax Revenues by State, 1990
(In Mbs)
State                 Vehicle Tax                  Situado               T/S
Distrito Federal        7,171                       7 490                96%
Zulia                   4,620                       6 230                74%
Miranda                 4,796                       5 414                89%
Carabobo                3,311                       4 265                78%
Lara                    2,444                       3 890                63%
Aragua                  2,487                       3 720                67%
Anzoategui              2,071                       3 057                68%
BoUlvar                 1,929                       3 048                63%
Tachira                 1,850                       2 980                62%
Sucre                    683                        2 742                25%
Falcon                  1,120                       2 480                45%
Mdrida                  1,156                       2 337                49%
Trujillo                 832                        2 255                37%
Portuguesa               976                        2 227                44%
Guarico                  865                        2 126                41%
Monagas                  664                        2 116                31%
Barinas                  618                        1 911                32%
Yaracuy                  570                        1 829                31%
Nueva Esparta            486                        1 499                 32%
Apure                    283                        1 486                 19%
Cojedes                  342                        1 297                 26%
TF.Amazonas               42                        1 073                 4%
TF.Delta Amacuro          63                        1 088                 6%
Total                   393,761                     66 562                59%
Sources: Fleet = OCEI, Anuario Estadistico 1990, p.432. Tax Rates  Municipio de Santiago Marifio.
19.           The above estimates are only indicative of the potential revenue that could be obtained
from a more effective Motor Vehicle Tax. More detailed analysis would be required to: identify the
potential legal and political impediments of assigning a Vehicle Tax to the states; to analyze other
developing countries experience and their adaptability to the Venezuelan experience and to assess the
potential revenue expected from various systems.
Funding of Road Maintenance
20.   Road Cost Recovery and Demend Management. Road user charges in Venezuela consist
essentially of a tax on petroleum products, tolls on some expressway sections and major bridges, and
a vehicle ownership tax, which is levied by municipalities. Tolls, which until recently were exclusively
collected by the central government, have not been updated since these roads were opened; toll
revenues therefore are insignificant. Similarly, vehicle ownership tax rates are outdated; the
municipalities' revenues from these taxes contribute only a share of their expenditures on urban street
networks. Revenues from the tax on petroleum products have, as an average over the recent years,
exceeded all Central government expenditures on roads. However, prices of petroleum products are
very low in Venezuela (Annex 14, Table 14.2b). If one consider this factor, there is virtually no
recovery of road costs and an implicit subsidy to road users. Agreement was first reached with the
Government under the Structural Adjustment Loan on a plan to progressively raise the prices of



60                                  ANNEX 3
petroleum products to international levels. This program of phased price increases was to continue
under the Public Enterprise Reform Project (Loan No. 3223-VE). Progress was made under this plan
until January 1992, when prices reached over 50% of the international levels. However, the impact
of these price increases on the net disposable income of a large proportion of the population has led
the Government to postpone and slow down further increases.
21.   Fuel Taxes. Fuel taxes could be important revenue sources for municipalities (and states).
From an economic point of view they should be benefit-related --that is, their proceeds should be used
to finance road-related programs such as construction and maintenance or to finance pollution control
projects (to internalize the costs of environment degradation). The tax could have three components,
central, state, and local, which would make it politically more attractive (as local governments would
be able to used it) and economically more efficient.
22.   The allocative impact of petroleum subsidies is essentially on the use of private cars versus
public transport. The impact on the inter-modal allocation of freight is insignificant since there are no
alternative to trucking in general. The impact is therefore on traffic congestion and capacity
investments, particularly in urban areas, rather than on pavement maintenance. Within this context,
the main elements of an adequate road cost recovery and demand management policy would be to:
(a) aim to at least recover the short term marginal cost of road use by the different categories of
vehicles, by maintaining appropriate road user charge levels through a combination of taxes on
petroleum products and on vehicle use and/or ownership; (b) charge appropriate tolls on expressways,
preferably through concessions to private operators, responsible for operation and maintenance,
capacity investments and related financing; (c) use market prices, in particular for petroleum products,
in evaluating and selecting the investments to be included in the annual highway programs; and (d)
disseminate adeqwuate policies and measures, including parking restraint and traffic management, to
improve the management of demand for road use in urban areas. The Highways Management project
would help the Government to develop and implement elements (a) to (c). The presently proposed
Urban Transport project would help to implement element (d).
23.   Highway Maintenance Funding. Largely insufficient resources have, in the past, been allocated
to road maintenance, which led to the deterioration of the network. The 1992 budget, however,
includes much increased allocations for road maintenance. In order to secure appropriate, permanent
funding for road maintenance, the Government has presented to Congress a proposal to create a Road
Fund (Fundo Vial) which would receive part of the proceeds of gasoline taxation and be used partly
for the maintenance of the primary road network. Congress, however, has not yet acted on the
proposal. If the proposal would not be approved by Congress, alternative permanent funding
mechanisms would be developed under the project, considering in particular alternative sources of
revenues such as tolls, vehicle use tax, etc., and their redistribution to the states in accordance with
their expenditure responsibilities, and established in accordance with an agreed timetable.
B. Debt CaDacity of ParticiDptina Municipalities
24.   The Low Income Barrios Project ( Ln 3495-VE) examined the debt capacity limitations of 76
municipalities to assume, manage and repay loans for infrastructure investments. Assuming near
market rates, and medium- to long-term periods (10 years), sensitivity analysis was done to show that
even under conservative assumptions about exogenous and other factors municipalities would be able
to repay these loans. The analysis demonstrated that an annual debt service limit of 15% of total
revenues would enable municipalities to repay loans and remain financially healthy.



61                                   ANNEX 3
C. Financial Situation of First Year MuniciDalities
25.   The financial situation of the five municipalities which will participate in the first year program
--Maturin, Merida, Ciudad Guayana, Maracaibo, Barquisimeto and 40 other municipalities were
reviewed in the context of 'The Low Income Barrios Improvement Project", Loan #3495 and are
described in the Annex 2 of the IBRD report # 10401 -E. All the municipalities have the capacity to
provide the counterpart funds required for their subprojects.



62                                   ANNEX 4
VENEZUELA
URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
SubDrolect Eliibility Criteria
Introduction
1.    Urban transportation involves an integrated system of roads, traffic policies and measures
(parking, traffic management, tariffs, etc.), private modes, public transport, goods transport,
pedestrians and in some cases, railways and metros. A change in one component of an urban
transport system affects other components; to improve sector efficiency and quality, it is necessary
to adopt a systematic approach to planning and investment. It is FONTUR's aim to promote
improvements in the Venezuelan urban transport sector through well planned, well directed and
justified investment programs. To this end, FONTUR has established criteria for the selection of cities
to participate in its investment programs and has also established scheme investment eligibility criteria.
The criteria are described in the following sections.
City Elioibility Criteria
2.    The threshold criteria of eligibility for a city to participate in the Urban Transport Program to
be financed either with FONTUR's own resources or with resources from World Bank or IBD loans have
been defined and the conditions, with which a city is obliged to comply, are:
(a)    a municipality should have a population in excess of 100,000 inhabitants; exceptions
can be considered for cities with lower populations if they are of vital economic, social
or territorial importance to Venezuela. In cases where a city includes more than one
municipality or is a metropolitan area, the population of the most important municipality
shall be more than 100,000;
(b)   the municipalities shall develop an mintegrated urban transport strategy" covering short
and medium term actions for both private and public transport. The strategy shall be
in accordance with sectoral objectives and priorities established by MTC and for which,
FONTUR has the responsibility for implementation. In cases where more than one
municipality or a metropolitan area is involved, a common strategy between
municipalities shall be adopted. The strategy will be developed through an integral
transport study which will be carried out in accordance with TOR agreed by FONTUR.
The strategy will include proposals for:
li)    a transport infrastructure and traffic strategy (parking, traffic management and
other policies);
lii)    a public transport strategy aimed at improving the efficiency of the public
transport system and increasing financial viability of the sub-sector; and
(iii)   an institutional development strategy for traffic and transport planning and
operations; and
(iv)   a maintenance development strategy.
In the cases of Barquisimeto, Maracaibo, Maturin, Merida and Ciudad Guayana only
parts (ii),(iii) and (iv) are required;



63                                    ANNEX 4
(c)   the creation and/or strengthening of permanent local agencies, units or groups' with
responsibilities for traffic management, road maintenance, maintenance of traffic
control equipment and control and planning of public transport. In cities with more
than one municipality, effective mechanisms will be required to coordinate separate
municipality actions and the creation of a 'metropolitan" agency is the preferred
option;
(d)    an agreement ("convenio") between FONTUR and the municipality shall be established
in which:
(i)    the municipality agrees to allocate sufficient resources for the program. Annual
budget allocations will include adequate budget for the maintenance roads,
public transport facilities and traffic management systems and, adequate
budget for the counterpart funds necessary for the implementation of
FONTUR/Bank projects.  In cities with more than one municipality, all
municipalities will allocate sufficient resources in the appropriate categories.
To assist in mobilizing the resources, the municipalities will review and revise
vehicle and other transport taxes within their competence and establish
mechanisms for collection and for transfer to the sector;
(ii)   the municipality(ies) will take all actions necessary to protect the environment
from the adverse impacts of transport and to control vehicle emissions in
accordance with Venezuelan Law (Art 38, Ley Organica de Regimen Municipal
and, in the case of vehicle emissions, by application of the Ley Organica del
Ambiente y sus Reglamientos); and
(iii)   the municipality(ies) will have completed final engineering designs and
documentation for those components which are to be implemented in the first
year of the FONTUR/World Bank/inter American Development Bank sub-project;
(iv)   the municipality will adhere and comply with FONTUR's Operations Manual.
(v)   the municipality(ies) will sign an agreement ("convenio") with the Traffic Police
(Direccion de Vigilancia de Transito Terrestre de la Direccion General Sectorial
de Transporte Terrestre del MTC), following model terms prepared by FONTUR,
in which a clear commitment is made to carry out the necessary traffic law
enforcement functions and to provide the necessary human and material
resources to enable those functions to be performed;
(vi)   the municipality(ies) will devise and carry out a monitoring and ex-post
evaluation program; and
(vii)  the municipality(ies) will seek approval of FONTUR before initiating any
investment in the transport sector with a cost of more than US$ 3 million.
(e)   in the case of the Metropolitan Area of Caracas, for criteria (d), only items (i), (ii), (iii),
(iv) and (v) will apply.
the organizational structure will follow one of the models developed by FONTUR as appropriate
for municipalities of varying sizes.



64                                  ANNEX 4
Proiect Investment Criteria
3.    Any urban transport investment shall be considered eligible for financing under the Urban
Transport Program, either with FONTUR's own resources or with BID/Bank resources, provided the
following criteria are met. The proposed investment shall:
(a)    be in accordance with the policies and sectoral objectives established by MTC, and for
which FONTUR is the executing agent and, should form part of a city integrated
transport strategy acceptable to FONTUR;
(b)    be subject to an economic and operational evaluation which shows that the proposed
component is an efficient and effective solution to the identified problem.
(c}    have an economic rate of return of at least 12%;
(d)    have been subject to an environmental assessment. In the case of negative impacts,
appropriate mitigating measures should be devised and included. In the case that re-
settlement of people is involved, a re-settlement plan acceptable to FONTUR, the World
Bank and the IDB shall be included;
(e)   includes any necessary complementary institutional and policy action plans for
successful implementation and operation;
(f)    no single component shall have an implementation period greater than 18 months,
unless otherwise agreed by the FONTUR;
(g)   include maintenance program associated with the investment to be executed under the
program.



65                                    ANNEX 5
VENEZUELA
URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
SamDle of a Suborooect ADoraisal1
City Traffic and Transport Preparation Studies
1.   The proposed Bank Project will be an integral part of the FONTUR's National Urban Transport
Program. Eligibility criteria for city participation and for investment in traffic and transport
components have been defined in Annex 4. The Project has broader objectives than improvement
of traffic conditions in the participating cities. The primary objective of the Project is to improve
the capabilities and effectiveness of both local and national institutions involved in traffic and
transport planning and operations. This will be achieved through primarily through technical
assistance to FONTUR, municipalities and traffic police and through national and local training
programs for professionals and technicians in the sector. Thus, while important traffic operational
and efficiency gains will be made from the city transport investments, the city sub projects are also
mechanisms to assist the general development of the urban transport sector. Given the current
stage of development of city capabilities in the sector and the current level of traffic problems in
the cities, each city sub project concentrates on relatively simple measures which can be
implemented rapidly. Thus city sub projects are not comprehensive transport programs and do not
address all issues in the urban transport sector in each city.
2.   Five cities have prepared, or in the process of preparing, sub projects. The current results of
the preparation studies and the recommended investment proposals were presented to the Bank at
Appraisal. The status of the preparation studies is as follows:
(a)  the sub project preparation studies for traffic and transport measures have been in
progress since about May 1992 in the cities of Barquisimeto, Maracaibo, Merida,
Maturin and Ciudad Guayana;
(b)   while various technical comments remain, the sub project preparation study in
Barquisimeto has been completed;
(c)  the sub project preparation study is nearing completion in Maracaibo;
(d)   while the studies have defined investments in Ciudad Guayana, Maturin and Merida,
some additional work is required to establish the feasibility and costs of proposed
investments with greater confidence.
3.   The actions required to complete the subprojects such that they can be include in the Project
are outlined in the Action Plan (Annex 13);
City Maintenance ComDonent Preparation
4.   In parallel with the traffic and transport preparation studies, an assessment has been made in
each city of road maintenance requirements (see Annex 10). The assessment has enabled a draft
deferred maintenance plan to be established for each city.
1/   A subproject description is available for each of the cities appraised but given their length only a sample
is included in the appraisal report. All the others will be in the project file.



66                                   ANNEX 5
City Institutional DeveloDment
5.   As part of the traffic and transport sub project preparation studies, the consultants formed a
view on the institutional needs in each city to implement a successful traffic and maintenance
program. In parallel, FONTUR have carried out a broadly based institutional study (the Role of
Government Study) which established model traffic and transport organizations for municipalities of
varying size. Based on these two areas of work, a technical assistance program for the
municipalities has been defined by FONTUR (see Annex 6).
City Traffic and Transport Sub Proiects
6.   The basic population, travel characteristics for each city, and a description of the transport
conditions and subprojects for each city are included in Attachments (see project file) similar to
Attachment A below for Barquisimeto.



67                                   ANNEX 5f
ATTACHMENT A - BARQUISIMETO SUBPROJECT
Part A - Urban Development
1.   Location and Features The Metropolitan Area includes the cities of Barquisimeto (Municipality
of Iribarren) and Cabudare (Municipality of Palavecino). The area is located 255 km west-south-
west of Caracas. The Metropolitan Area is referred to as Barquisimeto in the present description.
2.   Spatial Develooment and City Form  Urbanized development in Barquisimeto extends over
about 21,705 ha. The city of Barquisimeto is broadly linear in form and is located between the Rio
Turbio (in the south) and high ground (to the north). The older, central area of the city comprises a
closely spaced, regular grid of narrow streets with a central plaza; land use is mixed commercial,
retail and lower income residential. An industrial area is located in the north west of the city and
an expanding residential areas to the west. Cabudare, 5 km to the south east, is a dormitory area
for Barquisimeto. The center of the Barquisimeto is by-passed in the north by the major east-west
Caracas-Valencia-Barquisimeto highway Ruta No. 1 (Ave. Libertador), and continues westward via
Carora to Maracaibo, although the road has become increasingly urban in character north of
Barquisimeto. A further east-west road, Ave. Riberehia, by-passes the city to the south; the road
has poor connections to the city, largely as result of topography. Within the Barquisimeto area
there are few north-south road connections and some major east-west roads are discontinuous.
Barquisimeto and Cabudare are linked by Ave. Intercomunal Barquisimeto-Cabudare and Ave.
Ribereffa.
3.   Population The population of the Metropolitan Area in 1990 was 745,000: Barquisimeto is
about 602,000 (80%) and Cabudare about 143,000. Between 1980 and 1990 a growth rate of
about 2.6 % per year was experienced and this rate is expected to continue with a population
prediction of 935,000 by 2000. Population growth trends are towards the northeast and
northwest sectors of the metropolitan area.
4.   Main Economic Activity Barquisimeto is an important regional service and commercial
center, and its citizens consider it the "fourth city in Venezuela", behind Caracas, Maracaibo, and
Valencia; industrially the city is expanding and includes major industrial zones to the northwest and
west, with railway transportation facilities.
Part B - Urban Transport Sector
5.   Motorization and Mobility Motorized trips number about 850,000 million per day. Public
transport (bus and por puesto) carry about 52% and private car about 48% of trips. Of the public
transport sector, buses carry 60,000 passengers per day (21 %), and por puestos carry 226,130
passengers per day (79%). The public transport fleet includes 1778 24-passenger por puesto
vehicles, and 77 70-passenger buses.
6.   Traffic and Transoort Conditions Traffic congestion in Barquisimeto is not yet all pervasive
or severe; it is most often located at particular main junctions causing journey times to vary wiely;
traffic and junction problems exist on Av Libertador (52,000 vpd, speeds from 8 to 40 kph), Av
Vargas (26,000 vpd, speeds from 4 to 34 kph), Av Venezuela (central area 44,500 vpd, speeds
from 10 to 58 kph) and similar conditions apply to other roads; various main junctions also
experience congestion - Los Leones, Cabudare and Pate'Palo. Congestion also occurs in the
vicinity of the inter-urban/urban bus terminal. Traffic accident deaths are reported at 68 in 1987
and 27 in 1988.



68                                   ANNEX 5
7.   Traffic management is of a relatively good standard but the staff team in the municipality is
small and lacks resources; the traffic control system (signals) is outdated and unresponsive to
traffic. Road markings are soon destroyed as conventional road paint is used.
8.   Road Maintenance The road network comprises about 200 kms and is maintained by the
MTC delegation. Road maintenance standards are reasonable; a sample of roads was reviewed for
Sub Project preparation showed that 67 km were in unacceptable condition and required some
form of rehabilitation. Particular problems occur on Avenida Libertador in the left turn lanes due to
high traffic volumes and tracking. There is no systematic maintenance planning, programming or
budgeting. In the expanding areas of the city, some bus routes in residential areas are unpaved.
9.   Public Trainsort In 1992, the public transport system in Barquisimeto comprised about 77
conventional buses (typical seating capacity of 45) and 1680 minibuses/por puestos (23 seats).
Recently, the state government introduced 40 buses at a subsidized fare of 60% of the existing
service. However, the public transport system is private sector owned and operated and comprises
21 owner-organizations. The bus fleet is not of high quality and offers little passenger attraction or
comfort. A flat fare system operates at 8B (US$ 0.1 1). There has been a trend for many years
(1979 to 1990) for the number of buses to decline (179 to 77) and por puestos to increase (1007
to 1680); the number of 'seats' offered has probably increased by about 35% in this period.
10.  The bus system is currently regulated by the transport and traffic unit office. Franchise
conditions cover fares and routes. Although the system allows for periodic franchise renewals and
for sanctions against operators who do not comply with the conditions, actions of this nature are
rarely, if ever, taken. The public transport system has developed in an uncoordinated and
inefficient manner and there is agreement that reform is probably best dealt with at the Municipal
level. This will be carried out through a public transport study under the Project.
11.  Traffic and Transport Institutions Road, traffic and transport matters in Barquisimeto are the
responsibility of the municipal Office of Metropolitan Traffic and Transport; the office has three
divisions (i) engineering, (ii) planning and studies and, (iii) control. The total staff of OMTT
comprises 4 professionals. OMPU and MTC also have some roles in the sector (planning major
roads, road maintenance etc).
Part C - Urban Transoort Issues and Obiectives
12.  Traffic and transport problems in Barquisimeto can be summarized as:
(a)  institutional - a lack of professionally qualified staff engaged in traffic and transport
matters and in road maintenance; the situation will worsen as decentralization
becomes a reality;
(b)   public transPort - poor levels of service arising from a combination of factors including
outdated and inappropriate regulatory framework, unrealistic tariffs which contribute
to a low quality service and a complex and outdated route structure; lack of paving of
bus routes in some outer areas increases operating cost;
(c)  road maintenance - a lack of systematic planning which will worsen as MTC hand over
responsibilities to the municipality;
(d) traffi - although congestion and safety are not yet severe, some problems exists and
significant benefits can be achieved with well directed, cost-effective and
management methods.



69                                    ANNEX 5
13.  The objectives of the Barquisimeto Sub Project are those of the Project in general, namely to
improve the operational efficiency of the traffic system, to improve the institutional capabilities of
Barquisimeto in the sector and to improve maintenance of urban transport infrastructure and
facilities.
Part D - Sub Proiect Institutional Comoonent
14.  Annex 6 describes the institutional strengthening (TA and equipment) program in which
Barquisimeto will participate. Additionally, it is proposed to include a public transport study (TOR
see Annex 8);
Part E - Traffic and Transgort Infrastructure and Euuioments Comoonent
1 5.  The component will assist in improving the operational efficiency of the system by alleviating
traffic congestion and by assisting public transport operations on a series of corridors and in the
central area. Works involved include traffic management (improved junction layouts, traffic signals,
revised circulation etc) applied at particular junctions or comprehensively along corridors, bus and
pedestrian priority (in the central area), new road connections to correct deficiencies in the
network, paving of bus routes and a program of marking and signing. The proposals are
summarized as follows:
(a)   Corridors The objectives of the schemes are to improve the level of service, efficiency
of traffic flows and increase safety of traffic operations on major corridors. The type
of works on each corridor are similar and include a program of signing, repaving,
thermoplastic road marking, channelization and modification of junctions, bus stop
relocation, new traffic signals (mostly linked) and controllers at junctions and revised
timings. The corridors proposed and their costs are (costs include design, supervision,
works, equipment and physical contingencies - the schemes have been design to avoid
any expropriation);
v    Ave. Libertador -- east-west corridor between Calle 33 to the east and Ave. Los
Leones to the west. (Estimated cost: US$ 2.2M.)
*    Ave. Venezuela -- east-west corridor through the CBD between Calle 42/Ave.
Romulo Gallegos with its connection with the Autopista Centro Occidental on
the east side. (Estimated cost: US$ 1.2M.)
*    Ave. Vargas -- corridor serving north-south traffic on extreme east side of the
city, from Carrera 16 north to Ave. Libertador. (Estimated cost: US$ 0.6M.)
Intercomunal Barquisimeto-Cabudare -- principal connector between
Barquisimeto and Cabudare from Cabudare to conection with the Autopista
Centro Occidental at the roundabout; includes Ave. Lara segment from Calle 2
to Intercomunal. (Estimated cost: US$ 1.3M)
(b)   Conflict Points (Intersections) The objectives of the schemes are to reduce congestion
and increase safety of traffic operations at major intersections on the main corridors.
The works involved at each intersection include widening approach lanes, new traffic
signals, controllers and timings, modification to traffic circulation. The intersections
proposed and are as follows (costs are included in the relevant corridor):
X    Ave. Libertador/Calle 22 (Pata e Palo) (Costs included with costs for Corridor
Ave. Libertador, above.)
X    Ave. Venezuela/Av Las Leones/Capanapro/Autopista Centro Occidental. (Costs
included with costs for Corridor Ave. Venezuela, above.)



70                                   ANNEX 5
Intercomunal Barquisimeto Cabudare/Ave. La Mata (Costs included with costs
for Intercomunal Barquisimeto-Cabudare, above.)
(c)   Bus Terminal Area The bus terminal area is congested and buses experience difficulty
in gaining access at Calle 42. In the short terms, it is to introduce a series of traffic
management measures including an exclusive bus access lane and revised traffic
circulation pattern for buses and traffic to ease the congestion problem. The works
involve changes in traffic flow directions, new road markings and signing, new traffic
signals and controllers, and new bus routes. (Estimated cost: US$ 0.3M.)
(d)   Central Area Traffic Scheme The objectives of the scheme are to improve the level of
service of traffic operations and to improve bus operations and pedestrian conditions.
This will be achieved through a series of measures including revised traffic circulation,
new traffic signals system (including coordination), introduction of exclusive
bus/pedestrian streets, relocation of bus stops, reconfiguration of road cross sections
and other minor traffic management works. (Estimated cost: US$ 2.1 1 M.)
(e)   Access to Av Riberena The main highway to the south of the city is not used
effectively due to poor access. It is proposed to utilize the full potential of the road by
improving the access/connections to the existing road network and by improving the
junctions. Works will involve limited road construction through difficult terrain.
Geometrics will not be ideal since Av Riberena is at a low level and access to the
existing network will involve a relatively steep gradient; preliminary investigations
show the design to be acceptable in urban conditions but will be verified at final
design stage. (Estimated cost: USS 2.52M.)
(f)   Public Transoort Imorovement Two categories of measure are proposed. First, with
the objective of reducing the costs of operation of buses/por puestos, it is proposed to
pave some 28 kms of bus routes - presently unpaved. Second, it is proposed to
improve the quality of bus services by introducing bus stop shelters. (Total cost of
the component is estimated at: US$ 4.9M.)
Part F- Maintenance Comoonent
16.  See Annex 10
Part G - Proiect Costs and Financing
17.  Cs  The Barquisimeto Sub Project total cost is estimated as US$ 1 5.6M. The Sub Project
cost estimates (Oct 1992) have been based on feasibility plans (1:1000 scale) for physical works
and estimates for equipment; physical contingencies have been allocated at 15%; price
contingencies have been based on projected international inflation rates of 3.7%/year. No
expropriation is involved in the project.
18.  Financina Plan  The financing plan would be the same as for the Project in general (see
Table 3.3, Chapter 3).
Part H - SubProiect Evaluation
19.  Economic Benefits for the majority of components (90% of total Sub Project costs) have
been quantified in accordance with the methodology and principles described in Annex 11. It is



71                                   ANNEX 5
estimated that, based on vehicle operating costs savings, component IRR's range from 10% to
56% with an overall figure of 27%. If time savings are included, the IRR's rise to 37% to 120%
with an overall value of 73%. It is estimated that about 19% of the benefits accrue to the urban
poor.
20.  Environmental. Environmental conditions are not believed to be affected greatly in
Barquisimeto by transport factors. In general it is assessed that the Sub Project will have a neutral
impact on (i) noise, (ii) segregation of communities and (iii) urban heritage. In the case of accidents
and vehicle emitted pollution, the impacts should be positive as in the former case, improved
junction an road layout should lead to safer traffic operations and in the latter case, improve traffic
operations should lead to less congestion and thus less vehicle emitted pollutants under idling
conditions.
Part I - SubProiect Execution
21.  Proiect Organization and Manaaement As defined in the SAR, FONTUR would be responsible
for overall Project supervision. The Municipality of Barquisimeto would be responsible for day-to-
day SubProject implementation matters through the strengthened Traffic and Transport Planning
Unit. The head of the Unit would also be designated as SubProject Manager.
22.  ImDlementation Schedule The physical works of the Sub Project will be implemented over
4.5 years.
Part J - Proiect Risks
23.  The major Sub Project risk is institutional. Traffic and transport planning are relatively new
fields of activity in Barquisimeto and staff involved are inexperienced. It is proposed to minimize
the risk by: (i) the creation of a Traffic and Transport Unit to provide the focus for traffic and
transport actions, (ii) ensuring adequate staff numbers, (iii) providing of full time technical
assistance to support and train the staff Isee Annex 6) , and (iv) by the provision of a National
Training Program (Part A of the Project) in which Barquisimeto staff must participate in order to
qualify for the Municipal Strengthing Component.



72                                   ANNEX 6
VENEZUELA
URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Institutional Strenathenina ProaraM for FONTUR and Municipalities
Backaround
1.   Until recently, the transfer of central government funds to local entities for urban transport
improvements was primarily a subject for negotiation between the central government and the local
agencies involved. Only limited evaluation of projects was carried out. With the creation of FONTUR,
the procedures of allocating federal funds to municipalities (for transport infrastructure and traffic
systems) and to the private sector (for the enhancement of the public transport fleet, mainly buses),
are undergoing change. To qualify for federal funds, projects will have to be subject to evaluation and
only those which meet acceptable technical, economic, financial, environmental and social evaluation
standards. Projects must also form part of an acceptable urban transport strategy developed from an
integrated urban transport study of the municipality concerned.
2.   The responsibilities and role of FONTUR in this process has been described in Annex 2.
However, the role includes the promotion of national urban transport policy, the technical evaluation
of projects for eligibility under the National Urban Transport Program (and thus the Bank project since
it is an integral part) and to assist in the decentralization of urban transport functions by strengthening
municipalities. The structure of FONTUR and the responsibilities have been fully described in Annex
2. Broadly, FONTUR has been organized into three basic divisions:
(i)   Operations - responsible for promotion of municipal programs, coordination of programs,
supervision of progress of programs, progress reporting to FONTUR management and
identification of technical assistance needs at local level;
(ii)  Programs - responsible for technical, economic and financial evaluation of projects to be
financed from FONTUR resources, development of methods suitable for the analyses of
projects in the Venezuelan urban context, supervision of preinvestment work )studies,
preparation of projects and so on);
(iii)  "Convenios" (Agreement) - responsible for administration of the "convenios" with
agencies receiving funds, supervision of agency compliance with convenio agreements
and financial supervision. agencies;
3.   FONTUR is a new agency and staff at this stage lack experience in the sector. Additionally,
systematic planning of urban transport, apart from Caracas Metro, does not have a strong tradition in
Venezuela. Thus, it will be necessary to support and strengthen FONTUR during the next few years
to enable it to fulfill its functions effectively. It is not intended that FONTUR become a large unwieldy
bureaucracy and much of the routine work (such as project supervision) will be contracted to private
sector consultants. Thus, a strengthening program has been defined comprising: (a) technical
assistance - international, (b) technical assistance - national, (c) equipment (computers, software etc),
(d) consultant supervision program and, (e) studies. Details are as follows.
Technical Assistance. Consultant Services and Eauipment for FONTUR
4.   Technical assistance will be provided under the Project to assist FONTUR in the key technical
areas of traffic engineering, transport planning, public transport operations, infrastructure maintenance



73                                   ANNEX 6
management and transport economics. The technical assistance will assist FONTUR to develop
methodologies, processes, work programs and appropriate methodologies to be used throughout the
Program, the Bank project and municipality studies. A prime function will be to assist in the evaluation
of municipality transport investments proposed for financing under FONTUR's program and the Project.
5.   International Technical Assistance. 162 staff months of technical assistance has been allocated
to the three FONTUR operating divisions at an estimated cost of US$1.92 million. This level of
technical assistance is proposed over the first 2 to 3 years of the Project. Since this is a large
program, it is necessary to monitor closely its effectiveness and success. In the first instance, it is
proposed that the technical assistance core team be contracted over 12 months (that is for 60 staff
months) and that at the first Annual Review Meeting of the Project or 9 months after the appointment
of the technical assistance (whichever is the earliest), FONTUR with the participation of the Bank
would evaluate progress. It would then be decided (i) if the team as constituted is effective and if it
should continue unchanged or if it should be subject to change of skills or personnel and (ii) if the
additional staff resources (102 staff months) should be committed and to which skill area and for what
period. Thus, the program is:
Additional Allocation subject
Technical Assistance            Initial Contract                to review
(Specialist Area)             (Staff months)                (Staff months)
PROGRAM DIVISION
Transport Planner                         12                           12
Traffic Engineer                          12                           12
Transport Economist                       12                           12
OPERATIONS DIVISION
Procurement Adviser                       6                             0
Supervision Adviser                       6                            12
CONVENIO  DIVISION                                                     12
Financial Adviser 1                       12
Financial Adviser 2                       0                            24
Contingency                               0                            18
TOTAL                                     60                           102
6.   Terms of reference for the initial 12-month period, including general profiles for specialists in
each technical assistance area are included in the project file and will be confirmed at negotiations.
7.   Proposals for the technical assistance will be solicited internationally (Venezuelan consultants
will be eligible) in accordance with Bank guidelines for consulting services.
8.   It will be essential, if the technical assistance team is to be effective, that FONTUR is fully
staffed in the relevant divisions; thus, at effectiveness assurances should be received that FONTUR
have appropriate staff levels.
9.   Consultant SuDervision Proaram. FONTUR proposes to supervise projects through the use of
local consultants. US$1.72 million has been allocated for the first two years of the Project, which is
equivalent to 172 staff months. After this time, it is anticipated that FONTUR will carry out the work,
using local consultants, with their own resources. Specimen terms of reference are included in the



74                                    ANNEX 6
project file; these will be modified by the FONTUR international technical assistance team as each
specific city project or study arises and requires supervision.
10.  Eauipment. An allocation of US$200,000 has also been made to provide FONTUR with office
equipment such as personal computers, traffic and transport planning software and video equipment.
Technical Assistance for Municipalities,,
11.  FONTUR is aware that: li) municipalities have little capability in the urban traffic and transport
sector, (ii) national consultants have little experience in the sector, and (iii) technology transfer to
municipalities can only take place if there is a permanent technical assistance presence within the
municipalities by a combined program of national and international technical assistance. The program
is described below.
12.  International Technical Assistance would comprise a group of seven international consultants
contracted for two years (168 staff months) as follows:
(a)   a team of two in each of the larger cities of Maracaibo and Barquisimeto; and
(b)   one in each of the medium-sized cities of Merida, Cuidad Guayana and Maturin.
13.  The two-man international technical assistance team in the cities of Maracaibo and Barquisimeto
will comprise:
(a)   a public transport specialist (24 staff months); and
(b)   a traffic/transport planner (24 staff months).
14.  The technical adviser in Merida, Cuidad Guayana and Maturin will comprise a transport
planner/engineer who, typically, will be experienced in working in a number of traffic/transport
departments of a large city. Thus, 24 staff-months over two years will be required for each of the tree
medium-sized cities (a total of 72 staff-months).
15.  The technical assistance advisers in each city will (i) deal with day-to-day project problems such
as scheme design and planning, (ii) establish working practices in the cities, set up data bases, (iii)
conduct seminars for local staff and consultants, and (iv) provide on-the-job training to the national
consultants (see below) allocated to each city.
16.  To ensure consistency of approach in each of the cities and to provide skills which may be
lacking in the relatively small local teams, it will be a duty of the FONTUR international technical
assistance to provide back-up services to the municipalities.
17.  Proposals for the technical assistance will be sought internationally (Venezuelan consultants will
be eligible) in accordance with Bank guidelines. Given the dispersed nature of the team throughout
the 5 cities, an allocation of 6 staff months has been included to enable the selected firm to coordinate
the activities of the staff in each city. As with the FONTUR team, the municipal international technical
assistance will be subject to review after the first year; thus, the contract will be for an initial 12
,, Terms of Reference for the TA are available in the project file



75                                    ANNEX 6
month period (a total of 84 staff months) and will be subject to review and change for the second 84
staff months.
18.  National Technical Assistance The national technical assistance team will comprise 3 staff for
each city over a period of 4 years. The teams will be in the nature of supplementary staff for each city
for the 4 years. After that time, municipalities will take over the financing of their own staff. Thus,
the Project will include financing for 144 staff months for each city giving a total of 720 staff months.
Staff will be mid-range or newly qualified transport specialists (e.g., with a masters degree but without
extensive operational experience) who will gain practical experience and guidance from the
international municipal technical assistance. The following specialist areas are proposed:
(a)   a public transport planner;
(b)   a traffic engineer/planner; and
(c)   a maintenance engineer
19.  Proposals for the technical assistance will be solicited nationally since it is aim to transfer
technology to local personnel. As with the FONTUR and municipality international team, the technical
assistance would be subject to review after the first year and the technical assistance contract would
be for the initial 1 2-month period and subject to review and change for the subsequent period. Terms
of reference for this technical assistance have been prepared and discussed with the Bank.
20.  Eauipment An allocation of US$ 1.2 million (240,000 for each city) has been made for
equipment, computers and traffic, transport and maintenance planning software. Final needs will be
determined by the international technical assistance team as a matter of priority.
21.  Study Tours. Much has been done within Latin America in the context of urban transport,
including public transport operations and planning, infrastructure maintenance and traffic management
particularly, for example, in Brazil, Argentina and Chile. It is proposed to arrange study tours to each
of these countries to review appropriate measures. The program would be devised by the international
consultants. Tours could also be made to relevant cities in Europe and the USA to complement Latin
American experience in traffic management, public transport planning and operation and maintenance
management. Costs are estimated at US$ 390,000 for study tours for staff from all 5 municipalities
to other countries.
Structure of Municipalities
22.  During sub project preparation in each city, the consultants carried out an initial review of the
type of organization necessary for the successful implementation of a sub project. In parallel, FONTUR
has carried out a broadly based institutional study (the Role of the Government) which, inter alia,
defines model organizations in the traffic and transport sector for municipalities of varying size. It is
a condition of city eligibility under the project that each municipality must have or strengthen
appropriate traffic, public transport and maintenance or strengthen appropriate traffic, public transport
and maintenance units. Municipalities face problems in that there is a shortage of specialized staff.
In the short term, it is proposed that (i) the recommended FONTUR structure be legally established;
(ii) that the head of the relevant units (traffic, maintenance and public transport as appropriate) be
designated; and (iii) the national consultants (see para 15) provide the counterpart staff capability. In
the medium term and before, or by the time of the mid term Project review, the municipality must
appoint local counterpart staff at a level approved by the Bank.



76                                                 ANNEX 6
Costs of the Proaram
23.   Costs of the program  are estimated as follows in Table 6.1:
Table 6.1: Summary Cost Estimates, Insttutional Strengthening
(US$ million)
Staff
Months      1993       1994       1995       1996       1997       1998       Total
FONTUR Intenational TA             162        1.22       1.22                                                   2.44
FONTUR Consultant Services         172       0.86       0.86                                                     1.72
FONTUR Equipment                   N/A       0.125      0.075                                                   0.20
FONTURSub Total          l         2[21                 2.16                                                    4 | 4 37   ||
Municipality Intenationel TA       168                                                                          2.10
Municipality National TA           720       0 36       0.36        0.36       0 36       0 36       0.36       2.16
Municipality Equipment             N/A       0 60       0.60                                                     1.20
Municipality Study Tours           N/A       0 195      0.195                                                   0.39
| Municipality Sub Total             888       2.21     | 2.21     | 0.36       0.36     1 0.36      | 036        5.S5



77                                   ANNEX 7
VENEZUELA
URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
The National Trainina Proaram
Backaround
1.   It is FONTUR's aim to promote improvements in the Venezuelan urban transport sector through
well planned, well directed and justified improvement programs. This will be achieved through the
MTC Urban Transport Program for which FONTUR is the executing agency. The Program will provide
federal (FONTUR) grants to cities on the condition that cities, inter alia, prepare an transport
investment program and undertake an institutional strengthening program aimed at improving the
professional level of engineers and managers involved in the provision and maintenance of urban
transport services.
2.   Urban transportation planning and management in Venezuelan cities is not carried out
systematically. The cities lack not only appropriate organization, but most importantly, lack personnel
with the ability to plan systems, to analyze alternative solutions and investment programs, to manage
and to maintain transport systems. In order to improve the level of urban transport planning and
management in Venezuelan urban areas generally and in the 20 cities which FONTUR has identified
as first priority, a training program has been defined and will be implemented under the Program and
within the Bank project.
National Trainino Proaram Obiectives
3.   The objectives of the National Training Program (NTP) are as follows:
(a)        to train, in a short time, a nucleus of professionals such that they have
understanding of urban transport issues, urban transport planning, methodologies
for analyses (operational, economic, etc) of alternative transport and traffic actions
and such that they are able to prioritize transport investments;
(b)        to develop the staff capabilities required to improve urban traffic planning,
engineering and management practice, and;
(c}        to promote and strengthen the technical staff capabilities in the urban traffic and
transport sector through permanent training programs.
4.   To accomplish the objectives, an integrated National Training Program (NTP) is program is
envisaged. The NTP will cover training for professionals, training for administrators and managers,
training for technicians and for public transport operators. The program is described as follows.
Intensive and Foundation Courses
5.   The Intensive Course - intensive courses of about 4 months duration are proposed aimed at
engineers, economists and urban planners with the objective of providing basic training in planning for
urban transport, including public transport. The courses will be devised and run by experienced
professionals with practical knowledge in the field and participants will be drawn from FONTUR and
the municipalities.



78                                    ANNEX 7
6.   The Intensive Course will comprise five modules:  i) Transport Planning, (ii) Traffic Engineering,
(ONi Traffic Management, (iv) Transport Economics, (v) Public transportation. Each module would be
divided into a series of lectures on specific subjects. Details of the modules are:
(a)   Transoort Plannins - the module would cover the following aspects: objectives of urban
transport; aims of regional and urban planning and their interaction; urban transport
planning methodologies; modeling urban transport demand characteristics and flow;
consideration for model selection; data needs and geographic considerations; surveys and
sampling; preparation of alternative scenarios and characteristics of urban transport
systems; available software evaluation; comprehensive planning output; evaluation and
the preparation of investment programs; workshops would be expected in all areas;
(b)   Traffic Enaineerino - the module would cover the basics in: the design of urban roads and
expressways; traffic surveys and methods of application; traffic flow characteristics; road
and signalized intersection capacity and intersection design (priority, grade separated,
signalized); the use of state of the art software for calculation of levels of service;
demonstration and exercises in use of software packages; workshops would be expected
in all areas;
(c)   Traffic Manaaement - the course would cover the traffic administration aspects including:
road traffic safety data and planning; signing and marking; design and policy planning for
parking; priorities and reserved systems for road based public transport; pedestrian
schemes; bicycle schemes; planning for goods vehicles; software and its application for
short term planning; workshops would be expected in all areas;
(d)   Public Transoort - the module would cover the basics in: characteristics of public
transport systems, (taxis, por-puestos, buses, light rail, metro systems); definition of level
of service; public transport route planning; public transport line planning; public transport
operations; regulation and privatization issues within the Venezuelan regulation
framework; public transport company operation considerations (operations, tariff
structures and profitability); workshops would be expected in all areas; and
(e)   Transoortation Economics - the module would cover the basics in: methods for evaluating
projects; vehicle operating costs and time related benefits; externalities; with and without
evaluation process and considerations; sensitivity analysis; growth consideration; the
evaluation of single projects; first year benefits, net present value, internal rate of return;
priorities and the preparation of investment programs; workshops would be expected in
all areas
7.   Each module would contain lectures, workshops, exercises and laboratory sessions and, if
appropriate, field exercises.
8.   The duration of the Intensive Course would be 4 months with a regime of 40 hours of lectures,
exercises, workshops and laboratories each week. Thus, each module is estimated to be of about 100
hours duration for an Intensive Course total of 500 hours. The final preparation and delivery of the
course will be contracted and final details will be determined by the contracted course presenters.
9.   Foundation Course A foundation course will be provided for participants of the Intensive Course.
The course will of about 160 hours duration and thus last about 4 weeks. The course will include an
introduction to personal computers, the use of basic software packages, basic statistics and basic
economics. The Foundation Course will be developed and presented by the same providers as the
Intensive Course.



79                                    ANNEX 7
10.  Intensive Course and Foundation Course Procurement Final development and provision of the
two courses will be sought from qualified organizations on a competitive basis. The procedures to be
followed are set out in Attachment A, 'Prequalification of Organizations for the Development of
Foundation and Intensive Courses for the national Training Program'. Proposals will be sought from
national and international organizations. So that technology transfer is achieved, international
organizations will be required to seek active participation of a Venezuelan university (or similar institute
or organization).  The procedures would be in accordance with the Bank procedures for the
procurement of consultant services.
Manaaers/Administrators Courses
11.  The courses would be aimed at supervisors and managers in municipalities and in FONTUR. The
aim is to provide a greater understanding of urban transport issues and procedures. The courses would
cover management and administration of transport projects, preparation of budgets, project execution,
structure and legislative organization of the sector. Courses would be limited to 25 participants and
would have a duration of about 40 hours.
Technician Courses
12.  The courses would be at city level and would be aimed at technicians in the sector with the aim
of developing familiarization with basic techniques used in the analysis of the sector. The courses
would cover geometric design and channelization, analysis of road and signals capacity, road marking,
signing, accident analysis, parking control, bus operations, public transport tariffs, financing urban
transport priority for public transport, management of public transport. The course would be about
80 hours duration.
Loaistics Course
13.  The course would be at city level and would be aimed at technicians. The course would cover
use of microcomputers, traffic surveys and control and operation of public transport. The course
would be about 40 hours duration.
Public Transport Operator Trainins
14.  The course would be aimed at administrators, operators and those responsible for the
maintenance of the public transport fleet. The course would cover bus company administration,
personnel management, routine company operations, defensive driving, basic mechanical
understanding, public relations, transport legislation, and municipal legislation affecting public
transport. The course would be of about 40 hours duration.
Proaram Evaluation
15.  The Bank project would finance an Evaluation of the National Training Program to determine the
impact of the various courses. The aim would assess the success of courses and allow for their
adjustment and improvement during and after the program.



80                                   ANNEX 7
Traininn Abroad
16.  The objective of training abroad is to increase the specialist skills in urban transport planning and
traffic engineering in Venezuela and to assist the development of the profession in the sector. The
areas of specialization and the location of overseas training would be determined by FONTUR, with the
assistance of their technical assistants, during the Project implementation period. At this stage,
training of about 3 months duration is proposed for each of about 16 professionals. The professionals
will be selected for the program by a committee established by FONTUR for this purpose. It is
proposed that a participant should enter an obligation to work for two years in the organization from
which they come once the training has been completed.
17.  Selected successful participants from the intensive course or professionals with comparable
background from FONTUR would be eligible for overseas study specialize in specific sector areas such
as transport economics, urban roads, public transport operations, transportation modeling, etc.
Execution of the Courses
18.  The courses would be initiated in 1994 and repeated in 1995 and 1996. Details of the proposed
chronogram and participants are as follows:
(a)  Intensive and Foundation Courses - to be held three times, once in 1994, in 1995 and
1996. Thirty professional would participate in each year; they would stay in the city
(location to be decided) where the courses was delivered for the full duration of 5 months
and attend all lectures, practical, workshops and laboratories;
(b)   Manauers/Administrators Courses - the courses would be held regionally in Venezuela (in
the centre, east and west), once per year for three consecutive years starting in 1 994.
Participants would stay throughout the course in the selected city; places would be
offered to all municipalities in the region at the beginning of the year and FONTUR would
prepare a basic program including selected city, detailed contents, duration etc;
(c)   Technician Courses - the courses would be held regionally in Venezuela (in the centre,
east and west), once per year for four consecutive years starting in 1994. A city would
be selected for the courses and participants would stay throughout the course in the
selected city; the number of places would be determined on the basis of municipality
demand; FONTUR would prepare the program at the beginning of each year;
(d)   Logistic Courses - the courses would be held in 20 cities in Venezuela during 6 years,
with 5 cities per year. In 1994, the courses would be held in the 5 cities within which
Bank projects are to be executed.
(e)   Public Transport Ooerator Training - the courses would be held in 20 times 4 times per
year throughout 6 years from 1 994 to 1 998. It is programmed to give the course to
about 25 persons on each occasion.



81                                         ANNEX 7
ResDonsibilities for Mananement. Preparation and Delivery of Courses
19.  Responsibilities are as follows:
(a)    Mananement - FONTUR will be responsible for (i) preparation of all terms of reference,
short listing procedures, evaluation of proposals, contract negotiations etc for consultants
to prepare and deliver the courses, (ii) all course administration such as publicizing with
municipalities, selection of participants, selection of regional centres for the courses.
arranging participant accommodation, program planning and scheduling and (iii) the
procurement of all hardware required by the course (such as visual display equipment,
computers etc) unless otherwise specific din the consultants terms of reference. FONTUR
will be assisted in these tasks by the their technical assistance team;
(b)   PreDaration of Curriculae and Course Contents - consultants (organizations or firms or
universities) would prepare all courses in response to FONTUR's terms of reference; and
(c)   Deliverv - consultants (organizations or firms or universities) would prepare all courses in
response to FONTUR's terms of reference. The delivery would include the provision of
all course material specific to the course such as lecture notes, workshop materials etc.
Costs of Courses and Proiect Particioation
20.   It is proposed to fund all courses under the Bank project. The exception will be that the Project
will not fund salaries of participants; these will be met by the parent organization. Based on this
principle the costs of the program are estimated as follows;
Table 7.1: Summmary of National Training Program Costs
(US$ Millions)
Expenses for    Expenses for    Number  Total
TRAINING COLURE            Preparation   Delivery      Delivery     Participants    Courses   Cost
Intensive and Foundatlon  0.066           0.132        0.036          0.590         3        2.34
Management/Administration  0.004          0.008        0.001          0.027         9        0.82
Technician                0.008           0.016        0.002          0.049         12       0.82
Logistic Development      0.004           0.008        0.001          0.027         30       1.08
Public Transport Operator  0.004          0.008        0.001          0.027         60       2.16
TOTAL OF PROGRAM                                                                             7.22



82                                  ANNEX 8
VENEZUELA
URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Institutional Development and Policy Component Studies
1.    The Institutional and Policy component of the proposed project will be undertaken both at the
central government level {Parts Al and A5) as well as at the municipality level (Part A3,B4). These
studies will recommend plans of action which are necessary to ensure the policy reforms sought with
the project. Next, an outline of the studies planned is given.
A.    Studies at the Central Level
2.    The studies required at this level are intended to strengthen FONTUR as a central agency for
financing urban transport, to provide recommendations on how to mobilize and allocate resources for
funding of future projects, to review the federal subsidy policies and recommend changes, to review
and recommend changes in DGSTT'S responsibilities for urban transport,to recommend changes in the
transit law.
Review gf FONTUR's Orcanizational Structure
3.    Although FONTUR's organizational structure described in Annex 2 responds to the immediate
needs of an organization of this type, it is recommended that foreign consultants who worked in similar
organizations in their countries, prepare a review and detailed analysis of the functions and job
descriptions for the key divisions and posts of the organization. This review and fine tuning will take
into account that FONTUR should be a small organization, with very transparent procedures to allocate
funds to municipalities and capable of evaluating with authority from the technical, economic and
financial standpoints the proposals submitted by the municipalities. The study will also propose how
FONTUR should function to carry out its evaluation and supervision tasks, whether it should do it in
house or through consultants. FONTUR has hired a local firm to prepare its original organization but
it is felt that the team lacked specialists in central organizations of this type. This review should not
require more than 8 person weeks and must be ready prior to negotiations for approval by the Bank.
Review of DGSTT's Organizational Structure
4.    DGSTT is the MTC directorate in charge of land transport and its three divisions (ing. de
transito, transporte and vigilancia) have responsibilities in urban transport which are not very clear
since the decentralization of responsibilities to municipalities took place. In addittion, the DGSTT's
planning office is responsible for the formulation of policies. This study will review the existing
structure and propose changes in the attributions of DGSTT, ensure a formal coordination with
FONTUR and will recommend after discussions with DGSTT and FONTUR the basic text for ammending
the reglamento organico of the MTC. This study should not require more than 3 person months with
1 person month of an expatriate consultant with experience in this area. The study should be ready
prior to effectiveness.
Resource Mobilization and Allocation Procedures
5.    FONTUR's capability in mobilizing funds and its transparency in allocating and chanelling them
to the municipalities will be two of the main aspects by which its credibility will be judged. FONTUR's



83                                  ANNEX 8
funds are not earmarked and therefore every year FONTUR must prepare and justify a budget to be
discussed with Congress. This might be an unreliable source of funds. How can a minimum amount
be guaranteed for urban transport? Once the funds are obtained the problem is how to allocate them.
The criteria and allocation formulas must be carefully studied to ensure equity between the several
parts of the country, to promote public transport rather than the automobile, to favor private versus
public ownership, to foster environmentally friendly solutions and to reward municipalities which take
steps towards reducing regulatory barriers. This study will require not more than 12 person months
of which 6 person months of expatriate inputs by specialists with experience in this area. The study
should take place after effectiveness but be ready not later than 12 months after signing.
Review of National Subsidies
6.    During the preparation of the proposed project, a quick study of subsidies was undertaken and
some of its recommendations, especially those concerning the student subsidy, are being tried on a
pilot city. However, the fact remains that there are a number of national government subsidies such
as the student subsidy, the special fares for military and old age citizens, the bono de transporte, the
grants to finance acquisition of new vehicles, the payment of depreciation and cost of capital of the
metro system, and the fuel subsidy. Although some of these subsidies might be justified in the short
run, their gradual elimination in the long run will be desireable. A review of the subsidy policy from
the macroeconomic standpoint and its weight on the national budget is necessary. To protect the low
income classes for which home-to-work-trips may cost a sizeable percentage of their household income
the targeting of some subsidies might be justified. But what cannot continue is a system in which fares
are set below costs and both users and operators are subsidized. This study will investigate in detail
the validity for and costs of the existing subsidies, will propose ways to increase their targeting or their
elimination and will recommend an action plan and timetable for the proposed measures. The study
will analyse the relation between variables such as fares, vehicle operating costs, household income,
minimum salary, typical home-to-work trips, fuel costs, etc. This study would be carried out by a
recognized world specialist in this area and should take 12 person months of which 6 person months
of a local specialist. This study should be ready not later than 12 months after the signing of the loan.
Review of the 'Lev de Transito"
7.    The present Ley de Transito is outdated and needs to be revised to allow effective enforcement
of traffic regulations. Previous attempts to ammend the law were not successful, may be because not
adequate time and expertise was dedicated to update that law on th basis of experiences in other
countries. This study will produce a draft of the new law for discussion and all the supporting
documentation required for the hearings. This study will require a maximum of 12 person months and
should be ready not later than 18 months after signing.
National Manaaement Information System for Urban TransDort
8.    This study will consist in the design and pilot implementation at the national level, of a
management information system on urban transport. The system will include a data base of statistical,
operating and financial information provided by the municipalities on the basis of standard
questionnaires which will be updated on a period basis. This data base will allow FONTUR to measure
the progress achieved by the municipalities towards agreed goals and will serve as an input for the
annual allocation of funds. The study is expected to require 12 person months and be prepared over
a 3 month period.



84                                   ANNEX 8
B.    Studies at the Municipal Level
Integral Plans
9.    The centerpiece of the studies at this level is the Integrated Urban Transport strategy which
includes: il a traffic management study with the identification, selection and technical and economic
evaluation of the low cost measures required for improvement of the traffic conditions in the
municipality; ii) a public transport study which will address all the regulatory aspects of public transport
in the municipality such as market entry, route and fare regulation, subsidy policy, service to sparsely
populated areas, type of vehicles, private versus public organization, to mention only some; iii) an
institutional study which will address the type of organizational units which must be set up at the
municipality level to handle traffic management, public transport and road maintenance/ construction;
and, iv) a detailed study of the deferred road maintenance needs of the municipality and of the road
paving and new construction required in the municipality.
10.   For the cities already appraised only part {i) above was done. As a condition of elegibility the
other parts must be completed and discussed and approved by the municipalities 6 months prior to mid
term review. At mid term review, FONTUR and the Bank will examine the progress and willingness of
the municipality to implement the recommendations of the study. For the new municipalities applying
to the program, the preparation of the integrated urban transport strategy is a requirement to qualify
for any funding. The integral urban transport strategy should not require more than 12 person months
for cities other than Caracas broken down as follows: part i) 4 person months; part ii) 3 person
months; part iii) 2 person months; part iv) 3 person months. Of the total 12 person months at least
50% of parts i),ii) and iii) must be done with expatriate consultants with experience in Bank projects.
The cost of each integral urban transport strategy should not exceed US$ 150,000.
institutional Study for The Caracas MetroDolitan Renion
11.   The existence of 5 municipalities in the Caracas metropolitan region, without a common body
in charge of joint traffic and transport coordination, is one of the reasons why tariff and modal
integration are difficult if not impossible. The only exception to this are the federally owned
Metro/Metrobus systems which are not under the jurisdiction of a single municipality. This study will
consist of a thourough review of the institutional framework in the Caracas Metropolitan Region and
the recommendation of an agency with proportional representation which would coordinate the
planning, financing and operation of urban transport in the Caracas Metropolitan Region. This study
will be undertaken over a 12 month period and will require 18 person months.
Motor Vehicle Emissions Control Study
12.   This study will evaluate the present situation and trends in air quality and transport related air
pollution in Caracas; develop an integrated transport air quality management strategy and prepare
selected elements of the strategy for possible financing by the World Bank, the Global Environmental
Fund and/other multilateral and bilateral sources. This study is expected to require 15 person months
over a period of one year.
Leaal Framework for Public Transport
13.   This study will design the legal framework for public transport at the local level. In fact,
although the municipalities are responsible for urban transport, there is no basic legal framework at the



85                                         ANNEX 8
municipality level to define the responsibilities of the municipalities and of the operators. This study
will produce legal texts which could be used as models by the municipalities to create the legal
framework required for the provision of urban transport services. This study is expected to require 1 2
person months.
Accident ReDortina System
14.    This study will define the accident reporting systems to be used in each municipality by the
the traffic police and the type of annual reports to be prepared to identify areas for improvement. This
study is expected to require 6 person months.
Table 8.1: Summary of Institutional and Policy Component Studies
Number
Name                  of person   Estimated Cost           To be completed by
months      in $ 1000's
CENTRAL LEVEL
FONTUR organization                      2            24         Negotiations
DGSTT organization                                    31         Effectiveness
Resource Mobilization and allocation    12            120        8 months after effectiveness
Review of National Subsidies            12            120        8 months after effectiveness
Review of Ley de Transito               12           9S          12 months after effectiveness
UT Management Information System        12            9e         8 months after effectiveness
MunicipalIty Level                                                                           l
Integral plans:
Cities already appraised                6-9           640         13 months after signing of subproject
agreement
Cities not yet appraised               8 12           864         13 months after signing of subproject
agreement
Institutional study for the Caracas     18            270        36 months after loan effectiveness
Met. Region                                                                                           l
Caracas Motor Vehicle Emissions         10            250        36 months after loan effectiveness
Control
Public Transport Local Legal            12            144        to be discussed
Framework
Accident Reporting System                8            72         to be discussed
TOTAL                    221           2827



86                                   ANNEX 8
VENEZUELA
URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
ATTACHMENT 1- Public Transoort Study - Outline Terms of Reference
Backaround.
1.    In late 1 989, the Venezuelan Government began to transfer various responsibilities to the state
and municipal Governments, in accordance with its policy of power decentralization and the new
municipal law. In September 1991, it created the National Fund for Urban Transport (FONTUR), which
is now responsible for the development of national urban transport strategies and for the allocation of
Government funds budgeted for urban transport.
2.    Public transport in Venezuela's cities is provided by a large number private operators, who are
grouped into trade associations for bus and por-puesto (minibus and passenger car) owners. Fares are
now controlled by local Government; in order to keep them low, the national Government gives grants
for vehicle purchases and monthly operating subsidies and, in about 5 cities, local Government owns
and operates subsidized public transport services. This is at odds with an overall policy to gradually
remove subsidies and other measures which cause price distortions and inefficiencies in Venezuela's
economy.
3.    One of FONTUR's concerns is to reconcile the transport needs of the urban poor and the long-
existing custom of subsidized fares with the requirements of a modern market economy and the need
to provide adequate and sustainable urban transport. In collaboration with the World Bank and the
Inter-American Development Bank, it has developed a $300 million program of urban transport
improvements. The study specified in these terms of reference is a part of that program; the
conclusions to be drawn from the study will be a key element of the Mid-Term Review of the World
Bank supported project. Currently scheduled for September 1995, the mid-term review will examine
the achievements of the project's first two years and confirm (or modify) the overall project scope
thereafter.
Study Obiectives.
4.    The study will focus on municipal government policies regarding the creation of an enabling
environment (regulatory and cost-recovery framework, etc.), which is required for the development
and sustained operation of a predominantly privately owned public passenger transport system in
(name of city) Its principal goal will be to assist the municipal authorities in developing a short-term
action program which will be discussed with FONTUR and the World Bank at the Mid-Term Project
Review in about September 1995. Its specific objectives are:
a.    to review the existing public transport characteristics in (name of city) and define short-
term strategies to:
i.    ensure adequate and competitive public transport services on a financially and
operationally sustainable basis;
ii.    reduce government subsidies over a 3-year period by a combination of (a)
reduced operating costs, (b) fare restructuring and/or deregulation, (c) cross-
subsidies from within the urban transport sector, and (d) if needed, targeted
Government subsidies to needy users of the public transport services.



87                                   ANNEX 8
iii.    maximize safety; and
iv.    minimize air pollution and other negative effects on environment.
b.    to define and evaluate 2-3 policy options for reforming public transport in Iname of
city) and desrcibe them in such a manner that the municipal Government can make a
rational selection and decision; and
c.    to develop an implementation program and monitoring system for transitioning to the
reformed public transport framework selected by the municipal Government.
Basic Study Anoroach and Timetable.
5.    The study will consist of three phases which are divided by short periods during which the
municipal Government, FONTUR, the unions, users associations and the World Bank will review and
comment on the consultant's interim reports. They are:
Phase A:     Data collection and detailed study design. Inception Report, to be submitted 2
months after study begins. About 20% of total study effort should go into this
phase (Months 1-2).
Comments:   Within 1 month, the Municipality, FONTUR, unions, user associations and the
World Bank will provide comments on Inception Report (Month 3).
Phase B:     Evaluation of public transport characteristics, regulations and financial aspects.
Definition of 2-3 policy options for review and selection by Government.
Evaluation Report, to be submitted 3 months after Phase B begins. About 60%
of total study effort should go into this phase (Months 4-6).
Comments:   Within 1 month, the Municipality, FONTUR, unions, user associations and the
World Bank will provide comments on Evaluation Report. Within a further
month, Government will decide which policy option it wishes to pursue.
FONTUR will authorize consultants to begin with next phase (Months 7-8).
Phase C:     Develop implementation program and monitoring system. Submit Final Report
1 month after Phase C begins. About 20% of total study effort should go into
this phase (Month 9).
ScoQe of Study.
6.    The study's scope of work will comprise at least the following items:
Phase A:
a.    From existing statistics and other available data, prepare an inventory of the current
public transport situation, including:
-   route structure and travel demand
-   users' profile (income etc.)
-   modal split by public transport type
trip purpose
-   overall origin-destination pattern



88                                     ANNEX 8
vehicle fleet
vehicle ownership
operational data
accidents/safety management
fares
operating costs for different vehicle types
finances (including subsidies)
programmed improvements.
b.     Describe the existing regulatory framework.
c.     Describe and assess the role of Government, at national, state and municipal levels.
d.     Describe and assess the role of unions, route associations and other trade
organizations.
e.     Estimate revenues (taxes etc.) and expenses (subsidies, investments etc.) of the
national, state and municipal Governments for public transport in (name of city) for
1989, 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 (actuals), 1994 (estimated) and 1995 (budget).
f.     Analyze the conclusions of the Review  of National Subsidies, scheduled to be
completed in September 1994.
g.     Produce Inception Report (in Spanish), describing results of data collection and outlining
work program for Phase B (taking into account the National review mentioned above).
Phase 8:
h.     Evaluate structure of public transport industry.
i.     Evaluate capacity and economic effioiency of public transport system.
j.     Evaluate safety aspects of public transport.
k.     Evaluate environmental aspects of public transport; consider possible fiscal policies to
achieve environmental objectives.
I.     Conduct affordability analysis for low-income users.
m.    Define fare and subsidy policy options such as: reduce government subsidies over 3
years, consider system of variable fares and variable service standards, assess methods
for targetting subsidies, etc.
n.     Define options for regulatory structure: define functions of regulations (safety -
emissions - service standards - tariffs - cross-subsidy mechanisms etc.). Define roles
of various government agencies and trade associations. Define enforcement and
taxation mechanisms. Address such issues as market entry and possible cartel
formation. Suggest how cartels can be avoided.
0.     Evaluate the above options, according to such criteria as sustainability (operational and
financial), environment, safety, public acceptability, adaptability to long-range plans
(such as busways), traffic congestion, economic efficiency, etc.



89                                  ANNEX 8
p.    Formulate 2-3 policy options (and decribe their expected implications) for decision of
the local government.
q.    Describe findings of Phase B in Evaluation Report (in Spanish).
Phase C:
r.    Identify and define steps to implement policy reforms selected by local Government.
s.    Agree with local Government on a timetable (not exceeding 3 years) to implement
reforms and phase out subsidies.
t.    Estimate budget requirements of the local and national Governments for that 3-year
period.
u.    Define monitoring mechanism.
V.    Prepare Final Report (in Spanish, with English summary).
Study Arranaements:
7.    The study will be conducted by a team of two transport consultants, (one from Venezuela and
one from abroad), assisted by staff from FONTUR and the relevant municipality. The two consultants
will be contracted individually by FONTUR, who will use its best judgment to select two competent
and compatible professionals. They will be jointly responsible for the quality and timeliness of their
reports.
8.    The Venezuelan expert should have an academic degree in a related subject and have at least
5 years experience in transport planning or operations. He should be familiar with conditions in the
city of (insert name).
9.    The foreign expert should have an academic degree in a related subject and have at least 10
years experience in the policy aspects of urban public transport operations. He should be personally
familiar with the World Bank's urban transport criteria and/or recent deregulation measures in foreign
countries. He should be able to conduct technical conversations in Spanish.
10.   Three freestanding studies of this type are envisaged: (a) for Maracaibo, (b) for Barquesimeto
and Merida, and (c) for Ciudad Guyana and Maturin. The consultants will establish their respective
study offices in one of these cities to ensure frequent contact with the city's decision-makers and
transport operators. Each of the three study budgets would allow for 3-5 months for the foreign
expert (three trips to Venezuela), 3-5 months for the Venezuelan expert, and a modest amount for data
collection and report production. In addition, similar studies will be made in the context of larger-scale
urban transport studies envisaged for further cities, yet to be selected.



90                                    ANNEX 8
VENEZUELA
URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
ATTACHMENT 2 - Outline TOR for the Motor Vehicle Emissions Control Study
for Caracas
Obiectives
1.    The main objectives can be described as follows:
li)    to evaluate the present situation and trends in air quality and transport-related air
pollution in Caracas
(ii)   to develop an integrated transport air quality management strategy
(iii)   to prepare selected elements of the strategy for financing under a future Transport Air
Quality Management Project, the Global Environmental Fund, and/or other multilateral
and bilateral sources.
Scope of Work
2.     Collect, review, and compile available data on the following as they apply to Metropolitan
Caracas:
-      air pollutant concentrations and air quality
-      air pollutant emission inventories
-      emission inventories of global warming gases
*     vehicle populations and growth rates by vehicle type
-      vehicle-kilometers travelled by vehicle type
-      vehicle emission factors by type
*      vehicle fuel consumption
-      fuel composition and characteristics
-      refining industry structure and characteristics, as these relate to ability to produce and
costs of producing reformulated fuels
-      usage and economics of alternative fuels, specifically natural gas, LPG, methanol,
ethanol, and ethers
Identify gaps or shortcomings in the data, and recommend additional studies or research
necessary to fill these gaps.
3.     Evaluate the feasibility, costs, effectiveness for reducing emissions of air pollutants and global
warming gases, and cost-effectiveness of potential motor vehicle emission control measures, including
(but not limited to):
-      emissions standards for new vehicles and engines;
-      gasoline vapor recovery;
-      changes in gasoline formulation (lead, oxygenates, sulfur, volatility);
-      changes in diesel fuel formulation (sulfur, aromatics);
-      retrofit of existing high-use vehicles;
-      replacement of existing high-use vehicles;
-      use of alternative fuels with appropriate emission controls;



91                                  ANNEX 8
-     vehicle inspection and maintenance (I/M);
-     traffic management;
-     improvements in public transport; and
-     fuel taxes, vehicle emissions taxes, and other economic instruments.
Identify areas of uncertainty in the evaluation, and specify research needed to resolve this
uncertainty.
4.    Based on the results of the evaluations in Task 2, the consultant shall recommend and justify
an integrated transport air quality management strategy, comprising a set of cost-effective and
mutually-reinforcing emissions control measures, together with any necessary improvements in air
quality monitoring and modeling, emissions inventories, and other improvements needed to support the
air quality management program. The consultant shall document these recommendations in an interim
report. This report shall be discussed with the Government and the World Bank, and agreement
reached on a strategy and program before proceeding with the remainder of the tasks.
5.    In consultation with the Government and the World Bank, the consultant shall identify from
among the components of the program developed in Task 3: (a) a subset of measures - primarily
investments - to be financed by the World Bank under the proposed Caracas Transport Air Quality
Management Project; (b) a subset of measures to be proposed for financing by the Global
Environmental Fund; (c) a subset of measures to be proposed for funding under other available
multilateral and bilateral assistance programs.
6.    For each of the measures identified in Task 4, the consultant shall carry out the necessary
preparatory steps for funding.  For investment measures, the consultant shall prepare detailed
equipment specifications and procurement plans; for technical assistance and studies, the consultant
shall develop detailed Terms of Reference.
7.    The consultant shall prepare a comprehensive final report.
Qualifications
8.    The consultant staff assigned to the project, especially the Project Director, should have
demonstrated extensive experience related to motor vehicle emissions control, air quality planning, and
strategy development. Specific, demonstrated experience is required in evaluating costs, emissions
impacts, and cost-effectiveness of vehicle emissions control measures such as emissions standards,
I/M, fuel reformulation, and alternative fuels.  The consultant should also have demonstrated
experience in evaluating economic and policy instruments relating to vehicle emissions, such as
gasoline taxes, and in planning and preparation of emission control programs. Experience in these
areas in one or more developing countries is strongly preferred. Demonstrated familiarity with World
Bank procedures and requirements for project preparation is required.
Budoet and Schedule
9.    Approximately 6 months from contract signing to the interim report at the end of Task 3. Six
more months for completion of Tasks 4-6. Labor requirements are about 24 person-months, for a
budget of approximately USS 250,000.



92                                   ANNEX 9
VENEZUELA
URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Traffic Police Component for
the Cuerpo de Vicilancia de Transito Terrestre (CVT)M
Backaround
1.   The Bank Project, and the FONTUR transport program in general, places emphasis on traffic
management schemes. Schemes include new traffic signal systems, parking controls, on-street bus
operational controls, measures to improve the accident records at critical junctions and similar actions.
Such measures require a high level of traffic law enforcement. Although progress has been made in
the last few years on improving CVTT's organization, as a result of enlightened management, the
CVTT still lacks investment in basic equipment, in infrastructure and in training; operational expertise,
methods and training are also in need of modernization. As decentralization of traffic functions to
municipalities takes place, there is also a greater need for traffic police to decentralize their own
activities and thus to be in a position to respond more readily to local traffic problems. This has been
recognized by FONTUR and as part of city eligibility criteria for participation in the Project, and as part
of the FONTUR program, it will be necessary for each city to sign an agreement ('convenio') with the
national CVTT to form a municipal-based traffic police force.
2.   The Project has recognized the essential need to improve CVTT in Venezuelan cities as key
factor in achieving achieving success for measures to be implemented under the Project and for
FONTUR program. Thus, the Project will support the improvement of CVTT through an investment
program in training courses, in training facilities and in equipment.
Obiectives
3.   A FONTUR study is in progress: li) to review the present CVTT training procedures and
facilities, lii) to review CVTT facilities and traffic regulation enforcement equipment and, (iii) to
determine CVTT training and equipment needs. The CVTT study has completed its preliminary stages
and has identified the general scope of the CVTT program. In general terms, the study has determined
that over the next 5 years, an investment program (not recurrent expenditure) of about US$ 70 million
will be required by CVTT. Since the CVTT study has yet to be completed and since some of the
identified investments are basic requirements which must the responsibility of any modern traffic police
force, it is not realistic to commit Project funds to the full investment program. However, it is essential
to improve CVTT performance to ensure the success of traffic policies and to support the proposed
traffic management investments proposed under the Project. Thus, Project funds will be committed
to supporting CVTT with the objectives:
(a)  to improve the general level of CVTT training and expertise; and
(b)  to improve the CVTT performance in the specific Project cities (of Barquisimeto, Maturin,
Merida, Ciudad Guayana and Maracaibo) such the full potential of the proposed
investment in traffic management schemes can be realized and permanent.



93                                    ANNEX 9
The Proaram
4.   The program proposed under the Project will comprise investments in the CVTT national training
program and in equipment and technical assistance in each of the five project cities. Details are as
follows.
5.   National CVTT Investments The CVTT has a national training school but the facilities are
outdated, require expansion, require modern equipment for the delivery of courses (instruction material,
audio visual equipment etc) and accommodation for participants. Additionally, the expertise level of
instructors must be improved and the content of training courses themselves should be revised to
ensure that they respond to present traffic needs. Thus the program will comprise:
(a)   Training School Facilities - funds will be provided under the Project to modernize, expand
the training school, participant facilities and provide adequate teaching equipment;
(b)   Trainina School Courses - funds will be provided under the Project for technical assistance
to prepare new course curriculae for delivery at the CVTT training school; and
(c)   Trainina of Instructors - it is proposed to provide funds for training of CVTT instructors.
This will involve either the attendance of CVTT officers at overseas training schools or
the provision of expatriate training personnel to provide courses in Venezuela. The
precise program will be determined by negotiations.
6.   Local Level CVTT Investments Local level support will be provided by investment in each of the
five Project cities (Barquisimeto, Maturin, Merida, Ciudad Guayana and Maracaibo). Thus the Project
will fund:
(a)   Traffic Law  Enforcement Equipment - the provision of equipment for traffic law
enforcement (such as patrol vehicles, tow trucks, communications equipment etc) in each
city;
(b)   Administrative Eauipment - the provision of equipment for day-to-day administration of
city CVTT units (such as personal-computers for accident recording and analysis); and
(c)   Technical Assistance - the provision of technical assistance to each city to establish the
local CVTT unit (arising from the completion of the 'convenio' between the municipalities
and the CVTT) and to guide the local CVTT unit in the effective use of the new
equipment.
Status of Preparation
7.   The current estimates of needs and investments are based on the preliminary CVTT study; the
study is not yet complete. Funds will not be disbursed for this component until the study is completed,
and the needs and cost estimates of the Project components are confirmed and that the results are
acceptable to the Bank.
8.   The actions necessary to operationalize the component are set out in the Action Plan in Annex
13 key dates in the chronogram are:
(a)   preparation of a detailed implementation program for the Project components:



94                                     ANNEX 9
(b)   final report on the Training School expansion and equipment;
(c)   prepartion of the TOR for the TA to the Training School to prepare the new course
curriculae;
(d)   commencement of overseas training for the selected personnel.
Costs Estimates
9.   The base costs of the component are as follows:
Table 9.1: CVTT Component Cost Estimates
(US$ millions)
COMPONENT                                          TYPE ACTIVMTY     TOTAL
NATIONAL COMPONENT                                                   __l_l
Expansion of the CVTT training school and provision    Civil works    1.594
of participant accommodation
CVTT instructor training (either in Venezuela or  Training            1.179
overseas)
Technical assistance for preparation of CVTT Training   Technical    0.500
School Courses                                   assistance
SUB TOTAL NATIONAL (PART A)                                          3.273
LOCAL COMPONENT   __l_= =_
Equipment for on-street traffic law enforcement in 5    Equipment    6.621
cities (patrol cars, motorcycle, tow trucks, etc)
Communications equipment and computers for 5 cities  Equipment       0.530
Technical assistance for support to the establishment   Technical    0.750
of local CVTT units in each of 5 cities          assistance
SUB TOTAL LOCAL (PART B)                                          _  7.901
TOTAL                                                                 11.174



95                                    ANNEX 10
VENEZUELA
URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Road Maintenance Comoonent
MAINTENANCE COMPONENT
1.   Extent and Classification of the Network The network concerned by the Program comprise
essentially the roads which carry public transport vehicles and they are generally those with the highest
volume of traffic. They have been classified into 4 categories, namely: a) Expressways; b) Arterial
Roads; c) Collector Roads, and d) Local Streets. Selected on the basis of discussions held with local
MTC officials and municipalities, the total extension of this Primary network, for the five cities,
represent approximately 1,406 km. Both in terms of total present value and traffic volumes, they
constitute the top priority network on which investments for carrying out deferred rehabilitation and
maintenance activities should be concentrated.
2.   Accurate inventories of the total length of the whole urban road networks in the cities have not
yet been made but available information do suggest that the Public transport main road system account
approximately for 10 to 20% of the total urban road network. The following table shows, for each
city, and by functional category, the extent of the Primary road network considered under the Program.
Table 10.1: Extent and Classification of Primary Public
Transport Road Network
MARACAIBO   BAROUISIMETO   CDAD.GUAYANA    MATURIN         MERIDA     TOTAL
CLASSIFICATION   Km.   %     Km.            Km.      %    Km.   %    Km.    %       Km.    %
PAVED                                                   I
Expressways    41    8 a      0     0        41    10     0    0      0      0     82   5.8
Arterials     120   24        91   46        32     8    34   31    58   33.5   335   23.8
Collectors     90   19        90   45        136   32   41   37   35    21    393    28
Locals        240   48       17     8       213    50   34   31   79   45.5   583   41.4
Sub Total   491   98     198   99        421   100  109   99   173   100   1393   99
UNPAVED         10    2         2     1         0    0      1     1    0       0     13     1
TOTAL      501   100     200   100        421   100   110  100   173   100   1406  100
3.   As can be seen, the selection of the main Public transport road network is distributed as follows:
A)ved: i) Expressways, 5.8%; ii) Arterial Roads, 23.8%; iii) Collectors, 28.0%; iv) Local, 41.4%;
B) Unoaved, 1.0%
4.   Assessment of Network Condition. As part of the initial study carried out to provide preliminary
estimates of the needs for deferred maintenance activities, a visual assessment of the condition of a
suitable sample of the Primary network has been undertaken. Within the time scale available, the



96                                 ANNEX 10
sample size varied from one city to another ranging from 40% to 100% of the total extension of the
network. The visual survey classified the pavement condition into four main categories: A) Category
1: Good or excellent surface condition, showing negligible or no defects; B) Category 2: Regular or fair
surface condition with local, minor defects only; C) Category 3: Bad condition showing significant
surface defects; and D) Category 4: Very bad surface condition characterized by extensive deformation
such as deep rutting, alligator cracks or complete wearing course desintegration over a major
proportion of the total pavement area.
5.  Expanding the assessed sample (65%) to the entire main road network, the following distribution
of surface condition has been obtained: A) Pavements in good condition, category 1, 55.39%;B)
Pavements in fair condition, category 2, 28.2%; C) Pavements in bad condition, category 3, 11.0%;
D) Pavements in very bad condition, category 4, 5.5%. As far as pavement type is concerned, the
great majority are of the flexible type with asphaltic concrete wearing course, the proportion of rigid
concrete pavement amounting to only 1 % (mainly in Merida). The following table gives for each
category of road and per city, the extent and the proportion of the network falling under each class
of surface condition rating.
6.  During the detailed engineering studies aiming at providing more accurate information on
maintenance or rehabilitation needs on a yearly basis an extensive pavement condition survey is to be
carried out to show not only pavement distresses by type and magnitude but also structural capacities
thus enabling appropriate repair measures to be defined and properly quantified and costed. Similarly,
additional information on cross section characteristics, on drainage, curbs and gutter conditions as well
as on sidewalks and public utilities shall be included in the survey in order to best define overall
condition and priorities. Indeed, apart from sheer surface condition evaluation, this initial study did
identify the overwhelming importance of a number of specific problems or issues such as drainage
deficiencies (in Maracaibo, particularly), inadequate construction on maintenance practices (in Merida),
bad asphalt mix design (in Guayana) upon which more detailed investigation must focus.
7.  Considerations on Traffic Volumes and Eauivalent Axle Factors. It was not intended, during this
first phase study, to carry out traffic counts using appropriate procedures designed to furnish suitable
data for pavement rehabilitation design. However, some information available from other consultants
studies on the problem of traffic management do yield interesting results regarding traffic volume and
characteristics over the primary network carrying public transport: a) daily traffic intensities can be
quite considerable, reaching up to 10,000 vehicles on the most heavily trafficked lanes; b) even on
local access roads either to industrial, residential or marginal areas, the average traffic volumes of
buses may be of the order of 200 to 500; c) except for the heavily traveled thoroughfares where
overloaded commercial vehicles are most likely to be expected, the majority of the primary network
is traveled by buses having 2 single axles, the maximum load of which would generally be less than
10 tons. A typical example of traffic volume distribution over the primary road network of the city of
Barqusimeto is as follows:



Table 2: SURFACE CONDITION RATING OF PRIMARY PUBLIC TRANSPORT
ROAD NETWORK
____~ LI II'-I Iz  -I                                                                    Ii zi'1'  11:11   1-                                          IIL 
CLASS OF ROAD        MARACAIBO                 BAR1SIMFI                   CaUAD WItAYANA                  MATUPB        [N           MERDA                    TOTAL
I  2T3     4        I       2       3    4       I     2    3T4          I 1  2 13          4        12  1 3   4            I       2 1    3   4
Eotm.,ac Km.               Exui- Xm.                    EXIeOD 1-.               Exetwin Km.               Ext-ami. Kti.          Exit. ioa Km.
PAVED
EXPRESWAYS           41      O OjO              0       0       0    0      41      0    0       0  0    0    0       0    0            0        O      82       0      0       0
ARTERIAIS           120      0    0    0    55          12     _      6     32    10    0       0   21      12     1    0    37   20       1    0      275      54     10       6
COLLECTORS           45     30   15    0       33      22      19   Is   122        3     1     0    1s     22     0     0    23   12      1    0      241      89     35      iS
LOCAL                 0    140   60   40        4       5    1U       0    134    50   28       0    5      27     2       1  35   31   10    3   117          253 |108 |         1
SUB-TOTAL      206    170   75   40    102         39      35   22    329    63   29       0   45       61     3     1   95   63   12    3         776     396    154     66
UNPAVED                0      0    0    10       0        0       0    2       0     0    0      0    0       0     0     0     0    0      0     0       0       0      0      13
|TOAL    206    170   73   so    102          39      35   24    329    63   29       0   43      61     3      1   95   63   12    3        776     396    154      79
%       Z      1       1lo41    34    91051    17.512         78    15    7      0   40       55     3     1    5       35      7 2    55.3    28.2             5.5
I1. GoodtoVay Good
2. Fmk to RcgW
3. Bed
4. VatyrBId



98                                  ANNEX 10
Daily Traffic Volume            % of Network Concerned
> 40,000                              1 3
20,000 to 40,000                     38
10,000 to 20,000                     24
5,000 to 10,000                      14
1,000 to  5,000                     12
Representative vehicle distribution on main public transport corridors in Merida is:
a) Cars, 67%; b) Buses, 13%; c} Trucks, 20%. For pavement design purposes, the detailed engineering
studies must necessarily include traffic counts enabling a better assessment of daily volumes, vehicles
types distribution and axle load factors for each road segment included in the program, as well as the
probable rate of increase over the next 10 years.
8.  Maintenance and Rehabilitation Strateaies. It was not envisaged, during the preliminary study,
to extensively define the various maintenance and rehabilitation techniques to be implemented in the
course of the program. As a first approach, the following strategies have been assigned to each of
the four categories of surface condition rating: A) Pavements in good or excellent condition, falling
under cateory 1. would only require routine maintenance comprising essentially very localized and
minor skin patching, cleaning of drainage system, vegetation control, sweeping of pavements and local
repairs of curbs and gutters; B) Pavements in fair condition, pertaining to cateaor 2. would be subject
to minor corrective maintenance including some skin or deep patching, cracks sealing and any other
local repairs or cleaning of drainage, curbs, gutters and sidewalk systems; C) Pavements in relatively
bad condition, belonging to cateaory 3 would require maior maintenance comprising substantial
patching, repairs, surface dressing or thin overlay applications over relatively large areas,
complemented by all additional works necessary to restore the drainage system and operational
efficiency of sideways structures such as curbs, gutters and sidewalks. D) Pavements in very poor
condition, falling under cateaoy     would necessitate rehabilitation works including either thick
overlays, recycling or indeed reconstruction.
9.  In the case of earth roads in need of upgrading and paving, rehabilitation would also, and
necessarily, include geometrical improvement as well as the prior installation of an adequate drainage
system. During detailed engineering studies, the exact types and most cost effective maintenance or
rehabilitation activities, taking into account all construction constraints applicable, will be adequately
defined for each road section pertaining to the program. At present, and based upon the visual survey,
the extent of application of each one of the above described strategies, under the program, is as
follows:
Strateav                               Extent of Network Concerned
Km.      %
Payed Roads:
Emergency Routine Maintenance  776      55.2
Minor Corrective Maintenance   396      28.2
Major Maintenance              154       11.0
Rehabilitation                  66        4.7
Unoaved:
Paving                         13         0.9
10.      Maintenance and Rehabilitation Unit Costs. The following table shows a preliminary
assessment of unit costs applied to each maintenance strategy. These figures have been used to



99                                               ANNEX 10
grossly estimate the total cost of the Program. However, a more precise analysis is deemed necessary
at final engineering stage to take into account the specificities of the network in each city, and
particularly:
i) materials availability (in Maraibo for example, the nearest rock quarry is located at some 100 km. of
the city center); ii) range of rehabilitation techniques (whether recycling, overlaying, removal and
reconstruction work); iii) the gravity of the drainage problem; iv) the presence of public utilities within
or below the pavement, etc.
Table 103: Unit Costs of Defenred Maintenane Activities
MAINTENANCE                                        AVERAGE UNrI COST PER KILOMETER (US$)
STRATEGY
CLASS OF ROADS
ARTERIALS       COLLECTORS          LOCAL               UNPAVED
EXPRESSWAY
Emerg. Routine Maint.             2,000           2,000             2,000            1,500
Minor Correct. Maint.    Not applicable           8,000             7,000            4,000         Not applicable
Major Maintenance        Not applicable          70,000            60,000           30,000         Not applicable
Rehabilitation           Not applicable         100,000            90,000           60,000         Not applicable
Upgrading & Paving       Not applicable    Not applicable    Not applicable    Not applicable   110,000-145,000
_________________   I____________   ___________   ____________   ___________   (M erida)-(M aracaabo)
N.B. For normal routine maintenance, an average consant value of $1,500/Km has been asumed.
11.     Sub-oroiects Quantities and Cost Estimates.  The following table is a summary of the total
deferred maintenance needs occurring under the program. Costs are expressed in US$ million.



100                                              ANNEX 10
Table 4: SUB-PROJECT QUANTMES AND COST ESTIMATES FOR
DEFERRED MAINTENANCE
MARACAIBO       B2QIIEO CDAD.WAAN                    MAUI               MERIDA             TOTAL
Km.     cost    Km.       Cost    Krn.      Cost    Km.      Cost    Km.       Cost    Km.       cost
,R habilntfion__ _
Expressways                6        0        0       0        0        0        0        0        0       0        0        0
Artcrials                  0        0        5      0.6       0        0        0        0        0        0       a       0.6
Collcctors                 0        0       16     1.44       0        0        0        0        0       0       16      1.44
Locals                    40      2.4        0       0        0        0        1     0.06        3     0.18      44      2.64
Milor Maintenanc
Expresways                 0        0        0       0        0        0        0        0        0       0        0        0
Artsrals                   0        0        8     0.56       0        0        1     0.07        1     0.07      10       0.7
Collsctors                15      0.9       19     1.14       1      0.06       0        0        1     0.06      36      2.16
Locals                    60      1.S        a     0.24      28      0.84       2     0.06       10      0.3     108      3.24
Minor Corract. Meint.
Exprccxways                0        0        0       0        0        0        0        0        0       0        0        0
Arterias                   0        0       12    0.0o6      10       0.8      12    0.0o0       20     0.16      54      0.43
Collectors                30     0.21       22    0.154       3    0.021       22    0.154       12    0.084      89      0.52
Locals                   140     0.55        5     0.02      so       0.2      27    0.108       31    0.124     253      1.01
Emera. Routne Maint.
Expressways               41    0.082        0       0       41    0.082        0        0        0        0      82      0.1 6
Artsrlals                120     0.24       6s     0.13      32    0.084       21    0.042       37    0.074     275      0.55
Collectors                45     0.09       33    0.006     122    0.244       1 8    0.036      23    0.046     242      0.48
Locals                     0        0        4    0.006     134    0.201        5    0.007       35     0.07     178      0.29
Sub Total                      6.28              4.45              1.79             0.63              1.17             14.32
Pavinc                     t 0      1.1       2     0.22        0        0       1      0.11       0        0       1 3    1.43
Sub Toti               501      7.38     200     4.67      422     1.79     110      0.74     173      1.17    1406    15.75
Studie 5%                        0.37              0.23             0.09              0.04              0.0o              0.79
SupervisIon 7%                   0.52              0.33             0.13              0.05              0.08              1.11
Contingancies-Physical 0%          0.81             0.51               0.2              0.08             0.13              1.73
Costs 3.9%                       0.35             0.                0.09               .               0.06              0.75
TOTAL               -3--0.4                                                                           S               23. 0 0.13



101                                 ANNEX 10
INSTITUTIONAL COMPONENT
Oraanization of a Road Maintenance Unit in a Municigality
12.   Functions of the Road Maintenance Unit. The functions of a road maintenance unit are
manyfold: a) identifying and evaluating the street maintenance and rehabilitation programs; b)
prioritizing and budgeting the needs in annual and pluri-annual plans; c) assigning the routine
maintenance activities, on an annual basis, to the force-account unit - if any- and managing the
execution of such works; d) procuring and contracting as well as supervising all major rehabilitation
or new construction works to the private sector.
13.   Organization of a Road Maintenance Unit. To fulfill the above functions a road maintenance unit
should normally comprise: a) a section in charge of studies, planning and budgeting; b) a section
responsible for the execution of routine maintenance activities by force account; c) a section devoted
to deal with the contracts and the monitoring of all major works, let to the private sector. The 'Studies
and Planning" section identifies the needs on the basis of an adequate and updated street and traffic
inventory, as well as on the definition of the levels of service required and the elaboration of designs
and specifications enabling the service levels to be attained. Its prioritizing and budgeting functions
stem from the knowledge he must have of unit costs and from its expertise or good diagnosis of
problems. It is normally within this section that the core of a Pavement Management system should
be installed.
14.   The "Routine Maintenance Activity" section is responsible for carrying out by force account
all the minor recurrent works involved in the daily maintenance of the streets and other relevant urban
features. It must have adequate capabilities for managing personnel, maintaining the equipment and
properly executing the works. The "Rehabilitation or new Construction" section essentially deals with
all works that are important enough to warrant contracting to the Private sector. This section should
be able to prepare tender documents, analyze offers, procure the works and control quality, quantities
and costs.
15.   Staffing of a Road Maintenance Unit. Obviously, the quantity and quality of staff required to
manage a road maintenance unit will depend on the density of the network, on the relative importance
of the maintenance programs and on the eventual sharing of responsibilities between municipalities,
states and local government. Assuming an urban network density of below 3.000km with a population
of the order of 500,000 and besides the Director (and his administrative staff) who is responsible for
the general policy of maintenance within the municipality (i.e. objectives, organization, research and
distribution of credits among the sections, personnel problems and career or promotion), a typical
staffing for the three above mentioned operational sections would be as follows:
a.Studies and Planninn Section
Activity                   Personnel
Section Manager:           1 qualified road engineer, 1 technician + team for traffic counts.
Network Inventory:         1 junior engineer, 1 technician + team for pavement inventory.
Interpretations, Design,   1 experienced engineer, 1 computer technician.
Specification:
Costing and Budgeting:     1 specialist.



102                                  ANNEX 10
b.Routine Maintenance Activity
Activity                    Personnel
Section Manager             1 qualified engineer.
Equipment Management        1 specialist + 1 computer technician + maintenance team.
Site Work                   3 foreman + teams (pavement, drainage, appurtenances, [variable
item]).
c.Rehabilitation Activity
Activity                    Personnel
Section Manager             1 qualified engineer.
Procurement                 1 specialist.
Quality Control             1 laboratory engineer + equipment + site team.
Cost Control                1 specialist.
d*.Summary
1 Director + administrative staff or secretariat.
> 5 years experience      3 qualified engineers in charge of the 3 sections +  individual
secretariat.
<  5 years experience     3 junior engineers (network monitoring plus design and specification,
plus materials).
4 specialists Icosting and budgeting, plus equipment, plus procurement
and cost control).
5 technicians (traffic plus inventory, plus 2 computers, plus laboratory).
3 foreman.
Total 1 9
16.   If the municipality decides not to have force account, the basic personnel needed is the one
listed for the studies and planning section plus a procurement specialist plus a small unit dedicated to
road testing and inventory. This is the preferred organization staffing for the municipalities in the first
year program.



103                                 ANNEX 11
VENEZUELA
URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Economic Evaluation
A.     BASIC METHODOLOGY USED IN THE EVALUATION
General
1.     A conventional approach was used for the evaluation of traffic schemes within each city sub-
project. In general, benefits/disbenefits were assessed in monetary terms as a result of:
a.    savings in Vehicle Operating Costs (VOC) as a result of reductions in delay/increases
in speed;
b.    changes in VOC as a result of changes in distance travelled, if any, arising from a
scheme. Most schemes will not cause traffic to change routes but, some schemes
may cause diversion of traffic to new routes. The changes of routing could have two
effects: (i) there will be changes in distance travelled by vehicles and, (ii) there will be
an impact on speeds/delays on the routes from/to which vehicles are diverted. Both
effects will have an impact on overall costs of operation of the system. Evaluations
assessed the impacts of both the changes in distance travelled and the changes in
speeds/delays on the diversion and existing routes. The evaluation of the scheme
involved the same volume of total vehicles in the "with scheme' and 'without scheme'
scenarios;
c.    savings in personal travel time arising from decreased journey times for users of the
transport system; and
d.   improvements in street surface condition which affect the VOC will be taken into
account for specific appropriate components (e.g. deferred road maintenance).
2.     In some schemes, there were disbenefits to some traffic/users as well as some benefits to
other traffic/users. The evaluation took into account the total impacts (benefits and disbenefits) of
schemes. The effects of changes of routes have been noted above but other typical examples of
'disadvantages":
a.    corridor improvements may involve provision of additional traffic capacity (eg. 'green
time") at intersections on a main corridor thus resulting in benefits to the main corridor
traffic; however, traffic on minor/crossing roads may be provided with less capacity
("green time") and disbenefits could occur for this traffic. Both effects should be
assessed; and
b.    an exclusive busway/bus lane may result benefits to busses/public transport vehicles,
but may result in disbenefits to private traffic on the same route; both effects should
be assessed.
Periods of Evaluation
3.     The following should periods of evaluation were used:
a.    oeak hours/off oeak hours - Benefits are most likely to result from improvements in
traffic operations in peak periods - lower benefits will arise in other periods. No



104                                  ANNEX 11
generalizations are made for the hourly periods to be included in the evaluation. Citv
soecific 24 hour traffic counts should be used to identify the traffic distribution
throughout the day and to derive the number of hours of each type to be used in the
evaluation. It is expected that the evaluation will most likely involve:
* a number of morning peak hours per day;
* a number of evening peak hours per day;
* a number of inter-peak hours per day.
Other hours may show insignificant benefits and may not be worth including in the
evaluation. Benefits should be calculated, using the appropriate traffic volumes and
speeds/delays, for the number of hours in each category.
There was inadequate time in the preparation studies to derive special 'peak":"inter
peak": 'other' hour relationships for every scheme although different hourly profiles
may be applicable for (say) schemes close to, and schemes from, the city center.
b.    days oer year - evaluations were carried out for the number of working days in a year
(260 days) unless specific local circumstances and surveys show that Saturdays
involve similar traffic volumes to working weekdays; and
c.   life of schemes - For short-term schemes, a 5 year project life was assumed and that
the period of evaluation will be the same. For more costly schemes - such as widening
of a corridor of the construction of "missing links" or paving of bus access routes - a
longer life of 15 years was assumed and used as the evaluation period (see below -
residual value). Periodic rehabilitation costs should be included for components with
relatively short lives (such as traffic signals) which form part of projects evaluated over
a longer period.
Residual Value
4.     The residual value of schemes vary with type:
a.    a 20%  residual value was taken after 15 years for the civil works elements of
infrastructure schemes such as new roads, road widening, missing links, paving of bus
routes to low income areas etc, and if land/property is involved, a 100% residual value
will be taken for the property/land elements; and
b.    a 20% residual value was taken after 5 years for management related schemes such
as traffic management measures, traffic signals, etc.
Soeed-flow and/or "Before" and "After" Soeeds
5.     The key element in any traffic and road scheme evaluation was the establishment of the
"before" and "after' speeds/delays. Speed/delays will be a function of predicted traffic volumes and
capacity. The study consultants have proposed various procedures to establish "after" speeds/delays
and were, of course, free to select their own methodology to relate traffic volumes, traffic capacity
and traffic delays in a realistic manner. However, most consultants have proposed to use some form
of traffic model for the assessment of scheme impacts including TRANSYT 7, PASSER, NETSIM, HCM
(intersections), etc. Models were calibrated/checked against existing city ("before") conditions by field
surveys of speeds/delays to enable outputs to be used with confidence in the specific conditions found



105                                 ANNEX 1 1
in Venezuelan cities. Normally, if a model was used, the delays/speeds associated with the "before'
situation were those estimated by the calibrated model (calibrated from field surveys). The following
general comments are also made for typical, but not all, schemes:
a.   for intersections - benefits will come mainly from reduced delays although accident
savings may be possible (see below I and procedures are required which enables
individual junction delays to be assessed.
b.   for corridors (traffic and infrastructure improvement schemes along a route) - benefits
came mainly from reduced end-to-end travel times and procedures were required which
enable route speeds to be assessed. Various options are possible depending on the
interaction between intersections but assessments could be based on: {i) cumulative
junction delays along the route using the same procedure as noted in para. 5.a above,
or (ii) by use of a route procedures such as PASSER or TRANSYT 7 (applied along the
route); the latter may be appropriate if some from of linked signals are proposed;
c.   for area wide schemes such as central are or local area traffic management and
infrastructure schemes, benefits came mainly from reduction in average journey times
throughout the network.
It is noted that if measures are proposed which are 'external' to the traffic system (eg
measures which benefit pedestrians or bus passengers but are not specifically aimed
at moving traffic/buses), it would be acceptable, in the evaluation, to omit the costs
of those measures in the analyses - in the evaluation, the principle will be to include
the costs which produce the operational benefits. Other elements of an integrated
scheme, which may produce quality benefits or environmental benefits (such as
pedestrianization or bus stop shelters) may be evaluated in a qualitative way;
d.   for sionina and marking programs, no quantified evaluation is proposed.
6.     Scheme costs for the evaluation included:
a.    capital costs for all civil works (including design and supervision), equipment, signing,
marking, traffic signals etc and contingencies;
b.   land/property costs if necessary for the scheme;
c.    specific operating, if any, necessary for a scheme (e.g. enforcement costs on a HOV
lane); and
d.   routine and periodic maintenance costs (an estimate of say 2% per annum of the
capital cost of the scheme for routine maintenance and say 5% after 5 years for
periodic maintenance costs if appropriate, would be acceptable unless consultants have
specific data).
7.     The evaluation used economic costs. Thus for the evaluation, cost estimates should identify,
and subtract from market prices all taxes and duties and other government levied surcharges whilst
any subsidies should be included.



106                                 ANNEX 11
Base Year
8.     The base year for capital costs an vehicle operating costs should be the same. It would be
convenient if this base year/date was the same as proposed for the BIRF/BID appraisal, say, about
September 1992. However, consultants may estimate costs etc at the date most appropriate for their
particular city study but it would be helpful if they could present an estimated percentage increase to
be applied to bring costs/benefits to August 1992.
Vehicle Ooeratina Costs (VOC)
9.     VOC's were estimated by FONTUR/MTC Isee Tables 11.1 and 11.2) in the form of costs per
km at various speeds and per hour stopped with motor idling, typical of an urban area. At this stage,
it is proposed to prepare data for different VOC'S for:
*  private cars;
* "standard" medium/large buses;
*  "small' por puestos (mini buses) - about 20-24 seats;
*  'normal" por puestos (mini buses) - about 30-32 seats;
*  'standard" trucks; and
*  special case vehicles such as jeeps in Caracas or 'car/taxi collectivos in Maracaibo.
10.    Difficulties occur when V/C ratios are high, speeds drop (and VOC's rise) and effects such as
trip suppression occur. The evaluations need not consider trip suppression etc and can assume that
once a minimum speed (and thus maximum VOC) has been reached, it will apply thereafter. At this
stage is assumed that speeds will cut off at 8 kph even though V/C's may increase (theoretically)
considerably beyond 1. If consultants prefer to use a more sophisticated methodology at high
congestion levels, this will be acceptable but should be cleared with FONTUR/MTC.
Evaluation of Time Costs
11.    Person time costs - were developed by FONTUR for each specific city base don input values
on wage rates to be provided by FONTUR/MTC. It is noted that the costs of vehicle operatives (such
as bus drivers, truck drivers etc) will have been included in the VOC above and that person time costs
refer only to passengers. The following apply:
a.    a single time cost value will be used for all passengers travelling in non-working time,
regardless of mode;
b.    a broad estimate will be made of the number of people travelling in working time (this
will be a small number in the peaks and perhaps a somewhat greater number in the off
peaks). the valuation of the time of these workina time travellers will be mode specific
(normally higher for higher paid workers who have higher propensity to travel by car)
and will be based on the average wage rate for the city;
c.    all other (non working time) adult travellers time will be valued at 30% of the average
wage rate for the city; and
d.    all children/students will be valued at 30% of the 30% average wage rate.
12.    Thus, two general values will be derived for person time - one for peak and one for off peak -
which account for the different traveller composition at the two times (in working hours, in non
working hours, and children/students). Exhaustive field surveys are not reouired to determine these
data; the consultants best estimate based on (i) previous surveys; lii) exiting census data; liii)



107                                 ANNEX 11
consultations with the Municipality; and, liv) "standard' approaches, will be adequate. See Table 11.
3 for time costs.
Accidents
13.    Some measures (such as intersection improvements) may be aimed at increasing safety at
intersections. If data exist on the 'before' situation, the study should attempt to assess the possible
changes in accident occurrence and attribute a value to the reduction.
Imoact on Low Income Groups
14.    For each project, an estimation should be made of the proportion of total benefits directly
accruing to low income families which are defined as those whose per capita income is less than
44.267 Bolivars in values of August 1991. It should be noted that in order to relate this figure to wage
rates, it is necessary to multiply by average family size and divide by the average number of
economically active persons in each family.
15.    Benefits directly accruing to the group are:
a.    wages paid to low wage earners employed on construction schemes and other related
to the project implementation;
b.   time savings to low income family members and
C.    50% of VOC savings of public transport vehicles used by travellers from low income
families.
16.    These benefits should be assessed in NPV form and expressed as a ratio of the NPV of project
implementation costs. This calculation should be repeated to test the effect of time savings.



108                                  ANNEX 11
Vhile        10 km/h   20 km/lh    30 km/ph   40 km/oh    50 km/oh   60 km/oh
Private car   8.3323      6.2503     5.6792      5.4134      5.2600     5.1602
Por puesto (car)    7.5858    5.2357      4.2670     4.3497      4.1914     4.0891
Regular Bus    25.2355    17.5545    15.5542    14.6413    14.1194    13.7819
Minibus    13.8383    10.0283      9.0076      8.5359     8.2664      8.0908
2 axle gasoline truck    13.6678  9.6201      8.5572     8.0708      7.7923     7.6120
2 axle diesel truck    15.9193    11.3464    10.1566   9.6094      9.2953     9.0915
3 axle truck    31.0328    23.0336    20.8549    19.8441     19.2613    18.8823
3+ axle truck    53.0023    36.5974    32.3471    30.4108    29.3052    28.5905
Long wheelbase jeep    11.7940    8.4780      7.5946     7.1880      6.9546      6.8052
Notes:  USS = 58,5 Bolivares
The costs exclude: (i) personal time savings and; {ii) savings due to fleet size reduction, made
possible by improvements to traffic speed.
Table' 111.2:esucCstpr KOHV of' HrleVuaH llIp
.Vehicle Tvoe| No. of oersons in Crew  Unit Labor Cost    | Cost/ehiclelhour
Private car         0                      --                     --
Por puesto (car)         1                     75                     75
Regular Bus           1                     75                     75
Minibus           1                     75                     75
2 axle gasoline truck        1                     75                     75
2 axle diesel truck       1.5                   75/60                  105
3 axle truck         2                    75160                   135
3 + axle truck         2                    75/60                   135
Long wheelbase jeep          1                     75                     75
Notes:  The number of helpers was estimated and a unit hourly cost of Bs. 60 was assumed for them.



109                                    ANNEX 1 1
I.-,.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                             ... ...i:-'  ..... 
1'' ":""'-': '  -  '"'""    "''  .  i.,-...,"i  '""I' "....'........
|In Citv           1991 Vul..esto
Caracas          90                  116                 147
Barquisimeto         73                   96                 131
Valencia         86                  111                 137
Maturin          80                  100                120
Ciudad Guayana          93                  124                 163
Maracaibo          74                  94                  112
Merida          63                  88                  107
Notes:
1. Social security and related costs were assessed at 35% of wage rate.
2. Overhead and related administrative costs borne by the employer were assessed at 20%
of the wage rate of bus travellers, 25% for por puesto users and 30% for car occupants.
3. Wage rates were those published by the Oficina Central de Estadistica e Informatica,
Presidencia de la Republica.
4. Values were adjusted to estimated March 1991 equivalents by the consumer price index
with an extra 2.5% being added to allow for real wage increases.
5. Wage rates for users of different modes were assessed in the following way. The
regional income distribution of non-agricultural workers was obtained and the rate for bus
users was taken to be the income corresponding to the person 25% of the way up the
scale, starting from the lowest wage rate; por puesto travellers were assumed to
correspond to the median wage; and car occupants to the wage of the person 75% up
the scale.
6. 160 hours worked per month per worker were universally assumed.
B.     ECONOMIC EVALUATION RESULTS
17.    Economic costs and benefits were quantified for all project components except Institutional
Development, Technical Assistance and National Training Program. The benefit-cost ratio (B/C ratio),
the net present value (NPV), and the economic internal rate of return (EIRR) were calculated for each
component. The results are presented in Table 1 1. 1, considering as benefits only those resulting from
the reduction of vehicle operating costs (BRCO). The overall EIRR for the project, computed by adding
the cash flows of all components evaluated, is 32% in the base case. If the benefits due to time
savings are included the EIRR jumps to 79% in the base case. Several sensitivity analyses were carried
out, considering both reduction in benefits, increase in costs and a combination of both The results are
listed in table 11.4
18.    The economic evaluation was undertaken for each of the components identified in the first five
cities included in the corridor (Maracaibo, Barquisimeto, Merida, Maturin and Ciudad Guayana), for
transport corridors and CBD improvements, public transport improvement, traffic management and
signal improvement. A list of the corridors evaluated and their respective EIRRs are given in table 11.5.
Economic analysis was not done for institutional development, training and technical assistance
activities representing 18% of the total costs. Therefore, the economic evaluation understates the
economic viability of the project, since there will be benefits that will arise from the institutional
development, training and technical assistance program investments.
19.    The costs in Bolivares were converted into dollar costs at the market exchange rate at the
time (September 1992).
20.    Vehicle operating costs (VOCs) were prepared by CEPAL-FONTUR/MTC (Table 11.1) for
Venezuelan cities based on resource costs adjusted for urban purposes and to the Venezuelan



1 10                                ANNEX 1 1
commercial vehicles. The VOC comprise the cost of fuel, engine oil, tires, maintenance including spare
parts, depreciation, related to different speeds. Drivers and helpers were computed separately and
added to the other costs in order to compute the final VOC. A document describing how the VOCs
were determined is included in the project file.
21.    The bus route paving program was evaluated for a minimal viability, based on an average
traffic composition, in such a form that the basic data need was the construction cost and the existing
microbus traffic per hour or per day. The minimal EIRR of 12% is obtained by a daily traffic of 60
buses, or three round trips per hour. This procedure is the same as the one used in the PROPAV
program financed by the World Bank in Brazil in 1981. The deferred maintenance program is also
evaluated, for the more peripheral areas, for a minimal viability, which is obtained at the traffic level
of 10 microbuses per hour or a total of 100 buses per day per road link.
22.    Economic internal rates of return (EIRR) estimated for individual Investments vary widely from
the acceptance floor of 12% to levels beyond 100% (it is considered that EIRRs greater than 60% lose
their physical meaning as the IRR algorithm assumes that benefits are re-invested at the same rate).
These findings are normal in traffic schemes, specially where great traffic volumes are addressed with
measures that require very little in terms of investments such as the traffic light scheme managements
adjusted to changes in flow directions.
23.    For project which are still being developed, the FONTUR Operational Manual, ANNEX 10,
covers all steps necessary to clarify methodological procedures acceptable to the Word Bank for
economic evaluation.
Table 11.4: Summary of Quantified Sub-project Benefits
(Economic Rate of Return (%))
Base     Benefits     Benefits -    Benefits-25%
+25%        25%           + Costs
+25%
Ocs   ocs   ocs  ocs   ocs   ocs   ocs   ocs
only   +     only   +     only   +      only   +
TS           TS    I      TS   I        TS
Barquisimeto    35    73    47    92    23    52    15    40
Maracaibo       37    92    49    117   24    67    15    52
Maturin         27    89    38    113    15    64       8      48
Merida          17    41    25    53       9     28     4      20
Ciudad         20    65    26    82    13    49         8      38
Guayana
Total Part B    32    79    44    100   21    57    13    44
OC&- Operating Cost  m
TS - Time Savings



111                                                 ANNEX 11
VENEZUELA
URBAN TRAN8PORT PROJECT
TABLE 11.5 - ECONOMIC EVALUATION BY CORRIDOR
OCS+TS  OCSI+T           OCS+TS              OCS       8CS             OCS
B/C         NPV          IRR                 B/C          NPV          IRR
Component  (USSmillions)           (@12%)       (@12%)         (%)              (Q 12%)      (@12%)          (%)
LIBERTADOR               2.17                4.66         7705.19    118.02               2.39         2930.30     55.47
VENEZUELA                 1.18               3.51         277.86      67.04               1.45           511.85    26.83
VARGAS                   0.81                3.48         1448.92    N529                 1.60           386.78    31.76
INTERCOMUNAL             1.2a                3.15         26e6.65     76.92               1.77          967.82     36.s8
AREA CENTRAL             2.11                1.86         1963.89     30.19               0.02          -177.10    10.15
AV.RIBERENA-ACI          2.52                3.33        811l63    866.3                 2.53         4081.37     42.46
PROPAV                   4.90                2.16          1s8.68     33.70               1.01             1.57    12.24
MANTENIMIENTO            7.72                2.55           58.05     so.16               1.04             1.58    13.43
BAROUISIMETO            22.49                            23071.07     59.62                            8664.17     22.71
AREA CENTRAL             4.38                2.30         5902.21     55.20               1.27          1160.60    21.1e
LA LIMPIA                0.99                9.25         7896.63    236.51               4.55         3402.50    114.58
LAS DELICIAS             2.97                3.74         7894.29     82.81               1.63          1527.34    32.67
5 DE JULIO                0.86               4.41         2186.17    110.92               1.93           502.49    41.586
CIRCUNVALACIOI           3.71                8.34        17010.986    90.31               2.23          410.57     36.54
BELLAVISTA               0.88                4.37         2673.16    109.65               2.06           005.42    45.61
GIAJIRA                  0.72                2.75         1226.71     65.53               1.22          153.77     19.40
SABANETA                 0.51                4.91         2298.61    124.10               2.16          605.35     49.22
PROPAV                   2.20                2.16          186.58     33.70               1.01             1.57    12.24
MANTENIMIENTO            6.82                2.55           50.05     60.16               1.04             1.59    13.43
BARQUISIMETO            23.94                            47516.39     77.85                            13551.51    27.94
AV. LAS AMERICO          0.22                4.22          696.24    108.66               1.36            76.96    23.55
ALTA VISTA               0.45                3.76         1206.62     93.43               1065            33.32    14.51
UNARE                    0.29                3.93          660.70    s8.37                1.06            16.04    13.36
COLETORA 28              2.80                4.07         8487.30     57.51               1.54          166s.s6    21.06
MANTENIMIENTO            1.62                2.65           80.05     60.16               1.04            1.68     13.43
CIUDAD GUAYAr            5.37                            12290.13     63.75                             1798.50    17.92
RSAUL LEONI              0.09                6.07          437.55    154.35               2.42           122.90    86.19
ORINOCO/JJUNC.           0.20                2.72          333.93     64.6s               1.06            15.52    14.73
UB.CENTENARIO            0.07                2.91          133.72     70.09               1.14            9.57     16.6
GUARAPICHE.II            0.14                2.61          250.57     67.15               11.3            17.69    16.34
UB.ORINICo II            0.09                4.89          318.17    116.18               1.94            81.16    42.02
AREA CENTRAL -           0.83                3.62         2120.45     89.4e               1.49           394.10    26.03
MANTENIMIENTO            2.43                2.55           80.06     60.16               1.04             1.68    13.43
MATURIN                  3.86                             363.44      70.71                             642.52     18.48
1e DE SETIEMBRL          0.30                2.67          486.96     63.31               1.38           104.59    23.96
LOS CUROS                 1.20               2.13         1496.43     30.01               1.48           633.s8    20.06
MEJORAS 1e INTI           1.07               2.00         1123.21     4e.22               1.01            8.12     12.27
MANTENIMIENTO             1.29               2.56           50.05     e0.16               1.04             1.56    13.43
MERIDA                   3.8e                             3167.67     47.17                             746.15     15.99
TOTAL GERAL              W.51                            809818.70    67.31                            25404.94    23.67



112                                 ANNEX 12
VENEZUELA
URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Detailed Proiect Costs
This annex includes the detailed project costs, namely: i) the project cost summary; ii) the
consolidated cost estimates by year and semester; iii) the estimated schedule of disbursements; iv) the
traffic and infrastructure investments costs for the five cities appraised and for the program that were
fully evaluated; v) the road rehabilitation and deferred maintenance costs for the five cities.



113                                         ANNEX 12
TABLE 12.1 PROJECTS COST SUMMARY
Qn US$ MILLION EQUIVALENT)
PROGRAM              Component                          Total    % Of     Local  % of   Foreign   % ot
US$ m    Total   USS m    Total   USS m    Total
instItbonal   Al - FONTUR Strengthening      ___ _           3.84    1.9      1.54    0.8      2.30    1.2
Development   A2 - Municipal Strengthening                   4.95    2.5      2.27    1.1      2.68    1.3
and Policy    A3 - National Tralning                         7.22    3.6      2.91    1.5      4.31    2.2
Program       A4 Traffic Police                             11.17    5.6      2.96    1.5      8.22    4.1
(PART A)      A5 - Policy Studies                            2.63    1.3      1.31    0.7      1.31    0.7
AS Preparatlon Studces                         5.00    2.5     2.50    1.3      2.50     1.3
Sub Total Part A                             34.81   17.4    13.49   687    21.32   10.7
tnfrastructure   B1 - Traflic Intra and Equipment  ._  _   104.35   52.2    67.39   33.7    36.97   18.5
and Equlpment  - - Land Expropriation                        1.08    0.5      1.06    0.5      0.00    0.0
Investment    B2 - Deterred Malntenance                     18.45    9.2    12116    6.1    6f29    3.1
(PART Bl      Sub Total Part B                             123.88   61.9    80.63   40.3    43.26   21.6
Total         BeCodst            =____    1 56 .                     79-     9412 -.471       6 ,58    2 -
Project       Physical Contingencies                        1 5.65    7.8    10.11    5.1      5,54    2.8
(Pw  A + B    Sub Total                                    174.34   87.2   104.23   52.1    70.12   35.1
Price Contingencies                           25.66   12.8    15.28    7.6    10.39    5.2
Total (Excluding taxes) -_:_- ___   200.0   100.0  119.51 .58    80.51   40.3
Taxes and Duties                              19.62    9.8    19.82    9.8      0.00    0.0
Total (Inc taxes)                           219.62  109.8   139.13   69.6    80.51   40.3
NOTES
Part B2 is a program and thus physical contingencies are not approprlate
Tax and duty rates provided by FONTUR
TABLE 12.1 A PROJECT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE BY TYPE
On USS MILUON EQUIVALENT)
PROGRAM              Component            Technical     Total    % of LOCAL      % of   Forelgn   % of
I_________  _____________________ IAssistance    USS m    Total   USS m    Total   US$ m    Total
nstituonal    Al - FONTUR Strengthening    IDTA              3.84   14.7      1.54    5.9      2.30    8.8
Developmrent   A2 - Municipal Strengthening  IDTA            4.95   19.0      2.27    8.7      2.68   10.3
and Policy    A3 - National Training         IDTA            7.22   27.7      2.91    11.2     4.31    16.5
Program       A4 Tratf c Police             IDTA             2.43    9.3      0.49    1.9      1.94    7.4
Sub Total IDTA                               18.44    70.7     7.21   27.7    11.23   43.1
(PART A)      A5- PolcyStudies               SUB.TA          2.63   10.1      1.31    5.0      1.31    5.0
AS Preparation Stucles        SUB.TA           5.00   19.2      2.50    9.6     2.50    9.6
Sub Total SUB.TA                              7.63   29.3      3.81    14,6     3.81    14.6
I Total TA                                    26.07   100.0S   11.02    42.3    1 5:041  577
IDTA-insftittonal Developmnent TechnicalAssistace SUB.TA- Subsftitton Technical Assistance



VENEZUELA
UPSAN TRANSPOPT PPOJECT
TABLE 12.2 CONSOLIDATED COST ESTIWATES
TOTA       I   OCA _ F___ GN____     1__3__1    1  .8     17 1    .79~1   1.79 l -"                                                        006Ilg7  w j I I   M ll 'Ot i  A
PaWtAS          Tech A~so             2.64     1.31    21.3.1 .1    0.269                    .610 0.       0.8      53    08                                                 a25
PeilAS  mid   5lucpj se           5.200     .0    2 .50                          0.5    1.0    100    .5010                   100                                         025
TA echRAga             34.81    13.4   2.32    0.0      0.48   6.22    6.231  7.17   4.45   5.58    1.24    1997   1.4 00           .2200         02
Equip           1~~.20    0.06    0.60                 0.04   0.04    0.07    0.11   0o.16    0.6   011    00.00            .0   __
Pant Al      ScFNTU oeolm1et10es5                                             .8      .0                                                                                       .1
Padl8  ae  n3m   erc.cudrdc  u toSdoubl counlkig0                                                    .01   .
Pua8-rmFnTUCR eStuieas ..i                                  i.5                                       .aU02



115                                  ANNEX 12
VENEZUELA
URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Table 12.3: Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ Million)
IBRD                      Estimated            Estimated            Estimated
Fiscal Year and           Semester .      - Cummulative             Cummulative as
Semester                  Disbursements        Accounts             a % of Total'
1994                      _      --:    - -- . -- -     .    -:-   -            . .
June 30, 1994                    18.0                 18.0                  18
1995                      ____ -___-___:- 
December 31, 1994                 9.0                 27.0                  27
June 30, 1995                     9.0                 36.0                   36
1996           -_-- _:- _-.--.---
December 31, 1995                15.0                 51.0                  51
June 30, 1996                    12.0                 63.0                   63
1997                     '   : ' , , . ' : " '   "    ,         .    -    -         _ -
December 31,1996                  8.0                 71.0                  71
June 30, 1997                     8.0                 79.0                  79
1998
December 31, 1997                 8.0                 87.0                  87
June 30, 1998                     9.0                 96.0                   96
1999           -'          --,-'                  :' :. -   ---                 -  -  -
December 31, 1998                 4.0                 100.0                 100
June 30, 1999
Assumptions
Loan Effectiveness:   January 30, 1994
Loan Closing Date :  December 30, 1999
1/ Including an initial deposit of US$4 million into the Special Account
Source: Mission estimates



VENEZtUELA
URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
TABLE 12.4 TRAFFIC AND INFRASTRUCTURE
SUMMARY OF COSTS (ex taxes, US$ millions)
1        2         3        4        5
1 ActMty                  MERIDA  MATURIN  CIUDAD BARQUI-  MARAC-    TOTAL
GUAYANA SIMETO   AIBO
1.01 Design                    0.12      0.21      0.13     0.73     1.46     2.65  7.6%
1.02 CMI Works                 0.83      0.71      3.23     8.94    17.92    31.63
1.03 Equipment                 0.36      0.21      0.37     1.59     0.89     3.42
1.04 Supervision               0.10      0.15      0.36     0.73     1.46     2.80  8.0%
1.05 Sub Total                  1.41     1.28      4.09    11.99    21.73    40.50
1.06 Physical Cont             0.35      0.19      0.63     1.81     2.35     5.33 13.2%
1.07 Sub Total                 1.76      1.47      4.72    13.80    24.08    45.83
1.08 Expropriation             0.52      0.00      0.00     0.00     0.56     1.08 _n
1 1.C191Total (ex pricecont)  1    2.281    1.471    4.721    13.801  24.64j[   46.9
Notes
Design and supervision average about 8% - same % used for unallocated costs
Physical contingencies average 15% - same % used for unallocated costs



VENEZUELA
URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
TABLE 12.5 ROAD REHABILITATION
SUMMARY OF COSTS (ex taxes US$ millions)
1         2          3          4          5
1 Actvity                  MERIDA   MATURIN    CIUDAD BARQ'METO MARAC'BO    TOTA
GUYANA
1.01 Design                      0.06      0.03       0.09       0.22       0.31      0.72
1.02 CMI Works                   1.17      0.63       1.79       4.45       6.28     14.32
1.03 Equipment                   0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00
1.04 Supervision                 0.08       0.04      0.13       0.31       0.44      1.00
1.05 Sub Total                   1.31       0.71      2.00       4.98       7.03     16.04
1.06 Physical Cont               0.20       0.11      0.30       0.75       1.06      2.41
1.07 Sub Total                   1.51       0.81      2.31       5.73       8.09     18.44
1.08 Expropriation               0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00
1.09 Total (ex price cont)       1.51       0.811     2.311      5.73       8.0911    18.44
Assumptions
New paving of bus routes etc is included in the traffic and infrastructure works
Base cost as Table 4 of Annex 10 but amended for design, supervision and contingencies
Design is 5% and supervision 7%o
Physical contingencies is 15%



118                                 ANNEX 13
VENEZUELA
URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule. Monitoring, Evaluation
and Supervision Plan
A. Proiect Schedule
1.    The project implementation schedule is shown in Figure 1. The schedule provides the basis for
project monitoring and for the disbursement profile (Annex 12).
B. Monitorina and Evaluation
Monitorina - Part A National Comoonent
2.    Part A (National Component), comprises six components: (i) Part Al - FONTUR strengthening,
liil Part A2 - municipality strengthening, (iii) Part A3 - national training program, (iv) Part A4 -traffic
police component, (v) Part A5 - studies and, (vi) Part A6 - preparation studies in additional cities.
3.    Monitoring of activities will involve two separate but closely related activities (i) monitoring of
the implementation schedule and key target dates and (ii) and financial monitoring (expenditures in
relation to project costs).
4.    Implementation Monitoring FONTUR will monitor compliance with the schedule shown in Figure
1. by defining target dates for key actions. The target dates for key actions for the first year of the
project (to about mid 1994) are shown in the Action Plan in this Annex. In May 1994, FONTUR will
prepare, with the agreement of the Bank, a similar action plan for the second year of implementation,
and in May 1995 an action plan for the third year and so on throughout the life of the project. In the
event of delays, FONTUR will be responsible for identification of the constraint and for devising and
executing policies to resolve problems.
5.    Part A2 involves municipal strengthening programs; the Action Plans for Part A2 will be
adjusted and made more detailed as each city sub-project implementation schedule is finalized. Typical
key dates for Part A2 for each city will be developed and will include issue of invitations to technical
assistance consultants, and commencement and completion of consultants employment.
6.    Financial progress will be monitored by FONTUR in the same way as implementation progress.
Estimates of costs of Part A have been made but final costs will be dependent on consultants contracts
(for technical assistance and studies etc) and on bid prices (for equipment etc). Thus, it will be the
responsibility of FONTUR to update cost schedules as contracts and bids are finalized, and to monitor
financial progress in relation to the updated schedules.
7.    FONTUR will report on both implementation and financial progress in the bi-annual progress
reports.



PIG 1: ODWICWAlVE FRO   S5IEDUIE
Y_r                                                       1993        1993         1994        1994         1995        1995         1996        1996        1997         1997        1996         1998        1999         1999
So_mer                                                      1            2           1           2            1           2            1           2            1           2            1           2           1            2
PAr! A - UflUI1O8AL DEVmoELO                 PRO(AM
Al FONTIIR Tchnical Ana:L                                                    25%         25%          25%         25S%
FONITIR Equipmu                                                          50S         50%
A2Z Mu   pl Tchical Ami8u                       S                                   8      %           8%          8%          8%      C     %           8%          8%          8%           8%          8%
Muiapl Equzipfarm                                                                    15%         2D%          30%         20%          15S|
Al NIP - Iln3euuSA                                                                       33 I1S|                                           33%S
M? - Mlmpn 8Om                                                                            EZIS                            25%                      2                        25%
MM? - Tecniai Com                                                                                17r                      17%                      17S                      17|                      17S                      17S
NM1  - PNubIcT qII |p                                                                             17S||                   171                      17S                      17*                      17|r                     17
A4 CVIT Scdhd                                                                            50%S         59%|
CVVIT Psdool T6ikn3ml Aaimne9                                                        50%         50l%
CVIT Mmm*W Tecnical Amn
A5  Pdiq Studie                                                                                       I0%         2D%          20%  IIOS|                           2D%         20S%
A6 Pmpamtiin Sinu                                                                                     0O%         20%          20%         20%          20D         IOS
PAST 3 - DRAZ1MUCrU3E AMD DOUDUfT
DI Trfficand7mnumt lnhna99us
B1.3 IhrWiim                                                                  5 S        IO           15%         20%         20%          15%          10%          5*                                                                     _
B1.2  oamikbo                                                                            25*           5%          8%           1          20%         20%          13%          8%           5%          5%
B5.3  turin                                                                                           10%         15%          25%         25%          15% S       10 %
B1.4  |rida                                       I0%                                                 15%         25%          25%         15 1s0
D15 a.xd Gmvm                                                                10%         15%          25%         25%          153% IbS0
B2 Deeimd Wbinlteaae
B2.1 lrqwumeto                                                               10%         10%          10%         10%          10%         10%          10%         10% IOS%
B22 Majumibo                                                                            10%          lO%         10%          10%         10%          10%         10%         10%          10%         10%q
B23 Matwim                                                                                            10%         10%          10%         10%          10%         10%         10% I0% I0% I0 IOS|
B24 hUdsIu 10%                                                                                        10%1 10*% I0%                                                 10% 10%                              10%
B2.5 a^db Oum,                                                               10%         10%          10%         10%          10%         10%          10%         10%         IO 0%        10%I



120                                ANNEX 13
Evaluation of Part A
8.    Evaluation of Parts Al -A5 of the institutional program will attempt to determine the extent to
which objectives are achieved. As with all institutional programs, evaluations will be largely subjective
and based on analysis of effectiveness by FONTUR and on reviews carried out by experienced
personnel during the mid term project review and during Bank supervision missions. The main aspects
of the reviews will be as follows:
9.    Part Al - international technical assistance is proposed over 2 years. An evaluation will be
carried out 9 months after the commencement of the technical assistance contract. The review will
be carried out jointly by FONTUR and the Bank with the aims of (i) determining how successful the
technical assistance team has been in maintaining project progress and transferring technology to
FONTUR, (ii) determining if the team or its composition should be changed for the subsequent year
and, (iii) defining the commitment for the subsequent year. At the end of the FONTUR strengthening
program, a final evaluation will be undertaken which will assess, inter alia,
*     the success of the application of the Operational Manual and the need for
development and change;
-     the time needed to implement a subproject and the extent to which FONTUR's
own staff were able to undertake the work;
*     the extent to which the international technical assistance team were able to
undertake a technology transfer to FONTUR staff;
v     the number of FONTUR staff who are able to comply with their professional
obligations once the technical assistance was completed;
*     the use made of the equipment purchased with Project funds;
*     reports from participants will be required indicating the experience they gained
and how it is expected to be useful in their future work with FONTUR and
other agencies;
10.   Part A2 - municipality strengthening is proposed in each city for 6 years and includes mid-level
technical assistance and supplementary staff. Before the end of each year in each municipality,
FONTUR, with the help of its international technical assistance team (for the first two years), will
review progress of the technical assistance. FONTUR will assess: (i) how successful the teams have
been in maintaining city sub-project progress, setting up working practices and in transferring
technology to city staff, and (ii) if the team or its composition should be changed for the subsequent
year;
11.   Part A3 - national training program. The intensive course will be held 3 times (in 1994, 1995
and 1996). The 1994 course will be evaluated to inform the decision to proceed with subsequent
courses. The evaluation will be largely based on questionnaires answered by the participants, by
reports from the principal lecturers and by a review carried out by Bank supervision missions. After
the intensive courses have been completed (after 1995), or at the mid term project review (whichever
is the sooner) all training courses would be reviewed. This includes the intensive course, the managers
courses (held over 3 years), the technician courses (held over 4 years), the logistic courses (held over
6 years) and the public transport operator courses (held over 6 years). The evaluation will be based
on comments from the agencies that sponsored participants as well as from the participants
themselves. FONTUR will be required to prepare questionnaires, in a format agreed by the Bank,
circulate, collect and prepare an analysis report for consideration at the review. A primary aim of the
of the review will be to determine if the on-going courses should continue or be modified and to
determine if additional courses (such as further presentations of the intensive courses) should be
mounted;



121                                 ANNEX 13
12.   Part A4 - traffic police training. The revised police training courses will be assessed in the
conventional way by course presenters through questionnaires to participants. At the local level, the
traffic police will receive various equipment (communications, vehicles, for accident reporting etc).
At the mid term review, FONTUR will furnish a report on the manner in which the equipment has been
deployed and an assessment of its effectiveness. In general, however, the most important effect of
traffic police training should be improved on-street traffic operations; this effect will be long-term and
extremely difficult to measure and quantify and only qualitative reviews are proposed.
13.   Part A5 - policy and other studies. Eleven policy and institutional studies are proposed. Target
dates are given in Table 8.1 of Annex 8; at the mid term project review, an assessment will be made
of the success of implementing recommendations of the studies completed by that and agreements
will be reached with GOV, if necessary, on actions to ensure implementation.
C. Monitorino and Evaluation of Suboroiects
14.   As a condition of eligibility, each participating city will be required to develop and to carry out,
a monitoring and evaluation program.
15.   Monitorins would identify the physical, institutional and financial status of each subproject
component, as appropriate, on a periodic basis. The aim will be to identify implementation problems
and the extent of deviation from the targets proposed at appraisal. The results of the monitoring
program (the comparison of achieved performance with appraisal targets) will be presented in the
Semester Reports for each city subproject, prepared and coordinated by FONTUR. The results of each
city subproject monitoring program will provide the basis and information for cities to prepare measures
and actions to resolve implementation problems, if any, and at the same time, to update project costs,
disbursement and implementation schedules if necessary. Monitoring indicators to be employed will
vary by type of component but the general guidelines are set out in the following paragraphs.
16.   The following general guidelines would be followed:
(a)    each participating city will prepare, as part of its subproject preparation report, an
implementation schedule which sets out target dates for key actions for physical
works, equipment supply and institutional components. WVhere components are not
fully prepared at appraisal, it would be a condition of their subsequent inclusion that
an implementation schedule is prepared as an integral part of the component;
(b)   for physical works (and equipment) progress; the implementation schedule will define
target dates (to the nearest quarter) for the start and finish of key actions involved in
the implementation of physical works ( and supply of equipment). Thus indicators are
likely to include:
*     start/finish dates for final engineering design and documents for works (or
equipment);
date for issue of bid documents;
*     date contract signature and;
*     start/finish dates for works (or supply of equipment).
(c)   for financial performance; since works (or supply of equipment) are likely to extend
over some time, the subproject implementation schedule will also be required to give
target "percentage completed' by quarter. Thus target expenditures can be estimated
and will be used to monitor financial (disbursement) performance on a quarterly basis;
and,



122                                ANNEX 13
(d)   for institutional measures (technical assistance, training and studies), the monitoring
targets will have been included, as a part of Part A2, in the Action Plans (see para 5).
17.   Ex-post evaluation would be aimed at determining the effectiveness and efficiency of measures
in meeting the objectives determined at appraisal. In the event that objectives are not met and
previously anticipated improvements in performance are not achieved, the data would be used (i) to
identify why components had not been fully successful and ii) to modify future components proposed
for subsequent implementation which were based on similar premises. Furthermore, the ex-post
evaluation would be used as a major input to the project completion report.
18.   As with the monitoring program, definition of the ex-post evaluation program for the
components in each city subproject would be part of the appraisal. Ex-post evaluation indicators which
would be employed will vary with the type of component. Generally, ex-post indicators will be the
same as the key indicators which are used in the component evaluation. The city sub-project
preparation reports prepared by consultants and reviewed by FONTUR and the Bank, for each
participating city will set out both the type of proposed ex-post evaluation indicators and, the proposed
'before and after' levels for each component. No generalizations can be made in this latter regard
since the level of improvements (e.g., reduction in delay, reduction in accidents) depends on the scale
of problems which the component sets out to resolve.
19.   The following general criteria will be applied to each city evaluation program:
(a)   in general, the schemes proposed under the subprojects will not require long
implementation periods and thus "beforew and 'after' assessments can be made.
'Before' surveys should be carried out as close as possible to the commencement of
civil works and wafter" surveys should be carried out a few months after completion
of work when traffic conditions have stabilized;
(b)    not all schemes will be subject to monitoring (since many minor junction improvements
are involved in most cities); in developing their evaluation proposals, each city will
define which schemes are to be subject to evaluation and these will be agreed by
FONTUR as part of the monitoring eligibility criteria;
(c)   in cases where individual schemes require an extended implementation period or where
a scheme cannot be evaluated as traffic flows will be affected by other schemes, it
may not be possible to carry out closely timed "before" and "after" studies; in these
cases, the same indicators, survey procedures etc will be followed but assessment will
be made on a "with" and 'without' scheme basis.
20.   The following are key indicators for the type of components which are most commonly included
in the city subprojects.



123                                 ANNEX 13
Table 13.1 - Indicators for TSM Corridor Components
INDICATOR               DATA REQUIRED FOR "BEFORE" and 'AFTER" SURVEYS
1. Bus journey times or   Surveys will be required to determine average speeds over
speeds                    corridors for buses and for private vehicles. Surveys will be
and                       required for a representative period (more than 1 day) in both
2. Private vehicle journey    directions of travel, in the AM, off- and PM peak periods and on
times or speeds           weekdays. Travel data should be collected so that intermediate
times/delay along the route can be identified.
Traffic (by type) volumes and bus passenger volumes will be
counted over the same time periods at key route sections.
3. Junction capacity      Traffic volumes, traffic turning counts, saturation flows and
("Level of Service")      junction delay surveys will be carried out at major junctions along
and                       corridors to enable the junction indicators to be assessed.
4. Junction delay
5. Accident records       Collection of accident records should be part of the day-to-day
work of the city traffic agency. It is necessary to assess data over
a considerable time period before trends can be confirmed
(although short term accident data can be valuable in resolving
immediate problems). Accident data will be collected and analyzed
but final trend be finalized until some 2 or 3 years after scheme
opening.
Table 13.2 - Indicators for TSM Junction Improvements
INDICATOR               DATA REQUIRED FOR 'BEFORE" and "AFTER" SURVEYS
1. Junction capacity      Traffic volumes, traffic turning counts, saturation flows and
i(Level of Service") and    junction delay surveys will be carried out to enable the junction
2. Junction delay         indicators to be assessed.
Where schemes involves diversions, similar indicators should be
assessed on diversion routes.
3. Accident records       Collection of accident records should be part of the day-to-day
work of the city traffic agency. It is necessary to assess data over
a considerable time period before trends can be confirmed
(although short term accident data can be valuable in resolving
immediate problems). Accident data will be collected and analyzed
but final trend be finalized until some 2 or 3 years after scheme
opening.



124                                ANNEX 13
Table 13.3: Indicators for Bus Route Paving
INDICATOR              DATA REQUIRED FOR *BEFORE" and "AFTER' SURVEYS
1. Bus Speeds            Surveys to determine average bus speeds over a sample of project
route sections for a represen-tative period Imore than 1 day) in
both directions of travel, in the AM, off- and PM peak periods and
on weekdays. Bus volumes would also be counted.
Table 13.4: Road Rehabilitation Components
INDICATOR              DATA REQUIRED FOR "BEFORE" and "AFTER' SURVEYS
1. Roughness             Using appropriate techniques, measures of "before- and "after"
roughness indices will be made for a sample of roads.
2. Vehicle speeds        Surveys to determine average vehicle speeds over a sample of
project route sections for a representative period (more than 1 day)
in both directions of travel, in the AM, off- and PM peak periods
and on weekdays. Traffic volumes should also be counted



125                                 ANNEX 13
D. Supervision Plan
I.    Bank Supervision
1.    The main emphasis during the initial project phase would be to: (a) review the development and
implementation of the project monitoring system; (b) make certain that FONTUR's staff is adequately
familiar with Bank procurement guidelines, Bank disbursement procedures (i.e. Special Account
transactions) and Bank independent auditing requirements; (c) establish a system to evaluate the
municipalities for participation in the program; and (d) help FONTUR's development of a strategy to
properly promote the project to eligible municipalities and promote the project to the Venezuelan public.
Many of these items would be addressed in the project launch workshop scheduled for September
1993. During project implementation, the supervision missions would need to conduct the following
activities in the field on a regular basis in addition to monitoring project progress: (a) review a sampling
of contract bids and awards; (b) inspect disbursement procedures and record keeping; (c) inspect
adequacy of supervision and monitoring of the municipalities and respective subprojects; Id) review
performance and accuracy of the Project Monitoring System; (e) complete a mid-term review by
September of 1995 to examine the progress made epecially in the public transport studies, to assess
the relevance of project objectives and actions, and recommend appropriate revisions (as needed).
Supervision missions in the field should attempt to visit one or more municipalities during each trip.
A preliminary schedule of supervision missions including key activities is indicated in the table on the
following page. The key activities shown are in addition to the regular supervision needs, which
include review of: (a) progress reports; (b) procurement issues; (c) disbursements; (e) Project
Implementation Plan; (f) Project Operations Manual; (g) yearly independent audits; (h) correspondence;
and (i) unforseen issues.
2.    The Bank project team would consist of the Task Manager (Sr. Transport Planner/Economist),
a Traffic Engineer, and an Urban Planner. Consultants are anticipated to be required on a short term
basis to assist in specific areas, such as analysis of monitoring system, review of institutional
development programs, etc. Supervision requirements for the project are expected to be high due to:
(a) the complexity of the institutional arrangements, (b) the anticipated large number of small scale
subprojects; (c) FONTUR's lack of experience with Bank procedures; and (d) institutional weakness of
FONTUR (requiring significant training and technical assistance).  Supervision requirements are
anticipated to be about 20 staff-weeks during the first year and about 1 5 staff-weeks thereafter. A
summary of key inputs is provided on the following page.
II.    Borrower's Contribution to Supervision
3.    Fontur is expected to: (a).be responsible for project monitoring and coordination, keeping the
Project Monitoring System accurate, and to follow-up and address all issues which are "signaled' by
the system; (b) be responsible for properly managing all procurement and disbursement considerations,
keeping procurement and disbursement records up to date; (c) prepare progress reports in June and
December of each year; and (d) be responsible for coordinating arrangements for the Bank supervision
missions.



126                                       ANNEX 13
Table 13.5: Bank Supervision Input Into Key Activities
Approx.  |               Key Activities              |          Expected Skill            Staff
Dates                                                          Requirements              Input
l                                         I                                   j staff-wks
| 12/93     Supervision Mission-Project Effectiveness    Sr. Transport Planner            4.5
(review: (i) conditions for project       Traffic Engineer
effectiveness - PIP, POM, and Monitoring    Procurement Specialist
system; and (ii) special coordinating
arrangements devised among several
sectoral agencies participating in project
implementation and {ii) existing financial
and accounting systems/procedures)
2/94        Supervision Mission                        Sr. Transport Planner/Economist    5.5
(review Project Monitoring System         Traffic Engineer
Training/implementation, Institutional     Consultant
development including training programs)
6/94        Supervision Mission                        Sr. Transport Planner              8.0
(Review results of 1 st year Independent   Traffic Engineer
audit)                                     Highway Engineer                              l
12/94       Supervision Mission                        Sr. Transport Planner              7.0
(Concentrate on subprojects: i) contracts;    Traffic Engineer
ii) eligibility/limits; iii) costs; iv) status)
6/95        Supervision Mission                        Sr. Transport Planner              8.0
(concentrate on disbursements, financial   Traffic Engineer
status, Institutional development, Public  Consultant
!_________  Transport Studies)
12/95       Supervision Mission                        Sr. Transport Planner              7.0
(concentrate on subproject status,         Traffic Engineer
implementation of recommendations of
public transport study)
1996        Two Supervision Missions                   Sr. Transport Planner              13.0
Traffic Engineer
Consultant
1997        Three Supervision Missions                 Sr. Transport Planner              12.0
(begin negotiations of follow-up loan, if  Traffic Engineer
mid-term reviews are favorable)            Consultant
1998        Two Supervision Missions, continue         Sr. Transport Planner              8.0
negotiations for follow-up loan)          Traffic Engineer
1999       Two Supervision Missions-Loan Closing       Sr. Transport Planner              8.0
(Project closing, Final negotiations for  Traffic Engineer
follow-up loan)
,, .                   .     .=.



127                                ANNEX 13
E. ACTION PLAN
The Action Plan is based on the assumption that Board Presentation (Pre) will take
place in late October 1993 and the project will be Effective (Eff) on January 1994.
The Action Plan represents key actions to be taken in the first year (to about mid
June 1994); the second year action plan will be developed in March 1994.
Table 13.6: Project Action Plan
Activity                        Target          Agency         Status
Date
1.    FONTUR Procedures                                       ___
1.01  Final Version of Operations Manual
Completed by:                          March 29, 1993   FONTUR           Completed
1.02  Project Coordinating Unit Formed by:    March 29, 1993   FONTUR
1 .03  Project Coordinating Unit Manager
nominated & appointed by:              March 29, 1993   FONTUR
1.04  Project Coordinating Unit staff nominated
and appointed by:                      March 29, 1993   FONTUR
1.05  Final Designs for First Year Components for
Part B1:
(a) appoint consultants                Nov 92           FONTUR
(b) finalize designs for first year    Jun 93            FONTUR
(c)  sample contract docs              March 29, 1993   FONTUR
1.06  FONTUR organizational review completed                   FONTUR
by:                                    Jan 93
1.07  City Convenios accepting:
(a) eligibility criteria
* Maracaibo                        Dec 92
* Maturin                          Mar 93
* Ciudad Guyana                    Dec 92           FONTUR
* Merida                           Nov 92
* Barquisimeto                     Apr 93
(b) subproject
* First city by                    Jun 93
* Second city by                   Jun 93
* All 5 cities by                  Sep 93           FONTUR/Bank
1.08  Project Launch Seminar - target by:     Dec 93           FONTUR
1.09  Detailed Action Plan 1994 - Submit to Bank  Dec 93



Table 13.6 (cont'd)                         128                                 ANNEX 13
2.    PART Al - FONTUR TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE (TA)
2.01   Select Short List for International TA  March 29, 1993   FONTUR           Completed
2.02   For International TA, issue invitations and
agreed TOR (Bank no objections, evaluate
proposals, select, negotiate, obtain Bank
objections sign contract) - complete by:  Oct 93         FONTUR/Bank
2.03   For Supervision TA, complete TOR and
define procedures and program for
appointment - complete by:              Nov 93           FONTUR
3.    PART A2 - Municipal Technical Assistance
3.01   For International TA, issue invitations and
agreed TOR (Bank no objections, evaluate                 FONTUR/
proposals, select, negotiate, obtain Bank  Dec 93        Municipalities
objections sign contract) - complete by:
3.02   For junior national staff, issue invitations
and agreed TOR (Bank no objections,                      FONTUR/
evaluate proposals, select, negotiate,  Dec 93           Municipalities
obtain Bank objections sign contract) -
complete by:
4.    PART A3 - National Training Program
(intensive Course)
4.01   Appoint consultants to prepare and deliver
course including preparation and issue of
pre-qualification documents, select short  Nov 93        FONTUR
list, obtain Bank no objections, request and
evaluate proposals, select, negotiate,
obtain Bank no objections, sign contract -
Complete by:                            Nov 93           FONTUR
4.02   Make all administrative arrangements,
select location and participants for first  Jan 94       Consultants
intensive course
4.03   Deliver First Intensive Course



Table 13.6 (cont'd)                         129                                 ANNEX 13
5.    PART A3 - National Training Program (other
courses)
5.01   Finalize Curricula of all courses and send to  Feb 94    FONTUR
Bank (including use of consultants if
necessary)                              Feb 94           FONTUR
5.02  Prepare detailed chronogram for all courses
5.03  Target dates for the delivery (including all
necessary selection of locations,
participants, etc.)
* Managers course                       March 94         Consultants
* technician course
* logistic course
* public transport courses
6.    PART A4 - CVVT Program
6.01   Submission draft final report on Bank
Project Components                      Mar 7, 1993      Consultants/     Completed
6.02  Comments on draft final report - completed   Mar 29, 1993  Bank
by;                                     Mar 29, 1993     FONTUR/Bank
6.03  Final report agreed
6.04  Preparation of detailed TOR for technical
assistance for:                         Nov 93           FONTUR/CVVT
*   national training school (preparation of
and delivery of courses
*   for municipalities (operations)
(including short list, select negotiate and
obtain Bank no objections, request and
evaluate proposals, sign contracts -    Nov 93           FONTUR/CVVT
completed by:
6.05  Appoint National Training School
Consultants (inc. short list, select negotiate
and obtain Bank no objections, request and   Nov 93      FONTUR/CVVT
evaluate proposals, sign contracts -
completed by:                           Jan 94           Consultants
6.06  Appoint Local Level TA - as for 6.05 above
6.07  Prepare Training School Improvement
Program detailed proposals              Jun 94           FONTUR/CVVT
6.08  Detailed design and bidding docs for     Sep 94           FONTUR/CVVT
Training School civil work (inc appointment
of consultants, etc) completed by:      Jun 94           Consultant
6.09  Bid Training School civil works          Sep 94           FONTUR/CVVT
6.10  Prepare final specifications and bid
documents for local level equipment     Jun 94           FONTUR/CVVT
6.11   Bid local level equipment
6.12  Make all arrangements (inc. Bank no
objections for overseas training - Target
date for completion by:



Table 13.6 (cont'd)                         130                                 ANNEX 13
7.    PART B1 - Traffic and Infrastructure
Components
7.01   Final Design completion - See item 1.05  Jun 93          FONTUR           Completed
above
7.02  Municipalities sign subprojects Agreements
* First City by:
* Second city by:                       Nov 93
* Target date for completion five cities  Dec 93         FONTUR/
7.03   Municipalities assign counterpart funds and   Feb 94     Municipalities
demonstrate to FONTUR for first year
* First city by:
* Second city by:                       Nov 93
* Target date for completion five cities  Dec 93         Municipalities
7.04   Municipalities develop Maintenance Action   Feb 94
Plan and demonstrate to FONTUR
* First city by:
* Second city by:                       Nov 93
* Target date for completion five cities  Dec 93
7.05   Municipalities to sign Traffic Police   Feb 94
Convenio
* First city by:
* Second city by:                       Dec 93
* Target date for completion five cities  Jan 94         Municipalities/
7.06   Municipalities establish Project        Apr 94           CVVT
implementation Unit
* First city by:
* Second city by:                       Nov 93
* Target date for completion five cities  Dec 93         Municipalities
7.07   Municipalities sign undertaking to carry out  Apr 94
Public Transport Study
* First city by:
* Second city by:                       Nov 93
* Target date for completion five cities  Dec 93
Apr 94
8.    Part B2 - Maintenance Components
8.01   Maintenance studies completed by:
* First city by:                        May 93                            Completed
* Second city by:                       Jun 93           FONTUR
* Target date for completion five cities  Jul 93
8.02   Maintenance Contracts bid:
* First city by:                        Dec 93
* Second city by:                       Jan 94           FONTUR/
* Target date for completion five cities  Apr 94         Municipalities



131                                 ANNEX 14
VENEZUELA
URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Urban Transport Characteristics
1.   Venezuela has an estimated fleet of 2.0 million vehicles (1990), of which 73% are private cars,
6% are vehicles used for public passenger transport, and the rest are motor cycles, trucks, trailers and
semi-trailers. The Capital Region has 42% of the country's cars, and 39% of its public transport
vehicles. In addition to those modes, Caracas has a metro (CAMETRO) with two lines totalling 40 km.
More than 95% of the public transport fleet is privately owned and consists of buses, por puestos (see
para.3 below for definition) and jeeps. The modal share of urban buses and por puestos ranges from
40% in Maracaibo to nearly 60% in Merida; walking accounts for about 13-16% of all trips in most
cities, and private cars for 29-42%. Other than walking, there is little non-motorized transport, partly
because the hilly topography makes it difficult to operate bicycles. In Caracas, the metro accounts for
nearly 15% of the trips, other public transport for 28%, cars for 41 % and walking for roughly 16%;
there is also a growing use of motorcycles.
2.   In urban areas other than Caracas, a typical home-to-work trip requires transfers between por
puestos and can take as much as 1-2 hours each way. Since the por puesto tariffs are not integrated,
many passengers must pay multiple fares; in these cases, poor people are obliged to pay a high
proportion of their disposable salary on transport. In Caracas, the lowest income users live in ranchos
('areas marginales') on the hillsides which can only be served by four wheel drive vehicles (jeeps), since
gradients are steep and other vehicles cannot maneuver safely. A typical home-to-work trip for a
rancho dweller consists of climbing down a hillside stairway to a jeep stop, taking the jeep to a por
puesto stop and transferring to a por puesto to reach the metro. Due to the long distances and the
relatively high traffic congestion in Caracas, it is not uncommon for trips to take over 2 hours each
way. The service level of road-based transport has deteriorated considerably due to lower speeds
caused by traffic congestion. Frequencies tend to be low, reliability is poor, and conditions of comfort
and safety are bad. Furthermore, the lack of appropriate traffic management systems coupled with
poor parking policies and unsafe driving results in an high number of accidents, especially at
intersections.  Traffic safety enforcement is generally absent and some improvements could
significantly reduce the number of accidents.
Por Puestos and Jeeos
3.   The term 'por puesto' refers to paratransit services provided with small or medium-sized
vehicles. About 100,000 por puestos are registered in the country, 39% of which are in the Capital
Region. Por puestos are usually driven by their owner who, according to a 1962 law, is only allowed
to own one such vehicle. It is, however, permissible to have more than one driver to operate the
same vehicle, and it is reported that this practice is increasing in order to increase revenue.
4.   Por puestos originated as shared taxis, and these still predominate in Maracaibo. In most other
cities, however, they have been largely replaced by the 32-seat minibus which is the largest vehicle
admitted as a por puesto; above this size the vehicle is classified as a bus. The average por puesto
size ranges from 24.1 seats in Barquisimeto to 8.1 in Maracaibo. In the Capital Region, the average
vehicle has 17.4 seats; this reflects the relatively large number of 12-seat jeeps which serve the poor
neighborhoods that have grown on the city's steep mountain slopes. However, the most common por
puesto in Caracas are the 32-seat minibuses. With an additional standing capacity of 10-15
passengers, they are competing directly with conventional buses and have taken over some of their
market share.
5.   From the passengers' viewpoint, por puestos have the advantage of excellent frequencies, a high
density route coverage, convenience (no formal bus stops) and a reasonable level of comfort if the



132                                   ANNEX 14
vehicle is not too old. The success of the por puesto system is also due to the fact that drivers
operate their own vehicle and thus tend to work longer and take greater care of the vehicle than drivers
employed by (bus) companies. However, there are also negative features, including (a) greater
disruption to other traffic and more air pollution than is caused by normal buses; (b) infrequent services
in late evenings and on public holidays; (c) less reliable services at other times, for example during
heavy rains; (d) por puesto fares tend to be higher than those for buses; and (e) por puestos are
extremely difficult to regulate. The municipalities (MTC until 1990) generally require that por puestos
operate on specified routes. The vehicles on each route form an association and these are grouped
into an overall national organization ("Central Unica de Asociaciones de Venezuela") which essentially
functions as the drivers' union. In other ways, por puesto services are naturally fragmented and
difficult for any level of Government to control.
6.   Unlike fares on most regular buses, por puesto fares are graduated according to the distance
travelled. The minimum fare is Bs.7; over this amount it is believed that fares typically average around
Bs.0.85 per km. A 1989 analysis revealed that gasoline comprises only 15% of vehicle operating
costs for a 24-seat minibus; in the case of the diesel powered 32-seat minibuses, fuel represented as
little a 3%. Nevertheless, the issue of fuel price increases continues to be extremely sensitive. One
reason for this appears to be a general (but mistaken) perception that fuel carries a great weight in
total vehicle operating costs.
Reaular Buse
7.   More than 90%  of the regular bus services in Venezuelan cities are provided by private
companies. The principal exceptions to this basic pattern are Ca) the Caracas metrobus operation
which carries 110,000 daily passengers in 141 buses (September 1992), (b) the heavily subsidized
services provided by the Caracas Municipality of Libertadores, and (c) the recently started operation
in Barquisimeto (30 buses in September 1992).
8.   Until 1975, regular bus companies tended to expand their operations, but in the 1980s were
squeezed by increasing costs and falling patronage and, on the other hand, controlled fares which
could not be raised in line with inflation. It is generally accepted that their financial position is now
in a critical state. In Caracas alone the number of bus companies and buses in circulation dropped
from 41 and 1,473 in 1975 to 24 and 523 in 1989.
9.   Buses are regulated by the municipal authorities, although in the smaller cities there are basically
no regular bus services. Recently, some cities and States have been considering to buy, and in some
cases operate, regular bus services because they argue that they are at the mercy of por puesto
associations, and that Government is obliged to provide some form of mobility to the poor. In
Barquisimeto, the Government of Lara State initiated services in 1992 and intends to expand its fleet
of 30 buses to 100.1' Maracaibo planned to acquire 300 buses in 1992 with Government assistance,
but these were to be operated by a private company.
10.  In 1988, about 800 buses served the inner part of the Capital Region, and 150 buses the outer
areas. In the inner part, average route length was 27 km, average distance between stops 450
meters, and average commercial speed 14 km/hour. Average service frequency was about 7 buses
per hour. Bus occupancy at the maximum load point was 73 passengers during the peak hour, and
41 passengers during the off-peak. Before the introduction of metrobus services the fleet of regular
I/   Ja Juw 1992, Ib mivian pmtided by Puladraspolst waried 324,000 puaen, of whm 202,000 wre full-paying adub. A bus trip cost
WSBSU for   , SB2-SD3 for sola, ad was free of chare for persu bdow 10 and above 65 yea of age; about 70% of ditect opqent
cost exclding cpitl and depciation were coveed from fae.



133                                 ANNEX 14
buses in Caracas was comprised of generally old vehicles. They thus required relatively heavy
maintenance, and availability tended to be poor.
11.  The main problems of bus services are caused by the generally poor condition of the fleet, which
has resulted from years of neglect. In 1989, only 52% of the Caracas buses were in operation, and
of these, one third was judged to be in poor condition. Of the rest, 27% were out of service requiring
repairs and 21 % were considered ready for scrapping. As a result of poor maintenance, buses often
break down, resulting in unreliable services and a poor image for bus transport. While some of the
blame for this situation must be placed on the management of the companies themselves, other
problems have been beyond their control, including: (a) a squeeze on revenues due to fare controls;
(b) a major loss of passengers due principally to competition from the por puestos; and (c) difficulties
with vehicle maintenance, due particularly to problems in obtaining of spare parts. Profitability had
become so low by the late 1980s that the disappearance of private buses was widely regarded as
inevitable. Recent fare increases may have marginally improved that situation.
Caracas Metro
12.  The Caracas Metro Company (CAMETRO) was constituted in August 1977 as a state owned
company with 99% of the shares held by MTC. It has two lines with a total length of 40 km. The
company has a total of nearly 4,000 employees, of whom about 500 work for the metrobus division.
The number of passengers transported by the metro has been growing at about 30% annually, from
55.5 million in 1983 to 260 million in 1989. Traffic on a normal workday in 1991 was estimated to
be about 900,000 passengers, of whom nearly one quarter come from car-owning households. About
one third reach the metro station by motorized transport, primarily por puesto, and the same applies
for reaching the final destination. About half of all metro trips are to or from work; 83 percent of
travellers use the system regularly, making one or more trips per day. Metro fares are structured so
that (in 1991) a trip of up to four stations cost Bs 8.00. Fares increase by Bs 1.00 for each additional
four stations, the maximum fare (beyond 20 stations) being Bs 12.00. It would seem that the fare
structure should be reassessed. Most low-income metro passengers live at the ends of the network
and so are penalized by the present graduated tariffs. It has been suggested that future fare increases
could be combined with the use of a flat, or at any rate flatter, fare structure which would shield the
poor who make long trips from a significant increase, while increasing CAMETRO's total fare revenue.
13.  The Caracas metro system is designed to run at a minimum headway of 90 seconds between
trains, i.e., 40 trains per hour. However, CAMETRO does not feel happy about running trains at such
a short interval for periods as long as an hour. A more acceptable estimate of maximum peak hour
capacity is 33 trains per hour (i.e. an average interval of about 110 seconds). Each train has a nominal
capacity of 1,200 passengers but in practice it has been found that the crush capacity is around 1,800
persons per train. Thus the maximum one-way capacity at the maximum load point is 59,000
passengers per hour. CAMETRO's total 1989 operating revenue was Bs 1.06 billion, 97% from
passenger fares. Operating costs totalled Bs 1.18 billion, and administrative and general expenses
added a further Bs 198 million, resulting in a deficit of Bs 315 million prior to depreciation and loan
amortization. These totalled Bs 294 million so that the operational result for the year 1989 was a loss
of Bs 609 million, equivalent to 57% of operating revenues.
14.  Metrobuses are organized as a separate division within CAMETRO (called Gerencia Ejecutiva de
Transporte Superficial). The first metrobuses were put into operation in October 1987 at the request
of the nation's President to respond to a growing crisis in urban transport in some areas of Caracas.
At that time one of the principal functions of the fleet was to provide a service between the stations
La Paz (line 2) and Capitolio (line 1) while the final section linking the two metros was being built. As
of September 1992, CAMETRO operates a fleet of 141 buses which serve a collection and distribution
function for metro passengers. Metrobuses currently operate on 1 6 routes within Caracas plus two
longer routes to Petare/Guarenas. Services are provided from 6AM to 11 PM. The total staff of the



134                                ANNEX 14
metrobus division is just over 500, with 328 operators and about 170 others, including those
responsible for maintenance. This is about 3.5 persons per bus, which is low in comparison with most
operations elsewhere. Over 90% of all buses are dispatched for revenue services, which is also good.
15.  Metrobus fares are integrated with the metro routes, i.e. they give the right to continue the trip
on the rail system without additional payment. In September 1992, metrobus patronage was about
111,000 passengers on a normal work day, with an average revenue of B$16 per passenger. While
this represents a substantial increase over the fares charged earlier, it is clear that the metrobus
revenues do not cover their operating costs.



135                                               ANNEX 14
Table 14.1  Venezuela's Vahicl  Flet (1990)
Cm thouand vehicles)
Region/Ste                           Private       Public       Bus       Trucb       Trailer        Semi-        Total
Cas        Trnsport                                          Trailers
Vebidlj/
VENEZUELA                                1,483           98          19       228            43          173         2,045
CAPITAL REGION                            622            33           S        48             9           36           763
Distrito Federal                          382            27           7        26             4           19           468
Miranda                                   240            11           1        22             4           16           295
CENTRAL REGION                            244             9           2        35             6           27           325
Aragus                                    102             3           1        14             2           10           134
Carabobo                                  133             5           1        19             3           14            177
Cojedes                                     a           153           -         2              -           1             13
LOS LLANOS REGION                          24            67         370         a             1            6            43
Guarico                                     13             1          -         6             1            5            33
Apure                                       5             1           -         2             -            I             10
CENTRO OCCrTAL REGON                      146            10           2        34             6           26           227
Falcon                                     34             3           -         7             1            5            52
Lare                                       75             4           1        16             3           12           111
Portuguesa                                 22             1           -         7             1            5            3S
Yaracuy                                     14             1          -         4             1            3            24
ZUuA REGION                               146            14           1        29             S           22           219
Zulia                                     146            14           1        29             5           22           219
LOS ANDES REGION                           135            9           2        30             5           22           205
Barinas                                    14              1          -         4             1            3            24
Merida                                     35             2           1         7              1           6             54
Tachira                                     64             3          1         11            2            8             91
Trujillo                                   21             2           -         5              1           4             35
NOR ORIENTAL REGION                        87              3          1        24             4           IS            143
Anzoategui                                 52             4           1        15             2           11             86
Monages                                     16             1          -         4              1           3             27
Sucre                                      IS              I          -         4             1            3             29
INSULAR REGION                              17            2           1         2                          1             24
Nueva Bsparta                               17            2           1         2              -           1             24
GUAYANA REGION                             58             3           1         14            2           10             90
Bolivar                                    56             3           1         13            2           10             36
F. AmazonaTerntory                           I             I          -          -            I            -              I
F.D. ArnacuroTerritory                       I             -          -          -            I            -              2
Source: MTC Statistics
I/excluding buwe
September 1992



136                                   ANNEX 14
Table 14. - Petrolem Products: Price S^"tru and Adjustent
a. Price Structures as of July 10, 1992
Premium Gasoline   Regular Gasoline     Diesel Oil
Bs       %        Bs       %        Bs       %
Ex-Refinery Price               2.84      49      2.24      43    2.15         48
Consumer Tax                    2.10      36      2.10      40     1.39        31
Land Transport & Distribution   0.31       5      0.31       6    0.31          7
Price to Retailer               5.25      90      4.65      89    3.85         86
Retailer's Margin               0.60      10      0.60      11    0.65         14
Retail Price (Bs)               5.85     100      5.25      100    4.50       100
Retail Price (USC)              9.0               8.1              7.0
International Price (USC)      17.0              16.4              14.6
Retail as a percentage of                 53                49                 48
International Price
b. Price Adjustment, December 1988 - July 1992
Premium Gasoline    Regular Gasoline       Diesel Oil
I Bs       %         Bs         X       Bs        %
December 1988             _            2.40       69       0.38      15
February 1989       ---                2.46       71       0.71      28
February 1990                --        2.53       73       0.72      29
December 1990                          3.45       100      2.43      97
June 1991          3.65      100       3.45       100      2.50     100
August 1991        3.90      107       3.70       107      2.75     110
October 1991       4.40      121       4.20       122      3.25     130
December 1991      4.90      134       4.70       136      3.75     150
February 1992      5.40      148       5.20       151      4.25     170
April 1992         5.75      158       5.20       151      4.40     176
June 1992          5.85      160       5.25       152      4.50     180
Source: Petroleum de Venezuela S.A.
Energy Detente



137                                    ANNEX 14
Table 14.3 - Evolution of Investnent in Roads, 1982-1991
a. (million Bs.)
Year       Highways    Urban Roads   Rural Roads   Maintenance     Total      Exchange
Rate
1982         1,679.9        635.8         443.7         262.9      3,022.3        4.3
1983          673.5         339.7         196.3         358.0      1,567.5        4.3
1984          232.8         160.3           7.1         462.1       862.3         7.5
1985          504.9          91.5         125.2         540.7      1,262.3        7.5
1986        2,024.6         401.4         698.3         874.5      4,003.2       14.5
1987         3,075.5        605.5         567.9         622.0      4,870.9       14.5
1988         5,655.6       1,003.3        599.6         294.9      7,549.0       15.8
1989         2,226.6        465.9          45.2         188.3      2,926.0       29.2,
1990         5,684.9        908.1         376.7       1,047.8      8,017.5       41.1
1991        14,432.5      2,361.1       3,067.9       2,076.8     21,938.3       55.2
1992 I/     18,058.5      2,187.2           -         5,488.0     25,733.7       65.0
b. (USS million)
Year           Highways      Urban Roads    Rural Roads     Maintenance            Total
1982             390.6           147.8           103.8             61.1          702.8
1983             156.6            79.0            45.6             83.2          364.5
1984              31.0            21.3            94               61.6          114.9
1985              67.3            12.2            16.6             72.0          168.3
1986             139.4            27.6            48.1             60.3          276.0
1987             212.1            41.7            39.2             42.9          335.8
1988             357.9            63.5            37.8             18.6          477.8
1989              76.2            15.9             1.5              6.4          100.0
1990             138.2            22.1             9.2             25.5          195.0
1991             261.5            42.8            55.6             37.6          397.5
1992 j/          277.9            33.6              -              84.4          395.9
Source: MTC/DGSVT
1/ revised budget data
August 1992



138                                      ANNEX 14
Table 14.4 - Labor Force Global Indicators
(1990)
a. Labor Force in Urban Areas
Item                Population   |%
Total Population (Venezuela)           19.622340
100
Urban Population                       16.463.651       84
Urban Labor Force                       6.054.735       31
Employed Urban Population               5354.667        27
Unemployed Urban Population               700.068        4
b. Levels of Income
Levels of Income            Currency       %
(Bolivar)
Up to 4000 Bs/month                    418307        12
Between 4001 - 9000                   1.244374      35
Between 9001 - 15.000                  843.644       24
Between 15.001- 20.000                 400.731       11
More than 20.000                       502.671       14
Income Not Declared                    105.455       3
c. Income per Houshold
ITEM                      TOTAL         URBAN AREAS
Households                                3.515.182         2.969.649
Aver. Family Income (Bs/month)              12.385            13300
Aver. of Inhab./households                   520                5.10
Aver. of Employed/households                 1.80               1.80
Source: Social Indicators OCEI 1990



139                                               ANNEX 14
Table 14.5 - Profile of Urban Areas (1990)
a. Population and area
Cltbee             Populat.      |    %Populat          Urban           Denelty           Total
Mettropol.         MArzea             Are            (111/12                         Empil
Areas             JTotal      |       e.                            Employed        Pop.
#hsb |I   Venezue.    |               2)           HMblhe.           Populat.       Nan
Caracas                 2,784,042             14             28,214             99            1,030,096          37
Medda                   237,675                1              6,640             36             80,776            34
Matuein                 267,683                1             4,769              54             74,728            29
Gusyana                 6368606                3              5,600             97            177,047            33
Barqulslmeto             745,444               4             21,706             34            231,088            31
Valencia                1,031,941              5             17.200             60            361,178            3b
Maracalbo               1,363,863              7             23,456             56            40s,15s            30
............ .................. . .. .. . .. . . . .1.1. .. . .I.".".'''.".'.'.'.".'.I.' .'.'.'.'.'.'"""""''"  1"'''''"'''''"""'''""""'' '''''
Total                       6,967,054          35       I   107,484             6 es24,073 Z                     34
Total                  19.456,420           100.00              .
Source: S.T.C.V.T
Obs.: 111 OCEI ;12) OMT
b. Composition of Public Transport Feet
11990)
Chhti            Total          Public T,naport
Fleet           Fbet by Type                             Route          Average        Aveage
S                                  -                  Av*raga
V,.k         Con          MlnlBu*       AutoBues       lngth
I.]CM .     :yrVsh
Merida                   561          440            109             12           16.18            3.02            422
Maturin                  479            71           408              0           29.30            2.90            582
Guayana                 1.130           5e         1,074              0                                            525
Barquisimeto            1,511         483            974             54           42.84            2.90            604
Valencia                2,306         221          1,800            284           28.el            5.75            544
Maracaibo               7,219        6,353           eso            186           20.89            0.20            178
Total                  13,205        7.624         6,045            636
Source: O.C.E.I. anJ . XTT 
c. Total Trip Demand and Modal Split
(1990)
Cihes             Totl Tripw l         Tdpe/                      Modal Splt
Day              Habl
Day      |%Auto   |          6Publie         %Walk
11__1_1_      1_I                Transport
Caracas                     6.183.65|           2.21            41                43            16
Meida                         455,840            1.92           27                59            13
Barqulilmeto      |         1 118, 1668          1.60           37                40|           18 |
Valencia                    1.682,063            1.63           42                45            14
Maracalbo                   1,948,228            1.49           39                39            16
Total                      11.367.963            1.92           40                43       1     6
5~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~1,e,6                           1.2               .                  ..



140                                           ANNEX 14
Table 14.6: Caracas Population and Transport Growth
1940      1990      1996       2000     2010
Population IThousands)*   347       2963      3150      3400      4260
Population Donsty
Inhabitants/Ha     50        100       106        113      142
Total trips p/day (Thousndsl   _      4740       6040      5440      6800
Metro Share               21 %      30%       35%       40%
Metro & Metrobus
Trips per day (Thousandel             996      1610       1632     2720
Table 14.7: The Supply of Transportation In Caracns
Transport Mode     1940           1966          1990            1995
Tramway.      55.2%           -----
Automobile    16.7%          45.6%          38.7%          33.7%
Buses     16.7%          35.6%           9.0%           7.3%
Paratrandkt    l1.5%         16.3%         35.0%           26.7%
Metro & Metrobus     --             ----          15.0%          30.3%
Others      --            2.5%           3.0%            3.0%
Total    100.0%         100.0%         100.0%         100.0%
Population fthousands)   347           1760           2963           3160
Total trips per day   -            2700           4740            6040
Table 14.8: C.A. Metro de Caracas: Mmon Passengers 1983.1991
Yaar            Uno 1          Una 2          Subtotal           Metrobus            Total
1983             S5.1                           55.1                 -                55.1
1984             80.6            --             80.6                ---               80.6
1985             95.2            ----           96.2                                  96.2
1986            119.7            ----          119.7                ---              119.7
1987            142.2            4.2           146.4                2.5              148.9
1988            195.5           23.0           218.5                11.5             230.0
1989            215.9           44.1           259.9                11.6            271.1
1990            238.3           43.1           281.4                15.3             296.7
1991            265.3           46.5           311.8                24.0             335.8
Total          1264.9          136.6           1401.4               64.3            1466.8



141                                      ANNEX 14
Table 14.9: Metro Operating Statistics (1990)
Description                                         Unea             Uno 2
Passenger p/KM of line in                        11,347,938        2,270.459
Yearly Passengers                                238,306,695       43,138,724
Monthly Passengers                               19,858,891        3,594,893
Week day Passengers                                779,288          136,617
Week day Passengers (Maximum)                     1,018,446         180,463
Peak hour passengers                               75,000            17,500
Avg. distance traveled/passenger                   6.34 Km          9.50 Km
Trains in operation - peak hour                      33                13
Minimum Headway                                  2 min 10 sec        4 min
Train Crush Capacity (Passengers)                   2,100            2,100
Normal                                         1,280             1,280
Flow of Pasongers (One direction)                  20,000            7,700
Most traveled station p/day (boarding and
disembarking)                                      162,106           32,890
Avg passenger density in trains in most traveled
inter-station                                   4.3 pass/sqm          N.A.
Train kilometers per year                         4,233,027        2,307,889
Load factor                                         33 %              16%
Energy Consumption (KWH)
Trains                                           98,131,600        45,387,300
Fixed Installations                              76,058,279        46,128,000
Ticket Vending: AutomAtic                           70%               84%
Counters                               30%               16%
Suicides                                             27                4
Handicapped attended                               68,058            24,248
Tabbe 14.10: Caracas Metro - 991 Expenditue Budget
Million Bolivares
Metro        Metrobus
Items                             Construction      Oweration      ODeration      Overhed        Total
Personnel                                 209.7         1,131.9          366.9        493.2       2,201.7
Goods & Services                          110.9         2,154.8          236.5        274.2       2,776.4
Capital Investment                      7,694.4                          407.4                    8,101.8
Total                                   8.013.0         3,286.7        1.010.8        764.4      13,079.9
% of total                                61.26          23.13            7.74         5.87        100.00
Employees                                   343          2,414            734           987         4478
Thousands Bs/ employee                    611.4          468.9           499.9        499.7         491.7
Dollars p/man hour                          4.7           3.60            3.84         3.84          3.78



142                                           ANNEX 14
Table I14.1 1 -  Metrobus Operating Statistics (1 991)
Number of Routes                                        18
Total Fleet                                            175
Training & Route Testing Buses                          14
Commercial Buses                                       161
Available Commercial Buses                          136 (84%)
Actual Utilized Commerical Buses                    121 (75%)
Short Routes (Average Length Km)                       5.4
Long Routes (Average Length Km)                        1 5.0
Suburban Routh Length Km                                59
Year Passengers (1991 Estimate)                    27,000,000
Weekday Passengers (July)                            86,261
Passengers/Total Bus Fleet (July)                      517
Passengers/Operational Bus Fleet (July)                748
Average Commercial Speed
Short Routes (kph)                                     7.83
Long Routes (kph)                                     10.85
Suburban (kph)                                        24.50
Year Bus-kilometers                                 6,805,759
Monthly Bus Kilometers                               567,146
Week day Bus Kilometers                              21,746
Week day Passenger/bus-kilometer                       5.49
Fuel Consumption                                  25 liter/i OOkm
Personnel/fleet                                       0.19
Overhead                                               3.46
Operation                                             0.53
Maintenance                                           4.18
TOTAL



143                                                 ANNEX 14
TABLE 14.12 URBAN TRANSPORT COSTS AS A % OF HOUSEHOLD INCOME
Caracas Metropolitan Ragln
Income                   Average                      Urban Transpottaton Expenses (2)
Brackets     Average    Household
In Minimum    Houshold  Income (1)              Bus Riders                    Metro Riders           Combined ride
Wages (MW)      Size        (US$)         (USS)       % of Income        (USS)          . of Income    % oat ncome
Up to 2           4.4        478.19         44.25           9.3%            29.50             e.2%          15.5%
2 to 3           4.4        571.43          44.25          7.7%            29.50             5.2%          12.9%
4to 5            4.4     1t071.43           44.25          4.1%            29.50             2.8%           6.9%
Notes: (1) Based on average minimum salary of 7500 Bs./month and US$1 -63Bs.
(2) EsUmated assuming 2 rideS per day in the 22 working days of a month per person, besides a coefficlent equal
to .8 was applied to account for that not all household members travel. Bus rides include connecting por puesto/leep trips.
Combined bus-metro rides are those in which users take both modes
Barquisimeto Metropolitan Re iion
Income                   Average.                     Urban Transportation Expenses (2)
Brackets     Average    Househotd
In Minimum    Household  Income {1)             Bus Riders                Por puesto Ridenr          Combined ride
Wages (MW)      Stze        (USS)         (USS)       % of Income        (UBS)         % of Income     - of Income
Up to 2           5.6        317.46         25.03           7.9%            25.03             7.9%          16.8%
2 to 3           5.6        476.19          25.03          5.3%             25.03            5.3%          10.5%
4to 5            5.6      1,071.43          25.03          2.3%             25.03            2.3%           4.7%
Maracaibo Metro olitan Region
Income                   Average                      Urban Transportation Expenseo (2)
Brackets     Average    Household
In Mlnimum    Household  Income (1)             Bus Riders                Pot pueto Rideir:          Combined ride
Wages (MW)      Size        (US$)         (US$)       % of Income        (US$)         % of Income     % of lncome
Up to 2           5.8        317.46         28.16           8.9%            28.16             8.9%          17.7%
2to 3            5.6        476.19          28.16          5.9%             28.16            5.9%          11.8%
4 to 5           5.6      1,071.43          28.16          2.6%             28.16            2.8%           5.3%
Ciudad Gusyani Metropolitan Region
Income                   Average                      Uroan Transportation Expenses (2)
Brackets     Average    Househotd
In Minimum    Household  Income (1)             Bus Riders                Pot puesto Riderrs         Combined rid,
Wages (MW)      Size        (Us$)         (USS)       % of income |      (US$)         % of Income     % ,oflIcomn
Up to 2           4.9        317.46         24.64           7.5%            24.64             7.8%          16.5%
2 to 3           4.9        476.19          24.e4          5.2%             24.64            5.2%          10.3%
4 to 5           4.9        857.14          24.64          2.9%             24.64            2.9%           5.7%
Notes: (1) Based on average minimum salary of 8000 Bs./month and US$1 -83B.
(2) Estimated assuming 2 rides per day In the 22 working days of a month per person, besides a coefficient equal
to .8 was applied to account for that not all household members travel. Bus rides do not Include connecting por puesto/ljeep trips.
Combined bus-por puesto rides are those In which users take both modes



Table 14.13- SUMMARY OF URBAN TRANSPORT SUBSIDIES
TYPE OF SUBSIDY       PAID BY       PAID TO                               ANNUAL               Justification      Problems                  Proposals
AMOUNT (millions
of bolivares)
Student subsidy (     GOV           Transport Operators by type of        5.000 ($us 80        Reduce the          1) The allocation of the    implementation
reduced tariff in all   (MTC)       vehicles based on monthly             million)            transportation      subsidy is not linked to    of a direct
the country for all                 statements. Payment is made through                        expenses of a      the students              subsidy to the
the students)                       the associations and unions.                               non productive     transported but instead    student as a
Approximatelly 60,000 operators                            sector of the      to the capacity of the    function of the
receive this payment. Bus, Minibus                         country to allow   vehicle                   number of trips
and jeep subsidies are respectively                       their training and                            undertaken
8500, 7.400 and 5700 Bs/month.                             consequently       2) the students are       through tickets
decrease their     considered by the         or tokens which
education costs,    operator as a second     would be later
class user because he    exchanged by
doesn't pay full tariff.    their full value.
For that reason quite    cReation of an
often the operator does    ooficial student
not stop to pick up the    roster.
students.
3) High number of
falsified student cards
makes % of student
__________________                 ________________    passengers  very   high.
Bono de Transporte    GOV (all      Civil servants and workers which      6,720 Bs. ($US       It complements      1) The subsidy is        Establishment
( Salary supplement   the gov.     make less than 15000 Bs/month. It is   107 million)        the very low        neither related to the    of a direct
for workers with      offices)      paid to approximatelly 700,000                             household salary    number of trips taken or   subsidy scheme
low income)                         people- the monthly allowance is 800                       to ensure that     to the actual hh.         to low oicome
Ba.                                                        home to work       transport costs           people similar to
trips are paid      2) The subsidy is not    the vale de
updated automatically    transporte
for inflation as the vale -  which is a
de-transporte in Brazil.    function of the
actual trips and
costs through
tickets, tokens
and not in
money terms.
Private      office employees and workers who       21,434 Bs ($US
Employers    make less than 15000 bsl month.        340 million)
It is paid to about 1.985 million
________   people at 800 Ba/month per parson>
TOTAL                                ~,626    Bel,on                                                       I u



145                                  ANNEX 15
VENEZUELA
URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Selected Documents in the Proiect File
1.   Politica Integral de Transporte Publico - Consejo Venezolano de Transporte
2.   An Estimation of the Resource Costs of Vehicle Operation in Venezuelan Cities -
Thomson/CEPAL-MTC - FONTUR
3.   Estrutura Organizativa - Fondo Nacional de Transporte (FONTUR)
4.   Programa de Financiamiento de Vehfculos de Transporte POblico Urbano - FONTUR
5.   Programa de Financiamiento de Flota de Transporte Publico Urbano - FONTUR
6.   Manual de Operaciones - FONTUR
7.   Documento para la Precalificaci6n de Organizaciones para el Desarrollo de los Cursos de
Nivelaci6n e Intensivos de Entrenamiento para el Programa Nacional de Capacitaci6n -
Programa Nacional de Transorte Urbano para Ciudades Medianas - FONTUR
8.   Programa de Preinversi6n en Transporte - Programa de las Naciones Unidas para el Desarrollo
Documento de Proyecto - Ministerio de Transporte y Communicaciones - FONTUR
9.   Avance del Programa Fontur - Presentaci6n al Gabinete Econ6mico - Ministerio de Transporte
y Comunicaciones - FONTUR
10.  Estudio para el Analisis de Esquemas Alternativos de Gesti6n del Sistema Metrobus -
Programa de Preinversi6n de Transporte, Transurb Consult - FONTUR
11.  Estudio de Administraci6n del Transito del Area Metropolitana de Caracas - Cons6rcio Oficina
de Ingenieria Edgar Elias Osuna - FONTUR
12.  Estudio de Administraci6n de Transito del Area Metropolitana de Barquisimeto - Cons6rcio
Post, Buckley, Schuh y Jernigan, Inc. - FONTUR
13.  Estudio de Administraci6n de Transito del Area Metropolitana de Maracaibo - Grupo
Consultor Sofretu/BceomfTransplan/Provial - FONTUR
14.  Estudio de Administraci6n de Transito del Area Metropolitana de Maturin - D.I.T. Harris,
S.A./Frederic R. Harris, Inc. - FONTUR
15.  Estudio de Administraci6n de Transito en Ciudad Guayana - Urbanismo y Vialidad, S.A.
(URVISA) - FONTUR
16.  Fortalecimiento Institucional de las Municipalidades - I.R.R. Consultores Asociados, S.A. -
FONTUR
17.  Diseho del Manual de Operaciones del FONTUR - ENGENHO Consultoria, Arquitectura e
Planejamento - FONTUR
18.  Aplicaci6n de la Legislaci6n Especial en Materia Policial del Transito - E.I.R. Ingenieros, C.A. -
FONTUR
19.  Programa de Apoyo y Asesoria Tecnica a los Municrpios en Transporte - Ministerio de
Transporte y Comunicaciones/MTC - FONTUR
20.  Proposed Urban Transport Study - John Cracknell
21.  La Soluci6n al Tranporte de Merida - Comici6n Presidencial de Transporte para la Ciudad de
Merida - Merida Entidad de Ahorro y Prestamo (MERENAP)
22.  'La Definici6n de las Competencias Nacionales y Municipales en Materia de Transporte
Terrestre" - Seminario, 'La Gesti6n Municipal en el Transporte Publicoa - PROHOMBRE -
Centro de Promoci6n del Hombre
23.  Economics and Analysis - Economic Evaluation of Capital Projects
24.  Los Castillos de Guayana - ALMACARONI
25.  Guayana - ALMACARONI
26.  Macagua - Parque la Llovizna - ALMACARONI
27.  Estudios de Tarifaci6n y Subsidios - Willian Alberto Aquino Pereira
28.  Deregulation of Urban Transport in Chile: What Have We Learned? - Richard Darbera
29.  Plan - Piloto de Subsidio en Transporte Publico Ciudad Maturin - Informe Final - Banco
Interamericano de Desarollo - BID - Willian Alberto Aquino Pereira



146                                 ANNEX 15
30.  Programa Global de Desarrollo del Transporte Urbano Conceptos Bdsicos Preliminares -
Misi6n Conjunta - Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo/BID - Banco Mundial/BIRD
31.  Proyecto de Administraci6n de Transito para el Area Metropolitana de Barcelona - Puerto La
Cruz - Terminos de Referencia para Servicios de Consultores - Programa de Transporte
Urbano en Venezuela
32.  Proyocto de Control de Transito en el Area Metropolitana de Caracas - Terminos de
Referencia
33.  lnventario de la Flota de Por Puestos: * Maracaibo, Zulia
* Caroni, Bolivar
* Barcelona, Bolivar
* Baruta, Miranda
* Sucre, Miranda
* Libertador, Merida
* Barquisimeto, Lara
* Barcelona, Puerto La Cruz
34.  Diagnostico de la Funci6n de Planificaciones - Ingt' Elizabeth Cavallin - Ministerio de
Tranporte y Comunicaciones/MTC
35.  Competencias en la Planificaci6n, Organizaci6n, Regulaci6n y Control del Transporte,
Transito y Circulaci6n - Ministerio de Tranporte y Comunicaciones/MTC
36.  Avances en el Sector Transporte Operaciones de Credito BIRF/BID - Ministerio de Tranporte y
Comunicaciones/MTC
37.  Programas de Preinversion - Assistencia Tecnica y Proximas Operaciones del Banco Mundial
y del Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo - Ministerio de Transporte y Comunicaciones/MTC
38.  Centro de Capacitaci6n de Ingenieria de Transito y Transporte Publico: Antecedentes y
Estimacion de Custos
39.  Consejo Venesolano de Transporte - Grupo Tecnico de Transporte Urbano, Agenda NO 1 y
Agenda N° 2.



72'  70',,                                  66'                              64'                              6                                 60'                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 221
12'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7O
C~~  ~~~              t  a          n. m   t i c       
-12-                                                                                                                                                                                                      7 Stoh or Federal Territory Boundories  >  ' ~ ' \   X  W   t   2-- .  4   t   8. Ee\!EZlSELA c a  
!; ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0   c e      A n   > 
TOSADAD
TOKAGO
10'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
I 8
AM*
n  Selected Cities and Towns ~ ~        ~          ~         ~         AP.
Elo IntraionalBudaisOIY4
0        1~~~00      20030
0-200~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
RivOeIrs                                                                                                                                                                                                    TYCNOLAD
dw                                                                                   I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
Selected8'66Ci4ties and TovnsAII
W M A04D 1O900



