Document of
The World Bank                         ;    t.-- A
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2570-PH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPtf'
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A
SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 30, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.0            P 7.40
P 1.00            US$0.135
P 1 million   =   US$135,135
P 1 billion        US$135 million
ABBREVIATIONS
DBP     - Development Bank of the Philippines
IGLF    -  Industrial Guarantee and Loan Fund
MASICAP - Medium and Small Industry Coordinated Action Program
NBFI    -  Non-Bank Financial Intermediaries
NEDA    -  National Economic and Development Authority
PDCP    -  Private Development Corporation of the Philippines
FISO    -  Philippine Investments Systems Organization
SMI     -  Small and Medium Industries
UPISSI  -  University of the Philippines Institute for
Small-Scale Industries
USAID   -  United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEARS
July 1-June 30 (up to June 30, 1975)
July 1-December 31, 1975 (interim)
January 1-December 31 (from January 1, 1976)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES
SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:         Republic of the Philippines
Beneficiaries:   The Industrial Guarantee and Loan Fund (IGLF), a financing
scheme administered by the Central Bank of the Philippines,
and the Ministry of Industry
Amount:           $25 million
Terms:            20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest
at 7.9% per annum
Relending Terms: The Government would relend $24.5 million of the proceeds of
the proposed loan on the same terms as those for the Bank
loan to IGLF. The latter would make financing available to
accredited institutions for their lending to small- and
medium-scale industries, and would charge these institutions
an interest rate of 6.7% on their lending to small-scale
industries and 9% on that to medium-scale industries. The
Government would bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project
Description:   The project would: (a) support IGLF's lending program over a
two-year period; and (b) strengthen the Ministry of Industry's
Medium and Small Industries Coordinated Action Program
(MASICAP) of providing technical assistance to small entre-
preneurs in project preparation. The project would help in
improving the effectiveness of IGLF and the capacity of the
participating financial intermediaries in mobilizing and
allocating resources to small- and medium-scale industry, and
would bring about greater regional dispersion of investment.
In addition, approximately 11,500 new jobs would be created
in both rural and urban areas and about 510 projects would
benefit under the project. Problems that have delayed the
first SMI project and were partly responsible for a high
level of arrearages have been largely addressed by a proposed
new set of policies for IGLF which would provide for greater
efficiency in its operations, and attract greater partici-
pation from among the financial institutions. The risks
associated with this project are related to the efficiency
with which these policies are implemented.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated
Disbursements:
Fiscal Year            1980      1981      1982
Annual                 6.65    11.10       7.25
Cumulative             6.65    17.75    25.00
Rate of Return:  The average rate of return of a sample of projects under
the first loan was about 60%. A similar return is likely
under this project.
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 2417-PH dated MIay 18, 1979.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A SECOND SMALL AND IEDIUM INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of the Philippines for the equivalent of $25 million
to help finance a second small and medium industry development project. The
loan would be for a period of 20 years, including 5 years of grace, with
interest at 7.9% per annum. The Government would relend $24.5 million of the
proceeds of the proposed loan, on the same terms as those for the Bank loan,
to the Industrial Guarantee and Loan Fund (IGLF) to support IGLF's program
for lending to small and medium industries through accredited financial
institutions. The Government would use the balance of $0.5 million to
strengthen the Ministry of Industry's Medium and Small Industries Coordinated
Action Program (MASICAP) of providing assistance to small entrepreneurs in
project preparation. The Government would bear the foreign exchange risk.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        An economic mission visited the Philippines in July/August 1977
and its report, "The Philippines: Country Economic Memorandum" (No. 1765-PH
of October 26, 1977), was distributed to the Executive Directors under
PHL-77-2, dated October 27, 1977. An updating economic mission is currently
in the field. A basic economic report, entitled The Philippines: Priorities
and Prospects for Development (SecM-76/366), was previously distributed to
the Executive Directors on May 18, 1976.
Macroeconomic Performance
3.        During the 1960s, the Philippine economy grew in real terms at
an annual rate of about 5-1/2%, but with more effective economic management
the rate of growth could have been higher. The pattern of growth was also
structurally unsatisfactory in a number of respects. The benefits of develop-
ment were distributed relatively unevenly, with respect to both regions and
income classes. While overall agricultural growth was reasonably satisfactory,
repeated foodgrain deficits were experienced. The growth of productive
employment opportunities failed to keep pace with the expansion of the labor
force. Low levels of taxation resulted in inadequate public expenditure for
necessary infrastructure and social services. Finally, poor export performance
combined with heavy import-dependence of domestic industry led to chronic
weakness in the balance of payments.
4.        During the 1970s there have been significant improvements in
economic management. Public revenues have been increased substantially,
public sector implementation capacity has been strengthened, and the ratio of
public investment to GNP has risen from 2% in the early 1970s to 5% in 1976-78.
/1 This section of the report is substantially the same as that contained
in the President's Report for the Second Population Project (R79-62)
which will be considered by the Executive Directors on June 5, 1979.



- 2 -
Private investment also increased, and the ratio of total fixed investment to
GNP rose from 16% in the early 1970s to 25% in 1976-78. As a consequence of
higher levels of investment the construction industry boomed. Agriculture has
performed well in response to the spread of irrigation and higher yielding
rice varieties, more favorable price policies, and some improvements in
supporting services. Selective steps were taken to promote nontraditional
manufactured exports, which have grown rapidly. On the other hand, the
performance of that part of the manufacturing sector oriented to the domestic
market has remained only "fair" in a comparative sense and has been inadequate
in relation to the Philippines' need to generate productive employment
opportunities. The net effect of the above developments has been acceleration
in the trend GNP growth rate by one percentage point to 6-1/2%.
5.        An important constraint has been placed on Philippine development
options by the sharp deterioration of its terms of trade since 1975, stemming
from the increase in oil prices and depressed prices for major Philippine
commodity exports such as sugar and copper. As a result, real national income
has been growing more slowly than real national product and, with the higher
level of investment, the dependence of the economy on foreign savings has
increased. Although the terms of trade have recently stabilized, the current
account deficit is still about 4% of GNP.
Development Strategy
6.        The Government's development objectives and policies, which were
set out in a Five-Year Development Plan for the period 1978-82, call for
further acceleration of economic growth, first to 7% and then to 8%. The
development strategy focuses on an expansion of productive employment oppor-
tunities at a rate of 3.6% per annum, reduction of income disparities, greater
self-sufficiency in food and energy, a strengthening of the balance of payments,
and increased development of rural areas. In addition, the Plan includes
growth strategies for each of the country's thirteen regions. In general, the
Plan is an elaboration of the policy directions pursued by the Government in
recent years. It is also broadly consistent with the Bank's assessment of
priorities, although Plan projections for investment, manufacturing output and
exports are somewhat higher than Bank staff estimates. It should, however, be
feasible to accelerate the overall growth rate to 7%, but more rapid expansion
of manufacturing is necessary to do so, and the efficiency of investment also
needs to be improved.
Agriculture and Rural Development
7.        In recent years the trend growth rate of the agricultural sector
has been slightly over 4%, which by international standards is quite good.
However, variations among subsectors have been considerable. Due to the
spread of irrigation and high yielding varieties, irrigated rice production
has increased rapidly. The Philippines, once a chronic importer of rice,
actually exported 100,000 tons of rice in 1977/78. With completion of large
irrigation projects now under implementation, continued rice self-sufficiency
appears assured for the 1980s. On the other hand, locally adapted technologies
for improving yields of rainfed grains, particularly corn, are still under
development, and rainfed agricultural areas have a high incidence of poverty.
Productivity in the coconut sector is relatively low because of a large number
of overaged trees, but a major replanting program is scheduled for the early
1980s when a sufficient number of HYV seedlings becomes available. Increasing



- 3 -
pressure of population on the land and inadequately controlled commercial
logging have led to soil erosion and deterioration of some forest areas. The
Plan calls for a major reforestation effort, but this will require substantial
upgrading of Government administrative capabilities in this area, develop-
ment of new hill-cropping technologies, and resolution of difficult land
tenure problems.
8.        As well as providing greater support for agricultural production,
the Government has substantially expanded programs such as water supply,
electrification, rural roads, and health to improve living conditions
in rural areas. An agrarian reform was also instituted in 1972 which provides
for transfer of tenanted holdings of rice and corn land in excess of seven
hectares and enforcement of leasehold instead of sharecropping on remaining
tenanted holdings. As of March 1978, only about 10% of the estimated number
of land transfer beneficiaries had completed all formalities, but about 60%
had received Certificates of Land Transfer (the initial step in the process
establishing their claim to the land).
Industry
9.        Manufacturing has grown at an average rate of about 6-1/2%
during the 1970s. The greater part of the sector, oriented to the domestic
market, has been promoted by high tariff protection and an incentive system
which has favored the use of relatively capital-intensive production techniques.
Relatively little employment has been generated in relation to Philippine
factor endowments. Macro statistics such as the incremental capital-output
ratio suggest that the efficiency of investment has been low, and most
manufacturing plants have located in the greater Manila area. Reform of
tariffs and other industrial incentives to bring these into line with develop-
ment objectives are presently being considered by the Government.
10.       Beginning in 1970, selective measures have been introduced to
promote nontraditional manufactured exports, including permitting firms in
selected export industries to import needed goods free of duty and establishing
export processing zones. Further details on the industrial sector are given
in Part III of this report.
Population Growth, Employment and Income Distribution
11.       The 1978 population is estimated at 45.5 million.  The popula-
tion growth rate fell from 3.0% in the intercensal period 1960-70 to 2.8% in
the intercensal period 1970-75. The Philippines has an active family planning
program registering approximately 650,000 new acceptors per year. Although
the number of new acceptors has reached a plateau as the program faces the
increasingly difficult problem of reaching rural areas, the estimated propor-
tion of married women of reproductive age practicing family planning increased
from 15% in 1973 to 27% in 1978. However, by East Asian standards, this index
is still relatively low.
12.       Employment increased by about 4.6% annually during 1973-77, a
considerable improvement over the historical growth rate of 2.4%, and was
able to keep pace with the rapid growth of the labor force. With the exhaustion



- 4 -
of most new land resources suitable for cultivation and the exploitation of the
most easily irrigable areas, industry will have to provide employment for about
one half of the new entrants to the labor force in the next decade.  Employment
in manufacturing essentially stagnated during 1970-74, but grew by 7% annually
during 1975/77, resulting in part from the growth of labor-intensive production
for export. However, because manufacturing's share of total employment is
small, agriculture and services still continue to function as residual sources
of employment and accounted for most of the increase in total employment.
13.       For historical reasons, income distribution has been highly skewed
in the Philippines, and there is a small elite which is conspicuously wealthy.
Recent trends in income distribution are mixed but, on balance, positive.
Because of the improvement in agriculture's terms of trade, the growth of
agricultural production, the decline in urban real wages following the
devaluation in 1970, and the stagnation of industrial employment until 1975,
the ratio of the average rural income to the average urban income rose from
0.48 in 1971 to 0.57 in 1975. Real per capita consumption has increased by
about 2% annually. Hence, real incomes in rural areas, where most of the
poor live, have probably increased somewhat, while real urban incomes have
not improved substantially. As a result, although accurate statistics are
not available, the share of family income received by the poorest 40% of
families appears to have increased somewhat, the income share of the top 20%
has remained about the same, and that of the middle-income families has
declined correspondingly. Nevertheless, the incidence of poverty remains
high, at 40-45%, in both rural and urban areas, and malnutrition is wide-
spread.
Public Finance
14.       The public sector has historically claimed a much smaller share of
national resources in the Philippines than in many other developing countries.
In the early 1970s, general Government expenditure averaged only 12% of GNP,
public investment was strikingly low at about 2% of GNP, and tax revenues
stood at 11% of GNP. Government expenditures were dominated by general
administration and social services, particularly education. This situation
had resulted from a variety of factors including difficulties in raising tax
revenue and weak implementation capacity in the public sector. Since the
early 1970s, the Government has taken steps to correct the situation and has
raised both the overall level of expenditures and the shares going to economic
services and public investment. By 1978 Government expenditures reached an
estimated 16% of GNP, and public investment, which has risen rapidly in the
last three years, equaled about 5% of GNP. This expansion in the public
investment program has brought about badly needed improvement in basic infra-
structure particularly in transportation, power and irrigation, as well as the
development of more effective programs in the fields of urban development,
health and family planning.
15.       Recognizing that a large increase in tax revenues would be required
to finance expansion of the public investment program, the Government has
undertaken a comprehensive program of tax reform to raise the needed revenues
equitably and efficiently. Despite a sharp cyclical decline in the yield of
export taxes and import duties, the overall tax ratio was raised by more than
two percentage points through a series of new, mainly indirect, tax measures
and vigorous efforts to improve taxpayer compliance and collection performance.



Moreover, import tariff exemptions were reduced and the financial position of
certain public enterprises was improved through selective price increases.
However, further reform measures will be needed to improve the equity of the
tax system and to strengthen its responsiveness to the growth in GNP, mainly
by increasing the proportion of revenues coming from direct taxes. In
addition, fiscal and tariff incentives will need to be rationalized further
to eliminate remaining biases favoring import substitution and capital
intensity. Continued effort will be needed to ensure that Government
corporations finance an appropriate share of their investments from their own
savings.
Private Savings and the Financial Sector
16.      Aggregate savings performance has improved during the last decade
and is comparable to that of other countries at a similar stage of economic
development. Gross domestic savings now finance about 85% of total investment,
with the balance coming from foreign savings. In order to increase the
efficiency of financial markets in intermediating between savers and investors,
the Government has made significant improvements in financial policy. Organized
banking institutions have been strengthened. Interest rates were realigned in
1976 and, again, in 1977 to encourage a greater flow of financial savings into
time and savings deposits relative to short-term deposit substitutes and to
reduce the spread between borrowing and lending rates. Further reforms are
required to increase the availability of long-term domestic currency resources.
Special credit programs have been adopted to expand lending to the credit-short
agricultural sector and rural areas and to serve the needs of medium- and
small-scale industries. A deterioration of loan recovery rates was experienced
by all Government financial institutions and credit programs. The Government
has already taken a number of steps to improve collections; further efforts in
this direction are necessary to improve financial discipline and ensure an
adequate flow of credit to the productive sectors without burdening the public
finances.
External Trade and Capital Flows
17.       To meet the acute balance of payments problem in 1975, which
largely resulted from the decline in terms of trade, the Government drew down
its international reserves, drew upon various IMF facilities, and expanded
its borrowing program to finance necessary imports. For the longer
term, the Government adopted a strategy of accelerating export growth both
to hold the current account deficit about constant in absolute terms, while
letting it decline gradually relative to GNP, and to meet the debt service
payments on the higher level of external borrowing.
18.       In spite of a further deterioration in the terms of trade since
1975, the current account deficit has behaved as anticipated over the last
three years - averaging $1.0 billion per year but declining from 6% of GNP in
1976 to an estimated 4% in 1978. Export volume, although constrained in 1978
by the depressed sugar market, increased substantially over the three-year
period as a whole. Import payments, after growing slowly in 1976 and 1977,
accelerated with the recovery of private investments in 1978. To finance the
current account deficits, net capital inflows were nearly doubled from the
1975 level of $580 million to an average of $1.1 billion per year in 1976-78.
Most of the inflow came from medium- and long-term loans. About two thirds



- 6 -
of this was from public loans, a reflection in part of increased disbursements
from official sources. As a result of increased borrowing, the debt service
ratio has risen from 16% in 1975 to 20% in 1978.
19.       To achieve a 7% growth rate in real GNP, as projected for the
initial years of the Plan period (1978-82), import volume will have to grow
at a similar rate, and a net capital inflow of at least $1 billion per year
will be required. However, the commencement of oil production, which now
accounts for 15% of domestic consumption, early this year promises some longer
term relief on the import side. Assuming a continued effort to promote
exports and sound debt management, the overall external debt of the Philippines
is expected to remain within reasonable limits. The ratio of debt service
payments to exports of goods and nonfactor services is expected to average
around 21%, of which half would be public debt service, during the Plan
period and to decline thereafter.
20.       In order to ensure that the long-term capital transfer is commensu-
rate with the level of development expenditures required during 1978-82 and
that debt service obligations remain within reasonable limits, the Government
sought commitments of official assistance of $850-900 million in 1979 at the
last meeting of the Consultative Group for the Philippines, held in Paris in
November/December of 1978. This amount is likely to be made available.
However, since many of the projects planned for financing from external
sources have a low foreign exchange component, some local cost financing is
necessary, in appropriate cases, to meet the Philippines' external financing
requirements.
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS /1
21.       As of April 30, 1979, the Philippines had received 61 Bank loans /2
(of which two were on Third Window terms) amounting to $1,929.9 million and
four IDA credits amounting to $60.2 million. At that date, IFC investments
totalled $88.4 million. The share of the Bank Group in total debt disbursed
and outstanding is about 8% and its share in total debt service is about 6%.
These ratios are expected to be about 12% and 5%, respectively, by the end of
the present decade. Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank loans
and IFC investments as of April 30, 1979, as well as notes on the execution
of ongoing projects.
/1 This section is substantially the same as that contained in the President's
Report for the Second Population Project (R79-62) which will be considered
by the Executive Directors on June 5, 1979.
/2 Includes Loan 1661-PH, Fourth Highway Project, $100 million, which was
signed on March 9, 1979 and is not yet effective. Does not include
the Second Provincial Cities Water Supply Project, $16 million IBRD and
$22 million IDA, which was approved by the Executive Directors on
May 29, and the Second Population Project, $40 million IDA, which will
be considered by the Executive Directors on June 5, 1979.



- 7 -
22.       The Bank Group has financed projects in virtually all sectors of
the economy with particular emphasis on agriculture and basic infrastructure,
which have each accounted for about one third of total Bank Group lending.
In agriculture, emphasis has been given to expanding the irrigation system to
increase food production and to credit programs to support foodgrain produc-
tion and processing and livestock, fisheries and tree farming production.
Support has also been provided for integrated rural development projects in
low-income areas. The Bank Group has also provided large amounts of assistance
in developing power and transportation to provide the basis for future growth
of the productive sectors. Substantial improvement in basic infrastructure
has been needed to compensate for many years of past neglect due to low
levels of public expenditure. In the industrial sector, the Bank's main
thrust has been on strengthening the capacity of public and private development
finance institutions, with increasing attention given to meeting the needs of
small and medium industries. In the social sectors, the Bank Group has
provided support for education programs designed to improve the quality of
primary and secondary education and to meet trained manpower requirements in
agriculture and industry. In urban areas, assistance has been provided for
water supply projects and for programs to upgrade slum living conditions and
to develop low-cost sites and services. Support has also been provided to
the Philippines population program through assistance for the construction of
multipurpose rural health units and for training of family planning staff.
23.       There has been a marked improvement in the execution of Bank-
financed projects in the last five years compared with the experience in the
late 1960s, when there were serious problems caused by a shortage of peso
counterpart funds and weak administration. Almost all ongoing projects are
now being implemented reasonably well and the supervision and project comple-
tion reports indicate that the economic benefits for most projects are likely
to be in line with appraisal estimates. However, the overall rate of disburse-
ment is marginally below what would be expected given the generally good
project implementation, and the Government is currently reviewing disbursement
performance on an agency-by-agency basis to identify possible reasons for
disbursement lags and to find appropriate solutions.
24.       As noted in Part I of this report, the Government's Five-Year
Development Plan highlights a strategy which focuses on the expansion of
production and employment in agriculture and industry, reduction in income
disparities, greater self-sufficiency in food and energy, and increased
development in rural areas. The Bank's future lending program has been
designed to assist the Government in achieving these objectives. Agricul-
tural and rural development will account for the largest part of future
lending with continued emphasis on food production and programs to increase
the productivity and incomes of small farmers. However, the program pro-
vides for several needed new initiatives, including support for strength-
ening the national agricultural extension service through the recently
approved loan and a first loan for developing multiple cropping systems in
rainfed areas, where there is substantial rural poverty. Increased assistance
will also be provided for integrated rural development projects which will
support the Government's objectives of redressing regional imbalances in
income. Substantial assistance will also continue to be given to industry,
with considerable attention given to expanding the development of labor-inten-
sive, small and medium industries outside of the Metropolitan Manila area.



The share of lending for social sector projects is expected to continue to
increase primarily as a result of greater emphasis on construction of urban
water supply and sewerage systems and further assistance for slum upgrading'
and low-cost sites and services projects. The Bank Group will continue to
provide support for improving the quality of education and for expanding the
Government's population program in rural areas. While the Bank Group will
continue to provide support for transportation and power infrastructure
needed to support the Philippine development effort, the share of Bank
lending for these sectors will decline somewhat in the years ahead primarily
because alternative sources of financing are available to finance a large part
of the power generation program.
25.       As noted in Part I, the Philippines has experienced a serious
deterioration in its international terms of trade in the last several years
which has necessitated substantial foreign borrowing. While the overall
level of debt remains manageable, the Philippines will need to obtain some
foreign assistance on concessional terms in the near term to support its
expanding development program. In view of this consideration, the per
capita income of the country and the generally good management of the economy,
a limited amount of IDA financing has been included in the Bank Group's
overall lending to the Philippines.
26.       This is the ninth and final loan to be presented to the Executive
Directors this fiscal year. Loans for rural development and education
projects are in advanced stages of preparation, and may be ready for
presentation in the first half of the next fiscal year.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR AND INDUSTRIAL FINANCE
The Industrial Sector
27.       In 1977, the industrial sector (comprising manufacturing, mining
and construction industries) accounted for 35% of GDP and 14% of total
employment. Manufacturing activities dominate the industrial sector, account-
ing for 25% of GDP and 10% of employment. The most important industries
within the manufacturing sector, in terms of value added, are food, chemi-
cals, rubber products, beverages and tobacco. Manufacturing enterprises are,
for the most part, privately owned with output concentrated in large capital-
intensive units, though the more rapidly growing and labor-intensive export
industries have come to play an increasingly important role.
28.       The industrial sector grew rapidly during the 1950s as the Govern-
ment's import-substitution policy, an overvalued exchange rate, and low
interest rates combined to encourage replacement of imports by domestic
production. A period of slower growth followed until the economy started
picking up again in 1972. In response to the 1974 worldwide recession,
industrial growth rates plummeted temporarily. In terms of gross value
added, at constant prices, the growth rate of the manufacturing sector fell
from about 14% in 1973 to 3.5% in 1975 but increased to 5.7% in 1976 and 7.5%
in 1977. Capital investment in the manufacturing sector, which increased by
27% in 1975, reflecting decisions to expand capacity taken in 1973 and 1974,



fell to 5% in 1976, and is estimated to have increased at about the same rate
in 1977 and 1978. Mtanufactured exports, especially nontraditional exports,
which grew from $226 million in 1973 to $717 million in 1977, and growing
Government expenditures should give increased stimulus to the economy and
contribute to the expansion of industrial growth and investment.
29.       Because of the good natural and human resources of the Philippines
and an active private sector, the long-term prospects for industrial growth
are favorable. There are, however, a number of important issues confronting
industrial development. Industrial production continues to be geared toward
the domestic market with relatively high protection, in the form of tariffs
and import controls, being provided for import-substituting consumer good
industries while little or no assistance is given to producers goods and
export industries. The result is that few intermediate good industries have
been developed and overprotected import-substitution consumer good industries
are generally producing low-quality output which would not be able to compete
in international markets.
30.       The remarkable growth in nontraditional manufactured exports over
the past few years has been based largely on raw materials imported through
bonded warehouses or the export processing zone and, in effect, has few
linkages to domestic manufacturing. The Government recognizes the importance
of consistency between the tariff structure and investment incentives in
achieving balanced industrial development and has formulated appropriate
legislation regarding both policies. In order to provide a more comprehensive
approach to this problem, the National Economic and Development Authority
(NEDA) has commissioned a study, financed by the Bank, to analyse the effects
of tariffs, quantitative restrictions and other tax incentives upon industrial
development and to recommend appropriate policy changes. Findings of the
study form a basic input into the work of the Bank's Industrial Sector
Mission which was in the field in February 1979.
31.       Until the mid-1970s, industrialization did relatively little to
alleviate the problems of unemployment and underemployment in the Philippines.
Between 1960 and 1971, employment in manufacturing grew at an annual rate
of about 2.5% but experienced no growth between 1971 and 1973. In 1975 and
1976, however, employment generation in manufacturing grew at an annual rate
of 8%, partly as a result of Government programs designed to foster the
growth of small and medium industries having considerable employment potential.
32.       Manufacturing activity in the Philippines is heavily concentrated
in Metro-Manila and the neighboring regions of Central Luzon and Southern
Tagalog. The problem of geographic concentration of industry is receiving
increasing attention and the Government has undertaken several steps to
create conditions conducive to geographic dispersal of industry. These
actions include: the Board of Investment's practice of negotiating project
location prior to approval; a limitation on the establishment of new nonexport-
oriented industries in the Metro-Manila area; and a directive to Government-
owned financial institutions that 60% of their small and medium industries
(SMI) financing be directed to areas outside Metro-Manila. The Government's
program to develop supporting infrastructure, such as roads and electricity,



- 10 -
in outlying provinces, coupled with major regional planning and a planned
program of regional industrial estates, will further aid in decentralizing
industry.
33.       The Government's Five-Year Development Plan (1978-82) projects
that the manufacturing sector will grow at an annual rate of 9% during the
Plan period and that manufacturing investment will grow at an annual rate of
15.5% (from $1.7 billion in 1977 to nearly $3 billion in 1982). The Plan
calls for the rapid growth of labor-intensive, small and medium industries
producing for both domestic and export markets, and the establishment of some
large, resource-based projects to deepen the industrial structure and develop
further the country's natural resources.
Small and Medium Industries (SMI)
34.       In 1975, small and medium industries (those employing between
20 and 199 workers) accounted for 85% of the total number of modern manu-
facturing firms, 29% of total employment and 30% of gross value added. The
growth rate of SMI has been uneven. After a modest increase in the mid-
1960s, growth in SMI, measured by employment and value added, declined during
1967-71. Although official statistics for the later years are not available,
it is believed that after 1971, SMI experienced a rapid real growth parti-
cularly after 1974 when the Government's SMI development programs came into
effect. The industries in which SMI contributed more than 50% of total
employment were furniture, printing and publishing and leather products.
35.       In an attempt to provide a coordinated, integrated and comprehen-
sive approach to the development of SMI, the Government created, in 1974, a
Commission on Small and Medium Industries in the Ministry of Industry.
Twelve agencies are represented on this Commission which acts as a coordinator
for SMI programs of member agencies and initiates its own programs.
Recently, under the auspices of this Commission, a number of specific programs
have been established. The Medium and Small Industries Coordinated Action
Program (MASICAP) aids entrepreneurs in project development by helping them
to prepare project feasibility studies and in applying to financial insti-
tutions for loans. Other programs include: an entrepreneurship development
program run by the University of the Philippines Institute of Small-Scale
Industry (UPISSI); Small Business Advisory Centers which provide managerial
and technical consultancy services to SMI; trade assistance centers where
marketing assistance is provided; the Design Center of the Philippines which
aids SMI in project development and design; and Food Terminal, Inc., which
deals with storage and distribution of SMI products. There are other Govern-
ment programs which provide assistance in marketing and distribution,
promotion of subcontracting and regional dispersion of industry.
Industrial Finance
36.       The core of the Philippine financial system is the large commercial
banking sector comprising both local and foreign banks. In addition, there
are a number of investment houses, savings and loan associations, rural banks
and regional development banks. Long-term finance is provided mainly by



- 11 -
three development finance institutions. In late 1976, Offshore Banking Units
were established and the Government relaxed some of its regulations regarding
Foreign Currency Deposit Units. The Government Service Insurance System and
Social Security System provide finance for real estate and mortgage financing.
Although two stock exchanges exist, the volume traded is small and is con-
centrated in a few issues. A bond market was developed in 1977 and several
new issues have appeared on the market, most of which have been underwritten.
Relatively little capital expansion is financed through the stock exchange as
private owners remain unwilling to share control over their enterprises.
37.       The Government has adopted a number of measures to increase the
maturity of financial assets including: increasing the interest rate on
saving and time deposits, regulating the yield and increasing the minimum
denomination and maturity period of money market operations, increasing the
required reserves against deposit substitutes and imposing a 35% transaction
tax on interest paid on all commercial paper issued in the primary market.
As a result of these measures, the share of savings and time deposits as a
proportion of GNP rose from 7.8% in 1975 to 11.6% in 1977.
38.       The Government, through specific programs administered through
different types of financial institutions, had attempted to meet the credit
needs of the economy which were not being adequately met by the private sector.
Most of these programs have faced low loan recovery rates, weakening the
financial viability of the institutions involved, and often resulting in
large budgetary allocations. The Government is, however, paying increasing
attention to this problem. Under all these programs measures have been
adopted to reduce arrears.
39.       There are two major sources of medium- and long-term credit for
SMII: Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP) and IGLF, a compensatory
financing and guarantee fund of the Government. The volume of credit provided
by both DBP and IGLF has increased substantially since 1975 when the Bank's
first loan (No. 1120-PH) for SMI1 in the Philippines became available. Term
credit is more easily available for small industry than for medium industry.
Short-term financing, particularly for working capital, is limited and the
Central Bank is taking measures to devise ways to induce the commercial
banking sector to lend to SMI. Mfeanwhile DBP and IGLF have increased the
volume of working capital finance available to SIiI and have liberalized the
terms and conditions for such financing.
40.       A joint Bank/I11F financial sector mission visited the Philippines
in March of this year to assist the Government in designing policy measures
which would make the financial sector more effective in supporting the
Philippine development objectives. It is hoped that the findings of the
mission will form a firm basis for a dialogue between the Government and the
Bank on broader financial policy issues.
The Bank's Role
41.       The Bank has assisted industrial development in the Philippines by
providing financial and technical assistance through financial intermediaries
to help them expand and improve their medium- and long-term lending programs.
Bank lending for the sector so far has been channelled through DBP, the



- 12 -
Private Development Corporation of the Philippines (PDCP), the Philippine
Investments Systems Organization (PISO) and IGLF. Total Bank lending to
these institutions has amounted to about $375 million. Increasing attention
has been given in recent years to the needs of SMI; $85 million from existing
Bank loans has been earmarked to finance SMI and provide technical assistance
to this sector.
42.       The financial and industrial sector reports which are being prepared
are expected to provide a better basis for understanding the overall policy
framework affecting industrial development in the Philippines. In the
future, the Bank is considering the possibility of making a large loan to an
apex institution, most probably the Central Bank, which would relend the
proceeds to individual development finance companies. This project would
provide a convenient vehicle to work with the Government in addressing the
industrial and financial sector issues set out in the preceding paragraphs.
43.       Progress of the ongoing industrial projects financed by the Bank is
generally satisfactory. With the exception of three recently approved loans,
(PISO, Third DBP and Fifth PDCP), funds under previous loans have been fully
committed. Post-implementation analysis indicates that both the financial
and economic rates of returns of subprojects financed are well above the
opportunity cost of capital in the Philippines.
44.       The Bank's first loan to IGLF, approved in 1975, was a $12 million
component of Loan 1120-PH which has since been fully disbursed. Initially,
the loan moved more slowly than expected due to a number of problems. First,
the financial institutions were rather hesitant to participate as they were
not well informed of the new IGLF policies adopted in 1975 (see para. 50).
Second, the introduction of the accreditation scheme (see para. 52), which
aimed at simplifying the procedures of IGLF, was delayed. Finally, the
inter-agency Review Committee (para. 53) that provides overall guidance to
IGLF, because of its relatively junior level representation, could not provide
effective guidance to IGLF under new policies and concepts. Measures to
alleviate these problems were taken in 1976 and 1977: the communication
between IGLF and financial institutions improved; the accreditation scheme
became effective; and the Review Committee was both restructured and upgraded.
These measures had a significant positive impact on IGLF both institutionally
and operationally. However, further improvements are required to make IGLF a
more effective program. So far, IGLF's financing has largely remained limited
to small industries. Some industries, however, in order to make the most
efficient use of resources, need credit and assistance to move from the small
industry stage to the medium industry stage. IGLF also has to promote its
program more effectively and rationalize some of its policies better to meet
the needs of the SMI sector. The proposed loan is designed not only to
provide additional funds to IGLF but also to strengthen IGLF institutionally.



- 13 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
45.       The proposed loan would be the second for financing the development
of small and medium industries in the Philippines./l This project was
appraised in November-December 1978, and negotiations were held in Manila
in April 1979. The Philippine negotiating team was led by the Honorable
Manuel S. Alba, Deputy Minister of the Budget. A Staff Appraisal Report
entitled "Staff Appraisal Report on the Second Small and Medium Industries
Development Project" (No. 2417-PH) is being distributed separately.
Supplementary Project Data are provided in Annex III.
46.       The proposed loan has two components:  (a) $24.5 million to support
IGLF's program for lenlding to SMI through a number of accredited financial
institutions; and (b) $0.5 million for strengthening the Medium and Small
Industries Coordinated Action Program (M4ASICAP) which provides assistance to
small entrepreneurs in project preparation. The first component would cover
IGLF commitments over a two-year period from July 1979 to June 1981. Dis-
bursements would spread over a three-year period, from October 1979 to June
1982. The proposed loan would finance about 510 SMI projects with a total
investment of P 325 million (about $44 million). It is expected that about
80% of the IGLF component would be used for the financing of small industries
and labor-intensive medium industries with assets not exceeding $250,000, or
projects with an average cost per job of no more than $4,400 (1980), which is
the estimated urban poverty threshold for the Philippines. The IGLF component
of the proposed Bank loan would finance an equivalent of the direct and indirect
foreign exchange cost of imported and locally procured equipment, civil works
and working capital, which account for about 56% of the total cost of an
average subproject. The IGLF loan would finance, on an average, 75% of the
total cost of each subproject while the proponent's equity would finance the
remaining 25%. Disbursements under the proposed Bank loan would be made
against 75% of each IGLF subloan. IGLF would provide the remaining 25% out
of its resources provided to it free of cost by the Government. The $0.5
million component for MASICAP would be used to finance the establishment of
nine regional offices with permanent professional staff to upgrade the
quality of MIASICAP assistance. This component would finance 100% of the cost
of imported and locally manufactured equipment and vehicles and 50% of the
staff training cost and salaries of new permanent staff for the initial two
years.  IMASICAP would follow standard Government procurement procedures,
which give due consideration to competitive prices and proper quality and
therefore are satisfactory to the Bank.
47.       The proposed loan would be made to the Republic of the Philippines,
and would have a fixed repayment term of 20 years, including a 5-year period
of grace. The Government would bear the foreign exchange risk. The IGLF
subloans would have a maximum maturity of 12 years including a grace period
of up to 3 years. The rolled-over funds resulting from the shorter maturities
of the subloans would be used by IGLF for financing SMI projects on the same
terms and conditions as the original loan. The Government would charge IGLF
interest at the same rate as it would pay to the Bank. The ultimate sub-
borrowers for IGLF funds under the proposed loan would be charged an effective
interest rate, including service charge, of 15% for medium scale industry and
14.7% for small-scale industry. Considering an average inflation of 8.8%
/1 In addition, the Bank's two loans to DBP (Nos. 1190-PH and 1572-PH) had a
SHI component totalling $55 million.



- 14 -
over the past three years, and a projected rate of 7%, the onlending rate
would represent a positive real rate of interest. IGLF would charge the
accredited institutions an interest rate of 6.7% for their lending to small-
scale industries, and 9% for lending to medium-scale industries, thus allowing
a spread of 8% on the former type of lending and 6% on the latter./I Margins
accruing to IGLF on loans made under the project, including interest-free
Government contribution, would be about 0.8% on small industry loans and 3.1%
on medium industry loans. IGLF loans would range between P 50,000 (about
$6,760) and P 2.5 million (about $338,000). As in the first loan, IGLF
would not be required to obtain the Bank's prior approval for subprojects
under the loan. Instead Bank staff would closely monitor the quality of
appraisals through post-disbursement reviews and regular field supervision.
IGLF would, at the request of the Bank, submit a periodic summary of loans
approved and copies of appraisal reports on loans above P 500,000 (about
$67,500)(Section 4.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).
IGLF's Legal Framework and Scope of Activities
48.       IGLF, a compensatory financing fund owned by the Philippine Govern-
ment, was established in 1952 under a Counterpart Project Agreement between
the Philippine Government and the Economic Cooperation Administration of the
U.S. IGLF provides financing to a variety of financial institutions against
loans made to small industries. As the credit risk for such financing is
borne by the financial intermediaries, IGLF, in addition, provides a partial
guarantee against possible losses on loans to small industries. Over 95% of
IGLF's financing has gone to manufacturing projects while the remaining 5%
has gone to tourism and service industry projects. The Government's contri-
bution (including the Counterpart Funds) to IGLF amounted to P 59.0 million
as of December 31, 1978.
Economic Impact of IGLF's Operations
49.       IGLF is one of the two sources of long-term finance available to
SMI. As such the project provides credit to groups normally denied access to
term credit and generates employment at a relatively low cost in both rural
and urban areas. Since the projects to be financed cannot, at this stage, be
identified, it is not possible to make an ex ante analysis of the economic
impact of the loan. However, the overall impact of the project is likely to
be similar to the last one. As of December 31, 1978, 393 projects had been
financed under Loan No. 1120-PH with an estimated total project cost of
P 228 million (about $30.8 million). An estimated 9,889 new jobs would be
created with an average cost per job of $3,110. Moreover, almost 100% of the
financing went to enterprises with assets not exceeding $250,000. The
/1 Small industries are defined as having assets of from P 100,000 to
P 1.0 million ($13,500 to $135,000) and medium industries having assets
of from P 1.0 million to P 4.0 million ($135,000 to $540,500). These
definitions have been found to correspond to the employment level of
20-99 workers in small industries and 100-199 workers in medium industries.



- 15 -
estimated incremental sales from these projects amounted to $49 million, of
which export sales accounted for $6.5 million. The economic rates of return,
computed for a sample of firms, ranged from about 17% for a furniture project
to about 215% for a garment industry, the weighted average economic rate of
return being about 60%. The regional dispersion of IGLF-assisted projects is
significantly better than in the SMI sector as a whole.
Operating Policies and Operational Priorities
50.       Some important policy changes were made in 1975 when the terms of
the Bank Loan No. 1120-PH were incorporated. The most important changes
were: increasing the interest rate to participating institutions and end-
users; incorporating an automatic guarantee feature; and introducing the
accreditation scheme. In order to make the IGLF program more attuned to the
needs of SMI and to encourage greater participation of financial institultions,
several new and important policy changes are proposed under the project.
Until now, as mentioned in para. 44 above, IGLF has essentially limited its
financing to small industry. However, many small industries are in need of
financing, if they are to evolve from the small industry stage to the medium
industry stage and make more productive use of labor and capital. Financing
to medium industries is not easily available and hence, under the new loan,
medium industries will also be eligible for IGLF financing. Consequently,
the maximum IGLF loan size will be raised from the present limit of P 500,000
to P 2.5 million (about $67,500 to $338,000). Adequate safeguards will be
provided to prevent accredited institutions from financing medium-scale
industry at the expense of small industry. The safeguards include a higher
gross spread accruing to the accredited institution for small industry loans
(8%) than for medium industry loans (6%); and a higher proportion of guarantees
available on small industry loans than on the medium industry loans. As a
matter of policy, IGLF would encourage participating institutions to give
priority to small industry. The other major policy change proposed is raising
the effective interest rate (including service charge) to the end-user of IGLF
funds from 13.2% to 14.7% for small-scale industry and 15% for medium-scale
industry. At present, IGLF is the cheapest source of long-term local currency
financing in the Philippines. The increased interest rate, coupled with the
introduction of a penalty charge on defaults, should help bring IGLF's charges
more in line with those of other financial institutions. Finally, IGLF's
guarantee policy will be modified with a view to making a distinction between
a collateral-short and a credit-risk guarantee. It is expected that the new
guarantee policy will better serve the interest of IGLF's ultimate subborrowers.
All of these changes are incorporated in a policy statement, the adoption of
which by IGLF is a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan (Section
6.01 of the draft Loan Agreement). Following the adoption of the policy
statement but not later than October 31, 1979, IGLF would prepare a compre-
hensive policy and administrative manual for the guidance of its own staff
and that of the financial institutions (Section 3.07(b) of the Loan Agreement).
51.       In carrying out its mandate to support efficient small and medium
industries, IGLF intends to emphasize increasingly proper project selection.
A program of cooperation between accredited institutions and the Commission on



- 16 -
Small and Medium Industries is being initiated to ensure that deserving
small and medium industries receive the necessary finance. The export-oriented
and labor-intensive projects would be given priority but other merits such
as geographical dispersion of investment, value added and use of indigenous
raw material will also be taken into consideration. IGLF also aims at
building the organizational staff capacity of accredited institutions so that
a core of credit institutions is developed, capable of efficiently handling
SMI projects.
The Accreditation Scheme
52.       Prior to September 1976, IGLF operated the sponsorship scheme under
which all decisions pertaining to project approval were made by the IGLF
unit. To bring about a greater decentralization of decision-making and to
shorten processing time, the accreditation scheme was introduced. Under
this scheme, IGLF operates as an apex institution and all appraisal and
supervision responsibility is delegated to the accredited institution. After
some lnitial delays, the scheme is working satisfactorily. As of November 30,
1978, 20 institutions had been accredited, of which 10 were commercial banks,
9 were Non-Bank Financial Intermediaries (NBFI) and one was a private develop-
ment bank. NBFI have been more active than their commercial bank counterparts.
For the period August 1976-December 1978, NBFI accounted for 71% of the value
of loan approvals while commercial banks accounted for 27%. The greater
participation of NBFI is likely to continue for at least two reasons. First,
unlike commercial banks, NBFI have better expertise in SMI project evaluation.
Second, as NBFI do not have access to low cost resources, such as bank
deposits, the risk return trade-off of the IGLF program is more attractive to
them than to their commercial bank counterparts. However, after the proposed
policy changes, described in para. 50 above, are carried out, there would be
a greater incentive to financial institutions, especially commercial banks,
to use IGLF financing.
Management, Organization and Staff
53.       IGLF is administered on behalf of the Government by the Central
Bank's Department of Loans and Credit. An interagency Review Committee
advises IGLF on all policy issues. Until 1977, the Review Committee was
essentially a working level committee of relatively junior-level repre-
sentatives of the member agencies. As a result, the Committee was not very
effective in promoting interagency cooperation, contributing to Government's
policies concerning the SMI sector and gaining the confidence of the parti-
cipating financial institutions. The Government alleviated these problems in
1977 when the Review Committee was both restructured and upgraded. The
Review Committee now comprises representatives of the National Economic and
Development Authority (NEDA), Central Bank, Ministry of Industry, Ministry
of Finance and the University of the Philippines' Institute for Small-Scale
Industries (UPISSI). In addition, the Chief Executive Officer of IGLF is an
ex-officio member of the Committee. While the Review Committee advises IGLF,
the final authority to approve policy changes rests with the Director General
of NEDA.
54.       The Department of Loans and Credit of the Central Bank has a separate
unit which handles IGLF operations. While the Director of the Department of
Loans and Credit oversees IGLF operations, the unit is managed by an assistant



- 17 -
IGLF unit to operate more effectively, the unit will be suitably restructured
along with further delegation of authority to the Chief Executive Officer by
the Review Committee.
55.       As of November 30, 1978, IGLF's professional staff totalled 23.  If
the reorganized IGLF unit is to function efficiently, some strengthening of
staff will be needed. While the professional caliber of the staff is reason-
ably satisfactory, most would benefit from further training, particularly
with respect to industrial project appraisal and supervision. It was agreed
that the IGLF unit in the Central Bank would be strengthened and more
adequately staffed so as to ensure that the IGLF operations are efficiently
carried out (Section 3.07(a) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Procedures and Standards
56.       IGLF's appraisal procedures have been simplified and shortened
since the introduction of the accreditation scheme in 1976; under the accre-
ditation system the processing time is three to seven days compared to four
to six months under the old system. The quality of appraisals conducted by
accredited institutions varies. In general, the Non-Bank Financial Inter-
mediaries which generate the bulk of IGLF's business, tend to perform analy-
tical and comprehensive project appraisal. However, appraisals performed
by other institutions, such as commercial banks, are not so comprehensive, and
are mostly collateral-oriented. IGLF would provide assistance to such institu-
tions in project appraisal. In the past, owing to the small loan size, no
economic or financial rate of return was computed. These calculations will
now be undertaken for all loans in excess of P 1.5 million (about $203,000).
57.       Projects approved by accredited insitutions undergo a two-tiered
supervision process. First, IGLF conducts its own end-use verification to
ensure that there is no diversion of funds. The second tier of supervision
is performed by the accredited institution with the objective of helping the
borrower identify and resolve any production, financial or managerial problems.
WThile some accredited institutions undertake this type of supervision, others
do not. IGLF plans to monitor the accredited institutions and their super-
vision efforts, and provide training in standard follow-up procedures
whenever necessary.
58.       ICLF's procurement and disbursement procedures appear to be working
satisfactorily. The accredited institution checks the prices quoted and the
suitability of the items proposed by the end-user. In addition, IGLF's
periodic end-use-verification missions ensure that there has been no diversion
of funds. Owing to the large number of projects, the Bank's disbursements
are made against a statement of expenses provided by IGLF; a post-disburse-
ment audit carried out by the Bank indicated that the procedure was operating
satisfactorily.
Operations
59.       IGLF provides 100% financing in the form of special time deposits
to a variety of financial institutions against loans to small industries. As
of December 31, 1978, cumulative special time deposits approvals since the



- 18 -
establishment of IGLF in 1952 stood at P 319 million (about $43.1 million)
for 1,032 projects.  Since 1975, in accordance with an agreement (No. 1120-PU)
with the Bank, all special time deposits approved were automatically
guaranteed by IGLF up to 60%. IGLF's volume of approvals slowed down in
CY76 (P 29 million) and CY77 (P 20 million) but recorded a significant
recovery in CY78 when approvals amounted to P 47 million.
60.       Manufacturing activity continues to dominate the sectoral distribu-
tion of IGLF's approvals, accounting for nearly 95% of 1978 approvals with no
undue concentration in any particular subsector. The regional distribution of
IGLF project approvals, though still skewed in favor of Uetro-I4anila, is much
less regionally concentrated than the portfolio of private financial institu-
tions or the overall distribution of SMI. The average size of IGLF loan
approvals in 1978 was P 336,000 (about $45,000). In 1973, 82% of loan approvals
by value were for fixed assets and 18% for working capital finance. IGLF's
working capital loans have maturities up to three years, while a majority of
the fixed assets loans have maturities of five to seven years.
Financial Aspects
61.       IGLF's total assets as of December 31, 1978, stood at about
P 162 million (about $22 million), having increased almost threefold since
December 31, 1974. Special time deposits and short-term investments repre-
senting temporary placements of liquid resources, account for over 96% of
total assets. IGLF had a strong financial position with a debt equity ratio
of 1.1:1 as of December 31, 1978. As of the same date, IGLF's total liquid
and near liquid assets (cash and short-term investments) covered its out-
standing undisbursed commitments by about 15 times. Provisions for possible
losses are made annually and amounted to P 2.5 million (about $338,000) or
2.2% of outstanding portfolio as of December 31, 1978. IGLF's net income in
CY78 amounted to P 2.8 million (about $374,000) which, given its role and
nature of financing, is satisfactory.
62.       Arrears on IGLF's loans outstanding both between IGLF and partici-
pating financial institutions and between the institutions and ultimate
subborrowers have increased lately. As of December 31, 1978, the arrears
ratio was about 16% on IGLF's own portfolio and 26% on the portfolio of the
participating financial institutions. In order to alleviate IGLF's arrears
situation, the Government and the Central Bank have agreed on an action
program which comprises: (a) increasing the interest rate on IGLF loans;
(b) introducing a penalty charge on defaults; (c) adopting a more realistic
policy on grace periods keeping in view the project's debt servicing
capability; (d) a closer monitoring of the quality of appraisals and super-
vision done by participating institutions and the quality of their portfolio;
and (e) undertaking a program of reviewing the portfolio of financial insti-
tutions with a view to recommending follow-up actions such as restructuring,
additional financing or foreclosure where necessary. Wlen these measures are
implemented, the default rate is expected to come down.



- 19 -
Projected Operations and Resource Requirement
63.       IGLF expects a significant increase in the volume of its business,
especially after the inclusion of medium industries in its financing program.
New approvals of loans to accredited institutions are therefore projected
to rise from P 85 million (about $11.5 million) in CY79 to P 135 million
(about $18.0 million) in CY82. IGLF's total resource requirements for
new commitments, including non-Bank financed operations and debt servicing up
to June 30, 1981, are estimated at P 325 million (about $44 million) which
IGLF proposes to meet through internal cash generation, further contributions
by the Government of approximately P 50 million (about $6.7 million), and the
proposed Bank loan. IGLF has already fully committed and disbursed the
$12 million IGLF component of Loan No. 1120-PH. IGLF therefore needs the
proposed loan by the end of the second quarter of CY79; during the inter-
vening period IGLF would use its own resources.
Financial Projections
64.       According to IGLF's projections, total assets are projected to grow
at an average rate of 30% in the period CY78-82 from P 162 million to
P 465 million. This growth rate is achievable as the actual growth rate in
IGLF's assets in the past five years has been about 25%. The proposed addi-
tional contribution by the Government and internal cash generation will
enable IGLF to maintain a strong financial position and a very satisfactory
debt service cover.
65.       IGLF's gross income is projected to maintain a secular growth trend
rising from P 10.1 million (about $1.4 million) in CY78 to P 34.7 million
(about $4.7 million) in CY82, while the net income is estimated to rise from
P 2.8 million to P 8.0 million (about $379,000 to $1,080,000) in the same
period. On the whole, IGLF's projected income is satisfactory. As the
profitability of IGLF is to some extent affected by the administrative fee
charged by the Central Bank,/l it was informally agreed that any increase in
the fee would be in line with the actual increase in expenses and with prior
consultations with the Bank.
Medium and Small Industries Coordinated Action Program (MiASICAP)
66.       MASICAP was established by the Development Academy of the Philippines
in 1973, and transferred to the Ministry of Industry in June 1974. The aim
of the program is to stimulate investment in SMI in regions outside Metro-
Manila by assisting SMI in the preparation of projects which might be financed
/1 Central Bank's administrative fee currently is 1% of the highest outstanding
balance of special time deposits and guarantees in the preceding year.



- 20 -
from the entrepreneur's own resources, or through institutional credit. The
program emphasizes field work and extension services. At present, the
MASICAP staff number 147, of whom 137 are field staff organized into 49 teams
of 2-3 persons. Each team is assigned a specific geographic area usually
comprising one or two provinces. 2lASICAP's geographic coverage is extensive
and almost covers the entire country except Metro-Manila.  The core of the
staff of MASICAP consists of senior year college students wishing to parti-
cipate in the program who are given nonrenewable two-year appointments. New
recruit training is provided by senior team leaders and through lectures from
representatives of the Government and financial institutions. The rationale
behind the staffing policy is to maintain a high degree of motivation in the
program and, although not an explicit objective, this policy has resulted in
a low-cost program given its size and geographic reach. MASICAP services are
provided free of cost to the end-user.
67.       Since the program began, NASICAP has undertaken over 5,300 feasi-
bility studies, of which 4,090 were finalized and submitted for financing.
Over 50% of MASICAP projects (2,135) processed by financial institutions have
been accepted for financing. Currently, about 1,200 projects are assisted
each year. The average loan and project size of MASICAP clients are P 225,000
(about $30,400) and P 450,000 (about $60,800), respectively. In general,
larger projects are directly appraised by the financial institutions, while
MASICAP help is sought for smaller loans, where the transaction cost per unit
is high.
68.       The main strength of MASICAP is its motivation to try to address
problems which the organized financial sector is unwilling to tackle on its
own. The main weakness of the program has been its lack of experience and
continuity. The policy of limiting the service of field staff to two years
has meant that experience and knowledge of local conditions gained have not
been retained within the program, adversely affecting, in some cases, the
quality of project preparation work done by MASICAP. Consequently, the
percentage of MASICAP-assisted projects operating with difficulties and/or in
default is relatively high. If not remedied, the financial institutions may
become hesitant in financing MASICAP-assisted projects. The project therefore
proposes to reinforce MLASICAP by providing for some continuity in its operations
by: (a) introducing nine regional offices with permanent experienced technical
staff to supervise the work of MASICAP teams; and (b) involving M4ASICAP field
staff in the supervision of projects in close cooperation with the financial
institutions. As in the past, a small sample of projects will be monitored
annually. There are to be three permanent staff in each regional office who
will be responsible for project identification, feasibility studies and the
supervision activities of the field staff. The supervision provided by
I4ASICAP will be on a regular basis. The Ministry of Industry will keep the
Bank informed of its supervision and monitoring activities through regular
reporting.
Justification and Risks
69.       The project would support the Philippine Government's SMI develop-
ment program aimed at reducing income disparities. The economic and social
benefits resulting from the project are likely to be substantial. Under the
IGLF component, about 510 projects are likely to benefit under the project
involving a total investment of P 325 million (about $44 million). Most of
these projects belong to groups that are normally denied access to term



- 21 -
credit. Approximately 11,500 new jobs will be created in both rural and
urban areas at a relatively low cost of $3,800 per job. In addition, the
project would bring about a greater regional dispersal of investment and aid
in the institutional development of a number of financial institutions. The
loan will help develop institutional expertise in project evaluation, prep-
aration and supervision. Accredited financial institutions are already
building up their expertise in this field and will be further strengthened
under the project. A restructured MASICAP will aid potential end-users in
preparing project feasibility studies. This is likely to improve the quality
of M4ASICAP's output which will help in the promotion of economically and
financially viable SMI projects.
70.       The numerous institutional and policy problems that have delayed
the first SMI project and were partly responsible for a high level of
arrearages have been addressed by a proposed new set of policies for IGLF
(see para. 50) which would provide for greater efficiency in its operations,
and attract greater participation from among the financial institutions. The
risks associated with this project are related to the efficiency with which
these policies are implemented. The full achievement of the employment and
export impact of the proposed project would also depend in part on improvement
of the overall policy framework affecting industrial development; these
issues will be discussed in depth with the Government in the context of the
forthcoming financial and industrial sector reports.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
71.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of the Philippines
and the Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately.
72.       Special conditions of the loan are referred to in Section III of
Annex III. Adoption of the policy statement by IGLF is an additional condition
of the effectiveness of the proposed loan (Section 6.01 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
73.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
74.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
dIay 30, 1979
Washington, D.C.



-  22  -                                         ANNEX I
Pase 1 of 5 pav"es
TABLE 3A
PHILIPPINES - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
PHILIPPINES                                          /a
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                             - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL           300.0                                                SAME        SAME    NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL     85.6                              MOST RECENT    GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME       INCOME
1960  lb   1970 /b ESTIMATE /b     REGION /c  GROUP /d   GROUP /e
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)               140.0       230.0    450.0           616.0     432.3       867.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    147.0     301.0    326.0            522.0     251.7       578.3
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                      27.4       36.9      44.5
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 25.3      27.6     29.8            30.1      24.2        46.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                     91.0       123.0    148.0           156.8       42.7       50.8
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    360.0     472.0    520.0           794.8       95.0       93.3
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                       45.7        45.6     42.9            40.8       44.9       42.9
15-64 YRS.                       51.6        51.6     54.2            55.4      52.8        53.5
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                 2.7         2.8      2.9             3.2       3.0         3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                            3.0         3.0      2.8             2.3        2.7        2.5
URBAN                            4.0         4.0      3.9             5.1       8.8         4.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    45.0       43.0      35.0           34.6      42.2        37.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    15.0       11.0      9.0             8.7      12.4        10.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE            3.5 /f      3.3       2.4            2.6        3.2        2.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)     ..       191.7    750.8
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..        2.0      25.0           22.1       14.2       20.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)           99.1       100.0    110.8           106.8      104.3      107.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIRENENTS)                 83.0        86.0      87.0          108.7       99.5      105.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)        44.0        45.0     50.0            57.7       56.8       63.0
OF wHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE     19.0 j5     22.0      19.2           17.0       17.5       21.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE    9.0         6.6       7.5            4.0        7.5        8.0
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   49.4      57.0       60.0           59.0      53.3        57.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                         84.6        81.0      80.0           44.0      82.5        53.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                             *-                 39.0            21.9       31.1       56.8
URBAN                             *-          * -    51.0            58.3       68.5       79.0
RURAL                             *-                 33.              9.8       18.2       31.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                             ..         *-      56.0            28.6       37.5       30.9
URBAN                                                 76.0           66.6      69.5        45.4
RURAL                             ..        40.0     44.0            14.8       25.4       16.1
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            ..                3150.0         4103.1    9359.2      2706.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       ..      3840.0   4990.0          1520.2    2762.5      1462.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                         1180.0       850.0    880.0           657.1      786.5      493.9
URBAN                             *-          *-        -           145.5      278.4      229.6
RURAL                             ..          ..       ..          1011.8    1358.4      2947.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED         ..          ..       ..            19.0       19.2       22.1
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                            5.8         5.9       ..             5.2        ..         5.2
URBAN                             *-         6.2       ..             5.2        ..         5.0
RURAL                             *-         5.8       ..             5.4        ..         5.4
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                             ..         2.3       ..              ..         ..        2.0
URBAN                             ..         2.1       ..              ..        2.3        1.5
RURAL                             ..         2.4       ..              ..         ..        2.7
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                            17.0       23.0      31.0           39.1       28.3       64.1
URBAN                             ..        60.4       ..              ..         ..       67.8
RURAL                              *-        7.0      10.0             ..       10.3       34.1



-  2 3  -                                       ANNEX I
Pa-23  -1 of 5 pages
TABLE 3A
PHILIPPINES - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
PHILIPPINES                   - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /a
SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME       INCOME
1960 lb     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b      REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 95.0       114.0     105.0             95.6       75.8        99.8
FEMALE               93.0        113.0     103.0            93.7        67.9        93.3
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                 26.0         50.0      56.0             43.3       17.7        33.8
FEMALE               25.0         50.0      57.0            38.6        12.9        29.8
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 14.0           ..        ..             11.3        7.4        12.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           36.0         29.0      29.0             30.0       34.3        34.9
SECONDARY                         27.0         33.0      31.0            25.4        23.5        22.2
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        71.9        82.6      87.0             84.0       63.7        71.8
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         3.0          8.0       8.0             9.3         7.2        12.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        22.0         72.0        ..            97.6        71.1       104.5
TV RECEIVERS PER TLOUSAND
POPULATION                          1.4        10.0      17.0            21.8        14.1        28.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  17.0        14.0      18.0             25.9       16.3        45.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.6           ..       7.6              4.6        1.6         4.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    10100.0      12400.0   16200.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  34.4         33.1      35.3            33.2        28.0        25.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             61.0         55.0      50.0            48.4        54.1        46.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                15.2         15.8      14.0
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                39.8        36.6      35.3             38.9       37.8        33.8
MALE                                 52.1        48.6      47.1             48.6       50.3        48.1
FEMALE                               27.4        24.4      23.3             28.4       20.9        17.3
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.3         1.5       1.3              1.2        1.3         1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE LNCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   28.8           ..        ..             17.3       19.5        23.6
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  56.2         54.0      53.3             45.6       48.9        52.3
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4.2          3.6       5.5              6.5        5.9         4.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   11.9         11.7      14.7             17.3       15.7        13.1
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..           ..     250.0            140.8      155.9       191.9
RURAL                               ..           ..      190.0           112.8       97.9       193.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..           ..      132.0             ..       143.7       319.8
RURAL                               ..           ..         .             76.8       87.3       197.7
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..          ..       39.0            27.7       22.9        19.8
RURAL                               ..           ..       44.0            40.4       36.7        35.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c    East Asia & Pacific;   /d Lower Middle Income ($281-550 per capita, 1976);  /e  Intermediate Middle Inacome
($551-1135 per capita, 1976);   If  1950-55;   /g  Av. 1960-62.



- 24 -
ANNEX i,
Page 3 of 5 pages
DEEINYlIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Noe:  Th.1 adjusted group averages fur ear, indicator are population-weighted geometric meass,  ccl.uding the extreme values of the indicatrr anf tLae nms
populated  -cuntry is each group.  Coverage of coustrles among the indicators depends o  sva.lablldy of data ead is not  oniforn.  Due ta lack of data,
groa, av. arages Cr CapItal Surplus  _li Eiporters and indicators of access to water and excreta disposal, housiog, icune distribution and povert's are
simple pap,iatiuc-uegi tod geo-etrc measts without the maclsior. of extreme values.
LAND ARiA  ithousand sq. km)                                                               Populaticn per hospital bed - total, srbar  sad rural - Polatioc  (total,
Total - fetal surface area coaprising land area and i.iane waters.                          arbas, and rural) divided hy their respectuie r.umber af hcspital beds
acrocultural - Most recent estimate of agricultural area used temporarilv                   available in pohlic and private generas  arc specialized ho-pital asd re-
or permarently for amps, p               asres,  .arket sad ki-chen gardens  or to        hab'litatio- cesters   'aspitals are esceb  tshnert  aera:rln   staffed ha
lie fallow.                                                                              a: leust one physiciares..................... Establis:moents pro-_di'g pri:ncipally custccial
care are not included. Rural hosnita'u, nowever include healt- ad aedi-
INP PEh 'CA! l (E SS) - ON? per - a-ita esticates at current rarket prics,                  -a- casters not permanertly staffed by a phvsicias (but by a nedicnl
oulcailrtd by ason conversion  method us World Saak Atlas (1971-77 basis);               sistaet,  urse, midwife., etc.) which offer in-patient acoom.nodatio  anrd
'96C, 19-C, and 1977 data.                                                               provide a .inited range  f m.edicai facilities.
Admiosions per hospital hed - Total onuher of admissions  to or 'izchoageu
NiMERGY Ci Si'lPTIPI    PER CAPITA - Ann-al consumption of commercial energy                 from hospitals divided by the nsmber of heds.
(cool ash lignit, pootroles, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and go-
t-nercal elctricity) is kilog.aus  of coal equivalent per capita.                    HOLSING
Avrg   ieo ousehold   (rersonsa per household) - total, orio.n, and aural -
PCPIAC.I ci-=_.ll MIAN  .ICrTltTICS                                                        hAbousehold consists of a group of individoals who share living cu-rter-
Total population, mid-year (villioss) - As of Jsly 1; if not available,                     and their tain m.eals.  A boarder or lodger mev or ray not ha inaludad is
average oP two erd-yar estr-ates; 1960, 1970, asd 1977 data.                            the household far statistical purposes.  Statistical definitio-s  f h-oue-
'rhan populatieo ('ercent of trta') - Ratio of urban to total -onDs-                       hold vary.
cios; diff-ent definitiros of orban areas may affect comparability                     Average aunber of persons ner room - total, urban, and rural - Average cur-
cf dara u-ra  countries                                                                  her of persons per room in all, urhas, and rural cccupied ccrnvti-oa.
Ppulation deit                                                                             dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings eoclude nso-per.anent sarsoturos and
Per  so. km. -  id-year populuriner square kilmoretr (i00 hectares)                       unoccupied rarts.
of total arsa.                                                                         Access to electricity (percent of d-ellingsa   - coral, urhar, a          -rural -
Per sq. om. agra 'a' cura   st-Compatod ..us ac             gricltur   lash        a b        vef cicsal duellings  with electricity in lIving quarters  as p-v-an.nag
only.                                                                                    of  -otai, srbao, and rural dwellings r-speotively.
Populaticn ago trcture (oerceat) - Children (0-14 years), working-age
(15-64 years), and retired (h5 years ad. over) as percentages of mid-               EDUCACION
year populauros.                                                                      Adjusted esrotlmosst rtuics
Population grow-t  rate (per-ent) - total, and urban - Compos-d annual                   Priarav school - total, and female - Total and fem-le esrollrart of all open
growth rates of totas  and urbas nid-year proulationo for 1910-60,                       at the primary level as percentagos of respe-tivel  prinary school-age
960-7, asd 17-75.                                                                        populations; cornally includes children aged 6-'1 'ears but adjusted for
Crude birtr  rate (per thousand) - Annous  live births per thaousa.d of                    different lengths of primary education; fcr cauntrieos with  noiversai eda-
mid-year population; ten-year aritheetic averages e-ding in 196h  and                    cation snrollmo.ot mny excead 10C percenr since some po,ils are blow or
1971 and flra--oar average endir.g in  975 for most recent estimate.                     abov  The o ffici1 scho.l age.
Crude deart. rate Lser thousand) - Annual deaths per thousaod of mid-                    Secandar, s-o          - total, and female - Compated as sbove; secondary ecena-
year population; te-year urithatic avoragfs endialg in 19hC and 1970                     tihe  requires at least four years of appoeved prmr.ary  nstructionr; pre-
and fica-year average ending is 1975 icr most recent estimate.                           vides general aecarioval, or teacher tra.ning 1nstructione for p-pils
GCrss reprLdhcri-s rate - Average number of daughters a wonan  will bear                    usually of  2 to :  pears of age; ocor-sponrhnce courses are generally
no oer  osmal aeprod-ctive period if she e-periences present age-                        excuded,
syeofifc fertility rates; Usually five-year averages emding is 1960,                   locations1 earsolnert (ercest of socandary) - Vacatiotel cnstitutios ir-
1970, and 1975.                                                                          clude tehnical, industrial, or other prcgrams ahich operate iidoeond.otlc
Family pla-ning - accertors, annual (thous.nds) - Annual vanher of                         or as departments of secondary iestitutinos.
acceptors of birth-control devices under auspicas of national family                  Pusil-ceacher ratic - primary,  ad secondary - Total studesnt  enrolled is
plansing program.                                                                        primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of teachers is the ccrre-
Fam.ily planning - users (percent of married women) - Pereantege of                         sponding levels.
married wonen of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-cont-ol                Adult literaev rate (percent) - Literate adults (able to read and write) as
devices to all married wombs in same age group.                                          a percentage of total adult population aged 11 years asd over.
FOOD ANID NUTR1TICN                                                                     CONSlJPTION
Indes of food produc.tion  er capita (1970=100) - Ind-e nauber of per                   Passenger cars (per th-usand population) - Passenger cars com?rise acoor cars
capita annual producticn of all food corohdities.                                      seating less than eight perscos; excludes ambulances, hearses and silitar-
Per capita supply of calories (percent of requirements) - Compated fron                  vehicles.
enorgy eguivIal,s of net fuod supplies available is country per capita                Radio reeivers (Peo   huah  ouair   - A-' types of receiver  for radio
Per  ay.  Avail.ble supplies om .prise domesti  prod-ctis, imports less                broadoasts to general public per thousad oi earulatior. xccudes oliceoved
coporra, and changes in stock.  Net supplies  xolude animal feed           eds,       receivers in coustries and in years when registration of radio sets was in
quasticies used in food pr-cessing, and losses in distribution.  Re-                   effect; data for recent years may not be -omparable since most countries
cu-remrcto were estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for nor-                 abolished licensing.
val activity and health considering environmental tenperaturo, bodh                   TV receivers (per thousand populatioc) - TV receivers for hrodcast tc ge-era
w-ighte, age and se  distributions of population, and allowing 10 per-                  public per thousand populatius; excludes unlicensed TV recoivers is co-n-
cent for waste at household level.                                                       trios and it rears whea  registration of TV sets -was in effect.
yea carica supply of protein (grams per day) - Proteti  costent of per                  Newspaper ciroulatuon (per thousasd po-ulation) - Shwow  the average circula-
capita net supply of ford per day.  Net sapply of food is defined as                     ties of "daily general in-erest --wapaper", definod as a pe-ridical publi-
above.  Requiremerts for all corntrims established by  CSDA provide for                  caties devoted pritarily to reordirng general oews.  Ct is considered tc
a miieur. allowane of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20 Srans                     be  daily" if it appears at least four times a Weeo.
of ani:nal and pulse protein, of which i0 grams should be animal protein.             Cinema annual attendance per c.o.te per year - fiaed  on rho ras-er of cic-etn
Theae standards are Ilwer than those of ,S grams of total protein and                    sold during the year, isuludi.g admissions to drive-ic cisesus and mohilo
23 gramo ci uninal protein us as average for the world, proposed hb ,rits.
FAC in the Ch_rd -orld Food Survey.
Per capita protein supply Prom animal ash pulse - Protein supply of food               EMPLOYMENI
derived from animals and pulses in grass per day.                                     Tatal labor forc-  ,thou..s.d) - Eonom.ica:ly active perscns, incl:d:ng armed
Child (ageu I-a) mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thus-                    forces  snd u-smclooed but exsluding hcosev-ivos, asodrots, etc.  Defini-
and in age group 1-4 years, to childen is this age group.                                tions is various countries aro not cosparable.
Female (perce-t) - Per.ale labhr force as percenrepe of total labor force.
dEALCH                                                                                                            - Labor force in farming, fc-:estry, huoting and fishing
Life esportuacy at birth (eaurs)  - Average runuer of years of life                        as perrentage of total labor force.
renaining at birth  usually fve-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,                   Industry (percent)  - Labor force is mining, constructio-, ma-ufar-t-ng and
and 1975.                                                                                electricity, water and gas as percentage of total Iohor force.
Infast mor    ral. deth   f i.fan   uhe                                                 Particiati   rate (-erceur) - total, male, rc_ fe-ale - Total, male, and
one year of age per thousand live birhts.                                                 emale iabor  cer-  as per-estag-r cr their rosy-ctive pFol,alonns.
Accssa to sare warer (percent of population) - total, urban n aed rural -                   Ihese are ILO's adjusted partioipation  -auts reflecting see-ten
Nu-bhr cf people (total, urbah, and rural) with reasonable access to                      ctrs:n.t,ro of che pop zletath. ond lrm,, tire trond.
safe ewter supply (includee treated surface waters or untreated but                   Ec.oomic deposer a ratio - Rutie of populatior  necor  la sd 6h  ash c-rr tc
uncontcamiated water such as that from protected bereholes, springs,                      the labor fc-e us age group of Il-6u vears.
and sa-itary wells) as percentages of their respective papalations.
Is -a atlas area a pub io foustais or standpost located no  more                     INCOME DISTRIBTION
thar lDC metr.e  from a house may be c-osidered as being within rea-                  Percentace of  r vet tincome (both it cash and kind) received bh  ri-hest 5
s-able access of that house.  I. rural areas reascoable access would                      percent, riaces  20 percent, poorest 2C percent, asd pocr..esr  0 perceat
imply that the housewife or se-bera of the household do not have to                      of h-use tolds.
spe-d a disproportion-at part of the dha in fetshing the fasilvy'
water s-eeds.                                                                        POVTY -ARGET GOIPS
Access tc excreta disposal (percent ci oocf lation) - trtal, urban, and                 Estimared absolire  poertv intone level 11$ pea cacito) - urbah   anc frra  -
cral - lumber of peopla (totul, urhan, and rural) served bh  rectrs                         Abslute poverty ircoe level is that incone level below  whirl a sonunul
disposal as percertages of thoir reepective populations.  E-xreta                         rutrtitonalln  adoqus o diet plus essential ron-focd r-eqcrem t.s isora
disposal nay include the collection  rd disposul, with or without                         affcrable.
treatment, of h-man eucreca and wa-ste-water by wac-hurne systies                     totimatch reatIve y                    level (US$ per capri.  -           and tur--
or the ue of pit privieu asd similar installstlons.                                       Relacive poverty inoeme level is that income level less than  -e-tlird
Population per phycicies - Population divided by sm.ber of practicing                       per capita p-r-soal income of the o.untry.
physirians qualified from a medical cohool at university level.                       Estimated rosslaties heluw paovrcy incoee levol  percest) - urba  and caral -
Popula ion  -et nursing per-or - Population divided by number of                            Percent of population (urban and rural) who are either "abclute pe" or
pr-oticing male and female graduate curses, practical nurses, ard                          relative por" whichover is grouter.
fEononic and dociol Pata Dirnsics
Economuc Analysis and Projections Depar--ect



-25 -                                           ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 5 pages
SELECTED ECONOMIC DATA
Actual                         Prelim.    Projected         Growth Rates (%)
1972    1973    1974    1975    1976    1977    1978    1980    1985    1972-78    1978-85
National Accounts (billions of pesoe at 1972 prices)
GDP                            56.3    61.2    63.8    68.8    74.2    78.5    81.9    93.8   136.6               6.5        7.4
I'erms of trade adjustment    0.0        1.5      1.3    -0.1    -1.8    -3.0    -2.5    -1.6          0.0         -          -
GDY                            56.3    62.7    65.1    68.7    72.4    75.5    79.4    92.2   136.6               5.9        8.0
Imports - volumue              10.3    10.8    12.9    13.5    13.7    14.6    15.6    16.6    24.3               7.1        6.5
Exports - volume                9.9    11.3    10.0    10.0    11.8    14.9    14.3    15.7    23.4               6.3        7.3
Exports - adjusted for
terms of trade               9.9    12.8    11.3        9.9    10.0    11.9    11.8    14.1    23.3             3.0       10.2
Resource gap                    0.4    -2.0       1.6     3.6      3.7      2.7      3.8      2.5      1.0         -          -
Consumption                    45.2    48.1    51.1    53.5    55.4    57.8    61.0    70.6   100.9               5.1        7.5
Investment                     11.6    12.5    15.7    19.0    20.6    20.4    22.1    24.1    36.6              11.3        7.5
National savings               10.7    14.4    14.7    15.2    16.8    17.5    18.2    21.1    35.0               9.2        8.5
Domestic savings               11.2    14.5    14.1    15.4    17.0    17.7    18.4    21.6    35.6               8.6        9.9
Sector Output (billions of pesos at 1972 prices)
Agricujltuire                  16.0    17.0    17.5    18.2    19.7    20.5    21.4    23.7    30.2               4.2        5.0
Industry /a                    17.4    19.6    20.7    22.7    24.9    26.8    28.5    33.9    55.6               8.6       10.0
Services                       22.6    24.3    25.9    27.5    29.0    30.6    32.0    36.2    50.8               6.0        6.8
Prices (1972 = 100)
Export price index              100      141     223      214      197      196      214      249      353
Import price index              100      124     197      215      233      245      260      278      354
Terms of trade index            100      114      132     100       85       80       82       89       95
Selected Indicators
ICOR                            4.5     2.4      4.8      3.1      3.5      4.8      6.0      3.7      3.2
Import elasticity               0.93    0.55    4.61    0.59    0.19    1.13    1.58    0.98    1.03
Average savings rate           19.5    23.0    21.4    21.9    22.3    21.8    21.4    22.5    25.6
Imports/GDP                    18.3    17.6    20.2    19.6    18.5    18.6    19.0    17.7    17.7
Investment/GDP                20.6    20.4    24.6    27.8    27.8    26.0    22.0    26.1    26.8
Resource gap/GDP                0.1    -3.2      2.5      5.2      5.0      3.4      4.6      2.7      0.7
Value added              Labor force             V. A. per worker
Outplut, Labor Force & Productivity in 1976                    Peso million       %     Million           _       Pesos               '_
Agricultuire                                              38,44(0        29.0        8.1          50.0      4,746            58.0
Industry                                                  44,934         33.9        2.3          14.0    19,537            238.8
Services                                                  49,148         37.1        5.0          31.0      9,830           120.2
Unemployed                                                    .           .          0.8            5.0
Total/Average                                          132t522       100.0        16.2         100.0      8,180           100.0
Public Finance                       1972        1975          1976         1977         1978
(National Governmenit)                       (Z of GDP in cuirrent prices) 
Current revenue                12.2        15.0         13.9         13.2          14.2
Tax revenue                     9.7        12.0         11.6         11.2          12.1
Current expenditure            13.0        13.2         12.3         11.6          11.4
Current surplus                 0.8         1.8          1.6          1,6           2.8
Capital expenditures            1.9         3.0          3.5          3.4           3.7
/a lncludes mining, manufacturing, construction, and utilities.
East Asia and Pacific Region
May 1979



- 26A
- 26 -                                                              ANNEX I
Page 5 of S pages
BALANCE OF PAY89ENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE
(USE =illion)
Actoal                              Prelim.                  Projected Ie
1972      1973      1974       1975      1976       1977      1978       1980      1981       1982      1985
lSumnary of Balance of Payments
Exports (CNIS)                                  1432      2445       3357      3076       3330      4021       4155      5793       7028      8238      12197
Imparts (GNES)                                  1484      2057       3764      4116       4383      4788       5251      6821       7713      8712     12715
Re-ouroe balance                                 -52        388      -427     -1040    -1053        -767      -1095    -1027        -685      -475       -519
Not factor secice incone Ia                     -123      -114        -54      -201       -323      -320       -352      -508       -595      -673       -81D
Interns-  (cen)                             -93        -59         15       -53      -185       -240      -257      -393       -470      -535       -625
Di-rct innestnent intone (net)               -32       -55        -69      -148      -138        -80       -95       -115      -126       -139      -184
Balonce on foods 5  -ri-cen                     -177        274      -481     -1241      -1376     -1087     -1447      -1534     -1281      -1147     -1329
Transfecs (net)                                   188       246       276        318       269        260       315       347        382       420        560
torccot Account Bolanca                         11       521       -205      -923     -1107       -827     -1132    -1187        -899       -727      -769
fni-ate dicect inneotn-t (not)                   -22         64        28        125       144      216         160       193        212       234        313
Pobli  Ml.T loan dilb-rseln-nt                   233        184       180        349       869       903       1049      1142       1241      1321       1521
Repye--s                                     -78      -108       -68       -118      -165       -163      -419       -481      -499       -520      -736
Net diubsonnats                              157        76        112       231        704       740       630        662       742        801       783
th-er MLI' Loan dislohr-n-eta                    137        196       276       331         538      326        726       845        508       359        262
Repay ne-to                                 -154      -201      -244       -205       -202      -381      -522       -437      -549       -534      -506
Net dilb-r--onatc                            -17        -5         32       126         336      -55       204        408       -41       -226      -244
rota  MLT Lan disbcroa-s---                      372        380       456       680        1407     1229       1775      1987       1749      1680       1783
Rep--onn to                                -23?       -309      -312       -323       -369      -544      -941       -918    -1048      -1104      -1244
Net dioborsemeots                            140        71        144       357        1340      685       834        770       701        576       533
NSt dra-iong  o- IF                                7       -21       -11        110        214        79       -20       -70         13       -85        -ID
Slant-ner   c:apitol (net)                        56         74       231        102        -'96     311        147       195        222       253        375
lapial tcaoaaotluc ,cC.1.                        -98        -45       -77        292        --35    -300        116          O         0          ID        O
b-ang8 in  -tr-s-rne   (- =  on:ease)            -94      -664       -110        521         60     -164         55      -200       -257      -250       -375
loitoroalainnonl cessnrnno (-nd-year) /b         551      1038       1504      L358        1340     1524       1883      1800       1933      2100(     280
oan-ts nd Loon C_mmitments
OfficiaL fronts                                  1.3       0.0        3.(       0.0       03.        0.0
'T;.tal po>l.io  .aca                          422.2     232.4      840.i    753.7   1864.0   1294.7
IBRD                                          29.3      85.7     217.5    L14.0    226.0         317.5
I1A                                           13.0      12.7        9.5       0.0        0.0       0.0
Oth-r r-iloiilartel                           43.3      53.6       83.1     106.0       64.2    207.3
lanenseoto-                                  275.5      63.4      199.5     182.3    391.6       294.3
Of sichl CPE                                 0.0       0.0        0.0      13.2        5.9       0.0
Suppliero                                      2.0        1.9      69.0      37.3       68.1      73.7
Fil-nc1,l Intiltionn                          61.7      15.1    244.5       314.2     776.9      272.3
Band.                                          0.0       0.0       17.1       0.0     367.2    129.7
Oh4r MLT l-ans                                130.0      128.0    306.0      283.0    472.0       495.3
.'emxnandum Iten-
Cront cLement of cannitnen-t                    26.0      28.4       22.3       16.4       8.8       14.7
Average-ing rent (-  )                           5.4        6.1       6.5        7.4       8.3        7.9
nAonoge  _atrlny (pears)                        17.3       24.2      18.2       16.7      13.1       15.3
OndionL, and Lo.>g-Tem  tebr (disbu.rse  octy5                                                                                                  Oustanding
Total debt -ot--aodiog (end of period)   1826.7   1910.2   2070.7   1362.0   4063.0   5149.96                                              ecbe  31  1977
lOocLndin0 oo.dilaors- d                      2584.5   2625.9   3506.3    1755.6   6496.0   8109.0    Enternal Debt                        Amoant   Percent
PobLi  debt seraice                          -149.6   -214.5   -187.7   -230.2   -222.7   -441.9   (disb.nued only)
Of alilo    incees-t                         -51.6    -31.3    -43.1        -73.4    -87.1   -215.2         81RD                           403.7      13.5
01hcr lILT debt o-rvic-                       -167.6   -185.8   -247.5   -239 .2   --300 0   -357.1           Bonk Group Id                  432.6       14.5
7otal debt saroie-                            -317.2   -400.3   -435.2   -469.4   --522.7   -799.0            Other nultilaterol             155.4        5.2
Go-ernmn ts                    873.1       29.2
Eebo Borden                                                                                                     Of  hEjch centrally
Debt seroice ratio                              22.1       16.4      13'.0      15.6      16.0       19.9       planned econonBes              0.0        0.0
Debt s-roi-:e ratio  Ic                         24.5       18.8      15.3       18.1      18.1       21.4     Soppliern                       86.5        2.9
Debt t -ervic/GDP                                 3.8       3.8       3.0        3.0       2.9        4.0     FinancIal i-stitutio-s         914.9       30.6
FPblic felt service/government  oevonu          17.0       13.9       7.6        8.1       7.9       15.7     Bo-ds                          523.1       17.5
Tntal public MLT debt    2,985.1          100.0
lerms                                                                                                           Otier b1LI debt              2,164.8       72.5
Interest a-  total DOD/natal DOD                 6.1        3.6       4.0        5.4       4.1        6.4     Otter h ML  debt (Encl.
Total debt  Derninn/lnoal 108                    17.7      24.7      17.3       16.9      10.5       15.8       ondishorned)               2 489.7       83.4
Total PoblEc debt (inla.
Dependency Ratios                                                                                                 undisbursed)               5,619.3    188.2
Ctts-  dibahrsco-otslninoctn  (GOFS)            2S.1       18.5      12.1       16.5      32.1       25.6      Total biLT debt (inl.
Slot t-anofon/lmp-rtn  (GNFS)                     3.7      -1.        0.6       5.1      20.2       10.5        andisbursed)              8,109.0    217.7
Net tronsfon/gros-  dinhorsemertn               14.9       -5.3       4.b       3n.8      62.9       41.0
Enponore
1BRD disb/groen total dinb.                      4.7        4.6       5.8       12.6       6.5        9.5
Ba-k G-oup disb./gross total disb.               4.8        4.8       7.5       13.9       7.3        9.6
IBRD D0105tnta1 DOD                              7.8        7.8       7.9       10.1       7.8        7.8
bDek Group tOLD/otul 00(D                        7.6        ".8       8.3        9.6       8.4        8.4
IBRD debt -orrienneltoa   deht sr s              4.4        5.1       5.4        5.5       6.6        5.6
Bank Grno7 Bohr serrtre/rnrol debt non           4.4        5.1       5.4        5.6       6.7        5.6
/a  Remittances of Filipinos employed ubroad are incloded it  "Transfers."
/b  Grona ceserves of the Central Bank ("Interoot o-a-   reserven", IlS).
/c Inclnding net direct iloneotnennin:oone.
7d  Eacl,den IFC.
fe  These projections once prepared in  day 1978.  Reei-od projections will be  trepired foll,aifg thE cetoro of an
econoetic misson in Joe 1979.
Eaot Asio and Pacific Regifoal Office
Boy  1979



- 27 
_ 27 -                ~~~~ANNEX IS
Page 1 of 14 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK CROUP OPERATIONS IN THE PHILIPPINES
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CkRDITS
A of April 30, 1979
boon or
IrCdio                                                           Am-ount (S millio)
NSber        P_        Borrower          Purpose            RBok    IDA    UAdisb--sed
Sixtetn loans sod owo oreditt  islly diuborsed              251.1     19.S
720-PH     19/1                         Rico Proressing
sod Storage       14.3                Z.1
809-PH     1972    Nfti-oal Power
Corporotion      Poser                22.0                1.2
349-PH     1973    Repoblic of the
Philippines       Edoroesot I1                 12.7       1.0
891-PH     1973                         Fi-luerlrs          11.6                0.0 /a
939-PB     1973                         Ports                0.1                0.5
950-PB     1973                         Seroed Highways   68.0                  5.5
989-PH     1974                         Alrror-Porarsoda
Irrfgatono         9.5                23.
999-PS     1974                         DFC-DBP             50.0                4.2
1034-PS     1974    Natiooal Poser
Corporetion      Poser                61.0                5.5
1035-PB     1914    Rapublia   of the
Philippi-es      Popolaroir           25.0               14.0
1048-PH     1974          s"lippilog                         20.0               12.0
1052-PH     1974    Philippiee
Nsti o.al bAonk   DFC                 30.0               10.1
1080-PH     1975    Republic of the   Tsrlac
Philippines         IrrIgatIon        17.0                8.1
1102-PB     1975                         isral
Eroetopsest       25.0               17.9
1120-PH     1975                         Small aod Medium
o  lodostrles     30.0                2.0
1114-PO     1976                         Aagot
IrriguLlos       42.0                23.5
1190-PH     1976                         SF0-DbP II          75.0               19.4
1224-T-PH  19746                         Fdocatiso  III      25.0               18.3
1225-PB     2976                         li-festok r1        20.5                9.1
1227-PS     1976                         ChiA/o Orrofatis  50.0                 42.3
1272-T-PH   1976                         M-nilo Drban        10.0                0.2
1282-PU     1976                         UAnlil Urba-        22.0               15.8
1269-PH     1976                         Second Grali
Proresslog        11.5               11.2
1270-PH     1976                         Se-ond Fishe-ifs  12.0                  7.5
1353-PB     1977                         Third Highoaps    95.0                 84.4
1367-PB     1977                         Jalaur Torigatiss 15.0                 11.1
1324-PB     1977                         Foorth Odorotio-  25.0                 20.4
1399-Ps     1977    Central Bask of   Poe-th R-r1l
she Philippines   Cerdit              36.5               25.3
1414-PH     1977    Republic of the   Nationel Irriga-
Philoppioes         t42s Systems
Improrement      53.0               42.2
1415-PH     1977                         Pro-incial Cities
Wfoter Spply    23.0               20.0
1421-PH     1977                         Secood RBoos
tLad Setter-1-t 15.0                 14.4
1460-PB     1977    Noti.sol Poser
Co-poratioD      Srer-h Pote:         58.0              57.5
1506--PA    197f    Rephblfi  af rho   Is-0l4older Tree
Philippi.es         Fa-soog            8.0                8.0
1514-PH     1976    Philippi-e
Notlorl Bask   tFo  iPDCP)           30.0               30.0
1526-PH     1970    Republic of tAh  SArood Nati..ol
Philipplsos l- rri          os
IL-,rooLses.     65.0               64.2
790-Ph    1978    Republir of the   Poral Isfle-
Philipp...s         atesotore                  28.0      20.2
1,8-PR     197b    Rephblic of the
Phi ipposes       kdratloo            2.0                1.98
1547-Ps    1970    epuhiic of the   Roro-  -lestro-
Phlilppi.es         Pica-to-          60                 63.0
1555-Ph     1976    Philippine
Nati-sol Bask   012-P10              15.C               13.4
1567-PH     1978    Republic of the
Philippines      MACAT II            550.0              113.8
1572-PH     1978   Ripoh.i.  of the   Imiustriai
Ph i] ippi.as       Io.soteost  ;1l  80.C                71.7
1615-1HS    1978    Repoblic o the   Moilt  later
Phil4ippi-rs        later Sopply-lI 88.C                 83.0
1626-PH     1979    Repoblis of tho   Ns i onal
PhiSpriors ..Pseosirs                 35.0               35.6
1639 PA'   19/3      Rtpoolic o, toe   Sogft kvror
PhSIippIleu         1t/liporpose     21.0               21.0'
1646 PH'   1979    Republir of the   trill Poorer =    Dt.
Ph'lippi _e         1usd  Nook        16.5               16.5
1647 PH5'  1979    Republit  of the   Sot od trha-
Philippines         llerrlop eor      32.0               32.2
16bl PO... 1979    Republic of rho   BOAAsOs 20             100.0 t.1004
Philippi.es
Toral                                            _9_29 .5     0.2  1 ,207 .2
of ehich hs bAee  re-paid
(Back .eA third parties)                         132.5        -
Total 000 otutstading                            1797.4    60.2
Mmountsold                         23.9
of ohich hos besn repold
(third parties)                  13.1             10.8        -
Total sow held by bask sod iDA
(prior to totlraogt sate
odj-ssemes.t)                                1_7B6.6    kl.2
Total uodisborsed                                lA_73.2    29.0  1,227.2
'a  UodLshbrsod .mosnt is 4193.00.
tffertise April 25, 1929.
Iffeire Apr0i1 26, 19/9.
'Sot yot ef-erti_.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 14 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
As of April 30, 1979
Fiscal                                                       Amounts ($ million)
Year                      Company                           Loan   Equity   Total
1963 & 1973  Private Development Corporation of the
Philippines                                 15.0     4.4      19.4
1967          Manila Electric Company                        8.0        -       8.0
1967          Meralco Securities Corporation                   -      4.0       4.0
1970          Philippine Long Distance
Telephone Company                            4.5        -      4.5
1970 & 1972  Mariwasa Manufacturing, Inc.                    0.8      0.4       1.2
1970          Paper Industries Corporation of the
Philippines                                    -     2.2       2.2
1971 & 1977  Philippine Petroleum Corporation                6.2      2.1       8.3
1972          Marinduque Mining and Industrial
Corporation                                 15.0        -     15.0
1973          Victorias Chemical Corporation                 1.9      0.3       2.2
1974          Filipinas Synthetic Fiber Corporation          1.5        -       1.5
1974          Maria Christina Chemical Industries, Inc.  1.5          0.5       2.0
1974          Republic Flour Mills Corporation               1.2        -       1.2
1975          Philippine Polyamide Industrial
Corporation                                 7.0        -       7.0
1976          Philagro Edible Oils, Inc.                     2.6      0.2       2.8
1977          Acoje Mining Company, Inc.                     2.3      1.2       3.5
1977          Sarmiento Industries, Inc.                     3.5       -        3.5
1978          Cebu Shipyard and Engineering Works, Inc.  2.1           -        2.1
Total gross commitments                       73.1    15.3      88.4
Less sold, acquired by others,
repaid or cancelled                         30.2    12.0      42.2
Total commitments now held by IFC             42.9      3.3     46.2
Undisbursed                                    5.1        -       5.1



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 14 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
Agricultural Sector
Loan No. 720    Rice Processing and Storage; $14.3 Million Loan of
February 4, 1971; Date of Effectiveness: May 10, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
This project is providing long-term credit through the Development
Bank of the Philippines to finance a program for the development and modern-
ization of the rice and corn processing industry. Originally the project
was restricted to rice and to the private sector, and the emphasis was on
the construction of new integrated large capacity rice mills. Due in part
to poor harvests and in part to large cost increases for rice mills, the
demand for subloans for new integrated rice mills turned out to be small
and, as explained in the President's Memorandum, dated June 8, 1972 (R72-40),
the Loan Agreement was amended to shift the project emphasis to rehabilita-
tion of existing rice milling facilities. The Loan Agreement was further
amended in April 1974 to: (a) expand the scope of the project to include corn
in addition to rice, (b) enable local governments and the National Grains
Authority to borrow funds under the project, and (c) streamline procurement
procedures (President's Memorandum SecM74-244 of April 15, 1974). As a
result of these amendments, the project is now generally progressing satis-
factorily, although mounting arrears are a source of concern and DBP is now
stepping up its supervision and collection efforts to deal with this. Bank
loans for subloans have been fully committed; however, because of the long
construction period of the large subprojects, full disbursement will be
delayed until mid-1979 and the Closing Date has been postponed to
June 30, 1979.
Credit No. 472 Aurora-Penaranda Irrigation; $9.5 Million Credit and
Loan No. 984    $9.5 Million Loan of May 14, 1974; Date of Effectiveness:
August 22, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project is financing the construction of two dams and trans-
basin diversion channels to divert water from the Aurora basin to the Panta-
bangan reservoir to provide year-round irrigation for about 26,000 ha of rice
lands in the Penaranda area of Central Luzon, which is also to be improved
and extended under the project. The work on the dams and transbasin diver-
sion channels has been completed. Diversion from one of the two dams started
in July 1975, about one year ahead of schedule. There were initial delays
in the award of contracts for the service area improvement works and following
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evalua-
tion of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 14 pages
award some additional delays were experienced due to an extended period for
irrigation water delivery in 1977. These setbacks have caused a two-year
delay in project completion which is now scheduled for June 30, 1980.
Loan No. 891    Fisheries; $11.6 Million Loan of May 21, 1973;
Date of Effectiveness: December 5, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1979
The loan is fully committed; only about US$0.l million remains
to be disbursed before the Closing Date (June 30, 1979). Nearly 15,000 ha
of brackish water fishponds are being developed or rehabilitated with the
help of subloans. Loan approvals also include 35 fishing vessels with
tonnage varying between 70 and 130 tons, one ice-plant and one slipway. DBP
has initiated the preparation of the Completion Report. Loan collections
have deteriorated during the last few months, and in spite of intensive
collection efforts mounted by DBP in the recent months, the desired result
has not so far been achieved. DBP is now being asked to study in depth the
position of all borrowers whose accounts are overdue for more than six
months, and to take suitable measures in each case to rectify the position.
Loan No. 1080   Tarlac Irrigation; $17.0 Million Loan of January 27,
1975; Date of Effectiveness: April 27, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980
The project is assisting the Government to improve 21,000 ha of
land under three existing national irrigation systems and to extend irrigation
to 13,000 ha of additional land in Central Luzon. Upgrading of project roads
and construction of new roads also are included. In addition, the project
provides for a groundwater irrigation pilot project, a National Irrigation
Systems Improvement Study (NISIS), and a water management training program.
All major civil works contracts are in progress and the remaining work is
under way. General progress, although slower than originally estimated, is
improving. Progress on the groundwater, water management training and NISIS
components of the project is satisfactory. Due to the necessity of adding
drainage systems not included originally, completion of the project is now
expected to be delayed until the end of 1980.
Loan No. 1102   Rural Development; $25.0 Million Loan of April 16,
1975; Date of Effectiveness: July 28, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
The project is assisting the Government to carry out rural develop-
ment on the island of Mindoro. Progress in the implementation of irrigation
systems and on the improvement of the port of Calapan is now accelerating.
Progress has also been made on the Mangyan (Minority) Assistance Program,
reforestation of watersheds and drainage of schistosomiasis affected areas.
The rate of progress for road construction has now improved considerably
after delays caused by the unsatisfactory performance of a number of contractors.
Disbursements, which currently stand at 39% of projections, are lagging



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 14 pages
behind physical accomplishment due to difficulties encountered in prompt
processing of force account work and in coordinating disbursement requests
between agencies. Steps are now being taken to streamline disbursement
procedures.
Loan No. 1154   Magat Multipurpose Project; $42.0 Million Loan of
August 7, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: November 4, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project is assisting the Government to improve and expand
irrigation on 35,000 ha of land in the Cagayan Valley of Northern Luzon.
Consultant's work on engineering and economic evaluation studies of the
proposed Magat dam and reservoir has been completed. Civil works by local
contract and force account for rehabilitation and new construction of canals,
drains and access roads are progressing well. The water management training is
continuing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1225   Second Livestock; $20.5 Million Loan of April 8, 1976; Date
of Effectiveness:  September 13, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
Investments in pig and poultry subloans continue to dominate the
Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP) project lending activities, with sub-
loans for beef production development lagging well behind appraisal estimates.
As a consequence the project's list of goods was recently amended to allow for
this fact. Disbursements are in line with appraisal projections but subloan
commitments are running ahead of schedule. Project funds will probably be
fully committed in early 1980 but a recent resurgence of demand for loans may
shorten the period. Repayments of principal of the majority of DBP's borrowers
under the project are still under grace but a build-up of interest arrears is
beginning to emerge. Principal and interest arrears under the first phase
project have reached about 18% of the portfolio and we are assisting DBP with
the development of an intensive action-oriented collection program to be
implemented during the next three months. Thanks to government approval of
increased salary scales, DBP has significantly improved its staffing position.
Various improvements to DBP's organizational structure have been instituted
and other organizational developments are under consideration. The Bank is
involved in a continuing dialogue with DBP on various institutional issues.
Loan No. 1227   Chico River Irrigation Project; $50.0 Million Loan
of April 8, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 19, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The Erosion Control Study and input-output monitoring program are
progressing satisfactorily. NIA's force account operations on canals and
access roads has improved following delivery of construction equipment. All
of the major contracts have been awarded, and it is expected that construc-
tion of irrigation works will proceed smoothly. Road construction is now
proceeding satisfactorily, although it began substantially behind schedule.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 14 pages
Loan No. 1269   Second Grain Processing Project; $11.5 Million Loan of
July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: November 12, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project is providing long-term credit through the Development
Bank of the Philippines to assist in modernizing and expanding the Philippine
grain processing industry. Initial progress under the project is satisfactory.
Subloan commitments are expected to begin shortly, now that Loan No. 720 is
fully committed.
Loan No. 1270   Second Fisheries Project; $12.0 Million Loan of
July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: November 12, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Due to problems related to procurement procedures for fishing
vessels and increased deployment of staff on loan recovery work, the Develop-
ment Bank of the Philippines slowed down the processing of subloan approvals
in the second half of 1977. However, loan approvals had picked up considerably
in the first half of 1978. As of June 30, 1978, 398 fishpond farmers had
been assisted with construction of new fishponds or rehabilitation of their
existing ponds. Eight 9OGT fishing vessels, six 45GT fishing vessels and two
ice-plants with cold storages have been financed. It is expected that the
project will be completed on schedule.
Loan No. 1367   Jalaur Irrigation Project; $15.0 Million Loan of
February 14, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: May 12, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
NIA's force account operations on access roads and drains has
improved following delivery of construction equipment in December 1978. The
detail design for a major part of the works has been completed and many
contracts have been awarded. The overall progress of the project is satis-
factory.
Loan No. 1399   Fourth Rural Credit Project; $36.5 Million Loan of
April 11, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: June 2, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The slow commitment rate continued to improve to 50% of appraisal
estimates, but recovery of the shortfall to date is no longer considered
possible within the original three-year implementation period. The shortfall
is due in large part to the sharp decline of demand for four-wheel tractors
and the absence of compensating growth in demand in other subloan categories.
Heavy damages inflicted by recent typhoons may further delay commitment. The
Central Bank is now conducting a reassessment of the lending program, and is
expected to submit to the Bank a proposal recommending necessary changes in
project design which would expedite the commitment but, at the same time,
would ensure the effective use of project funds.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 14 pages
Loan No. 1414   National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project; $50 Million
Loan of May 13, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: August 9, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Initial delays in assembling design staff have now been overcome.
With the delivery of equipment in September 1978, the pace of construction
has accelerated. Overall progress of work is about 10% of total project
works.
Loan No. 1421   Second Rural Development (Land Settlement) Project;
$15.0 Million Loan of June 10, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:
October 27, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The previously reported budget release and staff recruitment
problems are being steadily resolved. With staff now taking up field positions,
progress is accelerating, and although the project is currently 14 months
behind anticipated schedule, physical matters should be completed within the
project period. Institutional progress continues to be satisfactory, noting,
however, that the innovative nature of the project will continue to illustrate
problem areas and issues. Project impact will become more apparent during
the next year, but there is already an increase in confidence at the settlement
level illustrated by a significant increase in participatory actions by
farmers.
Loan No. 1506 Smallholder Tree Farming and Forestry Project; $8.0 Million Loan
of January 23, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: May 11, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Eight months after effectiveness, operations had started in all
project components except research, but progress has been lagging behind
schedule; the DBP smallholder tree farming component has met with a slow rate
of farmer enrollment due to problems with legal requirements, land availability
and farmers' reluctant attitude arising from lack of previous experience.
However, DBP remains committed to the project and is working on ways in which
to stimulate progress. In the Abra pine plantation component insufficiency
of Government funds has caused the program of vehicle acquisition and building
construction to fall a year behind schedule, but it is expected that the
delay will be made up to a large extent during 1979. Disbursements have not
yet begun, due to the early stage of the project and the initial delays.
Loan No. 1526 Second National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project: $65 Million
Loan of March 15, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: June 20, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Topographic surveys and mapping have been completed for about
60% of the project area and design of project works is underway. The
construction work started recently is primarily devoted to service
roads and structures along main and secondary canals. Overall progress
of the project is satisfactory.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 14 pages
Credit No. 790      Rural Infrastructure; $28 Million Credit of April 21,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: Date of Effectiveness:
July 21, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Construction work on communal irrigation systems, village water
supply and health stations has started. Consultants have been engaged to
undertake the design of village roads for four of the six project provinces.
Contracts for the improvement of one port will be awarded soon. Overall
progress of the project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1567-PH   The Magat River Multipurpose Project-Stage II; $150 Mil-
lion Loan of May 23, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:
August 24, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The project will assist the Government through completion of Stage
II of this project, to provide water to irrigation systems and improve
systems operation on 102,000 ha. Preconstruction works have been completed
and works on dam foundation grouting, drainage gallery tunneling and river
diversion tunnels are under way and expected to be completed this year. The
civil works contract for the main dam has been awarded and the contractor is
completing the advanced stage process of mobilizing staff and equipment.
Loan No. 1626-PH   National Extension Project; $32.0 Million Loan of
December 21, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:
March 27, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project will assist the Government to strengthen effectiveness
and expand coverage of the national extension service through the provision
of facilities and equipment, and institutional changes. The loan was signed
on December 21, 1978, and was declared effective on March 26, 1979.
Loan No. 1639-PH   Magat River Multipurpose Project; Stage II Irrigation;
$21.0 Million Loan of January 26, 1979; Date of
Effectiveness: April 25, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
The project will assist the Government to increase agricultural
production and consequent employment opportunities though irrigation and
power development in the Cagayan Valley. The loan was signed on January 26,
1979, and was declared effective on April 25, 1979.
Loan No. 1646-PH   Small Farmer Development Project through the Land Bank of
the Philippines; $16.5 Million Loan of January 26, 1979;
Date of Effectiveness: April 25, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Proceeds of the loan will be relent to the Land Bank of the
Philippines to provide small farmers with credit to increase productivity and
to generate off-farm employment. The loan was signed on January 26, 1979 and
was declared effective on April 25, 1979.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 14 pages
Transportation Sector
Loan No. 939    Second Ports Project; $6.1 Million Loan of October 24, 1973;
Date of Effectiveness: December 19, 1973; Closing
Date: July 15, 1979
The project is being carried out under two civil works contracts,
one each for General Santos and Cagayan de Oro. The work at General Santos
was completed in December 1978. At Cagayan do Oro, 75% is completed and the
remainder is expected to finish in May 1979. Traffic operations at the
project ports continue satisfactorily. The Government is considering the
establishment of a National Port Advisory Council to assist PPA in formulating
policies. Tariff adjustment proposals have been drafted based upon a study
of port services costs. Good progress is being made on feasibility studies
at five provincial ports in preparation for a proposed third ports loan in
early FY81.
Loan No. 950    Second Highway; $68.0 Million Loan of December 12,
1973; Date of Effectiveness: February 27, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
While over 98% of the construction program has been successfully
completed, one of nine national roads is far behind schedule due to difficulties
experienced by the contractors in prosecuting the work. For this reason,
project completion is expected to be delayed 24 months beyond the appraisal
schedule.  UNDP-financed road feasibility studies were completed in June 1975,
detailed engineering for the Third Highway Project (Loan 1353-PH) in August
1976, and detailed engineering for the proposed Fourth Highway Project in
October 1977. Weighbridges for axle load control have been procured, civil
works for permanent weigh stations are virtually completed, and the axle load
control program is being implemented. The total cost of the project has
increased substantially (about 32% above the appraisal estimate) due to the
oil price increases in late 1973, delays in project execution, and continuing
inflation. Disbursements have reached 90% of the loan amount but the present
Closing Date of June 30, 1979 will require extension to allow time for final
disbursements after project completion, expected in mid-1979.
Loan No. 1048   Inter-island Shipping; $20 Million Loan of October 29,
1974; Date of Effectiveness: January 15, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Progress under the US$20.0 million loan for the acquisition of
used interisland ships, repair of existing ships and technical assistance has
been slow. As at December 31, 1978 only about half of the available funds had
been committed by the Development Bank of the Philippines and only USS7.0 mil-
lion had been disbursed from the loan. Uncertainties about the type of
foreign exchange risk to be borne by subborrowers and offers of cheaper
finance by new government financing institutions have delayed implementation.
Changes in administrative procedures are under discussion and may require
Board consideration in due course to resolve these matters.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 14 pages
Loan No. 1353   Third Highway Project; $95.0 Million Loan of
January 12, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: March 30, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Contracts have been awarded for all national roads and work has
begun. Consultants for supervision of construction have been appointed and
have established themselves in the field. The technical assistance advisors
for maintenance improvement and road restoration took up their duties in
September 1977. The training advisors began work in July 1977. The consul-
tants for the road and ferry feasibility studies began work in November 1977
and completed the studies in December 1978. Consultants for workshop design
and construction supervision began work in May 1977. Designs are completed
and bids for all contracts have been received and are being evaluated with
contracts for 8 out of 28 workshops awarded. After a delay of about 12
months, the road maintenance and restoration program is now beginning to be
implemented with planning and execution of road restoration projects under
way, procurement contracts for maintenance equipment, parts, tools and
machinery being awarded and normal maintenance activities being organized.
Overall, project costs are expected to remain close to appraisal estimates
but indications are that project execution will be delayed by about 18 months
due to the late start of some critical activities.
Loan No. 1661   Fourth Highway Project; $100 Million Loan of March 9, 1979;
Expected Date of Effectiveness: June 12, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
This loan was signed on March 9, 1978, and is expected to be
declared effective on June 12, 1979.
Education Sector
Loan No. 1224   Third Education Project; $25 Million Loan of April 8,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 29, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
Since loan signature, the project unit has made commendable progress
in implementing the textbook development program. Editorial and production
preparations have been completed for 31 titles (out of 71 to be completed by
June 1981). Some 17 titles have been printed for a total of 9.5 million
copies (out of 27 million by 1981), of which 8.2 million copies have been
distributed to schools. Project costs are close to appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1374   Fourth Education Project; $25.0 Million Loan of
March 25, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:  June 9, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Implementation of the project is generally on schedule, with the
exception of civil works contract awards which have been delayed by about
eight months because of delayed government clearances. Project costs are
within appraisal estimates.



- 37 -                  ANNEX II
Page 11 of 14 pages
Loan No. S-8-PH Educational Radio Technical Assistance; $2 Million loan of
April 21, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: August 22, 1978;
The project is being implemented by an Educational Communications
Office (EGO), established for this purpose within EDPITAF. ECO is functioning
smoothly and is successfully preparing and distributing radio programs and
printed materials for the two major project subcomponents - Radio Assisted
Teaching in Elementary Schools (RATES), and Continuing Education for Teachers
(CET). These programs have reached Pargasinan Province, and will reach Leyte
on schedule in mid-1979. CET will most likely begin unscheduled utilization
in Mindanao during 1979. In order to provide information on the desirability
of nationwide project implementation, the pilot project includes a substantial
evaluation component which is proceeding smoothly.
Urban Sector
Loan No. 1272T Manila Urban Development Project; $10.0 Million and
Loan No. 1282   $22.0 Million Loans of June 9, 1976; Date of Effectiveness:
December 9, 1976; Closing Date: September 30, 1981
Construction has been completed on the high school, health clinic,
and the "reblocking" of twenty-five blocks in the upgrading area. Fifteen
hundred new serviced sites in Dagat-Dagatan and 350 in Tondo are now being
occupied by families who are building very satisfactory dwellings by means of
self-help. The project is generally progressing satisfactorily with many of
the initial difficulties overcome and valuable lessons learned which should
hasten implementation of the remainder of the project.
Loan No. 1415   Provincial Cities Water Supply Project; $23 Million Loan of
May 13, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: September 9, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
Work on well construction has started in two cities, and bid
documents for pipe supply and installation are 95% complete. Civil works
contractors are currently being prequalified and major construction should
start within the next few months. Overall project implementation is several
months behind schedule because of administrative delays and difficulties in
land acquisition for well sites following hydrogeological studies by consult-
ants. The preparation of feasibility studies for water supplied to 11 cities
is on schedule as is also the Manila Sewerage Design Study. The Government
is about to start training of staff in the design of community water supplies.
Loan No. 1615   Second Manila Water Supply Project; $88 Million Loan of
July 26, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: December 21, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
This loan is assisting the Government to provide safe water for an
additional four million people in Metropolitan Manila, as well as improve the
service to some 3 million who are inadequately served at present. The preparation
of design drawings, bid documents and appointment of consultants is well in hand.
Loan 1647-PHT   Second Urban Development Project; $32.0 Million Loan of
January 26, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: April 26, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
This loan was signed on January 26, 1979, and was declared effective
on April 26, 1979.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 14 pages
Power Sector
Loan No. 809    Fifth Power; $22.0 Million Loan and $10.0 Million Credit
Credit No. 296  of April 3, 1972; Date of Effectiveness:  July 1, 1972;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project is helping the National Power Corporation to finance
the second unit of 150 MW at the Bataan thermal power plant, expansion
of the transmission system in Luzon and consultants' services. The project
was completed in mid-1977, two years behind schedule. Due to cost overruns,
a part of the transmission project was transferred to the Sixth Power Project.
The actual project cost as finally constructed is about US$59.3 million - an
increase of about US$11.0 million over the original estimates. The closing
date of the loan has been postponed from December 31, 1978 to December 31,
1979 to allow full disbursement of committed funds. Credit 296-PH was fully
disbursed in April 1975.
Loan No. 1034    Sixth Power;  $61.0 Million Loan of July 31, 1974:
Date of Effectiveness: November 15, 1974; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
The project consists of a 100 MW hydropower plant at Pantabangan,
Luzon, transmission lines for the expansion of the Luzon grid and consultants'
services. The generating plant was commissioned in April 1977. The trans-
mission facilities will now be completed late in 1980, more than two years
behind schedule. The revised cost of the project is estimated at US$114.1
million, an increase of about 24% over the original estimate (US$92.0 million).
The cost overrun for the foreign exchange component is US$5.2 million (9%).
The closing date of the loan has been postponed from December 31, 1978 to
June 30, 1981 to allow additional time for completion of the transmission
systems and payment of the retention money.
Loan No. 1460   Seventh Power Project; $58.0 Million Loan of August 9, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: January 6, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Progress on works is slightly behind schedule. The Government
requested the Bank to waive the covenanted rate of return of 8% for 1978.
The 7.3% rate of return achieved by NPC in 1978 was a substantial improvement
compared to 1977. Tariffs in Luzon were increased by 10.5% last November
and another increase of 10% will become effective on May 1, 1979.
Loan No. 1547   Rural Electrification; $60.0 Million Loan of April 4, 1978;
Date of Effectiveness: August 17, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The project is behind schedule due to the initial slow pace of
preparation of tender documents and delays in procurement. Progress on
procurement has been stepped up in the first quarter of 1979 and about
48% of the contracts for materials will have been awarded during April
1979.



- 39 -           ANNEX II
Page 13 of 14 pages
Industrial Sector
Loan No. 998    Industrial Investment and Smallholder Tree-Farming;
$50.0 Million Loan of June 12, 1974; Date of
Effectiveness: September 9, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The proceeds of the loan were relent to the Development Bank of
the Philippines (DBP).  The industrial portion of the Loan ($48 million)
has been used by DBP to finance direct imports for medium and relatively
large industrial projects. DBP is using the balance ($2 million) to finance
about 1,300 smallholders in a pilot tree-farming project in Mindanao.
Loan No. 1052   Private Development Corporation of the Philippines;
$30 Million Loan of November 12, 1974; Date of
Effectiveness: February 7, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979
The proceeds of the loan are on-lent by PDCP to financially and
economically viable industrial subprojects. After some slowdown in commit-
ments and disbursements experienced in 1976 and 1977 the loan has now been
fully committed.   Overall progress is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1120   Small and Medium Industries Development; $30.0 Million
Loan of June 5, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: August 20,
1975; Closing Date: August 31, 1979
The DBP portion ($15 million) and IGLF ($12 million) portions of
the loan have been fully disbursed. After a slow start, commitment and
disbursements of funds under the Industrial Guarantee and Loan Fund
accelerated in late 1977. However, the Rural Industrial Cooperative Program
($2.3 million) which is being implemented by the National Electrification
Administration is facing management and staffing problems because of its
experimental nature. Therefore, disbursements on this component have been
slow. The Small Business Advisory Centers program ($0.7 million) of the
Ministry of Industry has been implemented and is working satisfactorily.
Overall progress of the project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1190   Industrial Investment; S75.0 Million Loan of
January 28, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: April 6, 1976;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The proceeds of the loan are relent by the Development Bank of the
Philippines for subloans to finance the foreign exchange components of medium
and relatively large industrial projects. The Executive Directors approved
a proposal to reallocate $25 million of the funds for small and nedium in-
dustries on February 25, 1977, and an amen;lnent to the Loan Agreement to th'is
effect was signed on March 16, 1977. Commitments of funds, which were ini-
tially much slower than expected due to a slowdown of investment in the in-
dustrial sector as a whole, improved in 1978.  As of February 28, 1979, the
allocation of $50 million for medium- and large-scale industry had been fully



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 14 of 14 pages
committed. In addition, $17.7 million had been disbursed against the allocation
for small- and medium-scale industries.
Loan No. 1514   Private Development Corporation of the Philippines (PDCP);
$30 M4illion Loan of February 9, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:
June 23, 1978; Closing Date: March 31, 1982
This loan is being relent by PDCP for financing the direct and
indirect foreign exchange component of capital goods and services for
productive enterprises. As of February 28, 1979 commitments under the
loan amounted to $6.5 million. The project progress is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1555   Philippine Investments Systems Organization (PISO); $15 Million
Loan of May 8, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: May 12, 1978
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Proceeds of the loan are relent by PISO for financing the foreign
exchange component of capital goods and services for eligible productive
enterprises in the Philippine private sector. As of February 28, 1979,
commitments for subloans totalling US$13.5 million had been made. Since the
pace of commitment is much faster than anticipated during loan appraisal, the
loan is expected to be fully committed by early 1979. Overall progress of
the project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1572   Third Industrial Investment Credit Project through the
Development Bank of the Philippines; $80 Million Loan of
June 6, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: September 15, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The proceeds of the loan are relent by DBP for financing the direct
and indirect foreign exchange componcnt of imported as well as locally procured
capital goods and services for eligible productive industrial enterprises in
the Philippines. Of the total loan, $50 million is allocated for large scale
industries, $29.7 million for small and medium-scale industries and $0.3 mil-
lion for establishment of an institute for training executives and staff of
smaller development financing institutions. Commitments for subprojects under
the large industry component amounted to $9.4 million as of February 28, 1979.
In addition, as of the same date the small and medium industry component had
been disbursed to the extent of $1.6 million. The overall progress of the
project is satisfactory.
Population
Loan No. 1035   Population; $25.0 Million Loan of July 31, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: November 13, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
Implementation of the project continues satisfactorily. As of
January, 1979, 15 of the 219 project facilities had yet to be started, partly
due to political problems in two regions. Contractors had completed 80% of
all construction work. Management problems within the Commission on Popula-
tion (POPCOM) are being addressed through agreements which have been reached
on organizational reform under a second population project scheduled for Board
presentation on June 5, 1979.



- 41 -                            ANNEX III
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
THE SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
A. Time taken to prepare project: about three months
B. The agencies that prepared
the project                     Central Bank, Ministry of Industry
C. Date of the first presenta-
tion to the Bank and date
of the first Bank mission
to consider the project        May-June 1978
D. Date of departure of
appraisal mission            : November 1978
E. Date of completion of
negotiations                    April 25, 1979
F. Planned date of effectiveness: September 1979
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III - Special Conditions
1.        Assurances were obtained during negotiations that:
(a) The Government would adopt the new policy statement for the Indus-
trial Guarantee and Loan Fund (IGLF) which inter alia stipulates
that: (i) Medium-scale industries would be included in the IGLF
program and the ceiling of IGLF's financing would be accordingly
raised from P 500,000 to P 2.5 million; and (b) IGLF's effective
interest rate for the ultimate end-users would be raised from 13.2%
to 14.7% (including a service charge of 1%) for medium-scale
industry. The spread allowed to the intermediary financial institu-
tions would be 8% and 6% on small- and medium-scale industry loans
respectively. The adoption of the policy statement by the Govern-
ment and IGLF's Board would be a condition of effectiveness of the
proposed loan (para. 50).



- 42 -                           ANNEX III
Page 2
(b) IGLF would, at the request of the Bank, submit a periodic summary
of loans approved, and copies of appraisal reports on loans above
P 500,000 (para. 47).
(c) The Central Bank would strengthen the IGLF unit in its Department of
Loans and Credits by reorganizing it, in consultation with the
Bank, and adequately staffing it to ensure the efficient operation
of the IGLF Program (paras. 54 and 55).
(d) IGLF would prepare a comprehensive policy and administrative manual
for the guidance of its own staff and that of the financial insti-
tutions (para. 50).
2.        Informal understandings have also been reached that:
(a) IGLF's Review Committee would delegate further authority to the
Chief Executive Officer of IGLF to handle routine matters (para. 54);
(b) appraisals of subloans over P 1.5 million would include the
calculation of Economic and Financial Rates of Return (para. 56);
(c) IGLF would introduce a program to review the portfolio of parti-
cipating financial institutions (para. 62);
(d) the administrative fee charged by the Central Bank would not exceed
the present rate of 1% of the highest outstanding balance of
special time deposits and guarantees in the preceding year without
prior consultation with the Bank (para. 65); and
(e) at least 80% of the IGLF component of the proposed loan would be used
for financing small industries and labor-intensive medium industries
with a cost per job not exceeding $4,400 or with fixed assets
at the time of loan application not exceeding $250,000 (para. 46).



