Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 18433-CHA
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$71 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FORA
CONTAINER TRANSPORT PROJECT
FEBRUARY 16, 1999
Transport Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 1998)
Currency Unit  =   Yuan
Yuan 1.00      =   US$0.12
US$            =   Yuan 8.3
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS       -  Country Assistance Strategy          NCB       -  National Competitive Bidding
CGA       -  Customs General Administration       PFB       -  Provincial Finance Bureau
CPG       -  Central Procurement Group            PHRD      -  Population and Human Resources
Department
CPMO      -  Central Project Management Office    PIP       -  Project Implementation Plan
COSCO    -  China Ocean Shipping Company          PPLG      -  Provincial Project Leading Group
EDI       -  Electronic Data Interchange          PPMO    -  Provincial Project Management
Office
EIR       -  Equipment Interchange & Receipt      PSB       -  Public Security Bureau
ERR       -  Economic Rate of Return              QCBS    -  Quality and Cost based Selection
IAAS      -  Internationally Acceptable Accounting  RMC     -  Bank's Resident Mission in China
standards
ICB       -  International Competitive Bidding    SA        -  Special Account
ICD       -  Inland Container Depot               SDPC      -  State Development Planning
Commission
IBRD      -  International Bank for Reconstruction  SEA     -  Sectoral Environmental
and Development                                   Assessment
IDA       -  International Development Agency     SETC      -  State Economic and Trade
Commission
ISO       -  International Standards Organization  SFB      -  Selection under Fixed Budget
ITC       -  International Tendering Company      Sinotras  -  China National Foreign Trade
Transportation Group
JV        -  Joint Venture                        SOE       -  State Owned Enterprise
MFB       -  Municipal Finance Bureau             S02       -  Sulphur dioxide
MIS       -  Management Information Systems       TA        -  Technical Assistance
MPLG      -  Municipal Project Leading Group      TEU       -  Twenty-foot Equivalent Unit
MOC       -  Ministry of Communications           THCC      -  Tianjin Harbor Container company
MOF       -  Ministry of Finance                  TPA       -  Tianjin Port Authority
MOR       -  Ministry of Railways                 TOR          Terms of Reference
Vice President:            Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director:          Yukon Huang
Sector Manager:            Jitendra N. Bajpai
Task Team Leader:           Shunso Tsukada



China: Container Transport Project                                                                                              Project Appraisal Document
CONTENTS
Page No.
Introduction ..........2
A. Project Development Objective                                                                                 ..3
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators                                                               .3
B. Strategic Context                                                                                 ..3
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project                                                                .3
2. Main sector issues and Govenmment strategy                                                                   .3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                                                            .4
C. Project Description Summary                                                                                   .7
1. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                                                            .7
2. Project components                                                                       .9
3. Benefits and target population                                                                   .9
4. 1 nstitutional and implementation arrangements                                                                ..9
D. Project Rationale .12
1.  Project alternatives considered  and  reasons for rejection  ......................                                   .............................  12
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ......... .....   13
3.  Lessons learned  and  reflected  in proposed  project design   ....................                                    .............................  13
4.  Indications of borrower commitment and  ownership   ................................                                   ...........................  14
5.  Value added  of Bank support in this project  ........................................................................                              14
E. Summary Project Analysis .14
1.  Economic  ..........................................................................                                                                14
2.  Financial  ...........................................................................                                                              15
3.  Technical  ..........................................................................                                                               15
4.  Institutional ..........................................................................                                                            15
5.  Social  ..........................................................................                                                                  16
6.  Environmental assessment  ........................                                   ..................................................              16
7.  Participatory  approach  ..........................................................................                                                 17
F. Sustainability and Risks .17
1. Sustainability .17
2. Critical risks .18
3. Possible controversial aspects .18
G. Main Loan Conditions .18
1. Conditions for project effectiveness .18
2.  Conditions for other  ....................................................................                                                           18



China: Container Transport Project                                      Project Appraisal Document
Page No.
H. Readiness for Implementation ......................    .............................................. 19
I. Compliance with Bank Policies ....................................................................  20
Annexes
Annex 1:  Project Design Summary ..................................................................  21
Annex 2:  Project Description .................................................................  22
Annex 3:  Estimated Project Costs .................................................................  24
Annex 4:  Cost Benefit Analysis Summary .................... .............................................  25
Annex 5:  Financial Analysis .................................................................  32
Annex 6:  Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements .................................................................  61
Table A:  Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements      ..65
Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements        ..66
Table B:  Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review   .       .67
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds          ..68
Annex 7: Project Processing Budget and Schedule .69
Annex 8: Documents in Project File .70
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits .71
Annex 10: China at a Glance .74
Additional Annexes
Annex 11: Action Plan for Facilitating Inland Movement of Seaborne Containers .76
Annex 12: Selection Process and Eligibility Criteria for ICSs .77
Annex 13  Framework for the Lending to Tianjin Port Authority .78
Annex 14: Description of the Technical Assistance (TA) .79
Annex 15: Evaluation of Project Financial Management System .82
Annex 16: Procurement Plan for Goods .86
Annex 17: Procurment Plan for Civil Works NCB .88
Annex 18: Main Features of Individual Project ICDs .89
Annex 19: Performance Monitoring Indicators .91
Charts
Chart 1: Organizational Chart .92
Chart 2: llustrative Map of Two Pilot Corridors in China



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page 1
China: Container Transport Project
China
Container Transport Project
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Region
Transport Sector Unit
Date: January 25, 1999                      Task Team Leader:         Shunso Tsukada
Country Director: Yukon Huang                Sector Manager:           Jitendra N. Bajpai
Project ID: CN-PE-3653   Sector: Transportation    Program Objective Category:  Environmentally Sustainable
Development
Lending Instrument: SIL                      Program of Targeted Intervention:      Yes   [ X]  No
Project Financing Data                [X] Loan      [ Credit    [] Guarantee        [ Other
[Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m/SDRm): US$84 million
Proposed terms:                         []   Multicurrency    [X]  Single currency, specify US$
Grace period (years):      5      [    Standard        [   Fixed            l X] LIBOR-
Variable                                  based
Years to maturity:     20
Commitment fee:    0.75 %
Front-end fee      1%
Financing plan (US$m):                                  Local           Foreign          Total
Source
Local govemments                                     10               10              20
Cofinanciers
IBRD                                                                  71              71
Project enterprises                                  44               13              68
Other (specify)                                       5                6              11
Total                59       |     100              159
Borrower:             People's Republic of China
Guarantor:            Not applicable
Responsible agency(ies): Tianjin Municipality, Hebei Province, Zhejiang Province, Inner Mongolia Autonomous
Govemment
Estimated disbursements (Bank FYNUS$M):    1999      2000       2001      2002      2003     2004
Annual                21.1      41.3       8.0       0.4        0.2      0.1
Cumulative            21.1      62.4      70.3      70.7       70.9    71.0
Financing available without guarantee?:            [X]   Yes           [ ]    No
If yes, estimated cost or maturity: Interest 9 %; and terms: less than 1 year
Project implementation period: 5 years
Expected effectiveness date:  06/18/1999
Expected closing date:    06/30/2005



Project Appraisal Document                                                          Page 2
China: Container Transport Project
Introduction
China's foreign trade has more than doubled in the last five years from US$109
billion in 1991 to US$274 billion in 1996 with associated changes in commodity
mix from low value to high value cargo. However, this growth has been regionally
unbalanced. Coastal regions have grown rapidly, while those in the interior have
fallen progressively behind in export and import activities. Interior provinces
account for 63 percent of population, but they account for only 17 percent of
foreign trade. This inequality in foreign trade between interior and coastal regions
has aggravated existing regional income disparities. Unless transport links
connecting inland regions to coastal regions are improved, regional disparities are
likely to grow further in the future.
Containers offer a fast, safe and cost effective means of transportation in exporting
and importing commodities; they are easily transferred from one mode of transport
to another; they enable operators to offer door-to-door, land-sea through services,
with predictable delivery times; and they reduce pilferage en route. For these
reasons, world-wide, 80 percent of general cargo, measured in terms of value, and
50 percent in terms of weight, now move by containers. Thus, they effectively
shrink economic distances between coastal ports and inland production centers,
and can stimulate import and export industries in the hinterland. Many companies
in developed countries are now unwilling to place orders with factories located in
areas where there are no container services..
Over the last decade, China's international container shipping has grown rapidly
with port throughput rising from 2.2 million TEUs in 1991 to 8.1 million in 1996
(See Annex 17 for overall container traffic in China). Still, most of the growth has
been confined to the coastal provinces; only 24 percent of seaborne containers
(which are mostly owned and handled by Cosco and Sinotrans) travel beyond port
cities). Indeed, most are stripped in ports and their cargoes are carried in break-
bulk to inland destinations. As a result, the benefits of container transport, as a
means for door-to door or dock-to-dock transport, have yet to be realized in these
localities.
Recognizing the critical importance of developing an inland distribution system for
seaborne containers, the Chinese Government and the Bank jointly undertook a
sector study of transport logistics in 1994. This joint effort resulted in the
production of the sector study, "Container Transport Services and Trade" (Gray
Cover Report No. 15303-CHA, October 1996). This project responds to the study's
principal recommendation to initiate a pilot project to develop intermodal container
links along selected corridors between gateway ports and inland destinations.



Project Appraisal Document                                                          Page 3
China: Container Transport Project
A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):.
The project is aimed at facilitating inland penetration of seabome containers from gateway ports
to inland cities, thus contributing to reducing economic disparities between coastal and inland areas.
Its developmental impact would be measured by four performance monitoring indicators: (i) the
value of imports and exports to and from project cities; (ii) the number of containers handled at project
inland container depots (ICDs) located at the ends of the pilot corridors; (iii) the number of containers
handled at Tianjin Harbor Container Company (THCC); and (iv) number of boxes per vessel hour at
THCC; and (v) average container cycle time between gateway ports and selected ICDs.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see
Annex 1): CAS document number: R98-107 Date of latest CAS discussion: 05/28/98
A major objective of the CAS is to help alleviate infrastructure bottlenecks. This objective would
be realized by increasing the productivity of existing infrastructure through: (i) facilitating transshipment
between different modes of transport; (ii) improving service quality (less cargo damage and pilferage en
route) by using containers; and (iii) reducing excessive concentration of container handling activities at
port areas by moving them to less congested inland locations.
The project would provide inland provinces with better access to seaports. This is in line with the
Chinese Government's policy to alleviate the regional disparity between coastal and interior regions. The
CAS has also stressed the importance of "assisting local governments to develop income generating
programs in lagging provinces".
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
A sector study carried out jointly by the State Economic and Trade Commission (SETC) and the
Bank identified six major impediments to the efficient inland distribution of seaborne containers.
(a) Uncoordinated Government responsibilities. Govemment agencies are structured along
modal lines. Many deal with intermodal issues solely from their own perspective, passing laws and
regulations without coordinating with the others. The result is an array of overlapping jurisdictions and
fragmented legal structures. Compounding this problem is the government agencies' involvement in
intermodal operations either in their own right or through their affiliate enterprises. Although efforts have
been made to separate the regulatory and operational functions, quasi-collusive relationships between
the state and enterprises still persist.
(b) Lack of effective competition in intermodal markets. Intermodal service in China has been
dominated by two state owned enterprises (SOEs), Sinotrans and Cosco groups. Although this
dominance has been declining in the coastal areas, these two giant operators still enjoy more than three
fourths of the market share in inland market, largely due to their nation-wide service network. For
instance, Sinotrans has 56 subsidiaries, covering capital cities of all provinces and major port/air port
cities, and 45 domestic joint ventures based in major load centers in China. In addition, these two
operators have door-to-door service capability by offering combined services of freight forwarding,
shipping agency and trucking services, allowing them to continually dominate the inland distribution
markets. This dominance has, however, resulted in costly and less user oriented service provision.



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page 4
China: Container Transport Project
(c) tack of container handling facilities and equipment at inland locations. The lack of inland
container handling facilities has made container transport to and from inland points costly. This does not
allow containers to be kept at inland locations. In addition, the limited availability of customs clearance
function does not permit container cargoes to be carried in bond, thus necessitating containers to be
inspected again at seaports. Compounding this problem is the limited availability of empty containers
and container trucks. Thus, shippers in these cities have to wait for empty containers and container
trucks to be relocated from the coast to the interior, which adds to the time and cost.
(d) Inadequate transport links leading to inland cities to ports. The shortage of transport
capacity is a long-standing problem in China's transport sector. The lack of rail capacity has limited
shippers' access to cost-effective long-distance service, the most critical element for moving cargo to
inland destinations. Trucking service is also poor due to underdeveloped truck manufacturing
technologies and the limited highway network system.
(e) Lack of user orientation of port container terminals: Container terminals in Chinese ports
have been traditionally operated by port authorities or their affiliate state-owned enterprises (SOEs), but
recently an increasing number of ports have decided to get the private sector participate in terminal
development and operation. These cases are found in Shanghai, Yantian, Xiamen and Shekou, but a
common problem is that this has created another monopoly by the private sector operator, bringing little
benefit to shippers (e.g. a sharp hike in container handling charges). The container operations at Tianjin
Port are currently carried out by two SOE terminal operators. However, no genuine competition exists
among them since both are 100% owned by Tianjin Port Authority (TPA), which has resulted in lack of
user orientation. In addition, a recent Bank team's review of TPA's container operations has revealed
relative low productivity of its container handling companies. This is due to several factors including the
aged container handling equipment and the lack of practices of setting a cut-off time in accepting
containers at port container yard
(f) Onerous cross-border inspections. Although cross-border inspections have improved since
the mid-1980s, they still delay containers at points of entry. Repeated inspections by different agencies
often cause frustration to exporters and importers. The inconsistent application of regulations have
confused foreign shippers and delays the process. Cumbersome customs procedures for bonded transit
to inland destinations discourage importers to clear their cargo at inland locations, perpetuating the
practice of opening containers for customs clearance both at port areas and again at inland destinations
for discharging containers.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
1) The project addresses the above sector issues in such a manner as described below.
(a) Closer coordination among relevant agencies and the establishment of arm's length
relationships between the Government and intermodal operators: Responding to the recommendation of
the sector study, the Chinese Government has established a vice-ministerial level group in January
1996 to improve coordination among different agencies with regard to policy issues associated with
container transport and trade facilitation. In addition, the project would establish a users' group in which
shipping lines, freight forwarders and govemment officials would meet to regularly discuss issues
associated with intermodal operations. This would help resolve problems encountered. The project also
requires the conversion of state- or collectively- owned enterprises into limited liability or stock
companies so as to establish an arm's length relationship between regulatory agencies and inland
container depot (ICD) operators.
(b) Introduction of effective competition: The project will address this issue by enabling project
ICDs to offer altemative service options to inland exporters or importers in inland distribution markets
that has been dominated by Sinotrans and its affiliate enterprises. The project is also designed to bring
in intra-port competition between two SOE terminal operators in Tianjin Port by establishing a level
playing field for their activities.



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page 5
China: Container Transport Project
(c) Development of common-user ICDs at inland locations. The project would assist qualified
enterprises to develop [CDs with custom clearance functions and to accept containers of all shipping
lines. This would enable inland shippers to get their cargo transported to and from seaports in a safer
and more cost effective manner.
(d) Capacity expansion of transport infrastructure. Since this capacity issue has been and is
being addressed by the other Bank projects in the transport sector, this project would not directly deal with
this issue. It would, however, address the institutional issue by eliminating policy restrictions which
impede smooth movement of cargoes along the existing infrastructure (such as elimination of
miscellaneous charges often levied to highway container tractor trailers en route).
(e) Enhancement of berth productivity: In order to increase berth productivity, the project would
provide THCC with funds for upgrading the container handling facilities. The project would also address
this issue by initiating a port efficiency enhancement study with the aim of reforming the current
operational practices which lower productivity.
(f) Streamlining of cross-border inspections: The project will help streamline cross-border
inspections by initiating a pilot program to reduce the percentage of sample checking for customs
clearance. In addition, CGA has decided to undertake pilot programs to simplify customs procedures for
bonded transit of seaborne containers to inland destinations (for three sections from Tianjin to Beijing,
from Dalian to Harbin, and from Yantian to Changsha)."
2) Strategic Choices: Three issues required conscious decision in designing the project structure:
(a) experimental approach; (b) private versus public sector development; and (c) container haulage
services as a part of ICD operations:
(a) Experimental approach: Developing an efficient inland distribution system requires broad
based policy reforms of the existing intermodal arrangements, together with the establishment of new
operational systems. Many of these reforms and system development should be tested before the
changes are adopted on a nation-wide basis. In this context, the Chinese Government and the Bank
have agreed to launch a pilot project to experiment with the principal reform elements. Two pilot
corridors were selected based on several selection criteria (see Section 8 for details, and Chart 2 for the
location of the corridors). The major consideration in selecting pilot corridors were: (i) the pilot corridors
should not be chosen from those which could arouse a strong interest among the private sectors
investors (such as the Yangzhe River corridor and the Hong Kong-Wuhan-Zhengzhou-Beijing corridor),
but at the same time: (ii) the pilot corridors should be financially and economically viable so as to
demonstrate the commercial viability of intermodal operations in inland markets, and thus trigger the
future investments by the private sector. There were not many corridors which met these two conflicting
requirements, but two corridors, one extending from Tianjin Port through Hebei Provinces to Inner
Mongolia Province, and the other, from Shanghai Port through Zhejiang Province to Jiangxi Province
(Jiangxi Province later decided to withdraw its application for borrowing from the Bank, but still remain
as a beneficiary of the technical assistance program?%), meet these criteria.
(b) Private versus public sector provision of services: The possibility of the private sector
involvement in the ICD operators was considered during the project design stage. However, it was
concluded that the private sector approach is not effective in realizing the project objective at this stage of
the development of the two pilot corridors. The main reasons are as follows:
This CGA's pilot program was originally intended to be a part of the policy actions, but it was put out side of the
project since it would be carried out regardless the progress of the proposed project.
2  Jiangxi Province would participate in TA activities without borrowing the money from the Bank.



Project Appraisal Document                                                          Page 6
China: Container Transport Project
*  Because of the commercially oriented nature of the private sector, their investment would
most likely be concentrated on coastal areas. This would defeat the project objective of
stimulating economic development of inland provinces.
*  Inland distribution of seabome containers is still at a very early stage of development in
China. At this stage, emphasis should be placed on the development of proper institutional
and policy framework. This would require extensive reform efforts by various line ministries,
along with their strong institutional support to the project (e.g. the establishment of customs
office in the project ICDs). Policy and institutional reforms could not be realized by the private
sector investments.
*  Shipping lines or intermodal operators are interested in ICDs to handle their own containers,
but not common user type facilities serving all shipping lines as envisaged in this project.
*  Those shipping lines and intermodal operators are interested in strategically located inland
load centers with a large traffic potential such as Wuhan, but not in those small or medium
size cities selected for this project for developmental purposes.
*  Given the current volume of container traffic, container handling businesses in the project
cities are still risky and entail substantial uncertainties.
*  As to the port container terminal, Tianjin Port has been cautious in introducing the private
sector in its development and operation. Extensive discussion with Port Authority indicated
that the immediate and full fledged privatization of the container terminal operation is not a
realistic nor viable approach. The introduction of the intra-port competition between two
terminal operators, combined with the introduction of the private sector in one of the terminal
operators, would present a gradual but more realistic solution towards the eventual goal of
providing user oriented and cost effective container services.
(c) Container haulage services as a part of ICD operations: SETC has requested the Bank to
finance tractor trailers as an integral part of the ICD operations. In its view, the provision of container
haulage services is an essential element of service operations of ICDs as required by design standards
issued in 1990 by the State Technology Supervision Bureau (GBIT 12419-90). Because of the
commercially oriented nature of the trucking services, the team has reserved its response until the
following two questions being answered: (i) is there any justifiable reason for lCD to provide container
trucking as an essential part of the ICD operations? and (ii) if yes, is there any other financing institution
beside the Bank?
* As to the first question, the team found two justifiable reasons for an ICD to provide trucking
services as a part of its ICD operations. The first reason is the need for the project ICDs to
provide competitive services over those currently provided by large state owned freight
forwarding services which dominate internmodal operations in China, particularly inland
operations. Sinotrans and Cosco have provided integrated services combining container
handling and trucking together, which has set a norm of intermodal services in China. In order
for project ICDs to effectively compete with those two dominant freight forwarders, lCD
operators should be able to provide comparable services including container trucking
services.



Project Appraisal Document                                                          Page 7
China: Container Transport Project
The second reason relates to a unique feature of container traffic pattern In China, outgoing
traffic (export) far exceeds inbound traffic (import) (typically 2/3 for export and 1/3 for import
traffic). Given the limited availability of container trucks at inland location, inland shippers
have to get tractor trailers relocated from the coastal regions to inland for exporting their
cargo via sea-ports. If locally based ICDs have storage facilities of empty containers, together
with haulage services, the needs of relocating empty containers would significantly be
reduced.
Regarding the second question, the team found that the type of ICDs envisaged in the
proposed project would have virtually no chance to get loan from commercial banks.
Interviews conducted with commercial banks revealed that, given a long queue of customers
in front of bank offices, commercial banks do not have any incentive to make loans to small
companies launching into new businesses. Loan officers prefer dealing with a large and high
visibility company with a good prospect of generating a large amount of revenue which is
likely to be deposited in his bank. Furthermore, commercial banks in China are very reluctant
to finance longer term loans given the higher risks associated with it. They usually finance
only working capital with the less-than-one-year payback period. The team also examined the
possibility of leasing, but it was found that leasing companies are even less accessible for
those companies such as project ICDs. Because of difficulty in enforcing rights and
obligations of the lessors, leasing companies are extremely selective in choosing lessees. A
joint venture leasing company which the team interviewed during the mission stated that it
would finance only top 500 companies with high credit worthiness. These findings are
indicating that the Bank and other international financing or bilateral aide agencies would be
the only possible choice for the project ICDs.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project
Policy framework. The successful implementation of the project requires the removal of policy
impediments to the efficient container processing. An operational feasibility survey carried out by SETC
in February 1997 identified a number of impediments existing along the two pilot corridors including
those listed in the table below. Several actions have been taken to remove these impediments, still
some more need to be taken as illustrated in the table below. For those actions to be taken in the future,
action plans were prepared to ensure their implementation (See Annex 11).



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page 8
China: Container Transport Project
Institutional Impediments     Actions already taken       Action to be taken /a
under the project
Port      There is no genuine                                       * Introduce an intra-port
Container  competition between two SOE                                competition between two
Terminals  terminal operators at Tianjin                              SOE terminal operators
Port.                                                     through private sector
participation.
Berth productivity is relatively                        * Initiate a study for
low due to a number of factors,                           enhancing berth utilization
both physical and operational,                            and user orientation
including longer idle time. at                            [TPA].
berths.
Line-Haul  %M Rail tariffs for wagon load  * Rail container tariffs were
(Rail)    cargoes are comparatively low,   readjusted to narrow the gap
resulting in slow shift from  between container and wagon
wagon load to container      load tariffs ('97) [MOR].
transport.
;       45 days advance booking was  * Advance booking
required for securing rail wagons. requirement was reduced to
less than I day ('96) [MORI.
Line-Haul   - Use of tractor trailers were not  * A joint regulation by
(Roads)   allowed separated.            SETC/MOC/PSB was issued
to allow separate registration
('96) [MOR].
. ISO container transport was    * A new Highway Law      * Promulgate a regulation
subjected to additional permits   declassified ISO containers  for implementing this
and extra charges because they  from being classified as heavy   policy [MOC].
are regarded as heavy cargoes   cargoes ('97) [MOC].
Inland      Container handling facilities                            * Make customs
Container  with dry port functions are                                clearance available at
Depots   lacking at inland cities.                                   project ICDs
[Municipalities/Provincial
Gateway Offices].
Lack of clear corporate    * Convert the project ICDs into   * Develop plans for
governance for the ICD       limited liability companies or  private sector participation
operations                   stock companies in           for those ICDs with good
accordance with the new      financial performance
Company Law ('98). (SETC)    (ICDs).
Customs   _ Frequency of sampling check                               * Initiate a pilot program at
& Other   for customs clearance is higher                            Hangzhou for lowering the
Inspection  than international standards.                             sampling % from 10% to
5% [PPMO].
N.B. Agency in [ is an agency responsible for its implementation.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                 Page 9
China: Container Transport Project
2. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Within the above policy framework, the project is structured to include two investment components.
Cost Incl.   % of    Bank-     % of
Components                   Category   Contingen    Total  financing    Bank-
cies             (US$M)  financing
(US$M)
A. Develop common-user ICDs with customs   Physical &      85       54%       33       47%
clearance function in two pilot corrdors.  Institutional-
Funds would be provided to qualified ICDs for:   building
(i) the construction of ICD facilities; (ii) the
purchase of container handling equipment,
container trucks and EDIIMIS; and (iii) technical
assistance (TA) for enhancing operational and
managerial capability.
B. Upgrade container handling capacity at  Physical &     73       46%       37        53%
Tianjin Port. Fund would be provided to Tianjin  Institutional-
Port Authority for: (i) the purchase of gantry  building
cranes and other container handling equipment;
and (ii) TA for enhancing berth productivity and
for establishing 'a level playing field" for the
intra-port competition between two terminal
operators.
Total      159      100        71       100
Note: The above are rounded-up figures.
3. Benefits and target population:
The primary beneficiaries of the project would be export and import industries in project
provinces, including land-locked provinces such as Inner Mongolia. If the project is successfully
implemented, those beneficiaries would have better and more reliable access to foreign markets, which
would, in turn, result in enhancing the international competitiveness of exports from these provinces.
Establishment of intermodal links to seaports would also increase the attractiveness of these provinces
as potential sites for foreign direct investments.
Another group of beneficiaries would be foreign shipping lines and freight forwarders. Currently,
most of these operators do not offer door-to-door transport services to inland load centers. The envisaged
policy reforms would contribute to the creation of a more competitive business environment, which would
eventually benefit shippers, both Chinese and foreign.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Financial arrangements: The Bank would extend the loan to Ministry of Finance (MOF) which
would, in turn, onlend to four provincial governments (Hebei Province, Zhejiang Province, Inner Mongolia
Autonomous Region and Tianjin Municipality), more specifically their provincial finance bureaus (PFBs).
PFBs would further onlend it to municipal finance bureaus (MFBs). MFBs would then onlend the money to
selected project enterprises. The on-lending terms and conditions from MOF to PFBs, from PFBs to
MFBs, and from MFBs to project enterprises, would be the same as the Bank's standard terms and
conditions. Foreign exchange risks would be assumed by project enterprises. The project would be
implemented over the five years, from January 31, 1999 to December 31, 2004. The loan will be closed on
June 30, 2005. During this period, a mid-term review would be held in June, 2001.



Project Appraisal Document                                                         Page 10
China: Container Transport Project
Project management: SETC would be responsible for the overall coordination, and for ensuring
the smooth implementation of the project. It would: (i) formulate project management rules, and guide
provincial govemments based on these rules; (ii) coordinate with central government agencies with regard
to the implementation of policy reforms and project execution; (iii) liaise with the Bank on all aspects of the
project implementation including the organization of project launch workshops; and (iv) supervise and
evaluate the implementation of the project. These SETC's functions would be carried out through Central
Project Management Office (CPMO), established in July 1997 by Government Decree. CPMO is headed
by Deputy Director of Economic Operations Department of SETC with support of two deputies and full-
time or part time staff including procurement experts, an economist, an engineer, a financial specialist and
a EDI specialist.
The arrangements for the project management differs from a ICD component to a port
component. The ICD component would be managed at three levels: central, provincial and
municipal/enterprise levels. At central level, CPMO would be involved in several activities including:
(i) the management of procurement of goods, and provision of necessary guidance to the provincial
govemments with regard to the procurement of civil works; (ii) the management of technical assistance
programs including the procurement of consultancy services and organization of study tours/training; and
(iii) the compilation of progress, financial and audit reports to be submitted to the Bank.
At the provincial level, provincial governments would be involved in project specific activities
including: (i) the administration of Special Accounts; (ii) the approval of withdrawal application of loan
proceeds; (iii) the management of procurement of civil works and participation in the evaluation of
procurement of goods; (iv) the selection of participants for foreign study tours and training in China; and
(v) the compilation of progress, financial and audit reports to be submitted to CPMO. These functions
would be carried out through Provincial Project Leading Groups (PPLGs) and Provincial Project
Management Offices (PPMOs). PPLG is headed by Vice Governor (in Hebei, and Inner Mongolia),
General Secretary of Provincial Government (Zhejiang) or Vice Major (Tianjin Municipality) and typically
consists of representatives of provincial economy and trade commission, planning commission, finance
bureau and communications department. PPMOs is headed, in most cases, by chief of provincial
economic and trade commission and staffed by trained and capable full time and part time staffs.
At the municipal/enterprise level, the sub-projects will be executed by the project enterprises
under the supervision of the municipalities. Municipalities would establish Municipal Project Leading
Groups (MPLGs) headed by vice-mayors of the municipalities and consisting of relevant departments in
the municipalities. MPLGs would also be supported by a limited number of full-time and part time staff.
Major functions of MPLGs include: (i) provision of assistance to enterprises for the mobilization of local
counterpart funds; (ii) securing of the payback from the project enterprises from project enterprises;
(iii) the compilation of progress, financial and audit reports to be submitted to PPMO; and (iv) the
endorsement of withdrawal applications of loan proceeds to be submitted by project enterprises. Under
the supervision of the MPLGs, the project enterprises will implement the sub-project. Their functions
include: (i) the construction of ICD facilities through selected contractors; (ii) the purchase and installation
of equipment through agreed procurement procedures; (iii) the withdrawal of the loan proceeds, (iv) the
management of the project accounts, (v) the preparation of financial statements and securing audit
service; (vi) the implementation of agreed actions; (vii) the preparation of progress reports; and
(ix) maintaining an effective financial management system; and (x) the implementation of environmental
mitigation plans.
The port component would be carried out by TPA. TPA would be responsible for: (i) the
administration of Special Account; (ii) the implementation of procurement under the guidance of CPMO;
(iii) the withdrawals of loan proceeds and the management of the project accounts; (iv) the preparation of
progress, financial and audit reports to be submitted to CPMO; (v) the selection of participants for study
tours/training; (vi) implementation of technical assistance program with coordination with CPMO;
(vii) implementation of policy actions; and (viii) maintaining an effective financial management system.



Project Appraisal Document                                                      Page 11
China: Container Transport Project
Under the supervision of the TPA, THCC would implement: (i) the upgrading of container terminals; (ii) the
installation of equipment; and (iii) the implementation of environmental mitigation plans.
Procurement: Because of the involvement of many executing agencies, SETC has established a
principle of "managing centrally and implementing locally" with regard to the procurement. Under this
principle, CPMO coordinates the whole process of procurement. For goods to be procured under
Intemational Competitive Bidding (ICB), CPMO will engage international tendering companies (ITCs) for
processing documentation. Central Procurement Group (CPG) was established to make a joint decision
by CPMO and provincial governments. CPG will approve bidding documents and evaluation reports. After
its approval, CPMO will send them to the Bank for its review through ITCs. Contracts with suppliers will be
signed by the ITC, and cosigned by project enterprises. For goods procured under National Competitive
Bidding (NCB) and National Shopping procedures, the same arrangements would be applied except for
the use of ITC which is not required for NCB and NS procurement in China.
Since all civil works are small in scale and scattered in many provinces, and thus less likely to
arouse interest of foreign contractors, civil works would be carried out in accordance with the National
Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures. Different from procurement of goods, PPMOs would be
responsible for civil works procurement. PPMOs would engage qualified design institutes for the
preparation of bidding documents. PPMO will send bidding documents to CPMO for its review. CPMO will
then send them to the Bank's Resident Mission in China (RMC) which is authorized to issue no-objection.
After bid opening, PPMOs will prepare evaluation reports, which would again be reviewed and approved
by CPMO and later by RMC. Civil works contracts will be signed by project enterprises. Project
enterprises will engage independent engineers to supervise the construction of ICD facilities.
For services, CPMO will prepare a TA implementation plan by March 15, 1999 which will be
submitted to the Bank for its review. Based on the approved TA implementation plan, CPMO will recruit
consultants in accordance with the methods described in Annex 6.
Procurement methods, model bidding documents to be used and thresholds to be applied are
detailed in Annex 6.
Disbursement: To facilitate disbursements under the project, four separate Special Accounts
would be established in commercial banks satisfactory to the Bank and located in each of four provinces.
These Special Accounts would be accessible by Provincial Finance Bureaus (PFBs). Detailed
procedures would be explained in Annex 6.
Project accounts, audit and reporting: Project enterprises will maintain complete project
accounts, while MFBs and PFBs will keep simpler accounts which record only fund flow. These offices will
be staffed by qualified accounting staff. Accounts and documentation to support the Statement of
Expenditure (SOEs) will be maintained by project enterprises, and readily available for review by visiting
Bank missions. Project accounts at each level would be audited by Local Audit Administrations, and audit
reports will be sent to higher level PMOs. CPMO will compile all audited project accounts and audit
reports, and send them to the Bank. In addition, project enterprises will prepare enterprise financial
statements and get them audited by local Audit Administrations. These audited financial statements would
be submitted to higher PMOs and sent to the CPMO. CPMO will then send them to MOF and the Bank for
their review.
Financial management system: The proposed project would be carried out by two types of
executing agencies: (i) an existing entity-TPA; and (ii) new entities to be established in late 1998-ICD
operators.



Project Appraisal Document                                                       Page 12
China: Container Transport Project
As to the TPA, a Bank's financial expert has assessed its financial management capability in
terms of its staffing, accounting system, the preparation of financial statements, internal control system
and auditing. The financial management system of TPA was found adequate except for the arrangements
for auditing. Although TPA's financial reports have not been audited by an independent auditor to date,
TPA agreed to have its project accounts and corporate financial statements audited by an independent
auditor satisfactory to the Bank. TPA also agreed to submit required progress reports on the financial
status of the TPA to the Bank in accordance with the financial management reporting arrangements
agreed between PRC and the Bank on January 12, 1999.
Regarding the ICD, in consideration of the fact that the project ICDs are new entities, it was
agreed that the project ICDs would: (i) recruit adequate numbers of qualified staff for the financial
management; (ii) maintain adequate intemal control; and (iii) have their project accounts and financial
statements audited by an independent auditor satisfactory to the Bank. As to the accounting standards, it
was further agreed (iv) to use the accounting standards for the stock companies, developed by MOF in
January 1998 which are much closer to internationally acceptable accounting standards (IAAS) than the
previous Chinese standards. To facilitate the adoption of these new standards, the financial expert of
RMC has provided assistance to CPMO in developing Model Financial Statements for ICDs and the
Project Financial Management Manual (both of which was submitted at the end of 1998). Furthermore, in
view of the importance of developing a strong institutional capability for the financial management, CIDA
has agreed to provide extensive training to staff of the project ICDs on the financial management system.
CIDA will also provide ICD operators with computer software for accounting and financial management,
and train the staff of ICDs to get them familiarized with the use of the software.
The results of the assessment was detailed in Annex 15.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project altematives considered and reasons for rejection:
In selecting pilot corridors, SETC applied two selection criteria: (i) linkage with major container
ports with deeply penetrating hinterland; and (ii) difficulty in mobilizing financial resources other than
from the Bank. Four gateway corridors extending from Shanghai, Tianjin, Qingdao, and Guangzhou fulfill
the first selection criteria. These gateway corridors were further examined in light of the second criterion.
The Qingdao corridor was excluded because SETC has already financed its development. The
Guangzhou area was also excluded because of the relative ease with which it attracts foreign
investments.
There were four sub-corridors for the remaining two gateway corridors extending from Shanghai
and Tianjin. Those subcorridors are: (a) Tianjin-Beijing-Hebei-Baotou, (b) Tianjin-Zhengzhou-Wuhan,
(c) Shanghai-Jinan-Wuhan (Yangzhe River subcorridor), and (d) Shanghai-Zhejiang-Nanchang. These
subcorridors were further examined on the basis of two additional criteria formulated by the Bank team:
(iii) whether the corridors could be developed by private-sector foreign investors; and (iv) whether the
corridors in question serve land locked provinces with low income levels. With regard to the third criterion,
the Wuhan-Zhengjou-Tianjin sub-corridor has attracted strong interest from foreign investors (although
still not yet realized) because of its location (Wuhan is often called the Chicago of China). The Yangzhe
River subcorridor is attractive to foreign investors because of numerous industrial activities along the
River. For these reasons, subcorridors (b) and (c) were excluded from the list. The remaining two eligible
subcorridors, (a) and (d), are found consistent with the fourth criterion. Both serve two land locked
provinces, Inner Mongolia Province (15th poorest in terms of per capita income among 30 provinces) and
Jiangxi Provinces (5th poorest among 30 provinces).



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page 13
China: Container Transport Project
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies
(completed, ongoing and planned):
Latest Supervision (Form 590) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Sector issue                   Project          Implementation   Development
Progress        Objective
(IP)           (DO)
Bank-financed:
Development of pilot rail container services  Railways VI         S               S
Commercialization of rail container services  Railways VII        U                U
Promotion of containerization          Three Ports                S                S
Alleviation of port congestion         Tianjin Port               S                S
Alleviation of port congestion         Ningbo & Shanghai          S                S
Port
Intemational Finance Corporation (IFC):
Support of private sector financing of inland  Wuhan Yangluo     N.A.            N.A.
transshipment facilities               Inland Port
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons leamed and reflected in the project design:
  In the past the Bank has undertaken several initiatives in the areas of intermodalism and logistics
management, though few of these have been fully implemented to date. A major problem in
preparing an intermodal transportation project is finding appropriate implementing agencies that can
effectively deal with multi-sectoral projects. Where capable implementing agencies are identified,
they often number more than two. Multiple implementing agencies often result in serious
coordination problems, and require an effective coordinating agency. Leaming from this experience,
the Bank decided to select SETC as the coordinating agency because it has a coordinating mandate
over activities of line agencies and provincial governments.
*  Experience in China operations shows that the reform elements are often delayed in implementation
due to the time taken in developing a consensus within the beneficiary agency and/or among
relevant govemment agencies. The OED report on railway projects (September 1993)
recommended that "loan covenants should be used only if there is a realistic expectation that the
borrowers will comply with them". In view of this experience, the team has encouraged the Chinese
government to implement reforms in an early stage of the project preparation, thus enabling the
Bank to rely less on the legal covenants.
*  An OED report on the port sector (November 1996) urged some caution regarding port privatization. It
stated that "there is no necessary relation between ownership and competition .. privatization of port
assets may lead to monopolies that are difficult to control and likely to cause political dispute." This, in
fact, has happened in the joint venture operations in Shanghai's container terminals. A sudden and
sharp increase of port charges by the joint venture operator has triggered controversies on the need
for private sector involvement in the transport sector, and since then, the Chinese Government has
become more cautious about joint venture operations. Learning from this experience, this project
emphasizes the introduction of intra-port competition. In extending financial assistance to Tianjin Port
Authority as part of the physical component, the Bank has insisted on the introduction of intra-port
competition for container terminal operations.



Project Appraisal Document                                                        Page 14
China: Container Transport Project
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The commitment of all levels of the project entities is very high. This was clearly indicated by the
strong support expressed by the highest level of officials of both central and provincial governments.
CPMO has been successful in mobilizing funds necessary for the project preparation and in securing
necessary support from relevant government agencies.
The sense of ownership is also high. The project was developed out of a sector study, a joint
effort of the Bank and the Chinese Govemment. Its recommendations have incorporated the views of the
Chinese Government. Upon the completion of the sector study, the Chinese Government established a
vice ministerial level interagency group with the participation of relevant agencies, and started discussing
the implementation of the recommendations. Several actions have already been taken as a decision of'
this interagency group (e.g. introduction of a separate tractor trailer registration system). This indicates
their strong sense of ownership on the recommendations made by the study including the initiation of the
proposed project.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project
The Bank could uniquely contribute to establishing an efficient intermodal system in China by
supporting:
-  Policy reform: Developing an efficient intermodal transport system calls not only for physical
investments but also for the removal of policy and institutional impediments. The Bank has
extensive experience in advancing institutional and policy reforms. The Bank's intervention has
been valued highly by the Chinese Government.
-  Transfer of technologies: China's technologies and operational systems that support intermodal
transport lag behind those of OECD countries. As China integrates its trade into the world market, the
use of internationally compatible technologies and systems is increasingly important. The Bank would
provide China with access to "best" management and operational practices used in advanced
economies.
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
Economic evaluation methodology:
[ x ] Cost benefit         [ ] Cost effectiveness     []Other [specify]
Cost benefit analysis      NPV U$114.5 million        ERR   39.4%
The Tianjin port and ICD components of the project would have economic rates of return (ERRs)
of 43.8% and 32.7% respectively, with a weighted average of 39.4%. The corresponding NPV values
(using a discount rate of 12 percent) were U$75.4 million, and U$39.1 million.
For the ICD components, the NPV of the project was found to remain positive for all ICDs. The
best estimate ERRs for the individual ICDs range from a minimum of 13% to a maximum of over 75%.
The ICD with this exceptionally high value, makes use of existing land and assets that have no alternative
economic use, and so has a lower cost per unit of production than the others. For the others, there is a
positive correlation with the expected throughput of containers, the distance from the port and the balance
of containerized cargo flows.



Project Appraisal Document                                                         Page 15
China: Container Transport Project
For Tianjin port, the economic feasibility was evaluated with respect of rates of growth of
international trade container crane productivity and hours available for use, and macroeconomics factors
including exchange rates and the costs of imported equipment. Only in some combinations of pessimistic
assumptions did the ERR fall below the threshold value, and the probability weighted value was an
acceptable 37.0%. However, the rate of return is very sensitive to the complementary reduction in berth
idle time which will provide increasing berth throughput. An average reduction of 4% per annum is
assumed. If this reduction is not realized, then the rate of return would be reduced to 14%%.
2. Financial (see Annex 5): NPV=US$55.9 million, and FIRR = 23.2 %
For ICD components, the financial rate of return is 22.8%, and its NPV, US$20.6 million. These
rates are based on the existing provincial tariff structure and projected demand assuming that the ICDs
and their trucking fleets have a declining share of the market over the life of the project. Six of the ICDs do
not generate sufficient revenues from the container handling operations to produce a positive rate of
return because of the low level of charges. However, when combined with the forwarding and trucking
operations, they produce suitable retums on investment.
For Tianjin Port, the financial rate of return was 23.5%, and its NPV, US$35.5 million. This rate is
based on the current revenue and cost structure . The costs were projected from the previous two years
according to whether the costs were fixed and variable. The overhead costs were assumed to decrease at
4% per year. The sensitivity analysis indicates that the rates or return decreased to 13% for the low traffic
forecast and increased to 28% for the high forecast. An increase in capital costs by 25% reduces the rate
by 5% whereas an increase in labor costs by 33% increases the rate by 7% since the project would
reduce overall labor costs. The tariff is assumed to be increased every three years by the cumulative rate
of inflation. If the increase is 2% less per annum, the rate of return decreases by 5%.
3. Technical:
ICDs have been designed in accordance with the technical standards on inland container depots
issued in 1990 by the State Technology Supervision Bureau. A Bank expert in logistics conducted field
visits to all ICDs in February 1998, and found that the project ICDs are located in environmentally and
operationally desirable locations. The expert has also found that the scale of the facilities and the
equipment to be purchased are appropriate. Chinese consulting firms have developed a detailed design.
Tianjin Port Authority is experienced in designing and preparing Bank-financed projects which
have been satisfactorily implemented. Proposed technical design of the port component was reviewed by
Bank experts during the field visit in March and April 1998 and found that it is based on proven, but state-
of-the-art technologies. Proposed combination of various types of container handling equipment is
considered appropriate given the current configuration of container berths. While TPA is aiming at
substantially increasing the crane productivity (from 55,000 TEUs/crane to 83,000 TEUs/crane) with use
of 9 gantry cranes, it is not too ambitious, considering the performance of other leading container
terminals in Singapore, Hong Kong, Korea and Taiwan (more than 100,000 TEUs/crane). The estimated
cost is appropriate in light of actual costs incurred in similar Bank-financed port projects in China.
4. Institutional:
Executing agencies: The project will be executed by Tianjin Port Authority (TPA) for the port
component, and by ICD operators for the ICD component. TPA has demonstrated its project implementing
capability in two previous Bank funded projects. In order to further enhance berth productivity, a technical
assistance program was agreed to be included. With regard to the lCD component, operators are new
enterprises. Most of their staff who will be recruited from its major equity holders, mostly from trucking
companies, would be experienced with handling cargoes, but not with ISO containers. Thus, extensive



Project Appraisal Document                                                       Page 16
China: Container Transport Project
technical assistance would be provided to ICD operators to enhance their managerial and operational
capability. The Bank would provide TA for: (i) development of business plans and operational manual
training programs; (ii) development of MIS/EDI system; (iii) study tours, both foreign and domestic, for ICD
operators. In addition, CIDA would provide training for: (iv) enhancement of financial management
capability including the purchase of off-the-shelf software for accounting and financial management;
(v) strengthening institutional capability of environmental management of ICDs and port container
terminals; (vi) foreign study tours for officials of participating government agencies, both central and local.
Project management: As already stated in preceding paragraphs, the project would be
coordinated and managed by CPMO under the overall guidance of SETC. CPMO has demonstrated its
strong leadership over central and provincial government agencies in the course of the sector study and
project preparation, and would continue to facilitate the implementation of the proposed project. In order to
strengthen sector specific guidance capability, CPMO has recruited several full time and part time experts
covering key areas such as procurement, economics, financial analyses, engineering, and environment.
In addition, extensive assistance has been, and will continue to be provided by RMC staff in key areas
such as procurement, disbursement and financial management. CPMO has already organized several
"national workshops" inviting leaders and staff of all project entities. At provincial level, PPMOs have
organized similar workshops with participation of leaders and staff of municipalities and project
enterprises. A project launch workshop would be organized in April 1999 following Board approval of the
project.
5. Social:
The Nankai University team reviewed land status at each resettlement site and presented to the
Bank its "Investigation Report of Resettlement". The report indicates that land requirements of the project
were met either through self-owned land or contributions by share holders as their in-kind equity
investments in new ICD companies. The Nankai University team concluded that land acquisition was not
required for this project. There are no encroachers or squatters settled on the specified land. Given the
above, the Bank team has concluded that OD 4.30 does not apply to this project and a resettlement action
plan (RAP) would not be required for this project.
6. Environmental assessment   Environmental Category  ] A  [X] B   [ ] C
The project consists of one port and ICD subcomponents. All ICDs will, in addition to these
services such as cargo distribution, transshipment and warehousing, provide cleaning, sterilizing, repair
and maintenance service for the containers. This cleaning and sterilizing service is expected to generate
wastewater, which will require treatment prior to discharge to the environment. Two investments, in
particular, Tianjin and Baotou are expected to handle some hazardous and dangerous cargo, which will
require careful handling and management.
A Sectoral Environmental Assessment (SEA) was launched in September 1997 to review the
broader aspects of the environmental issues at each terminal and management and training needs and to
develop site specific measures to minimize the impact of the development on the environment. The SEA
shows that most ICDs are located in industrial areas on the periphery of cities, and have good
transportation connections.
The SEA shows that at some locations, noise and wastewater pollution is a significant issue.
Ambient air quality at most locations meets the regulatory requirements, however it may exceed the
norms at certain times of the year. Some locations exhibit higher levels of SOx and TSP depending on the
local fuel use and the presence of other industries. At Qinhuangdao, Tangshan, and Xiaoshan, residential



Project Appraisal Document                                                       Page 17
China: Container Transport Project
areas are located some 30m to 70m away from the ICDs. These locations may require some form of noise
abatement measures. At most ICDs, the wastewater will be pre-treated for oil removal prior to its
discharge to the municipal sewers as required by municipal regulations. For Baotou and Tianjin Port
which handle hazardous wastes/ dangerous materials, a dedicated waste treatment unit will be installed in
Baotou, and the existing unit will be expanded in Tianjin Port.
In view of limited environmental impacts of the ICDs, the SEA also recommends limited
construction and operational monitoring. An Environmental Management Unit will be set up at each ICD
and relevant training will be provided to the environmental personnel. An Environmental Management
Module will be included in the Technical Assistance component of the Container Project to develop
standard operating procedures and environmental training module for use by operators at each site. For
Tianjin and Baotou, which will handle hazardous and dangerous cargo, the proposed manual will also
address the issue of emergency response and handling.
7. Participatory approach [key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced; if
participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable]:
Primary beneficiaries of the project are the exporters and importers in the project cities and their
vicinities. During the sector study and project preparation, a series of shippers conferences were held in
project cities to elicit their view on the development of container transport systems. Bank staff and/or
consultants participated in the conferences held in Baotou and Shijiazhuang in 1996. Other affected group
is shipping lines and freight forwarders, both foreign and Chinese. An interview survey was carried out in
1995 by a Bank recruited consulting firm to find out impediments facing shipping lines and freight
forwarders based in US, Japan and Hong Kong and dealing with container cargoes destined to China. In
addition, an international conference was held in Qingdao in 1996 to obtain their view on the improvement
of inland distribution system in China. The results of these conferences were reflected in the sector study
and the policy framework for this project.
Other key stakeholders: Other stakeholders are the people living in the vicinity of the project
ICDs. A survey was conducted among 1,200 households, of which 1,115 responded to the survey. 90% of
the people were supportive of the project, and none objected to it.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Project sustainability would be secured by the implementation of a policy framework designed to
remove major impediments to efficient intermodal transport system along two pilot corridors. Viability of
ICDs are enhanced by developing their facilities in two stages, starting with a smaller scale and
expanding later when demands guarantee the expansion. It was made conditional to obtain assurance
from relevant agencies for permitting customs officers to be stationed in the ICDs and for according freight
forwarding license to them. It was also agreed to provide training and technical assistance to enhance
managerial, operational and marketing capability of these ICDs before their operations start.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                       Page 18
China: Container Transport Project
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk                  Risk Minimization Measure
Rating
Project Outputs to Development
Objectives:
*   Development of export/import industries  S   * Project cities were chosen from those which have potentials
in project cities                              for the future growth and are supported by active trade
promotion policies such as the establishment of
"Technology and Trade Development Zone". However,
uncertainty exists due to the recent financial crisis in Asia.
Its impact on China, if it occurs, should subside by the time
of the anticipated full-fledged operations of the project ICDs
in 2005.
Project Components to Outputs:
*  Adequate demand for container           M     * The above remarks would be applied to this risk as well.
services to and from project cities            Additional mitigation measures include the location of
project ICDs which have good connections to transport
network and their proximity to industrial zone. Strong
support of municipal government would also contrbute to
mitigating this risk.
*   Improvement in operational practices   M     * Provision of the technical assistance for developing
for container handling at Tianjin Port          recommendations for the changes of their operational
practices including the introduction of cut-off time for the
acceptance of containers. Another TA aiming at establishing
a more competitive environment in Tianjin Port would also
help improve operational practice at Tianjin Port.
Overall Risk Rating             M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Container haulage services by ICD operators. Because of the commercially oriented nature
of trucking industry and in consideration of relatively easy access to local credit sources in financing
trucks, a meeting was held in April 1998, prior to the departure of the pre-appraisal mission, to obtain the
view of relevant Bank units, including the private sector development, financial sector and procurement
units. The meeting concluded that there is adequate justification for Bank financing tractor trailers for the
ICD operations at the levels assumed on this project [see paras. 3. (2) (c) for more detailed discussion].
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Conditions for Project Effectiveness:
An implementation agreement should be signed between Tianjin Municipality and TPA.
2. Other (Classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements)
Dated covenants agreed during the negotiations:
SETC:
* Preparation of an operational manual for ICD enterprises by December 31, 1999
* Assistance to ICD enterprises for: (i) the preparation of a strategy for future capital
mobilization by March 31, 2002; and (ii) the preparation of plans for private sector
participation for those ICDs with good financial performance



Project Appraisal Document                                                         Page 19
China: Container Transport Project
* Provision of: (i) a consolidated semi-annual report on the progress of the project
implementation by June 15 and December 15, commencing on December 15, 1999; and (ii) a
consolidated mid-term report on the progress of the project implementation by June 15, 2001
ICD operators:
* Provision of audit reports on project accounts and financial statements by June 30 every year
commencing in 2000
* Maintenance of required debt service ratio, starting in fiscal year 2002
* Maintenance of required operating ratio, starting in fiscal year 2002
* Preparation of business plans by December 31of each year commencing in 2000 through
2003
* Preparation of a strategy for future capital mobilization by March 1, 2002, and, for selected
ICDs, implementation of plans for private sector participation
Tianjin Port Authority:
* Provision of audit reports on project accounts and financial statements by June 30 every year
* Maintenance of a required operating ratio
* Causing THCC to maintain required debt-equity ratio, starting in fiscal year 2002
* Causing THCC to maintain required operating ratio, starting in fiscal year 2002
* Development of an action plan for the establishment of an institutional and operational
framework to enhance competition between the existing container terminal operators
* Develop a strategy to enhance berth utilization and productivity by May 31, 2000
* Preparation of: (i) a semi-annual report on the progress of the project implementation by April
30 and October 31 of each year commencing on October 31, 1999; and (ii) a mid-term report
on the progress of the project implementation by April 31, 2001.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[ 1 The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation. [] Not applicable.
Engineering design was completed in accordance with Chinese State requirements.
L] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of project
implementation.
Draft bidding documents for the first years activities were submitted to the Bank in January, 1999.
[XI The Project Implementation Plan (PIP) has been reviewed and found to be of satisfactory quality.
Revised PIP was submitted to the Bank at the end of May 1998, incorporating comments the task
team made during the pre-appraisal.
] The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 20
China: Container Transport Project
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
[X]  This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[ 1 [The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval: The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.]
Task Team Leader:  Shunso Tsukada
Sector Manager:    Jitendra N. Bajpai



Project Appraisal Document                                                               Page 21
China: Container Transport Project
Annex I
Project Design Summary
Indct_i~I    -    9pevsio R>k
CAS Objective                                                         (CAS Objective to Bank
Mission)
* Alleviate infrastructure
bottleneck.
* Assist local govemments to
develop income-generating
programs in lagging provinces.
Project Development                                                   (Development Objectives to
Objectives                                                            CAS Objective)
* Value of imports and  * CPMOs' progress
* Facilitate inland penetration of  exports to and from  report       * Need to develop similar
seabome containers from       project cities                         intermodal links in other
gateway ports to inland cities,                                       regions
thus contributing to reducing
economic disparities between
coastal and inland areas.
Project Outputs                                                      (Outputs to Development
Objectives)
* Increase container movement    * Number of       * CPMO's progress
along two coridors three fold.  containers handled  report          * Development of
at project ICDs                        export/import industries in
project cifies
* Enhance berth productivity of    * Number of     * CPMO's progress
THCC 50 % by year 2003        containers handled   report
at THCC
Project Components/Sub-       Inputs: (budget for                     (Components to Outputs)
components: (see Annex 2)     each component)
* Adequate demand for
* Develop common-user ICDs at   * US$85 million    * Progress reports    container services to and
inland cities in pilot corridors  equivalent                          from project ICDs
* Upgrade container handling                                          * Improvement in operational
capability at THCC's container                    * Supervision       practices for container
terminal                     * US$73 million        mission           handling
equivalent
N.B. See Annex 19 for the current and future values of performance monitoring indicators.
1'  Baseline and targeted values should be shown, with the latter divided into values expected at mid-temn, end of
project and full impact.



Project Appraisal Document                                                       Page 22
China: Container Transport Project
Annex 2
Project Description
A. Project Component - ICD Development: US$82 million equivalent (total cost of
component, excluding contingencies)
Introduction: This component is aimed at developing container handling capability at selected
inland cities located along two pilot corridors. The Bank would finance qualified inland container depots
(ICDs) for their construction and the procurement of equipment. Those ICDs should meet requirements
for service, location and enterprise reforms.
Project ICDs should provide a standard menus of services including: (i) customs clearance and
other three cross border inspection services; (ii) provision of container location information; (iii) freight
forwarding services including documentation; (iv) staffing and destaffing of containers; (v) container
haulage services to and from ports; (vi) equipment interchange and receipt (EIR) system for establishing
clearer container hand-over procedures; (vii) empty container storage as designated container returning
points; and (viii) container repair services. These ICDs are linked with port based EDI centers at Tianjin
and/or Shanghai so as to provide the above functions, (ii) and (iii).
Project ICDs have to locate along the pilot corridors. They should be connected to the main
transport network, and be located in the peripheries of cities.
Project ICDs should be managed and operated by new companies which were established by
October 1998. All of them are required to be limited liability companies or stock companies in
accordance with new Company Law. A critical element of these ICDs is the common user function
where ICD operators should handle containers of all shipping lines and allow all qualified trucking
companies to load or unload containers at facilities.
Brief description of each facility applying for the Bank loan is presented in Annex 18.
Investment: This component is to develop 9 ICDs located in 9 cities: Baotou (in Inner Mongolia
Autonomous Region), Handan, Baoding, Tangshan, Qinguangdao and Cangzhou (in Hebei Province);
and Huzhou, Hangzhou and Xaoshang (in Zhejiang Province). Main items of investment are the same for
all ICDs. Those are summarized below.
1. Civil works: The construction of ICDs including sheltered platform, storage facilities,
administration building, container stacking yard, parking lot, gas stations, vehicle weighing station,
container maintenance yards, fences and gates and other ancillary facilities. The cost of civil works would
be US$18 million,.
2. Equipment The purchase of top-loaders, forklifts, tractor trailers, hutch trucks, MIS/EDI
system, communication and office equipment, electronic vehicle weighing machines, and other ancillary
equipment necessary for ICD operations with the total cost of US$20 million.
3. Technical assistance: Four technical assistance programs would be financed by the Bank:
(i) TA for the development of business plans which costs US$64,600; (ii) TA for the development of an
operational manual which costs US$61,000; and (iii) the conduct of foreign and domestic trainings and
study tours, costing US$234,000, and (iv) TA for developing an Electronic Date Interchange (EDI) and
Management Information System (MIS) for project ICDs, with an estimated cost of US$199,000. In
parallel, Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) would finance supplemental TA programs
including: (i) conduct of foreign study tours for officials of relevant government agencies including customs



Project Appraisal Document                                                         Page 23
China: Container Transport Project
office; (ii) enhancement of financial management capability of ICD operators; and (iii) environmental
management capability for ICD operators and THCC.
B. Project Component 2-Upgrading Tianjin Port Container Handling Capacity:
US$72 million equivalent (total cost of component, excluding contingencies)
Introduction: Tianjin Port is a major gateway port in the north eastern part of China. It has a vast
hinterland, covering Beijing, Shijiazhuang, Zhengzhou, Taiyuan and Boatou. Faced with the recent
acceleration of containerization, Tianjin Port has been operated at capacity for the last couple of years. If
the proper actions are not taken now to increase capacity and enhance productivity, it would soon
become a major bottleneck for the inland distribution of seaborne containers. In view of this situation,
Tianjin Port Authority (TPA) has recently developed a two-staged development plan for capacity
expansion. The first stage is to use the existing port infrastructure to its fullest extent by: (i) upgrading the
current container handling facilities operated by its SOE affiliate, Tianjin Harbor Container Company
(THCC), with introduction of three additional quay-side gantry cranes and other ancillary equipment; and
(ii) converting the existing timber and ore berths into container berths under a joint venture arrangement.
The second stage development plan is to construct new container berths at the north port areas during
the 1 0th five year plan period. This project is designed to assist the first stage development of TPA by:
(a) extending financial assistance to the upgrading of container handling equipment at THCC; and
(b) providing technical assistance to establish a better operational and institutional environment for
container operations.
A major element which ensures the sustainability of this component is TPA's decision to introduce
an intra-port competition through private sector participation in container terminal operation at Tianjin
Port (see Annex 13 for details).
Investment: Major investments included:
1. Civil Works: Reinforcement of the existing container berths and crane rail structure,
reinforcement and expansion of container yards, renovation of power stations, and ancillary works,
amounting to US$ 4 million which would be locally financed.
2. Equipment The purchase of three quay-side container gantry cranes (post-panamax size),
13 rubber tired gantry cranes (RTGs), 5 forklift trucks, installation of additional parts and system to
upgrade the existing two quayside container cranes and other ancillary equipment. The total cost would
be US$34 million.
3. Technical assistance: The Bank will finance three technical assistance programs: (i) TA for
establishing an institutional and operational environment for the intra-port competition between two
container terminal operators, with an estimated cost of US$60,000; and (ii) TA for enhancing the
productivity of container berths at Tianjin Port with an estimated cost of US$52,000; and (iii) foreign visit
and training will be an estimated cost of US$65,000.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                   Page 24
China: Container Transport Project
Annex 3
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                    Local             Foreign             Total
(US$ Thousand)
I. ICD Component
A. Equipment
1. Container handling equipment                 0              6,421              6,421
2. Transport equipment                          0             13,798              13,798
3. EDI/MIS                                      0                755                755
4. Other equipment & facilities               653                979               1,632
B. Works                                       8,963              8,611              17,574
C. Technical Assistance                           0                 559                559
D. Other lnvestments
1. Investment in kind by equity holders    22,282                  0             22,282
2. Other cost by non-project entities      10,194             10,194              20,387
II. Port Component
A. Equipment
Container handling equipment                    0             36,404              36,404
B. Works                                       3,979              3,823              7,802
C. Technical Assistance                           0                 177                177
D. Other Investmnent                          11,060             16,590             27,649
Total Baseline Cost                              57,130             98,311            155,440
Physical Contingencies                         1,115              1,071              2,186
Price Contingencies                               0                 880                880
Taxes and Duties                                 284                  0                284
Total Project Cost                  58,630            100,262             158,790
Interest during construction (IDC) is equal to US$3,012,000
Physical Contingency for civil works: 10%; equipment and TA: 0%
Price Contingency: 1997 prices are used and adjusted for prices for 1999, 2000, 2001 as follow:
1999         2000         2001
Domestic              0.00%         3.00%        5.00%
Foreign               1.33%         2.55%        2.70%



Project Appraisal Document                                                      Page 25
China: Container Transport Project
Annex 4
Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
a) Whole project:                                       Present value flows
Economic analysis    Financial analysis
NPV           $114.5 million      $55.9 million
IRR                 39.4 %            23.2 %
b) Tianjin Port:                                        Present value flows
Economic analysis    Financial analysis
NPV            $75.4 million      $35.8 million
IRR                 43.8 %            23.5 %
c) Inland Container Depots:                             Present value flows
Economic analysis    Financial analysis
NPV            $39.1 million      $20.6 million
IRR                 32.7%              22.8%
SUMMARY OF BENEFITS AND COSTS
A. TIANJIN PORT
As it is currently operated, Tianjin port has passed its optimum volume of traffic, so that port users
are now experiencing a deterioration in quality of service. The economic benefit of the project would be to
increase the existing infrastructure capacity, and thereby improving the quality of service and deferring the
need to invest in major new facilities. This is the benefit that has been quantified in the economic
evaluation. In addition, the project would create, for the first time in a Chinese port, genuine within-port
competition between operators of different berths, and with it, further advantages of choice to port users.
SOURCE OF BENEFITS
The benefits from the proposed investment in cranes and yard equipment for Tianjin Container
Terminal and other minor improvements to the infrastructure would be derived from the improvement in
berth throughput. This improvement would come through the use of more and faster cranes to service
vessels, less crane downtime for maintenance and repair, and a reduction in vessel idle time through
complementary requirements in port operating procedures. The faster vessel tumaround time would bring
savings in ship operating cost, while the higher productivity in use of port assets would reduce unit
operating costs, and the additional capacity would delay the need for investment in new terminal capacity
by about four years.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                Page 26
China: Container Transport Project
Reduced delays to vessels
The savings in vessel time from the reduction in idle time, increase in crane throughput and
assignment of more cranes per vessel are estimated for each of the five size groups of vessels (<800
TEU, 801-1200, 1201-1800, 1801-2400, 2401-3000, >3000 TEU). The savings would be greatest for the
800-1200 TEU vessels, which account for the largest number of vessel calls at Tianjin, followed by 2400-
3000 TEU vessels (Figure 1). It is this second group that would benefit most through being serviced by
three rather than two cranes. The estimated present value of benefits from reduced delays for all vessels
is U$63 million.
Figure 1
Reduction in Time at Berth
For Different Size Vessels
1400
1400~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ... ... ...... .......... =-
1000                           .=        f 3
'0    .----1--   ' ...... .....  ... . .............  .    . . .... ,_....._ ._ -
400*
1999  2000  2001             2004  2005  2006  2007  2008
<800 TEU         800-1200 TEU     1201-I8CcTEU
1801-2400TEU     2401-3000 TEU    >3000 TEU
Deferred investment and reduced operating cost
The marginal increase in capacity to provide for projected demand would be a two-berth terminal
with six cranes and a capacity of 800 thousand TEU, estimated to cost US$100 million with an annual
operating cost of about US$10 million in 1998 prices. There would also be a marginal increase in port
operating costs through having two more berths to handle the same demand as in the with-project case.
The four-year delay in implementing this investment (Figure 2) would provide a present value benefit of
U$56.5 million, made up of U$38.5 million for delayed capital investment and $18 million for delayed
operating costs.
Figure 2
Comparison of Port Capacity
With and Without Project
6,000
600=..    -. _....  .........  .    ....  .    is .     ..  -..-_...-
w 5,000-
0 4 000' '''-'           .' .. ...... '.'i' .... ..... . -i.... ..__ ._    '''. _F,... L.. .. .... .. .....,i
84,,,0~.     . ..          . .-....
.'3,000 ...           ooz . .              2008
cl,000.
0
1998   2001 2002   2004  2006 20089 2010   2012
1999   2001   2003   2005   2007   2009   2011   2013
Capac. with Project* capac wlo Project -Traffic Forecast



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 27
China: Container Transport Project
Sensitivity tests
Sensitivity tests were performed to evaluate the effects of alternative growth in port traffic and a
slower improvement in productivity (the reduction in idle time, lower crane productivity and increase in
average utilization of cranes).
a) Demand growth rates: The results for four growth scenarios are shown in the following table.
Even with the lowest growth scenario the EIRR meets the minimum acceptable EIRR value. The last of
the four demand scenarios is aimed at testing the short term possible impact of the Asian financial crisis.
It includes a much lower growth over the first four years but a growth rate approaching the historic long
term rate thereafter.
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN FOR DIFFERENT GROWTH SCENARIOS
Rates of Growth for Different Periods
1998-2002  2003-2007  2008-2017    EIRR    Modified EIRR
Low           8.5%      7.0%       5.0%       27.1%       17.0%
Expected     11.5%     10.0%       8.0%       43.9%       19.2%
High         14.5%     13.0%       11.0%      52.1%       16.8%
Asia crisis   1.0%      8.0%        8.0%      14.4%       13.6%
b) Port efficiency: Changes in operating practices in the port, are expected to reduce vessel
turn-around time. These are largely independent of investment in new facilities, but the provision of new
capacity will provide a good opportunity to implement new operating practices. At present, ships can be
delayed because of the lack of control of closing-time for the loading of containers to be exported. Stricter
control would reduce average vessel time in the port, reduce ship and port operating costs and increase
capacity. The excess idle time at berths is expected to decrease by 4% a year from the current level of
50%, which is well above international standards, eventually reaching an equilibrium level of 20%. The
assumed rate of reduction in idle time significantly increases the economic rate of return. The project
would remain economically feasible even without a reduction in idle time.
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN FOR DIFFERENT
RATES OF REDUCTION IN SHIP IDLE TIME
Annual Rate of  EIRR    Modified
reduction              EIRR
-4%       43.9%     19.2%
-3%       36.9%     18.6%
-2%       34.0%     18.0%
-1%       23.3%     16.3%
0%       18.4%      14.7%



Project Appraisal Document                                                         Page 28
China: Container Transport Project
c) Crane productivity: Crane productivity is expected to increase at 2%% per year reaching a
maximum of 30 boxes per net crane hour. Slower improvements in crane productivity would reduce the
impact on the rate of return. However, as with reductions in ship idle time, the project would remain
economically viable even with slower improvement in crane utilization. The average utilization of the
cranes (in terms of operating hours) has little impact on the rate of return because the increase in
utilization is limited by the large proportion of vessels which use 2 or less cranes.
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN FOR DIFFERENT
RATES OF INCREASE IN CRANE PRODUCTIVITY
Annual Rate of
increase in    EIRR      Modified
productivity    _
2.5%         43.9%      19.2%
2.0%         43.4%      19.0%
1.5%         35.8%      18.1%
1.0%         35.2%      17.9%
0.5%         34.5%      17.7%
0.0%         31.8%      17.1%
Macro-economic variables
Differences in capital costs or exchange rates would affect both the costs for the project and the
savings from delayed investment in terminals. If the impacts were to be limited to a 25% increase in the
costs of equipment, the economic rate of return would reduce to 41.5% (MERR of 18.5%). The effect of a
devaluation of the RMB would be to increase the economic return of the project by lowering terminal
operating costs relative to capital costs. Both the costs of the investment and the benefits from delayed
investment and vessel savings have large foreign exchange components, so the net benefits would
increase with devaluation.
B. INLAND CONTAINER DEPOTS
Source of benefits
The direct economic impact of the ICDs will be to reduce the cost of moving containers to the ten
cities in the inland provinces where they are located. These cost reductions will come about by making
the transport of bonded containers possible whereas now it is not, by introducing competition to existing
state monopoly ICDs and by providing competition in the transport of bonded containers from the port to
the inland cities. It is these benefits that have been evaluated as the economic benefit of the project.
Indirect and longer term benefits are expected to come through the location of more export-oriented
industries in these cities rather than closer to the ports where most such industry is presently located. This
benefit is the ultimate objective of the project but has not been quantified. In fact, the extent to which this
benefit is achieved depends on influences beyond the scope of the project. However, the introduction of
the ICDs in these cities is seen as an essential and necessary condition to be satisfied before export-
oriented industries can be encouraged to locate away from the ports that serve them.



Project Appraisal Document                                                         Page 29
China: Container Transport Project
ICD PROJECTED DEMAND (LOADED TEU IN YEAR 2005)
ICD          Distance to       Hinterland
Port (km)    Inbound    Outbound
Baoding                 204         9,541      17,718
Baotou                  900        11,375      14,625
Cangzhou                158        11,565      21,479
Handan                  510        11,723      21,771
Huzhou                  190        19,305      38,545
Quihuangdao             206        21,364      39,675
Tangshan                130        25,470      47,301
Xiaoshan                250        72,500     103,600
Xintang                 250        81,000     216,200
Total                      263,843     520,914
EVALUATION METHOD
The information and assumptions made in the economic evaluation of the ICDs are mostly the
same as those used in their financial evaluation. But instead of ending with a cash flow analysis and an
estimated rate of return on equity, the operations of each ICD are compared with what is expected to
happen if they are not implemented. The principal difference is that without the ICDs, most export
production from the inland cities will be transported as break-bulk (i.e. non-containerized) freight, in
smaller trucks at a higher cost and with greater probability of loss and damage. In addition, the economic
evaluation takes no account of financing charges or taxes to be paid, and applies correction factors to the
financial costs of inputs to reflect their shadow prices.
SENSITIVITY TESTS
There are many uncertainties associated with a project that will fundamentally change the way
that freight is transported. The introduction of containers into freight transport has often been called a
revolution in transport, and as with all revolutions, it involves a high degree of risk. By taking account of
the measures to mitigate this risk that have succeeded in other ports, the risks can reduced to
manageable proportions. In this case, the project includes many policy measures that will eliminate or
reduce most risks, but some commercial risks remain. These include the possibility that: (a) the economy
and export trade of the region where the ICD will be located will not grow at the expected rate; (b)shipping
lines will delay in nominating an ICDs as retuming point for empty containers. Delay in achieving this
status reduces the rate at which demand for the ICD will build up to the projected level (that is, the 'ramp-
up" period will be extended). Other commercial factors might result in the same outcome; (c) the costs of
operating the ICDs will be higher than expected; (d) potential users of the ICDs will not respond as
positively as expected, or will adapt more slowly, to the new opportunity open to them, and; (e) other ICDs
(in those cities where there is already a state-operated ICD) will compete more vigorously than anticipated
to retain their share of the market, or the ports will respond in a similar way to retain their container
stuffing and unstuffing activities. If any of these risks materialize, the economic benefits (as well as the
financial retums) will be reduced. All these risks were evaluated through sensitivity tests.



Project Appraisal Document                                                        Page 30
China: Container Transport Project
Other sensitivity tests were made to examine the impact of two different assumptions as to what
would happen if the project is not implemented. These were that to some extent bonded containers would
still be used, but without making use of the ICD. In the basic evaluation it was assumed that if the ICDs
are not implemented, 50% of the containerizable freight that does not go directly to, or come from, the
manufacturing plant in the inland city, would still be containerized. The alternative assumptions were that
zero and 100% per cent of this freight would travel in bonded containers.
EVALUATION RESULTS
The evaluation results indicate that under the basic assumptions, all of the ICDs are likely to
achieve acceptable economic rates of return, although the specific ERRs vary significantly between ICDs.
The highest ERR value is for the depot at Xiashan, with a value 75.7% (MERR of 28.5%), almost %/2 as
large again as that of the depot with the next highest value, Handan (53.2%). This is followed by three
depots with ERRs close to 40% (Baotou, Tangshan and Quihuangdao and two more with values close to
20% (Baoding and Cangzhou. The remaining two depots have values of about 14% (Huzhou and
Xintang).
a) Economic Evaluation
ECONOMIC EVALUATION OF ICDs
ERR%         MERR%          NPV
U$M
Baoding             18.5%         15.3%          0.994
Baotou              40.9%         19.8%         11.643
Cangzhou            22.2%         17.2%          1.322
Handan              53.2%         23.1%          5.695
Huzhou              13.6%         13.1%          0.265
Quihuangdao         38.7%         19.8%          3.731
Tangshan            40.7%         22.6%          3.401
Xiaoshan            75.7%         28.5%         11.284
Xintang             15.0%         14.2%          0.800
Total         32.2%        18.5%         39.135
The very high ERR value for Xiaoshan is largely because of the high volume of traffic and the
balance between inbound and outbound loaded boxes which reduces the amount of empty backhauls as
well as the high ratio of container throughput to assets. The other depots with ERRs above 30% all have a
reasonable balance in the flow of traffic. Three are located further away from the port and the other two
have high ratios of container throughput to assets, indicating that they expect to achieve higher asset
productivity than the others. The ICDs with lower ERR values are those with unbalanced flows, lower
throughput of containers, and low expected utilization of assets. The high correlation between volume and
balance of inbound and outbound are a result of the lower logistics costs when an ICD is introduced as a
marshalling area for empty boxes.
b) Sensitivity tests
The sensitivity tests were made with alternative assumptions of demand and operational
efficiency. Two parameters of demand were investigated, economic growth in the region of each lCD and
the rate at which demand might be built up over time. Two sets of operating scenarios were assessed,
one with different levels of savings of damage to freight in transit, and the other with higher labor of capital



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 31
China: Container Transport Project
operating costs. None of the sensitivity tests showed an overall unacceptable economic rate of retum,
although some of the ICDs had unacceptably low values for some of the tests. Two of the ICDs in
particular, Huzhou and Xintang, would be particularly vulnerable to a slow build-up of traffic or overall
lower levels of demand. During Appraisal, the initial investments planned for these ICDs will be reviewed
to see if it can be reduced so as to increase the economic justification of the investment.
SUMMARY OF SENSITIVITY TEST RESULTS
Evaluation test     Proabiy| "     EIRR       MIRR         NPV
roaii~~,                    j  US$MM
Demand
Low                         35%         27.6        16.4        28.08
Best estimate               40%         24.0        18.5        46.93
High                        25%         35.4        19.7        61.85
Expected value                          31.5        18.1        43.32
Ramp-up Period
Slower                      35%         21.1        15.8        23.37
Basic                       45%         32.7        18.5        46.93
Faster                      20%         36.4        18.8        50.61
Expected value                          29.4        17.6        39.58
Cargo Damage
Low damage savings          30%          18.3       14.5        15.33
Basic                       50%         32.7        18.0        46.93
High damage savings         20%         42.1        20.1        68.00
Expected value                          30.2        17.3        41.67
Operating Costs
Higher labor cost           40%         31.5        18.2        44.71
Basic                       50%         32.7        18.0        46.93
Higher capital cost         10%         32.4        18.5        47.05
Expected value                          32.2        18.1        46.06
Summary of results for each ICD (ERR%)
Low Demand     Slow ramp-up      Low cargo
Depot      Expected ERR   Expected ERR %   Expe E
Baoding             12.2%          10.9%            11.2%
Baotou              34.8%          25.1%           38.7%
Cangzhou            15.5%          13.2%           15.0%
Handan              47.6%          31.5%           37.8%
Huzhou               8.6%           8.4%            11.7%
Quihuangdao         34.1%          22.9%            31.1%
Tangshan            35.6%          26.1%            30.2%
Xiaoshan            78.4%          51.1%            55.8%
Xintang              8.7%           9.7%            13.9%
Average           27.4%          19.7%            23.5%



Project Appraisal Document                                                       Page 32
China: Container Transport Project
Annex 5
Financial Analysis
The financial analyses are made from the perspectives of the companies that will operate the
facilities to be supported by finance from the Bank loan. In the case of Tianjin port this is the Tianjin
Harbor Container Company (THCC), which is presently a fully-owned subsidiary of Tianjin Port Authority
(TPA). THCC has been neither financially nor managerially independent from TPA, but it was agreed that
during the course of the project it would become established under Chinese Company Law as stock
company.
In the case of the inland container depots, these are the owner-operators of the ICDs and their
associated trucking fleets. The ICDs will all be operated as limited liability companies, but as yet these are
all still in the process of formation (with all of them to be legally established before negotiations). As they
have no commercial history and their financial structure is not yet finally determined, their financial
analyses are still conditional. It has been assumed that their debt: equity ratio will not exceed 60:40, and
that domestic loans will be used to make up their capital base to that necessary to start operations. Given
that the Bank loan will be on-lent to them on terms similar to those of the Bank loan to the Ministry of
Finance, they will have a five-year grace period before having to make any capital repayments. This will
avoid their having negative cash flows during the years in which their traffic is building up.
A. Tianjin Port
The financial analysis of the Tianjin port component of the project was made from the point of
view of the beneficiary, the THCC. The four parts of the analysis were: (a) projections of demand (the
number containers that would be handled and the ship calls needed to service them), (b) the revenues
that would be generated, (c) port operations, capacity and the costs that would be incurred, and (d) the
resulting financial results.
a) Demand Projections
The methodology used for projecting traffic was based on the application of general macro-
economic factors to historic growth rates of the movement of containers and vessels through the port.
Table 1 show the series of historic data (1991 through 1996) used as the basis of projection of container
movements. The annual growth in containerizable cargo averaged about 1 1% over this period.
Container traffic grew more rapidly because of the continuing conversion of existing general cargo
from breakbulk form to containers. The percentage of containerizable cargo actually carried in containers
rose steadily from 35% to 55%. Over the next 10 years it was assumed that this percentage would
continue to increase, reaching a maximum of 90%.
The growth in container traffic will be moderated by two factors, a reduction in the percentage of
empties and an increase in the use of larger boxes. The percentage of empty containers has held at about
25% over the last seven years. This reflects a fully-loaded trade in the outbound direction and a lightly
loaded trade inbound. This is expected to change with further liberalization of trade.
It was assumed that the percentage of empties would drop to 20% over the next 10 years, reflecting a
more balanced trade, and eventually reach 15%. The average size of the boxes handled has remained
relatively steady with about 30% of the boxes of length 40 feet or more, but this percentage is expected to
increase to about 45% over the next 15 years. Another factor which would moderate the growth in the
number of containers is the amount of cargo carried in loaded TEUs. Currently this is only 10.5 tons, but
will increase as the proportion of 40 foot increases.



Project Appraisal Document                                                               Page 33
China: Container Transport Project
Table 1: Characteristics of Container Traffic 1991-1997
Year              '1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997
Port Dry Cargo (000 tons)      23,776  29,286  37,192  46,521    57,866  61,883   67,893
Port Containenzable Cargo (000 ton)   7,622   7,766   9,246   11,610   12,408  12,693   13,163
% rate of growth                         1.9%   19.1%   25.6%     6.9%    2.3%      3.7%
% containerzation              34.5%   39.8%   39.1%   40.5%    45.0%   49.7%    55.5%
containerized Cargo (000 ton)   2,632   3,093   3,612   4,698    5,588   6,314    7,299
TEU (000 TEUs)                   340      394     482     631      702      823      935
rEUs handled by THCC             340      394     454     460      495      528      583
Market share of THCC            100%    100%      94%     73%    70.5%     64%       62%
% of 40' containers             30.1%   30.8%   29.8%   31.5%    30.1%   32.7%    30.8%
Boxes (OOO)                      261      301     350     350       381     398      446
% Empty                        25.0%   23.5%   24.2%   26.8%    23.4%   25.1%    24.8%
Empty TEUs (000)                  85       93     110     123       116     132      145
% LCL                                                                      3.0%     3.0%
Tons per TEU                      7.7     7.9      7.5     7.4      8.0     7.7       7.8
ons/Loaded TEU                  10.3    10.3      9.9    10.2     10.4    10.2      10.4
CL TEU                                                                      16       17
Source: THCC
The percentage of the boxes passing through Tianjin port that were handled by the Tianjin Harbor
Container Company has been decreasing primarily because of the introduction of two new berths
currently operated by a separate organization which is seeking a Joint Venture arrangement with Sealand
Shipping Lines. This group is expected to develop an additional two berths as the traffic increases, which
would further reduce the THCC market share. The assumed reduction of market share is based not only
on competitive factors but also on the capacity limits of the THCC facilities. Without the project, the
market share would be expected to decline more rapidly since the THCC capacity would be even less.
A summary of the factors used to prepare the traffic projection is shown in Table 2. The resulting
projection of total container volume is shown in Figure 1 for the expected, low and high rates of traffic
growth. While there is wide divergence in the forecast, the variation in the amount handled in the two
terminals is less because their capacity is expected to be exceeded by somewhere between 2002-2005
(under the pessimistic forecast the capacity is never succeeded). The capacity, as shown in Figure 1, is
for both terminals. It assumes that the other container terminal will be expanded to four berths by 2002
and have a capacity of 1 million TEU rising to 1.5 million by 2007 and 2 million by 2012.
Figure 1
Container Traffic Forecast
Tianjin Port 1991-2015
80,000  - .   --.t.   ...     ,._-~   0_/
6,000t_..j......i.....T....., ,
LU  'O
ng4,000                   .   .   ._    . ..... iqR
~0
29003
91'      ~~1699920
1              ~~~~~1995       2003            2011 



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page 34
China: Container Transport Project
Table 2: Factors for Traffic Projection
Containerizable Cargo Growth    Low     Expected    High
1998-2002             7.5%       11.5%     14.5%
2003-2007             6.0%       10.0%     12.0%
2008-2017             4.0%        8.0%     10.0%
Average Tons per loaded TEU              10.5
Proportion of Empties
2002                  22.5%
2007                  20.0%
2012                  15.0%
Traffic Factors           Annual         Max/Min
Containerization rate            2.5%            90%
Change in Market Share            -2%
% 40                             1.0%            45%
% LCL                            -0.5%           10%
Productivity Gains
Net Box rate for S-S Cranes      2.5%              30
Idle time at berth              -4.0%            20%
Maximum Crane Hours              +200           4,500
Vessel Forecast
The vessels carrying the containers range in size from small feeder vessels of less than 800 TEU
to fourth generation vessels of 3800 TEU operated by COSCO. The distribution of vessel calls by size is
shown in Table 3.
The smaller vessels account for almost 44% of the total calls and about 33% of the TEU handed
in the port. When all vessels of 1200 TEU or less are included these percentages increase to 62% and
60%, respectively. The largest vessels, those operated by COSCO, account for only 7Y2% of the calls but
14% of the containers. While it is anticipated that the average size of the vessels calling at the port will
increase, it is not expected that there will be a rapid increase in calls by the largest group of vessels. The
latter transfer a relatively small proportion of their capacity per vessel call which suggests that these calls
are of limited financial benefit to the company. The increase in vessel size will require that more cranes be
assigned per vessel, but will also increase the throughput of the berths since the berth productivity will
increase.
Table 3: Distribution of Vessel Calls in 1996 by Ship Size
Vessel Calls                          Boxes Handled
(TEU Range)     Number      %         transferred    % Terminal Total  c Vessel
<800     38.0      43.3%         431            33%          33%
801    1200      24.0      27.3%         534            26%          26%
1201    1800      7.3       8.3%          441            6%           15%
1801    2400      2.0       2.3%          892            4%           42%
2401    3000       9.0      10.3%         959            17%          36%
>3000               7.5      8.5%          894            14%          12%
Source: THCC, Consultants Calculations



Project Appraisal Document                                                         Page 35
China: Container Transport Project
It is expected that the average vessel size, currently 1,300 TEU, will increase to 1,670 TEU by
2010 and to 1,770 thereafter. The estimated change in the distribution of vessel sizes is shown in Table 4.
The majority of the vessel calls will continue to be feeder services but there will also be an increase in
interregional services. The proportion of the larger vessels calling at Tianjin will increase but not
significantly. Calls by even larger vessels will be restricted by the available water depth, by the distance of
the port from the major shipping routes and the growing competition from Dalian and Quandao.
Table 4: Distribution of Vessel Size in the Future
<800    801-  | 1201-   1801-   2401-   >3000
1200  1 1800    2400    3000
Year 2000
% of vessel            42      28        9      2.5       10      8.5
% TEU transferred      55      55       30       40       33       25
Year 2005
%ofvessel              36      25       12        5       13        9
% TEU transferred      60      60       35       45       36       33
Year 2010
% ofvessel             30      22       16      7.5      14.5      10
% TEU transferred      63      63       37       47       38       32
Year 2015
% of vessel            24      20       20        9        1       11
% TEU transferred      65      65       40       50       39       30
Competition among shipping lines will continue to limit the average number of TEU handled per
vessel call by medium and larger vessels. The ratio of TEU transferred to vessel capacity is expected to
remain at about 30%. For smaller feeder vessels, this ratio is expected to increase from the current 50%
to 60% as feeder services are rationalized. The resulting projected vessel calls by ship size would be:
Table 5: Vessel Forecast (calls per year)
Ship size
<800    801-1200  1201-1800 1801-2400 2401 -3000   >3000
2000         590       395       125       35        140      120
2005         680       470       225       90        245      170
2010         700       515       375       160       340      230
2015         560       465       465       210       370      255
b) Revenues
The revenues for the terminal were computed by using the average unit revenues for the services
provided by the terminal. The official tariff could not be used because it has a more complex structure
than the traffic forecast and because the THCC offers discounts to selected large volume customers. The
unit revenues for 1996 and 1997 are shown in Table 6. The principal income is from the terminal handling
charge which accounted for about RMB 252 per TEU in 1997. It was assumed that the tariffs would only
be changed every three years and at that time the increases would compensate for the increase in
inflation during that period. In constant value the prices were assumed to decrease in value by the
inflation rate for two of the three years and then return to their previous value in the third year.



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page 36
China: Container Transport Project
Table 6: Current Average Unit Revenues
Activity                       RMBFrEU
1996            1997
Loading/Unloading              243.7            252.1
Storage                          14.8             9.1
Stuffing, Unstuffing            144.6            82.1
Other                            28.2            24.6
c) Port Operations, Capacity and Costs
i) Operations
Tianjin port operations are deteriorating in efficiency and quality as a result of both aging
equipment and management problems. The container handling equipment is old as shown in Table 7 and
some is no longer operational. The project would restore and expand the fleet of equipment by adding 3
ship-to-shore gantry cranes, 13 transtainers and 5 toploaders and reconditioning 2 transtainers and 1
ship-to-shore gantry crane. At the conclusion of the project, the terminal would have 12 gantry cranes, 27
transtainers, 13 toploaders and 38 tractors.
Table 7: Container Terminal Equipment Inventory
Type           Year Obtained              Status
Ship-to-Shore        1 - 1978        Out of commission
Gantry Cranes        6 - 1985        Have frequent breakdowns
2- 1992         Good working order
1 - 1997        Good working order
Transtainers         3 - 1981        Out of commission
2- 1984         Frequent breakdowns
11 - 1985       Good working order
3- 1992         Good working order
Toploaders           5 - 1982        To be decommissioned
4 - 1982        To be rehabilitated
4- 1992         Good working order
Tractors            11 - 1985        Allocated to back yard
16 - 1988       Good working order
10- 1994        Good working order
12 - 1998       To be purchase this year
Trailers         47 - 1985 to 1994
Source: THCC



Project Appraisal Document                                                         Page 37
China: Container Transport Project
There would be an average of 3 cranes per berth, each supported by 3 tractor trailers and 2
transtainers. The remaining transtainers would meet the minimum requirement for receiving and delivering
cargo. The toploaders would be used for more moving the empty containers at the container freight station
and for stacking the boxes in the reefer yard.
The condition of the existing equipment fleet has not been a major constraint on productivity up
until now, because there was excess equipment to handle the traffic. From this year on, both the
availability and reliability of the equipment will become a problem.
The current level of productivity of the equipment is shown in Table 8. Given the age and
condition of the equipment, these numbers are reasonable. However, they are well below the norms of
modern terminals. If the project were not undertaken, it would be necessary to rehabilitate the existing
equipment within the next five years. This would provide the minimum necessary capacity, but would limit
the extent to which the terminal could handle future growth in traffic.
The principal constraint on capacity and performance is the idle time of the vessels at the berth.
This is estimated to exceed 50% of the time based on the typical vessels as shown in the Table 8. The
causes of these delays include the time lost during inspections at the wharves by customs and other
officials, due to problems with providing workable equipment, waiting for the tide by larger vessels and the
time spent waiting at the berth for cargo to arrive for loading. The latter is the most significant. Unlike
most competing ports, the terminal does not enforce a shutout time after which cargo will not be accepted
for loading. Shipping agents allow shippers to bring containers into the terminal even after the vessel has
arrived and unloaded. For the smaller vessels, the idle time accounts for half the average time at the
berth. For the largest vessels, it approaches for three fourths of the total time (Table 9). Shipping lines
have adapted their voyage schedules to these delays. Neither the shipping lines nor the port management
have taken the initiative to reduce these delays.
Table 8: Equipment Utilization 1997
Equipment Utilization   Average Hours/TEU         TEU/Hour
S-S Gantry Cranes (8)             2,916                 25.0
Transtainers (17)                 2,818                 24.3
Heavy Toploaders (4)              2,838
Light Toploaders (4)               754
Tractors                          3,180
ii) Port procedures
Table 9: Performance Characteristics for Different Size Vessels
Size       Avg. TEU        Gantry              Estimated Vessel Time
(TEU Range)   Transferred     Cranes                 (hours per call)
Working    Idle    Total    % Idle
<800     431        1-2     24       12        12       24      50%
801   1200      534       2-3      36       12       24        36      67%
1201   1800      441       2-3      30       8        22       30       73%
1801   2400      892       2-3      40       14       26       40       65%
2401    3000     959       3-4      40       14       26       40       65%
>3000             894       3-4      44       11       33        44      75%
Source: THCC, Consultant Estimates



Project Appraisal Document                                                       Page 38
China: Container Transport Project
A reduction in idle time would have a significant impact on berth capacity as well as vessel
turnaround time as shown in Table 10. A 50% reduction in idle time for the existing traffic would reduce
the current berth occupancy to about 50% and save about 443 vessel days at berth. A 20% increase in
throughput would reduce the time at berth by another 87 days.
The shipping lines do not have sufficient incentive to impose a shut-out time, since the greatest
consequences of the excess idle time is on the utilization of port assets and on the competitiveness of the
port, it is the port authorities who should impose a shutout time. This would best be done by including in
their changing system penalties for the late delivery of cargo or excessive berth occupancy time. In
addition, the port should monitor the idle time for vessels at the berth, recording the sources of delays.
This information would be reviewed monthly and strategies put in place to reduce the major causes of
delay.
Table 10: Potential Savings in Vessel Time with Productivity Improvements
Average Savings in Vessel    Total Savings in berth
Size       Calls per    Time at Berth (hours)     occupancy
(TEU Range)    Month       50%       20%         50% (daysyear)
50%  20%     50%         ~~20%
idle time   throughput   idle time    throughput
>800     38.0        6         2.0         114          38
801  1200     24.0        12         2.0        144          24
1201  1800      7.3       11         .75          40         4.9
1801  2400      2.0        13        2.3          13         2.3
2401  3000      9.0        12        2.3          59         10.5
>3000            7.5        20        1.8          73         6.1
iii) Capacity Estimates
The capacity of the terminal is determined by three factors, berth occupancy, the availability of
ship-to-shore cranes and the number of berths. This capacity is expected to increase over time as a result
of the periodic upgrading of equipment, improvements in operations and changes in shipping patterns. In
order to estimate this capacity, both crane capacity and the berth capacity were estimated. The former is
based on the operating hours available, the latter on the type of vessels and crane allocation.
Crane operating hours were used to provide an upper limit on capacity. The maximum level of
crane utilization was assumed to be 50% based on a berth occupancy of 75%, an effective time equal to
80% of the time at berth and an average utilization of multiple cranes of 80%. This implies a maximum
average use of 4000 operating hours per crane-year. Since the current level of utilization is less than 3000
hours, the average was assumed to rise to 3500 hours then increase to 4000 hours over the next five
years. For the currently operational 8 cranes, the average productivity of 25 TEU per net operating hour,
implies an annual crane capacity of 700 thousand TEU, approximately the volume projected for 1998.
With the addition of 3 cranes and upgrading I crane, the capacity of the 12 operational cranes would be
1.2 million TEU. Over time the crane productivity would increase to 35 TEU per net hour and maximum
time to 4000 hours producing a capacity of 1.68 million TEU for 12 cranes.
The normal operating capacity was computed by examining vessel tumaround time and assuming
4 berths each with three cranes. The capacity was computed using two typical scenarios, an 1800 TEU
vessel handling 900 TEU with 2 cranes and a 3000 TEU vessel handling 1500 TEU with three cranes.
The vessel turnaround time was estimated assuming a 50% idle time which include the time required for



Project Appraisal Document                                                         Page 39
China: Container Transport Project
berthing, unberthing and waiting for the tide. With 75% berth occupancy and two berths serving the
smaller vessels and two berths serving the larger vessels, the terminal would have a capacity of 780
thousand TEU.
The berth capacity is expected to increase over time as the crane productivity increases by 40%,
in the next seven years. At the same time, the percentage idle time is expected to decrease by 3/5 over
the same period. These combined factors would increase the terminal's capacity to 1.5 million TEU. Thus,
for both the present and the future, the terminal capacity will be determined by berth availability. The
capacity of the port, as shown in Figure 1, would be increased with the introduction of the additional two
container berths in Basin I in 2002. These projections suggest that new terminals will be required by 2004
under the expected scenario.
iv) Investments
In order to maintain the productivity gains and to continue to improve terminal performance, it will
be necessary to continue investing over the life of this investment. The major investment in the proposed
project is the procurement of 3 new ship-to-shore gantry cranes, 13 transtainers and five toploaders. The
costs for these items are shown in Table 11. These would be imported duty-free. In addition to the
equipment, there would be investment in the rehabilitation of selected equipment and some improvements
to the civil works. The costs of these investments are summarized in Table 12.
Table 11: Major Equipment Costs
1998 Prices               Related      Total
US$ 000     RM8 000     RMB 000     RMB 000
Ship-to-Shore Gantry   $5,200      43,160       560         43,720
Rubber Tired Gantries  $1,300      10,790       140         10,930
Forklifts               $500       4,150         54         4,204
These investments would be needed to replace equipment which has exceeded its technical life.
For the financial analysis, an investment schedule was developed assuming 20 years economic life for
ship-to-shore gantry cranes, 17 years for transtainers, 15 years for toploaders and 12 years for tractor-
trailer units.
Table 12: Complementary Investments
(RMB 000)           1999    2000
Replacement of:
Fenders                   1,200
Gantry Crane Rails       15,000
Monitoring Wharf Bearing Cap.  300
Expansion of Yard          18,770
Equipment Upgrade:
2 Transtainers            9,720
1 Gantry Crane           14,800
Electricity Supply Cap      1,560
Other Local Costs           6,860   1,520



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 40
China: Container Transport Project
v) Operating costs
Future operating costs for the terminal were extrapolated from THCC's cost data for the last two
years, as shown in Table 12. All unit costs were projected using constant prices. The costs for operating
labor were divided into fixed salaries and variable incentive pay. The latter were assumed to increase in
proportion to traffic. Similarly, the total costs for material and maintenance were assumed to increase with
traffic. The expenditures for fuel, utilities, repair and maintenance, casual labor and safety equipment
were all assumed to have both fixed components and variable components. The variable components
were projected to increase at half the rate at which the traffic increases.
Table 13: THCC Operating Costs (RMB 000)
Operating Labor       1996       1997
Fixed salary             4,542      4,527
Incentive pay            8,817     10,564
Welfare payments         2,199      2,196
Fuel                      2,322     2,939
Utlities                  2,097     2,319
Material, Spare parts    10,315    10,185
Depreciation             21,547    22,126
Repair & Maintenance      3,213     3,484
Lease Payment to Port    13,000    13,000
Casual labor              1,927     1,580
Safety equipment           579        691
Damage claim                33        (30)
Insurance                  837        621
Others                    1,144       382
Manage and Overheads     34,584    40,485
Taxes on Operations       4,960      5,321
Total Operating Costs  112,117    120,390
The remaining operating costs were assumed to be constant with one exception, the costs for
management overheads. These include a wide variety of management costs including the salaries of the
managers, travel and office expenditures. Currently these account for 1/3 of total operating costs, well in
excess of the cost for an efficient terminal management. In the cost analysis, it was assumed that these
costs would decline at a rate of 4% per annum.
The taxes included in the operating costs are a 3.3%-5% tax on individual sources of revenues. In
addition there is a income tax of 33% on corporate profits. This is not paid by the THCC directly but rather
by TPA against its consolidated profit.
d) Financial analysis
The financial analysis of the Tianjin Harbor Container Terminal can adopt one of two viewpoints:
*  replace of equipment which is no longer operational and add equipment to
improve container operations;
*  increase terminal efficiency and the quality of service provided by the terminal.



Project Appraisal Document                                                         Page 41
China: Container Transport Project
The first implies that the terminal is operating efficiently and requires certain equipment to be
upgraded. The financial benefits derive from the introduction of this equipment. The second assumes that
the investment is part of a longer term investment program to improve terminal performance. For this
analysis, the latter was selected and it was assumed that the THCC continues to invest in higher
throughput equipment to meet additional capacity requirements and to provide faster turnaround at the
terminal.
i) Financial Feasibility
The financial benefits were determined by comparing the terminal's operating cash flow with and
without the project. This approach captures the marginal revenues and expenditures from the incremental
capacity provided with the project. However, it does not take account of the savings from delaying
investments in additional berths as a result of the increase in capacity of the original terminal. It was
assumed that these investments would be made by the private sector and therefore would not have a
direct financial impact on the THCC.
In developing a "do nothing case" it was assumed that the THCC would not invest in the three
gantry cranes or upgrading the fourth crane, but, instead, would reduce the supply of ship-to-shore cranes
to eight and assign them two to a berth, with some flexibility for assigning a third crane to a berth as and
when available. It would also increase its fleet of rubber-tired transtainers to provide sufficient support for
the ship-to-shore gantry cranes. The THCC would replace these pieces of equipment at the end of their
technical life, but not invest to increase their output. Instead as demand exceeds capacity, the TPA would
invest in additional capacity. These new berths, however, would be equipped with three cranes of higher
capacity.
In comparison with the "do nothing case", the project has an FIRR of 23.5% (19.6% when
adjusted for reinvestment) and an NPV of US$35.5million for a financial discount rate of 15% in constant
value. These results are very sensitive to changes in tariffs. If the periodic adjustment in the tariffs
effectively reduces the level of charges by 2% a year relative to inflation, then the FIRR drops to 18.6%
and the NPV to $13.2 million.
The feasibility is less sensitive to the rate of growth in traffic. If traffic grows at a rate 3% higher
than expected, the FIRR increases to 28.2% and the NPV to $58.1 million whereas if the rate of traffic
growth drops by 3% the FIRR decreases to 12.9% and the NPV to -$6.0 million. The feasibility is also
sensitive to market share. It has been assumed that the THCC market share of the TPA container traffic
will decrease by 2% a year over the life of the project but never decline below 20%. If it were to lose only
1 % market share per year the FIRR would increase to 27.3% and the NPV to $55.1 million. Alternatively,
if the market share were to decrease by 2Y2 % per annum to a minimum of 20% then the FIRR would
decrease to 19.8% and the NPV to $17.6 million. At an average decline of 3%, the FIRR declines to
16.3%
The project feasibility is less sensitive to capital costs. If the capital costs are 33% higher than
estimated the FIRR declines only to 18.3% and the NPV to $17.1 million. The feasibility is also less
sensitive to the cost of labor. The FIRR increases with the cost of labor because the without project
scenario is more labor intensive. A 1/3 increase in labor costs increases the FIRR to 30.3%.
The project is expected to reduce administrative costs in real terms by 4% per annum versus the
situation without the project of an increase in administration costs that parallels inflation. If these
reductions are not realized then there will be a small drop in FIRR to 22.0% and the NPV to $28.5 million.



Project Appraisal Document                                                         Page 42
China: Container Transport Project
The project feasibility is also sensitive to the improvement in operational performance. If there is
no reduction in idle time, then the FIRR decreases to 14.9% and the NPV to -$.4 million If there is no
improvement in crane productivity, then the FIRR drops to 21.1%.
An increase in the exchange rates will reduce the FIRR through its impact on capital costs.
However, it will also increase the benefits from delaying investment in additional terminal capacity. A 50%
increase in the exchange rate would reduce the FIRR to 17.2% and the NPV to $7.8 million.
Overall the project is relatively robust in terms of financial feasibility. It will be important that the
THCC adjust its charges on a regular basis, reduce berth idle time and compete actively for market
share.. Since it is unlikely that the tariffs will keep with inflation, the THCC should reduce its cost of
overheads so as to improve its return on investment.
ii) Financial results
While the operation of THCC is profitable, its ability to service the debt will depend on its financial
structure. This structure is also important for anticipating the transfer of equity between the Tianjin Port
Authority and the THCC which would be required to make the latter independent. Two scenarios were
considered. The first involved domestic debt to finance the local cost component of the project whereas
the second involved TPA equity financing of local project costs, RMB 350 million, from the TPA's cash
reserves. The former provides a positive cash flow during the critical first five years, but the debt: service
coverage would decline to 1.5 in 2002. The latter provides a debt: service coverage ratio above 5.0
throughout the period and the net cash flow would grow twice as fast. Assuming that TPA would want to
limit the level of drawdown on its cash reserves, a final scenario was developed in which TPA provides 12
the financing, RMB 175 million, in the form of equity and the other half in the form of domestic debt. The
results of this scenario, as shown in the following table, maintain a debt: service coverage of over 2
throughout the period
Table 14: Financial Performance Measures - Mixed Cash
and Domestic Debt (mn's RMBs)
1999      2000       2001       2002        2003
Operating Ratio            0.86       0.71        0.68       0.65       0.56
Working Ratio               0.66      0.50        0.49       0.48       0.41
Debt: Equity               0.66       1.03        0.95       0.86       0.72
Times interest Earned       2.6        4.2         2.4        2.9        4.9
Debt Service Coverage       5.4        4.6         2.3        2.5        3.5
Retum on Total Assets      3.6%       6.1%       5.7%       6.8%      10.8%
Retum on Net Fixed Assets  6.8%      11.3%      11.0%      13.6%      21.1%
Retum on Capital Employed  2.7%       5.0%       5.7%       6.7%      10.5%
Current Ratio              13.1        9.7        12.8       15.4       10.4
The ratios show a continuous improvement with the operating ratio dropping significantly and the
return on total assets and capital employed increasing steadily. The debt service coverage declines to
2.3 in 2001 and then increases. The debt: equity ration remains below 1.0 for all years except in 2000
due in large part to existing government contribution of RMB 273 million.



Project Appraisal Document                                                          Page 43
China: Container Transport Project
The financial statements were forecast for the 1:1 mixture of equity and domestic debt are shown
in the Tables 15 through 17. These were prepared based on a number of assumptions including the
following:
The project will be the only major investment of the THCC over the next five years:
1. Domestic loan fixed annual payment, 8 years, 10% interest, no grace period
2. Average income tax rate of 33%
3. Surplus taxed at a rate of 33%
4. Slight positive non-operating income
5. Retum on Long term investments of 5%, short term investments 4%
6. Accounts receivable 7 days operating revenue, accounts payable 40 days operating
expenses
The dramatic increase in profitability from 1999 to 2000 occurs because of the simultaneous
adjustment of the tariff which is expected to increase by 20% in line with the previous three years inflation
and the 33% jump in traffic as the constraint on capacity is removed. This would increase revenues by
over 50% from 1999 to 2000. The operating expenses would increase by 40% due to the dramatic
increase in costs of depreciation. Profits would moderate over the next two years assuming no
adjustment in tariffs and then experience a second dramatic increase as tariffs are again adjusted in 2003.
Without the perodic adjustments, the TPA would continue to operate with a surplus, but the level of profit
would be significantly reduced. With continuous adjustments in tariffs, the profits would grow in a more
linear fashion.
Table 15: Profit and Los Statement for Mixed Cash
and Domestic Debt (million RMBs)
1999     2000     2001      2002     2003
Operating Revenues                 174.5   273.6    303.7    336.6   437.5
Operating Expenses:
Operating Labor                  23.0    29.8      34.1      39.1    44.4
Materials                        19.9    27.2      31.8      37.0    42.5
Depreciation                     33.8    57.4      57.4      57.6    66.5
Repair & Maintenance              4.2      5.2      5.8       6.5      7.2
Lease Payment to Port            14.6    15.5      16.4      17.4    18.4
Others                            2.0      2.2      2.3       2.4      2.5
Total Operating Expenses      97.5   137.3    147.9    160.1    181.6
Manage and Overheads               46.3    47.1       47.9      48.8    49.6
Taxes on Gross Revenues              5.9     9.3      10.3      11.4    14.9
Net Operating Income                24.7    80.0      97.6    116.3   191.4
Non-Operating income                (0.4)    0.0       0.3       0.5     1.1
Investment Income                   3.0      7.2       6.5       8.8    11.7
Gross Profit                  27.2    87.2    104.3    125.6   204.1
Interest                            10.3    20.9      43.6      42.6    41.4
Income after Interest               17.0    66.3      60.7      83.0   162.7
Losses on Foreign Exchange Loans    0.0      4.4       7.5       7.6     7.8
Income Tax                          5.6    21.9       20.0      27.4    53.7
After Tax Profit              11.4    40.0       33.2     48.0   101.3



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 44
China: Container Transport Project
The Balance Sheet was constructed using the Profit and Loss Statement and a number of
assumptions regarding current assets and liabilities. These were:
1. Accounts receivable held to 10 days of operating revenues
2. Accounts payable maintained at 40 days operating expenses
3. Accounts payable to TPA set at 1 % months average payments
4. Fuel inventory at 3 weeks of average requirements
5. Materials inventory held at 4 months of requirements
6. Cash on hand maintained at I months operating expenses
7. Welfare accrual equivalent to 6 weeks added to cumulative total
8. Tax accrual equivalent to 4 weeks of income tax
Investments in fixed assets other than those associated with the project were assumed to
average RMB 20 million over the next five years after adjusting for inflation. No attempt was made to
project the amount of this investment that would be in the form of Work-in-Progress. The latter was held
at RMB3 million. Liquid assets, especially short term investments would increase dramatically in 1999 as
a result of the TPA cash infusion and the disbursements from the Bank loan and domestic borrowings.
Thereafter they would continue at that level and gradually increase as retained earnings increased. The
retained eamings, combined with the TPA cash contribution would result in an increase in THCC equity
from RMB 0.41 billion in 1999 to RMB 0.71 billion in 2003. During the same period the amount of long
term debt would remain relatively unchanged at about RMB 0.55 billion.
Table 16: Balance Sheet for Mixed Cash and Domestic Debt (million RMBs)
1999      2000       2001       2002      2003
Assets
Current Assets:
Cash in Bank                8.1       11.4       12.3      13.3        15.1
Short Term Investments    137.2      111.8      162.4     222.6       165.2
Others Current Assets      10.4       14.8       16.7      18.9        23.0
Total Current Assets        155.7       138.0     191.4      254.8      203.3
Long Term Investments        34.7        40.0      46.2       56.4       67.6
Fixed Assets:
Plant and Equipment       750.8     1,209.3    1,232.8    1,256.6   1,456.5
Less :Cumulative Deprec.  246.2      303.7      361.1     418.6       485.1
Residual Value            504.6      905.6      871.7     837.9       971.4
Work-in Progress            2.5        2.5        2.5       2.5         2.5
Total Fixed Assets          507.1       908.1     874.2      840.4      973.9
Toa Mes                                         1g1~        4i~
Liabilities
Current Liabilities          11.9        14.2      15.0       16.6       19.8
Long Term Debt              271.6       542.9     534.6      524.9      513.5
Total Liabilities         283.5      557.1      549.6     541.5       533.3
Equity
Government contribution     273.4       273.4     273.4      273.4      273.4
TPA Equity Contribution     100.0       175.0     175.0      175.0       175.0
Capital Surplus               2.9         2.9       2.9        2.9        2.9
Retained Earnings            37.7        77.7     111.0      159.0      260.3
Total Equity              413.9      529.0      562.2     610.2       711.5
im~w     g



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 45
China: Container Transport Project
The cash flow for the THCC was developed from the Income and Expense statement and the
schedule of investment and debt repayment. The net cash flow would be negative in 2000 and 2003
because of major capital investments but otherwise would be positive. The negative cash flow in 2003 is
based on the assumption that the THCC would finance the investment through its own funds rather than
debt which is more likely. The cumulative cash flow would increase from 1998 to 2002 by an amount
equivalent to the cash contribution from TPA.
Table 17: Cash Flow Statement for Mixed Cash and Domestic Debt (million RMBs)
1999     2000     2001      2002     2003
After Tax Profit                  11.4     40.0    33.2       48.0    101.3
Plus: Depreciation                33.8     57.4    57.4       57.6     66.5
Plus: Foreign Exchange Losses      0.0      4.4      7.5       7.6       7.8
Plus: Increases in S.T. Liabilities  0.5    2.3      0.8       1.6      3.2
Plus: Loan Disbursements         271.6    271.5      0.0       0.0       0.0
Plus : Equity Contribution       100.0     75.0      0.0       0.0       0.0
Sources subtotal                 417.2    450.6    98.9    114.8    178.7
Less: Capital Investments        322.9    458.5    23.5       23.8    200.0
Less: Long Term Investments        4.4      4.9      5.8       9.6      10.7
Less: Principal Repayment          0.0      4.6    15.8       17.3     19.1
Less: Changes in Non Cash Assets   0.2      4.5      1.9       2.2      4.1
Net Cash Flow                     89.8    (21.8)    51.9      61.9    (55.1)
Cumulative Cash Flow             113.2     91.4   143.3    205.1    150.0
B. Inland Container Depots (ICDs)
All ICDs will be incorporated as limited liability companies, but the equity investors will be from
different interests in each case (see Annex 20 for details of the corporate and equity structure of each
ICD). The first objective of the financial analysis of the ICDs is to determine whether they are likely to
generate sufficient operating revenues each year to cover their direct operating costs and repay their on-
lent share of the Bank loan. A further objective is to determine whether their other credits can be repaid
and what would be the final rate of return for their equity investors.
a) Activities
Each ICD is expected to become involved in three revenue and cost generating activities: (i)
containers handling/storage, (ii) freight forwarding services and (iii) the transport of containers between
the ICD and the port and between the ICD and the final inland origin/destination of the freight. The first of
these is the raison d'etre of the depots, and generates significant revenue but also incurs the major capital
costs. Any depot that relies on this activity for all of its revenue has no prospect of financial viability. For
this reason as well as offering a more integrated service to users of the terminal, all ICDs are assumed to
undertake freight forwarding services. These require little investment (communications facilities and office
space), have low operating costs and produce substantial revenues. The charges for this service are high
because of the detailed knowledge and information needed to provide a good service. Since the ICD
operators do not have licenses to provide these services they would provide this service through a
licensed forwarder and pay a fee for this arrangement. The revenue that can be generated are limited by
the number of clients and number of containers that can be moved through the terminal, and the fee paid
to the license holder The combined revenue from container handling in the ICD and the freight forwarding



Project Appraisal Document                                                       Page 46
China: Container Transport Project
will be enough to provide a positive cash flow. The ICD operators will also participate in trucking services
to and from the ICD both to generate additional revenue and to capture sufficient traffic for the ICD. It is
necessary to provide a guaranteed transport service between the port and the ICD in order for the ICD to
be nominated as an empty container returning point by the shipping lines. This is essential if the cost-
savings relative to loading and unloading containers in the port is to be realized. Trucking services are
also important in order that the operator can provide his clients with a fully integrated service which is
expected in China (such as is already provided by Sinotrans).
Two alternative scenarios have been evaluated. The first assumes that the ICD companies are
unconstrained in their investment in trucks to maintain their market share after the first five years of
operation, while the second assumes that they are constrained to the number of trucks provided under the
World Bank loan. The first scenario represents a free-market situation where the possibility of the ICD
operators dominating the market for trucking services to their terminal is not an issue. The second
scenario represents the outcome of a policy to stimulate competition in the trucking market by preventing
the ICDs from exercising their potential monopoly power. Unless stated to the contrary, all results
described here relate to the second scenario.
b) Revenues
The estimate of revenue flows for each ICD assumes that the existing state recommended tariffs
for container handling and transport continue to apply and that the standard commercial rates will apply
for freight forwarding activities undertaken by the ICD operating company. Some of the tariffs are different
according to the province and/or distance of the ICD from the port. These differences are indicated in the
table following the description of each revenue generating activity:
i) ICD operating activities
Container stacking charge: 60 RMB per TEU for placing a box on the stack in the ICD yard or for
removing it from the stack. For all FCL Direct Port to Port there is no charge, for FCL Direct with the
empty box to or from the yard there is no charge, for FCL indirect there are two charges inbound but no
charges outbound, for LCL there are two charges for inbound and one charge for outbound.
Container storage: 6 per TEU-day for storage of the container in the ICD yard. This would be
charged for loaded boxes assuming an average of 2.5 days beyond the 5 day free time for FCL indirect
and 2 days for LCL. For empty boxes the charges would be paid by the shipping lines and were
calculated assuming 5 days beyond the free time for each move of the empty (Port to ICD, FCL Direct
Inbound, FCL Indirect Inbound upon return, LCL Inbound after unstuffing).
Container Stuffing/Unstuffing: 60 RMB per TEU for loading and unloading breakbulk cargo
into/from the container. This would be charged for all LCL inbound and outbound.
Container cleaning: 50 RMB per TEU for washing inside of containers. This would be performed
on of the empty boxes used for stuffing LCL outbound.
Cargo checking: 3 RMB per ton for tallying cargo. This would be charged on all inbound and
outbound LCL containers during unstuffing and stuffing. This assumes an average of 10.5 tons per TEU.
Container repair: 500 RMB per TEU for repair of damaged boxes. This would be charged on 10%
of the inbound boxes handled in the stack i.e. FCL indirect inbound and LCL inbound.
Breakbulk storage: 0.3 RMB per ton-day charged for all cargo delivered to the ICD for stuffing
and for LCL cargo unstuffed in the port, i.e. total LCL inbound and outbound. This assumes 2.5 days
beyond the free time and 10.5 tons per TEU.



Project Appraisal Document                                                         Page 47
China: Container Transport Project
Sealing: 10 RMB per TEU for sealing container. This would be charged to all LCL outbound.
ii) Freight Forwarding Activities
Freight forwarding: RMB 400 per TEU for consolidating and arranging transport. This would be
charged to all outbound boxes using the ICD, i.e. FCL indirect and LCL. The full charge would be 500
RMB but the ICDs do not have licenses to operate as forwarders and would have to pay a fee to the
holder of the license.
EDI: 10 RMB per TEU for tracking boxes. This would be charged to all inbound boxes.
iii) Transport Activities
Container Transport: 6 RMB per TEU kilometer for moving the containers on ICD trailers, this
applies to all movement of loaded containers. Empty movements are priced at 2 RMB and charged to
shipping lines.
Breakbulk transport: 0.3 RMB per ton-km for transport of breakbulk cargo between the
shipper/consignee and the ICD, . This would be charged when using ICD trucks (33% of total movements
for selected ICDs).
C) Costs
The principal costs taken into account in the financial analyses were the operating costs for the
terminal, the truck fleet and the forwarding services as well as debt amortization and national taxes on
gross taxable incomes.
Operating costs
Annual operating costs were estimated for each principal activity. Labor costs, including
management, make up about 20% of operating costs, the remainder being vehicle fuel and maintenance
(about 60%) and fixed costs (about another 20%, mostly vehicle taxes). However, annual operating costs
typically make up only about half the total costs with amortization accounting for most of the other half.
Loan amortization
In the financial analysis it was assumed that the World Bank loan would be passed on to the final
borrowers, the iCD operating companies at the same terms as the Bank loan to the Ministry of Finance.
Other commercial loans were assumed to attract interest rates of 10% in real terms for long term loans
(5 years or longer, mostly for vehicles) and 9% for short term loans (mostly for working capital). The
debt: equity ratio was assumed to remain below 1.5.
d) Financial feasibility
The financial feasibility. was computed using the present value of the operating cash flow and a
discount rate of 15%. Cash flows were estimated separately for the basic terminal operation, the trucking
activity, and freight forwarding service and then combined for the full operation. The projected flows were
computed for various scenarios to determine the robustness of the financial viability. The expected cash
flow was then used to construct financial statements for each of the ICDs in order to determine both the
expected rates of return and the robustness of their proposed financial structures.



Project Appraisal Document                                                               Page 48
China: Container Transport Project
Six of the ICDs are projected to have a negative present value for the operating cash flow from
terminal operations as shown in Table 18. This is an indication of the high capital and operating costs and
low tariffs for container handling. On the other hand, freight forwarding has few fixed costs activities and
produces positive operating cash flow from the first year of operation. In four of the ICDs, the present
value of the revenues from freight forwarding are sufficient to compensate for the negative present value
of the ICD operations even though the combined operating cash flow is negative in the early years. The
trucking services in five of the ICDs produce a significant contribution in terms of the present value of
operating costs. Only two produce a loss and this is relatively small. When the trucking services are
combined with the other activities, all but one of the ICDs show a positive present value as well as
positive annual flows from the second year of operation onwards. Huzhou has a relatively small negative
value. Further investigation of the investment proposals and staffing levels of this ICD will be made to
determine whether they are compatible with the level of demand projected.
These projections are based on the expected level of traffic. This level assumes that the ICD's
will handle a moderate share of the projected regional container market (23%-59% depending on the ICD)
and that its market share will increase up to 2005 (28%-70%) and then level off.
Table 18: Projection of Financial Performance (Yuan '000)
Financial    Bao Ding  Bao Tou Cang Zhou Han Dan   Huzhou  Qui Huang Tangshan Xiao Shan  Xintang
Indicator                                                 Dao
NPV Trucking    $766    $9,018    $509   $3,363   ($60)   $1,325      $259   ($100)      $215
IRR Trucking    31%      143%     25%       74%     12%.     41%       19%      14%      17%
NPV ICD       ($789)   ($5,195)  ($487)   ($318)    $380     $755    $1,294   $2,127    $1,485
IRR ICD          8%      -21%      10%      12%     18%      20%       28%      30%      23%
NPV Forwarding   $861     $793    $934   $1,011    $415   $1,848    $1,724    $1,252     $605
NPV Total       $837    $4,616    $956   $4,056    $734   $3,928    $3,277    $3,279    $2,305
IRR Total      19.8%     26.2%   20.9%    39.8%    19.8%    34.9%    33.5%    28.0%     22.3%
e) Sensitivity tests
Given the large number of variables that could influence the financial outcomes, a variety of
sensitivity tests were undertaken. Among the possible factors considered were lower rates of growth in
traffic, slower build-up in demand (longer "ramp-up" periods), higher operating and capital costs, and less
efficient operations. The results as shown in Table 19 indicate that most of the ICDs are secure against
most of the risks with the exception of Huzhou which has marginal financial returns.
Table 19: Financial Sensitivity test results
Low deBmand      Longer         Higher       Higher      Lower
ICD       Expected       FIRR       ramp-up" period   Capital       Labor
FIRR    ~  FIRR           Cost         Cost       Speed
Baoding          19.8%       14.5%          12.3%          14.6%        18.7%       16.8%
Baotou           26.2%       22.1%          16.1%          19.5%        25.3%       21.4%
Cangzhou         20.9%       16.1%          13.4%          15.5%        19.5%       14.2%
Handan           39.8%       37.9%          24.1%          29.7%        38.4%       31.4%
Huzhou           19.8%       13.7%          11.7%          15.2%        17.4%       18.7%
Quihuangdao      34.9%       32.4%          23.6%          27.0%        34.0%       31.2%
Tangshan         33.5%       31.2%          23.2%          25.4%        32.1%       28.6%
Ziaoshan         28.0%       25.7%          19.5%          21.7%        26.0%       24.0%
Xintang          22.3%       18.9%          14.2%          16.0%        20.4%       17.6%
Bold = returns less than discount rate



Project Appraisal Document                                                         Page 49
China: Container Transport Project
f) Financial performance
Since the ICD's do not currently exist, it was necessary to project the financial performance of the
10 companies based on a number of operating assumptions. Some of these are summarized below.
Using these assumptions and the projection of operating cash flow, pro forma financial statements were
prepared for the first five years of operation. These include the debt service on the World Bank loan which
is presumed to be on-lent to the companies at terms similar to those for the original loan. It also includes
local funds in the form of cash equity as proposed by the ICD proponents. The amounts for each ICD are
shown in Table 21.
Table 20: Assumptions Used in Preparing Financial Statements
* Accounts receivable equivalent to 15 days of revenue
* Accounts payable are equivalent to 30 days for average expenditures
* Inventories are equal to 3 months of spare parts, fuel and lube
* The minimum cash on hand is the 3 weeks of operation costs
* Payroll accruals are equal to 2 weeks of wages, salaries and benefits.
* Disbursement of the debt matched the time for investment in trucks and yard equipment.
* Cash equity provided in the first year of operation.
* Procurement of assets occurs early in the fiscal year along with disbursement of loan funds
* All of the ICD profits were retained rather than disburse to workers or management.
Table 21: ICD Debt and Equity Structure (1,000 RMB except as noted)
ICD         WB Loan        Cash,       Domestic   Equity in Kind    Working
OOOUS$                      debt                     Capital
Bao Ding          $ 3,146        8,006         8,000       1,139          752
BaoTou            $ 6,808       15,637        23,719       3,196         1,156
Cang Zhou         $ 2,749        6,965         5,000       1,676          942
Han Dan           $ 3,265        8,982         9,159       1,036          922
Huzhou            $ 3,686       16,140            0        1,856           98
Qui huang Dao     $ 3,007        7,815         6,900       1,435          699
Tangshan          $ 3,614        9,740            0        1,673          942
Xiao Shan         $ 4,258        9,398        19,140       1,400          886
Xintang           $ 5,877       14,767        22,318       3,625         1,114
Total      $36,410       97,450        94,236      17,036         7,511
Source: ICD proponents as reported to Consultants * land, buildings, equipment
The financial ratios from the income and expense statements as shown in Table 22 indicate that
only half of the ICDs generate a profit in the first year but profitability increases rapidly within the first two
years as the utilization of equipment improves with the growth in traffic. By 2005, all ICDs are generating
substantial profits. Operating ratios in the first year are between 0.71 and 1.08 but drop to between 0.59
and 0.83 within two years and reach 0.49-0.70 by 2005.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                 Page 50
China: Container Transport Project
Table 22: Financial Performance Ratios for ICDs in 2000, 2002, 2005
Operating Ratio            Working Ratio         Profit After Tax and Interest
2000     2002     2005     2000     2002     2005     2000     2002     2005
Bao Ding        1.02     0.79     0.59      0.60     0.55     0.49    (1,591)     69     5,318
BaoTou          0.75     0.66      0.56     0.56     0.55     0.51     2,324    5,694    18,784
Cang Zhou       1.08     0.82      0.60     0.63     0.57     0.51    (1,882)   (320)    5,483
Han Dan         0.71     0.66     0.58     0.57      0.53     0.48     2,950    4,483    11,418
Huzhou          1.08     0.80     0.54     0.73      0.58     0.43    (1,072)    288     4,741
Qui huang Dao    0.70    0.59      0.49     0.52     0.46     0.39     1,566    3,714    11,808
Tangshan        0.82     0.67      0.55     0.52     0.49     0.45      634    2,567    10,276
Xiao Shan       0.98     0.81      0.62     0.64     0.61     0.53    (1,555)    484    10,716
Xintang         0.92     0.83      0.70     0.68     0.67     0.63     (820)     464     9,324
The rates of return are substantial for all of the ICDs as shown in Table 23. The return on total
assets range from only 4.3% to 24% in 2000 but increase to a minimum of 14% by 2005. These
estimates are based on the historical value of the plant and equipment rather than a replacement value so
the increase over time is somewhat overstated. The return on net fixed assets is substantially higher and
increases more rapidly because of the decreasing asset value due to cumulative depreciation.
Table 23: Return on Assets for the ICDs
Retum on Net Fixed Assets    Return on Total Asset*   Retum on Capital Employed
2000     2002     2005     2000     2002     2005     2000     2002      2005
Bao Ding         12.8%    15.9%    39.4%    11.2%    11.8%    17.5%    8.9%     11.7%    16.9%
BaoTou           16.7%    19.9%    41.2%   15.9%     14.5%    17.3%    12.8%    14.1%    16.6%
Cang Zhou        10.9%    14.5%    36.8%    9.4%     11.0%    17.3%     7.5%    11.0%    16.8%
Han Dan          31.7%    32.5%    72.2%    24.0%    17.8%    18.4%    17.4%    17.2%    17.7%
Huzhou            5.9%    10.8%    29.4%    4.3%      7.3%    14.0%    3.8%      7.3%    13.5%
Qui huang Dao    20.5%    24.0%    56.6%    17.5%    15.7%    19.3%    13.3%    15.2%    18.3%
Tangshan         19.3%    22.1%    54.8%    14.9%    13.9%    18.3%    11.1%    13.6%    17.6%
Xiao Shan        22.9%    23.7%    80.9%    17.3%    14.8%    22.7%    12.0%    14.6%   21.7%
Xintang          20.9%    21.3%    53.1%   16.6%     13.7%    17.8%    12.0%    13.6%    17.4%
All of the ICDs have a positive cash flow from the first year. The increase in both the net annual
cash flow and the cumulative cash flow is substantial for all of the ICDs. There are adequate reserves to
cover the debt service even in 2005 when the repayment of the World Bank loan begins. Furthermore,
the buildup of cash is sufficient to fund the replacement of the tractor-trailer fleet at the end of 7 years



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page 51
China: Container Transport Project
Table 24: Net and Cumulative Cash Flow for ICDs (1000 RMB)
Net Cash Flow              Cumulative Cash Flow
2000     2002      2005      2000      2002       2005
Bao Ding          2,306     4,414      7,770    5,206    13,000     33,618
BaoTou           10,294    16,667     24,609    7,392    38,280    105,881
Cang Zhou         1,980     4,121      7,780     5,631    12,634    32,903
Han Dan           7,234    10,878     14,674    12,384    32,722    74,160
Huzhou             768      2,553      6,127    11,901    15,842    30,650
Qui huang Dao     5,846     9,081     14,486     8,548    25,195    63,890
Tangshan          5,143     8,345     13,354    12,664    27,767    63,617
Xiao Shan         4,436     7,376     14,356    11,194    24,182    60,418
Xintang           6,730    10,347     14,963    14,545    33,591     75,171
There is no difficulty with the availability of cash as indicated by the current ratio. This is due in
large part to the additional cash equity provided to cover working capital in the first year followed by a
positive cash flows in following years. The coverage of interest, as measured by times interest earned, is
above 3.0 for all ICDs except Huzhou during the initial five years. Similarly, debt service coverage is
above 2.5 except for Huzhou.
The projected financial statements for each of the ICD's is shown in Tables 25A-25H. They all
show a steadily improving financial performance over the first five years of operation. The financially
weakest are Huzhou and Cang Zhou but both achieve positive financial results within three years of
commencing operations.
Despite the positive cash flow, the ICDs do not generate sufficient funds to cover a commercial
loan with its shorter period and lack of a grace period. In this sense, the World Bank loan is critical to the
success of these ventures.
All of the ICDs with the exception of Huzhou appear to be financially robust. However, this is an
innovative venture and there is always a risk of failure. Even if one or two should fail, the assets financed
by the Bank loan would to remain in productive use and would likely be used in ways that still fulfill the
objectives of the project. The container trucks are highly mobile assets and would be easily marketable to
other companies active in the transport of containers. The civil works, which represent only a small
proportion of the loan funds are adaptable to other transport uses or marketable to other operators of
container services.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                    Page 52
China: Container Transport Project
Table 25A: Summary Financial Statements for Bao Ding
Operatfng Revenues                      8,118     10,207    12,836     16,139    20,292     25,515
Operating Expenses                      3,990      4,669     5,618      6,781     8,322     10,095
Management Expenses                     1,083      1,188     1,318      1,468      1,652     1,859
Depreciation                            3,184      3,184     3,184      3,184     3,184      3,184
Operating Surplus                       (140)      1,166     2,716      4,705     7,134     10,377
Interest Income                           145        189       295       473        715      1,037
Interest Expense                        1,186      1,902     1,940      1,979     2,018      2,059
Taxes                                     268       337        458      1,230      2,186     3,461
Foreign Exchange                          142       533        543       554        565        577
Net Income                             (1,591)    (1,416)       69      1,415     3,079      5,318
CurrentAssets                           00         7,251    11,116    16,354      23,293    31,331
Non-Depreciable Assets       11,390    11,390     11,390    11,390     11,390     11,390    11,390
Plant and Equipment          12,204    28,415     25,230    22,046     18,861     15,677    12,492
Total Assets              26,494    44,705    43,871      44,552    46,605     50,360     65,214
Current Liabilities           -           264       314        382       466        577        706
Long Term Debt                7,102    26,639     27,172    27,715     28,270    28,835     28,241
Total Liabilities          7,102    26,903     27,486     28,098    28,736     29,411     28,948
Equity                       19,392    17,801     16,385    16,454     17,869    20,948     26,266
Initial Contribution  .19,392          19,392     19,392    19,392     19,392     19,392    19,392
Retained Earnings             _        (1,591)   (3,007)    (2,938)    (1,523)     1,556     6,874
Net Income                    -        (1,591)    (1,416)       69      1,415     3,079      5,318
Plus: Depreciation             201      3,184      3,184     3,184      3,184      3,184     3,184
Plus: ForEx Losses            -           142       533        543       554        565        577
Total Operating Cash Flow      201      1,736      2,301     3,797      5,154      6,829     9,079
Plus: Equity Cash Contribution  8,002               _                               _
Plus: Increase Current        -           264        50         68        84        110        130
Liabilities
Plus: Loan Disbursements      7,102    19,395       _         _          _          -
Less: Repayment of Loans      -             0         0          0         0          0      1,170
Less: Capital Expenditure    12,404    19,395                 -          -          -          -
Less: Increase Non Cash       -           821       196        249       312        392        490
Current Assets
Net Cash Flow                 2,900     1,179      2,154     3,617      4,926      6,547     7,549
Cumulative Cash Flow          2,900     4,079      6,234     9,850     14,776     21,323    28,872



Project Appraisal Document                                                                Page 53
China: Container Transport Project
Table 25B: Summary Financial Statements for Bao Tou
Operating Revenues          .32,283    38,047    44,972    53,3`15    63,400    75,628
Operating Expenses                    13,902    16,389    18,960    21,950    25,666    30,043
Management Expenses                    2,774     3,082     3,405      3,768     4,198     4,690
Depreciation                           7,508     7,508     7,508      7,508     7,508     7,508
Operating Surplus                      8,100    11,068    15,099    20,089    26,028    33,388
Interest Income                        (145)       195       746      1,436     2,298     3,365
Interest Expense                       2,982     4,490     4,579      4,671     4,764     4,860
Taxes                                  2,210     2,661     4,289      6,309     8,737     11,748
Foreign Exchange                        438      1,258     1,283      1,308     1,335     1,361
Net Income                             2,324     2,854     5,694      9,237    13,490    18,784
Current Assets             (2,902)     8,352    20,141    34,814    53,087    75,690    100,904
Non-Depreciable Assets      23,755    23,755    23,755    23,755    23,755    23,755    23,755
Plant and Equipment         49,619    82,661    75,153    67,645    60,137    52,629    45,120
Total Assets             70,472   114,769   119,049   126,214   136,979   152,073   169,779
Current Liabilities          -          984      1,153      1,341     1,560     1,830     2,153
Long Term Debt              21,892    62,880    64,138    65,421     66,729    68,063    66,662
Total Liabilities        21,892    63,864    65,291    66,762    68,289    69,894    68,816
Equity                      48,580    50,904    53,758    59,452    68,689    82,179    100,964
Initial Contribution        48,580    48,580    48,580    48,580    48,580    48,580    48,580
Retained Eamings             -         2,324     5,178    10,872    20,109    33,599    52,384
Net Income                   -         2,324     2,854     5,694      9,237    13,490    18,784
Plus: Depreciation            372      7,508     7,508     7,508      7,508     7,508     7,508
Plus: Foreign Exchange       -          438      1,258     1,283      1,308     1,335     1,361
Losses
Total Operating Cash Flow     372    10,270    11,620    14,485    18,054    22,333    27,654
Plus :Equity Cash Contribution    15,637  -       -         -         -          -         -
Plus: Increases in Current   -          984        169       189       219        270       323
Liabilities
Plus: Loan Disbursements    21,892    40,550                -         -          -
Less: Repayment of Loans     -            0          0         0         0          0     2,763
Less: Capital Expenditure   40,803    40,550      -         -         -          -         -
Less: Increases in Non Cash  -         3,496       594       705       847      1,022      1,236
Current Assets
Net Cash Flow               (2,902)    7,758    11,194    13,968    17,426    21,581     23,978
Cumulative Cash Flow        (2,902)    4,857    16,051    30,019    47,445    69,025    93,004



Project Appraisal Document                                                                 Page 54
China: Container Transport Project
Table 25C: Summary Financial Statements for Cang Zhou
Operating Revenues                     7,721      4,887    12,656    16,200    2,          26,530
Operating Expenses                     3,814      4,611     5,634      6,808     8,417    10,464
Management Expenses                    1,321      1,451     1,604      1,774     1,984      2,234
Depreciation                           3,183      3,183     3,183      3,183     3,183      3,197
Operating Surplus                       (596)      642      2,235      4,434     7,148     10,635
Interest Income                          182       213        296       453        686      1,007
Interest Expense                       1,106      1,864     1,901      1,939     1,978      2,017
Taxes                                    255       326        418      1,152     2,208      3,576
Foreign Exchange                         108       522        532       543       554        565
Net Income                            (1,882)    (1,857)    (320)      1,253     3,094      5,483
Current Assets               3,650     5,303      7207     10,675     15,738    22,684     30,787
Non-Depreciable Assets      13,500    13,500     13,500    13,500     13,500    13,500     13,500
Plant and Equipment         10,960    28,387    25,204    22,021      18,839    15,656     12,602
Total Assets              28,110    47,190    45,912    46,196    48,077      51,840    56,889
Current Liabilities           -          245       301        373       458        573       720
Long Term Debt               5,385    26,102     26,624    27,157     27,700    28,254     27,672
Total Liabilities          5,385    26,347    26,926    27,530    28,157      28,826    28,392
Equity                      22,725    20,843     18,986    18,666     19,920    23,014     28,497
Initial Contribution        22,725    22,725    22,725    22,725    22,725      22,725     22,725
Retained Eamings             _        (1,882)    (3,739)    (4,058)    (2,805)     289      5,772
Net Income                            (1,882)    (1,857)    (320)      1,253     3,094      5,483
Plus: Depreciation            201      3,183      3,183     3,183      3,183     3,183      3,197
Plus: ForEx Losses           -           108       522        532       543        554       565
Total Operating Cash Flow      201      1,409     1,848     3,395      4,979     6,831      9,245
Plus :Equity Cash Contribution  6,965   _    -               -         -          - 
Plus: Increase Current                   245        56         72        85        115       147
Liabilities
Plus: Loan Disbursements     5,385    20,610      _-                                        -
Less: Repayment of Loans      -            0         0          0         0          0      1,147
Less: Capital Expenditure    8,901    20,610      -          -         -          -          143
Less: Increases Non Cash     -           741       199        256       325        418       534
Current Assets
Net Cash Flow                3,650       912      1,705     3,211      4,739     6,528      7,569
Cumulative Cash Flow         3,650     4,562      6,267     9,478     14,218    20,745     28,315



Project Appraisal Document                                                                 Page 55
China: Container Transport Project
Table 25D: Summary Financial Statements for Han Dang
Operating Revenues                    21,737    25,160    29,169    33,883      39,448     46,047
Operating Expenses                     9,429     11,180    12,918    14,671     16,858     19,578
Management Expenses                    1,706      1,909     2,115      2,327     2,578      2,876
Depreciation                           4,234      4,234     4,234      4,234     4,234     4,248
Operating Surplus                      6,368      7,837     9,902     12,652    15,778     19,344
Interest Income                          257       509        886      1,336     1,883     2,542
Interest Expense                       1,386      2,400     2,448      2,497     2,547      2,598
Taxes                                   2,171     2,297     3,171      4,310     5,625      7,143
Foreign Exchange                         118       672        686       699        713       728
Net Income                             2,950      2,977     4,483     6,481      8,776     11,418
Current Assets               5,150    13,113    21,111     30,636     42,179    56,060     71,027
Non-Depreciable Assets      10,260     10,260    10,260    10,260     10,260    10,260     10,260
Plant and Equipment          9,814    33,194    28,960    24,726    20,492      16,258     12,153
Total Assets             25,224    56,568    60,332    65,622    72,931       82,578    93,440
Current Liabilities           -          661       776        897      1,026     1,183      1,377
Long Term Debt               5,882    33,614    34,286    34,972    35,671      36,385     35,635
Total Liabilities          5,882    34,276    35,062    35,869     36,697     37,568    37,012
Equity                      19,342    22,292     25,269    29,753     36,234    45,010     56,428
Initial Contribution        19,342     19,342    19,342    19,342     19,342    19,342     19,342
Retained Earnings            -         2,950      5,928    10,411     16,892    25,668     37,086
Net Income                   -         2,950      2,977     4,483      6,481     8,776     11,418
Plus: Depreciation            201      4,234      4,234     4,234      4,234     4,234      4,248
Plus: ForEx Losses            -          118       672        686       699        713       728
Total Operating Cash Flow      201     7,302      7,884     9,403     11,415    13,724     16,394
Plus :Equity Cash Contribution  8,982   -         -          -         -
Plus: Increase Current        -          661       115        121       129        157       194
Liabilities
Plus: Loan Disbursements     5,882    27,615      -          -         -          -         -
Less: Repayment of Loans      -            0         0          0         0          0      1,477
Less Capital Expenditure     9,915    27,615                 -         -          -          143
Less: Increases Non Cash      -        2,281       356        412       482        572       681
Current Assets
Net Cash Flow                5,150     5,682      7,643     9,112     11,061    13,309     14,287
Cumulative Cash Flow         5,150     10,832    18,475    27,587     38,648    51,957     66,244



Project Appraisal Document                                                                   Page 56
China: Container Transport Project
Table 25E: Summary Financial Statements for Huzhou
Operating Revenues                      4,235     5,385        6,856     8,737     11,147    14,238
Operating Expenses                      2,277    2,536         2,987     3,363      3,977     4,707
Management Expenses                     1,636     1,753        1,891     2,030      2,195     2,377
Depreciation                            1,896     1,896        1,896     1,896      1,896     1,896
Operating Surplus                      (1,575)    (800)          82      1,448      3,079     5,257
Interest Income                          557       529          536        581       690        852
Interest Expense                         846      1,242        1,266     1,292      1,318      1,344
Taxes                                     140      178          226        317       934       1,763
Foreign Exchange                         133       348          355        362       369        376
Net Income                             (2,137)   (2,038)     (1,230)        58      1,149     2,626
CurrentAssets               11,132     11,149    11,370       12,419    14,759     18,212    22,393
Non-Depreciable Assets      7,630       7,630    7,630        7,630      7,630      7,630     7,630
Plant and Equipment         18,089     26,809    24,913       23,017    21,121     19,225    17,329
Total Assets             36,861     45,588    43,913       43,066     43,510    46,067     47,353
Current Liabilities           -           125      141          168        193       232        280
Long Term Debt              6,641      17,389    17,737       18,092    18,454     18,823    18,435
Total Liabilities         6,641     17,514    17,878       18,260     18,646    19,055     18,715
Equity                     30,210      28,074    26,035       24,805    24,864     26,012    28,638
Initial Contribution       30,210      30,210    30,210       30,210    30,210     30,210    30,21 0
Retained Earnings                     (2,137)   (4,175)      (5,405)    (5,346)    (4,198)    (1,572)
Net income                            (2,'137)   (21038)   -(i1,230)        58      1,149     2,626
Plus: Depreciation            167       1,896     1,896        1,896     1,896      1,896      1,896
Plus: ForEx Losses                        133      348          355        362       369        376
Total Operating Cash Flow     167       (108)      206         1,021     2,316      3,414     4,898
Plus :Equity Cash Contribution   16,140  -         -              -          -          -         -
Plus: Increase Current        -           125       16           28         24        39         48
Liabilities
Plus: Loan Disbursements    6,641      10,616      -              -          -          -         -
Less: Repayment of Loans                   0         0            0          0         0        764
Less: Capital Expenditure   11,816     10,616      -              -          -          -         -
Less: Increases Non Cash      -          334        78          103        127       168        215
Current Assets
Net Cash Flow               11,132      (317)      144          945      2,213      3,285     3,966
Cumulative Cash Flow        11,132     10,815    10,959       11,903    14,116     17,401    21,367



Project Appraisal Document                                                                  Page 57
China: Container Transport Project
Table 25F: Summary Financial Statements for Qui Huang Dao
Operating Revenues                    13,647     16,576    20,275     24,963    30,921     38,512
Operating Expenses                     4,827     5,820      6,940      8,488    10,349     12,825
Management Expenses                    1,053      1,176     1,313      1,487     1,689      1,943
Depreciation                           3,642     3,642      3,642      3,642     3,642      3,990
Operating Surplus                      4,125      5,937     8,380     11,347    15,242     19,753
Interest Income                          135       342       641       1,023     1,507      2,124
Interest Expense                       1,323     2,152      2,195      2,239     2,284      2,329
Taxes                                  1,222      1,530     2,498      3,688     5,246      7,087
Foreign Exchange                         150       603        615       627        640       652
Net Income                             1,566      1,995     3,714      5,816     8,579     11,808
Current Assets              2,701      8,387     14,697    22,749     32,946    45,942     57,768
Non-Depreciable Assets      13,400    13,400     13,400    13,400     13,400    13,400     13,400
Plant and Equipment         13,574    32,410    28,768     25,126     21,485    17,843     17,333
Total Assets             29,675     54,196    56,865     61,276    67,830     77,185    88,501
Current Liabilities           -         328        399        482       594        729       909
Long Term Debt              7,510     30,138    30,740     31,355     31,982    32,622     31,950
Total Liabilities         7,510     30,466    31,139     31,837    32,576     33,351    32,859
Equity                     22,165     23,730     25,726    29,439     35,255    43,834     55,643
Initial Contribution       22,165     22,165    22,165     22,165     22,165    22,165     22,165
Retained Eamings                       1,566     3,561      7,274     13,090    21,669     33,478
Net Income                    -        1,566      1,995     3,714      5,816     8,579     11,808
Plus: Depreciation            237      3,642     3,642      3,642      3,642     3,642      3,990
Plus: ForEx Losses            -          150       603        615       627        640       652
Total Operating Cash Flow     237      5,358      6,240     7,970     10,084     12,861    16,451
Plus :Equity Cash Contribution    7,815  -         -         -          -         -          -
Plus: Increase Current        -         328         71         83       112        136       179
Liabilities
Plus: Loan Disbursements    7,510     22,478            -               -         -          -
Less: Repayment of Loans      -            0         0          0         0          0      1,324
Less: Capital Expenditure   12,861    22,478       -         -          -         -         3,480
Less: Increases Non Cash      -        1,208       266        334       424        537       684
Current Assets
Net Cash Flow               2,701      4,478     6,044      7,719      9,772    12,459     11,142
Cumulative Cash Flow         2,701     7,179     13,223    20,942     30,714    43,173     54,315



Project Appraisal Document                                                                 Page 58
China: Container Transport Project
Table 25G: Summary Financial Statements for Tangshan
Oprating Rvnues                     13,424    16,571      2048      25,298    31,289    38,726
Operating Expenses                    5,549      6,611      7,955      9,650    11,740    14,209
Management Expenses                    1,414     1,563      1,738      1,947     2,191     2,471
Depreciation                          4,086      4,086      4,086      4,086     4,086     4,434
Operating Surplus                      2,375     4,311      6,688      9,615    13,272    17,612
Interest Income                         376       554         823      1,171     1,619    2,191
Interest Expense                       1,278     2,301      2,347      2,394     2,442     2,491
Taxes                                   755      1,000      1,940      3,107     4,574     6,339
Foreign Exchange                         84       645         657       671        684      698
Net Income                              634       920       2,567      4,614     7,191    10,276
Current Assets              7,520     12,694    18,419     25,825    35,31 8    47,427    58,11 5
Non-Depreciable Assets      9,100     9,100      9,100      9,100      9,100     9,1 00    9,100
Plant and Equipment        14,055    37,910     33,824     29,738    25,652     21,566    20,612
Total Assets             30,675    59,704    61,344      64,664    70,070     78,093    87,828
Current Liabilities                     370       445         541       663        811      988
Long Termn Debt             4,205    32,230     32,875     33,532     34,203    34,887    34,169
Total Liabilities         4,205    32,600    33,320      34,073    34,866     35,698    35,157
Equity                     26,470    27,104     28,023     30,590     35,204    42,395    52,671
Initial Contribution       26,470    26,470    26,470      26,470    26,470     26,470    26,470
Retained Earnings             _         634      1,553      4,120      8,734    15,925    26,201
Net Income                   _          634       920       2,567      4,614     7,191    10,276
Plus: Depreciation            189     4,086      4,086      4,086      4,086     4,086     4,434
Plus: ForEx Losses           -           84       645         657       671        684      698
Total Operating Cash Flow     189      4,804     5,650      7,310      9,371    11,961    15,407
Plus :Equity Cash Contribution    9,740  -        -          -         -          -         _
Plus: Increase Current                  370        75          96       122        148      177
Liabilities
Plus: Loan Disbursements    4,205    27,941       _     -              -          - 
Less: Repayment of Loans                  0         0           0         0          0     1,416
Less: Capital Expenditure   6,614    27,941       -          -         -          -        3,480
Less: Increases Non Cash     -         1,211      279         347       430        533      661
Current Assets
Net Cash Flow               7,520     3,963      5,446      7,059      9,062    11,576    10,028
Cumulative Cash Flow        7,520     11,483    16,929     23,989    33,051     44,626    54,654



Project Appraisal Document                                                                  Page 59
China: Container Transport Project
Table 25H: Summary Financial Statements for Xiao Shan
Operating Revenues                    15,435     19,442    24,634     31,404    40,293     52,039
Operating Expenses                     7,468     9,708     11,669     14,503    18,128     22,568
Management Expenses                    2,599      2,910     3,207      3,584     4,033      4,559
Depreciation                           5,079      5,079     5,079      5,079     5,079      5,093
Operating Surplus                       289       1,745     4,679      8,239    13,052     19,819
Interest Income                         338        444        612       907      1,316      1,878
Interest Expense                       1,579      2,876     2,934      2,992     3,052      3,113
Taxes                                    509       642      1,051      2,448     4,343      6,995
Foreign Exchange                         95        806        822       838        855       872
Net Income                            (1,555)    (2,135)      484      2,867     6,118     10,716
Current Assets               6,758    10,833     14,717    21,235     30,206    42,502     57,574
Non-Depreciable Assets       1,839     1,839      1,839     1,839      1,839     1,839      1,839
Plant and Equipment         12,980    43,361    38,282     33,203     28,124    23,045     18,094
Total Assets              21,577    56,033    54,838     56,276    60,169     67,386    77,508
Current Liabilities                     457        591        724       911      1,155      1,459
Long Term Debt               4,728    40,282    41,088     41,910     42,748    43,603     42,705
Total Liabilities          4,728    40,739    41,679     42,633    43,659     44,758    44,164
Equity                      16,849    15,294     13,159    13,643     16,510    22,628     33,344
Initial Contribution        16,849    16,849     16,849    16,849     16,849    16,849     16,849
Retained Earnings             -       (1,555)    (3,690)    (3,206)   (339)      5,779     16,495
NetIncome                     -       (1,555)    (2,135)     484       2,867     6,118     10,716
Plus: Depreciation             200     5,079      5,079     5,079      5,079     5,079      5,093
Plus: ForEx Losses            -          95        806        822       838        855       872
Total Operating Cash Flow      200     3,618      3,750     6,385      8,784    12,052     16,681
Plus :Equity Cash Contribution  9,398   -          -                               -         -
Plus: Increase Current        -         457        135        133       187        244       304
Liabilities
Plus: Loan Disbursements     4,728    35,460       -          -         -          -          -
Less: Repayment of Loans      -           0          0          0         0          0      1,770
Less: Capital Expenditure    7,567    35,460       -          -         -          -          143
Less: Increases Non Cash      -        1,382       376        472       623        819      1,080
Current Assets
Net Cash Flow                6,758     2,693     3,509      6,046      8,349    11,477     13,992
Cumulative Cash Flow         6,758     9,451     12,960    19,006     27,354    38,831     52,824



Project Appraisal Document                                                                 Page 60
China: Container Transport Project
Table 251: Summary Financial Statements for Xintang
Operating Revenues                    26,768    31,347    36,959     43,879     52,465    63,177
Operating Expenses                     14,075   16,801    19,404    22,528      26,651    31,303
Management Expenses                    3,380     3,746     4,113      4,531      5,041     5,605
Depreciation                           7,158    7,158      7,158      7,158      7,158     7,158
Operating Surplus                      2,156    3,642      6,284      9,662     13,615    19,112
Interest Income                          391      577        869      1,280      1,801     2,452
Interest Expense                       2,298    4,015      4,095      4,177      4,261     4,346
Taxes                                    883     1,034     1,448      2,817      4,448     6,677
Foreign Exchange                         185     1,125     1,147      1,170      1,193     1,217
Net Income                              (820)   (1,955)      464      2,779      5,515     9,324
Current Assets                7,81     15,238    21,733    30,66     41,995     56,136    71,683
Non-Depreciable Assets       1,850     1,850     1,S50     1,850      1,850      1,850     1,850
Plant and Equipment         27,808    67,440    60,283    53,125    45,967      38,810    31,652
Total Assets              37,472    84,528   83,865    85,651     89,812      96,795   105,185
Current Liabilities           -          902     1,069     1,244      1,457      1,732     2,051
Long Term Debt               9,255    56,230    57,354    58,501     59,671     60,865    59,611
Total Liabilities          9,255    57,132    58,423    59,745    61,128      62,597    61,663
Equity                      28,217    27,397    25,442    25,906     28,684     34,199    43,523
Initial Contribution        28,217    28,217   28,217    28,217    28,217       28,217    28,217
Retained Earnings                      (820)   (2,775)    (2,311)      467      S5,982    15S,306
Net Income                   _          (820)   (1,955)      464      2,779      5,515     9,324
Plus: Depreciation            235      7,158     7,158     7,158      7,158      7,158     7,158
Plus: ForEx Losses                       185     1,125     1,147      1,170      1,193     1,217
Total Operating Cash Flow      235      6,523    6,327     8,768     11,106     13,866    17,699
Plus :Equity Cash Contribution    14,767     -               -         -          -         -
Plus: Increase Current        -          902      167        175       213         275      319
Liabilities
Plus: Loan Disbursements     9,255    46,789                 -         -          -         -
Less: Repayment of Loans     -             0        0          0         0           0     2,471
Less: Capital Expenditure   16,443    46,789      -          -         -          -         -
Less: Increase Non Cash       -        2,694      464        559       689         858     1,064
Current Assets
Net Cash Flow                7,814     4,730     6,030     8,384     10,630     13,283    14,483
Cumulative Cash Flow         7,814     12,544    18,574    26,958    37,588     50,871    65,354



Project Appraisal Document                                                      Page 61
China: Container Transport Project
Annex 6
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
A. Procurement
General
1.    Given the wide range of activities and agencies involved in the project, the procurement
procedures would be carried out in a centrally controlled manner. The emphasis is on timely procurement
actions and the scale of economy.
2.    Procurement of works and goods will follow the Bank Guidelines dated January 1955 and revised
in January and August 1996 and September 1997. Chinese Model Bidding Documents, published by
Tsinghua University Press, dated May 1997 and, where the Model Bidding Document is not available, the
Bank's Standard Bidding Documents will be used for all Bank-financed procurement.
3.    Procurement of Consulting Services and the format of consultants' contracts will both be based
on the Bank Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers dated
January 1997 and revised in September 1997.
4.    A Procurement Plan, providing a time table for each step of the procurement process for each
package is attached to Annexes 16 and 17.
Procurement Methods
5.    Civil Works: Development of ICDs involves civil works. Each contract is estimated to cost less
than US$ equivalent of 8 million. They are geographically scattered and small in size. They will be
implemented locally by project ICDs. Because of these reasons, it is less likely to arouse interest of
foreign contractors. Adequate competition is expected because of the existence of a large number of
qualified contractors. Because of these factors, the advantages of NCB outweigh those of ICB, and thus
NCB would be an acceptable method. The documentation for the civil work contracts will follow the NCB
Model Bidding Documents for civil works for Bank-financed projects in China. NCB review process will be
carried out by RMC. There will be a total of 9 contracts. Total estimated value for these contracts is US$
18 million equivalent.
6.    Goods: Major equipment like container cranes and tractors with contract value estimated to cost
US$250,000 or more will be procured through ICB using the PRC's Model Bidding Document. For
contracts with estimated costs below US$250,000 which have the characteristics stated in the above para
would be procured through NCB. Off-the-shelf goods like office equipment, maintenance equipment and
other goods which are estimated to cost below US$100,000 each will be procured through national
shopping method (which does not exclude the procurement from foreign suppliers). The aggregate
amount of procurement through shopping is expected to be US 0.8 million.
7.    Services: Four Technical Assistance (TA) activities form part of this project, These are:
(i) TA for strengthening the managerial and operational capability of project ICDs, more
specifically: (a) the development of business plans; (b) operational manuals; and (c) the conduct of foreign
and domestic study tours. The estimated total cost of this component is US$359,000. Within this
allocation, individual foreign consultants would be recruited for the development of business plans
(US$35,000) and operational manual (US$30,000).



Project Appraisal Document                                                       Page 62
China: Container Transport Project
(ii) TA for developing an Electronic Data Interchange (EDI) and MIS System for project ICDs,
with an.estimated cost of US$199,000. CPMO has requested the Bank to allow them to select a
consulting firm on a sole source basis with the following justifications.
* The proposed development of EDI/MIS was a continuation of, or an extension from the
previous projects (i.e. Port & Shipping Line EDI Network Project and China Container
Transport Experiment Project, both undertaken by the Chinese Government) in which the
Waterborne Transport Institute (WTI) was a major system designer. There is, therefore, a
clear advantage of using the same consulting firm for the development of MIS/EDI in terms of
cost and time to be spent for the development.
* EDI system to be employed by project ICDs should be compatible with that of the Port &
Shipping Line EDI Network (PSL-EDI). The use of the consultant who was involved in the
development of the latter system would enable to ensure the above requirement to be met.
* A major part of the development efforts would be on the development of a system
accommodating China's specific requirements including the language requirement. This
requires the use of Chinese consultants. CPMO stated that the WTI is only a Chinese
institution which has adequate experience in this field.
In consideration of the above factors, the proposed selection method of a consultant is justifiable
in light of economy and efficiency principle.
(iii) TA for establishing an arm's length relationship between port authority and container
terminals operators, and for instituting a level playing field for intra-port competition between two container
terminal operators, with an estimated cost of US$60,000. Among them, US$ 30,000 would be used for
the recruitment of a foreign individual consultant.
(iv) TA for enhancing the productivity of container berths at Tianjin Port with an estimated cost of
US$52,000. Among them, US$27,000 would be used for the recruitment of an individual foreign
consultant.
Before implementing the TA program, CPMO will prepare a TA implementation plan and send to
the Bank for its approval. Foreign study tours, workshops and the recruitment of consultants will be
carried out in accordance with this TA implementation plan.
8.    Advance contracting and retroactive financing: Project ICDs are planning to procure most
equipment in the first year. For this purpose, civil works should be completed by the time of equipment
delivery. it is also planning to start technical assistance program in late 1998 because of the importance of
training the staff before the [CD operations start. Therefore, 40% of civil works and 40% of technical
assistance would be financed on a retroactive financing basis. The estimated amount is US$5.6 million,
which is 7.9 % of the loan amount. This would be applied to those civil works and TA to be procured after
October 1, 1998
9.    Prior Review Thresholds: Table B indicates the thresholds for prior reviews for ICB, NCB and
shopping. The review process would cover about 97 percent (US$ 69 million) of Bank-financed total
contract values, which far exceeds the minimum requirement of 80% for the percentage of prior review.
Selected post review of awarded contracts below the prior review threshold will be carried out of one in
every 4 contracts.



Project Appraisal Document                                                     Page 63
China: Container Transport Project
B. Disbursement
Special Accounts
10.   To facilitate disbursements under the project, four Special Accounts (SAs) would be established
in commercial banks located in Hebei Province, Zhejiang Province, Tianjin Municipality and Inner
Mongolia Autonomous Region Initial deposits, approximately equal to an estimated four months'
expenditures, would be made. Applications for replenishment of the SAs would be submitted monthly or
when the amounts withdrawn from the SAs are equal to 50% of the initial deposit, whichever comes
sooner.
Review and approval process
11.   For those payments amounting to larger than 25% of the initial deposit of each Special Account,
direct payment to suppliers would be made from the Loan Account in the World Bank. To make this
payment, disbursement documents would be prepared by ICDs, and sent to the Municipality Finance
Bureau (MFB), The documents would be reviewed and approved by MFB, with the countersignature of the
Municipality Project Leading Group (MPLG). Then, the documents will be sent to Provincial Finance
Bureau (PFB), and be reviewed and approved by them, with countersignature of Provincial Project
Management Office (PPMO). For processing, PFB will send disbursement application to the World Bank
(WB). The supplier will be paid from the Loan Account in the WB.
12.   To make payment from the Special Accounts in PFBs, disbursement documents would be
prepared by ICD, and sent to MFB. The documents would be reviewed and approved by MFB, with
countersignature of MPLG. It would be then sent to PFB, and would be reviewed and approved by them,
with a countersign of PPMO. The supplier will be paid from the Special Account of PFB. After that, PFB
will send the World Bank the application for replenishment for the Special Account.
13.   To claim reimbursement to an ICD operator which has paid to a supplier from its own resources,
disbursement documents would be prepared by the ICD operator, and sent to MFB. The documents would
be reviewed and approved by MFB with the countersignature of MLG. It would be then sent to PFB, and
would be reviewed and approved by them. After PFB's review, the funds will be appropriated to the
enterprise from the special fund of MFB.
14.   MOF and CPMO will formulate detailed rules for disbursement by the end of March 1999.
Percentage of Disbursement
15.   The proceeds of the Loan would be disbursed against eligible expenditures as follows: (a) civil
works: 49 percent of expenditures; (b) equipment and materials: 100 percent of foreign expenditures,
100 percent of local expenditures (ex-factory), and 75 percent of other items procured locally; (c) and
100 percent of expenditures for technical assistance and training.
16.   For the contracts for: (a) civil works valued at less than $1,000,000; (b) goods costing less than
$250,000; (c) consulting services costing less than $100,000 for firms and $50,000 equivalent for
individuals, and (d) all training, disbursement will be made against Statement of Expenditure (SOE)
withdrawal procedures. Supporting documentation for SOEs would need to be maintained at CPMO for
TA, at PPMO for goods, at ICOs for civil works.



Project Appraisal Document                                                         Page 64
China: Container Transport Project
Accounts, Audits and reporting
17.    Project enterprises will maintain complete project accounts, while MFBs and PFBs will keep
simpler accounts which record fund flow. These offices will be staffed by qualified accounting staff.
Accounts and documentation to support the Statement of Expenditure (SOEs) will be maintained and
readily available for review by visiting Bank missions. Project accounts at each level would be audited by
Local Audit Administrations, and audit reports will be sent to higher level PMOs. CPMO will compile all
audited project accounts and audit reports, and send them to the Bank. In addition, project enterprises will
prepare enterprise financial statements and get them audited by local Audit Administrations. These
audited financial statements would be submitted to higher PMOs and sent to the CPMO. CPMO will then
send them to MOF and the Bank for their review within six month of the end of the fiscal year.
Attached tables:   Procurement methods (Table A)
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page 65
China: Container Transport Project
Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ thousand equivalent)
Expenditure                      Procurement Method                 Total Costs
Category                                                            (including
ICB        NCB         Other        NBF     Contingencies)
ICD Component
1. Civil Works                         19,072                                 19,072
(9,345)                              (9,345)
2. Goods                    22,528         74         253          40         22,895
(22,528)      (72)       (253)         (0)       (22,854)
3. Services                                           569                       569
(569)                    (569)
4. Other Investments                                           42,670         42,670
(0)           (0)
Port Component
1. Civil Works                                                  8,583          8,583
(0)           (0)
2. Goods                    36,888                                            36,888
(36,888)                                         (36,888)
3. Services                                            179                      179
(179)                    (179)
4. Other investments                                           27,649         27,649
(0)           (0)
Total               59,416       19,146      1,002      78,942       158,505
(59,416)    (9,418)     (1,002)        (0)       (69,835)
1) NBF: Not Bank-Financed
2) Other includes procurement of goods through nationalfintemational shopping and that of consultant services
3) Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan
4) The above does not include the lending for the front-end fee
5) The above figures are rounded up.
6) The above figures do not include taxes and duties.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                     Page 66
China: Container Transport Project
Annex 6, Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(in US$ million equivalent)
Total Cost
Consultant Services                           Selection Method                             (excluding
Expenditure Category                                                    X                contingencies)
QCBS      QBS      SFB       LCS      CQ       Other      N. B. F.
A. Firms                                                              0.199                   0.199
(0.199)                (0.199)
B. Individuals         0.122                                                                 0.122
(0.122)                                                               (0.122)
Total          0.122                                          0.199                   0.321
(0.150)                                       (0. 1 99)               (0.321)
Note:  QCBS  = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS    = Quality-based Selection
SFB    = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS    = Least-Cost Selection
CQ     = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other  = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F.  = Not Bank-financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 67
China: Container Transport Project
Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review!'
Expenditure       Contract Value        Procurement           Contracts Subject to
Category          (Threshold)            Method         Prior Review / Estimated Total
us $                               Value Subject to Prior Review
(US $ millions)
1. Works             < $8,000,000 /a      NCB               7 contracts subject to prior review
/$17 million
2. Goods               > $250,000 /b     ICB                12 contract subject to prior
review/$59 million
< $250,000         NCB               No contracts subject to prior
review
< $100,000                           10 contracts subject to
prior review/$0.8 million
3. Services            > $100,000 /c      Single-source     1 contract /$0.199 million
for firms       procurement
< $100,000         QCBS/other
for firms
> $50,000 /d      QCBS
for individuals
< $50,000         QCBS/other        4 contracts for QCBS amounting
for individuals                       to US$0.122 million.
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:           US$68 million
Total value of items financed by the Bank subject to prior      97%
review as a percentage of total Bank loan for the project
Threashold for prior review
/a  Prior review above $1,000,000 for civil works
/b Prior review above $250,000 for goods
/c  Prior review above $100,000 for firms
/d  Prior review above $50,000 for individuals
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement Documentation"
and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.



Project Appraisal Document                                                               Page 68
China: Container Transport Project
Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure              Amount in                 Financing
Category               US$ thousand              Percentage
ICD Component:
Goods                         22,565                100% 175%
Works                          8,611                       49%
Services                         559                      100%
Unallocated                    1,033
Sub-total                 32,768
Port Component:
Goods                         36,404                100% /75%
Works                              0                       49%
Services                         177                      100%
Unallocated                      487
Sub-total                 37,068
Front-end Fee                       710
Total              70,545
= Total amount of the loan was determined based on the rounded-up figure of the above table.



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 69
China: Container Transport Project
Annex 7
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
A. Project Budget (US$000)                         US$385                US$440
B. Project Schedule:
Time taken to prepare the project (months)     11 months            14 months
First Bank mission (identification)            05/15/1997           05/1511997
Appraisal mission departure                    04115/1998            07111/1998
Negotiations                                   08115/1998           01125/1999
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  01/15/1999           06/18/1999
Prepared by:         State Economic and Trade Commission, Tianjin Municipality, Hebei
Province, Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region, Zhejiang Province
Preparation assistance: PHRD fund and CTF
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                      Specialty
Shunso Tsukada                       Task managing and policy reform
Richard Scurfield                    Coordination with Chinese counterparts
Robin Carruthers                     Economic assessment
Ronald Kopicki                       Inland container depots
Toshiro Tsutsumi                     Port
Hoi-Chan Nguyan                      Legal
Anil Somani                          Environmental assessment
Chaohua Zhang                        Resettlement
John Amold                           Financial analyses
Gopalkrshnan                         Procurement (ICB)
Yingwei Wu                           Procurement (NCB)
Hyung Min Kim                        Disbursement
Jinxue Chu                           Financial management system
Juemin Chen/E Liu                    Coordination with SETC/MOF/SDPC
Doris Pappas                         Task assistant
Boonsri Kim                          Task assistant
I                                I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Project Appraisal Document.                                                         Page 70
China: Container Transport Project
Annex 8
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan (PIP)
*  PIP for the Container Transport Project, May 30, 1998
B. Bank Staff Assessments
*  Project Concept Document (PCD) and Minutes of the Review Meeting, September
1997
*  Current Status of the Implementation of the Recommendations of the Sector Study
*  Financial Analysis for Project ICDs and Tianjin Port
C. Other
*  Investigation Report of Resettlement, May 15, 1998
*  Environmental Impact Assessment Report, August 15. 1998
*  Feasibility Study Reports for 10 ICDs, April 1998
*  Feasibility Study Report for Tianjin Port Container Terminal, May 1998
*  Manual for financial management for ICDs
* Lefter of TPA indicating their plan for the corporatization of THCC through public offer
of its stocks
*  Registries for the establishment of 10 ICDs as limited liability companies
*  LeKters of intent issued by Gateway Office of three provincial govemments,
confirming the provision of cross border inspections for individual ICDs
*  LeKter confirming the arrangement for securing freight forwarding services for each
ICD
* including electronic files.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                                                               Page 71
China: Container Transport Project
Annex 9
Statement of Loans and Credits
Status of Bank Group Operations in China
Operations Portfolio
As of 15-Feb-99
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                     and actual
Fiscal                                                                                                                                  disbursements a/
Project ID    Year                Borrower                           Purpose
IBRD        IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed  Original   Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Proj cts: 106
Active Projects
CN-PE-49665      1999   PRC                              ANNING VALLEY AG.DEV                     90.00       30.00             0.00        119.94         0.00         0.00
CN-PE-50036     1999   PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHIN         ANHUI PROVINCIAL HWY                    200.00        0.00             0.00        200.00         2.49         0.00
CN-PE-63123     1999   PRC                               YANGTZE FLOOD EMERGY                     40.00       40.00             0.00         80.00         0.00         0.00
CN-PE-3539      1998   PRC                                SUST COAST RES DEV                     100.00        0.00             0.00        100.00         2.92         0.00
CN-PE-3566       1998                                     BASIC HEALTH                             0.00       85.00             0.00         86.90         1.15         0.00
CN-PE-35698      1998   PRC                               HUNAN POWER DEVELOP.                   300.00        0.00             0.00        300.00         3.00         0.00
CN-PE-3591      1998   PRC                                STATE FARMS COMMERCI                   150.00        0.00             0.00        110.48      -28.42          0.00
CN-PE-3606      1998   GOC                                ENERGY CONSERVATION                     63.00        0.00             0.00          63.00        2.24         0.00
CN-PE-3614       1998   PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHIN         GUANGZ. CITY CRT.TRP                   200.00        0.00             0.00        200.00        10.59         0.00
CN-PE-3619       1998   MINISTRY OF FINANCE               2ND INLAND WATERWAYS                   123.00        0.00             0.00         123.00       15.50         0.00
CN-PE-36414      1998   CHINA                             GUANGXI URBAN ENV.                      72.00       20.00             0.00          89.35       -1.53         0.00
CN-PE-36949      1998   PEOPLES REPUBLIC OF CHINA         NAT.HWY 3-HUBEI                        250.00        0.00             0.00        242.00         8.67         0.00
CN-PE-40185      1998   PRC                               SHANDONG ENVIRONMEHT                    95.00        0.00             0.00          92.00       17.65         0.00
CN-PE-45788      1998   PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHIN         TRI-PROVINCIAL HWY                     230.00        0.00             0.00        230.00        32.04         0.00
CN-PE-46563      1998   PRC                               TARIM BASIN II                          90.00       60.00             0.00        152.40        11.69         0.00
CN-PE-46952     1998   PRC                                FOREST. DEV. POOR AR                   100.00      100.00             0.00        203.96         7.17        14.34
CN-PE-49700     1998   PRC                                IAIL-2                                 300.00        0.00             0.00        280.00        -4.70         0.00
CN-PE-51736      1998   GOC                               E. CHINA/JIANGSU PWR                   250.00        0.00             0.00        250.00        71.86         0.00
CN-PE-56491      1998   PRC                               HEBEI EARTHQUAKE                         0.00       28.40             0.00          21.01       -2.82         0.00
CN,PE-34081      1997   PRC                               XIAOLANGDI MULTI. II                   430.00        0.00             0.00        364.40        86.07         0.00
CN-PE-3590      1997   PRC                                QINBA MTS. POVTY RED                    30.00      150.00             0.00        157.27        22.39         0.00
CN-PE-3635       1997   PRC                               VOC. ED. REFORM PROJ                    10.00       20.00             0.00          17.37        1.95         0.00
CN-PE-3637       1997   PRC                               NATL RUR WATER III                       0.00       70.00             0.00          65.42        8.89         0.00
CN-PE-36405      1997   PRC                               WANJIAZHAI WATER TRA                   400.00        0.00             0.00        328.66        -3.01         0.00
CN-PE-3643       1997   PRC                               XINJIANG HIGHWAYS II                   300.00        0.00             0.00         237.28       54.28         0.00
CN-PE-3650       1997   GOC                               TUOKETUO POWER/INNER                   400.00        0.00             0.00        398.00       118.12         0.00
CN-PE-3654       1997   PRC                               HUNAN/GUANG HWY2-NH2                   400.00        0.00             0.00        350.40        80.39         0.00
CN-PE-36952      1997   PRC                               BASIC ED. IV                             0.00       85.00             0.00          50.51      -21.08         0.00
CN-PE-38988      1997   PRC                               HEILONGJIANG ADP                       120.00        0.00             0.00          97.02        7.74         0.00
CN-PE-44485      1997                                     SHANGHAI WAIGAOQIAO                    400.00        0.00             0.00         400.00       52.69         0.00
CN-PE-34618      1996   PRC                               LABOR MARKET DEV.                       10.00       20.00             0.00          24.46       21.16         0.00
CN-PE-3507       1996   GOC                               ERTAN HYDRO II                         400.00        0.00             0.00          31.51      -22.40         0.00
CN-PE-3563       1996   PRC                               ANIMAL FEED                            150.00        0.00             0.00         139.57      104.20        12.92
CN-PE-3569       1996   P.R.C.                            SHANGHAI-ZHEJIANG HI                   260.00        0.00             7.75         110.73       23.83        13.17
CN-PE-3589       1996   PRC                               DISEASE PREVENTION                       0.00      100.00             0.00          71.22       55.07         0.00
CN-PE-3594       1996   PRC                               GANSU NEXI CORRIDOR                     60.00       90.00             0.00         129.18       24.33         0.00
CN-PE-3599       1996   YUNNAN PROV. GOV.                 YUNNAN ENVIRONMENT                     125.00       25.00             0.00         141.29       14.24         0.00
CN-PE-3602       1996   PRC                               HUBEI URBAN ENV. PRO                   125.00       25.00             0.00         128.27       75.00         0.00
CN-PE-3638       1996   PRC                               SEEDS SECTOR COMMER.                    80.00       20.00             0.00          84.49       28.54         0.00
CN-PE-3646       1996   PRC                               CHONGQING IND POL CT                   170.00        0.00             0.00         169.38       95.13         0.00
CN-PE-3648       1996   SHANGHAI MUN. GOVT                SECOND SHANGHAI SEWE                   250.00        0.00             0.00         165.68       73.87         0.00
CN-PE-3649       1996   CHINA                             SHANXI POVERTY ALLEV                     0.00      100.00             0.00          35.64      -12.39         0.00
CN-PE-3652       1996   PRC                               2ND SHAANXI PROV HWY                   210.00         0.00            0.00         148.70       54.69         0.00
CN-PE-36950      1996   PRC                               BASIC ED. POOR III                       0.00      100.00             0.00          14.43      -23.65         0.00



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                                                          Page 72
China: Container Transport Project
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                   and actual
Fiscal                                                                                                                      _       disbursements a/
Project ID    Year               Borrower                          Purpose
IBRD        IDA     Cancellations  Undisbursed  Original   Frm Rev'd
CN-PE-40513    1996   PRC                               2ND HENAN PROV HWY                    210.00        0.00            0.00        181.05       51.72         0.00
CN-PE-3493      1995   PRC                              INLAND WATERWAYS                      420.00       0.00             0.00        286.07       -4.79         0.00
CN-PE-3571      1995   PRC                              RAILWAYS VII                          400.00        0.00            0.00        384.39      195.05         0.00
CN-PE-3585      1995   GOC                              SHENYANG IND. REFORM                  175.00        0.00            0.00        100.80       47.20         0.00
CN-PE-3596      1995   PRC                              YANGTZE BASIN WATER                   100.00     110.00             0.00         41.11      -12.08         0.00
CN-PE-3598      1995                                    LIAONING ENVIRONMENT                  110.00        0.00            0.00         70.21       55.69         0.00
CN-PE-3600      1995   PRC                              TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPME                  200.00        0.00            0.00        132.94       41.52         0.00
CN-PE-3603      1995   PRC                              ENT. HOUSING SOC. SE                  275.00      75.00            20.00        204.50      153.52         4.17
CN-PE-36041    1995   MOF                               FISCAL & TAX REF. &                    50.00      25.00             0.00         66.82       41.27         0.00
CN-PE-3612      1995   PRC                              XINJIANG HIGHWAY I                    150.00        0.00            0.00         55.43       43.43         0.00
CN-PE-3634      1995   PRC                              MATERNAL CHILD HEALT                    0.00       90.00            0.00         22.07        9.68         0.00
CN-PE-3636      1995   PRC                              BASIC EDUC IN POOR &                    0.00     100.00             0.00          3.95       -2.68         0.00
CN-PE-3639      1995   PRC                              SOUTHWEST POV. REDUC                   95.00     200.00             0.00        151.15       29.64         0.00
CN-PE-3642      1995                                    ZHEJIANG POWER DEVT                   400.00        0.00            0.00        147.91      -47.89         0.00
CN-PE-3647      1995   PRC                              ECONOMIC LAW REFORM                     0.00       10.00            0.00          5.82        5.46         0.00
CN-PE-36947    1995   GOC                               SICHUAN TRANSMISSION                  270.00        O.00            0.00        141.78      126.75        83.41
CN-PE-37156    1995   PRC                               IODINE DEF. DISORDER                    7.00      20.00             7.00          2.14       11.74         -.71
CN-PE-3502      1994   MOH                              RUR HEALTH MANPOWER                     0.00      110.00            0.00         31.98       23.15         0.00
CN-PE-3504      1994   PRC                              HEBEI/HENAN NATIONAL                  380.00        0.00            0.00         48.65        8.30         0.00
CN-PE-3540      1994   PRC                              LOESS PLATEAU                           0.00     150.00             0.00         31.02      -24.41         0.00
CN-PE-3557      1994   PRC                              FOREST RESOURCE DEV                     0.00     200.00             0.00         47.66       15.52       -29.84
CN-PE-3562      1994   PRC                              XIAOLANGDI MULTIPURPOSE               460.00        0.00            0.00           .83         .83         0.00
CN-PE-3586      1994   PRC                              SHANGHAI ENVIRONMENT                  160.00        0.00            0.00         72.20       65.65         0.00
CN-PE-3593      1994   PRC                              SONGLIAO PLAIN ADP                      0.00     205.00             0.00         26.58      -15.75         0.00
CN-PE-3595      1994   PRC                              RED SOILS II DEVELOP                    0.00     150.00             0.00         41.63       14.11         0.00
CN-PE-3609      1994   GOC                              SICHUAN GAS DEV & CONSERVATION        255.00        0.00            0.00        129.77       74.28         0.00
CN-PE-3622      1994   SHANGHAI MUNICIPAL GOVT          SHANGHAI MTP II                       150.00        0.00            0.00          7.48        7.49         0.00
CN-PE-3626      1994   GOC                              FUJIAN PROV HIGHWAY                   140.00        0.00            0.00         58.63       31.29         2.79
CN-PE-3633      1994   GOVERNMENT OF PRC                TELECOMMUNICATIONS                    250.00        0.00           30.00         19.55       49.55         0.00
CN-PE-3641      1994   PRC                              YANGZHOU THERMAL POWER                350.00        0.00            0.00         75.98       56.15         0.00
CN-PE-3644      1994   PRC                              XIAOLANGDI RESETTLEMENT                 0.00      110.00            0.00         26.36        6.37         0.00
CN-PE-3473      1993   P.R.C.                           ZHEJIANG MULTICITIES                    0.00      110.00            0.00         29.49       28.06         0.00
CN-PE-3512      1993   GOVT OF PEOPLES REP. OF C        SHANGHAI PORT REST.                   150.00        0.00           25.74          3.88       27.77         2.20
CN-PE-3518      1993   PRC                              GUANGDONG PROV. TRANSPORT             240.00        0.00            0.00          2.08       -2.94         0.00
CN-PE-3533      1993                                    TIANJIN IND. II                       150.00        0.00           16.00         42.17       47.65         8.82
CN-PE-3559      1993   PRC                              AGRIC. SUPPORT SERVI                    0.00      115.00            0.00         10.74       -2.16         0.00
CN-PE-3561      1993   PRC                              SICHUAN ADP                             0.00     147.00             0.00          5.66        0.00         0.00
CN-PE-3567      1993   PRC                              EFFECTIVE TEACHING S                    0.00      100.00            0.00         22.81       20.72        20.78
CN-PE-3570      1993   PRC                              RAILWAY VI                            420.00        0.00            0.00         94.61       92.29         0.00
CN-PE-3580      1993   PRC                              SO.JIANGSU ENVIRON. PROTECT.          250.00        0.00            0.00          4.15       -1.87         0.00
CN-PE-3581      1993   PRC                              HENAN PROV. TRANSPORT                 120.00        0.00            0.00         10.78       10.79         0.00
CN-PE-3592      1993   PRC                              REF. INST'L.& PREINVEST(CRISP)          0.00       50.00            0.00         20.19       19.61         0.00
CN-PE-3597      1993   PRC                              TAIHU BASIN FLOOD CO                  100.00      100.00            0.00         47.56       43.17         0.00
CN-PE-3616      1993   PRC                              TIANHUANGPING HYDRO                   300.00        0.00            0.00         66.70       47.99         0.00
CN-PE-3623      1993   PRC                              FINANCIAL SECTOR T.A                    0.00       60.00            0.00         21.07       16.02         0.00
CN-PE-3627      1993   PRC                              GRAIN DISTRIBUTION P                  325.00      165.00            0.00        327.87      321.30        54.64
CN-PE-3632      1993   ROC                              ENVIRONMENT TECH ASS                    0.00       50.00            0.00         11.05       11.06         -.15
CN-PE-3503      1992                                    ZOUXIAN THERMAL POWE                  310.00        0.00            0.00          7.79        7.80         0.00
CN-PE-3534      1992   PRC                              ZHEJIANG PROV TRANSP                  220.00        0.00            0.00         20.24       20.25         8.55
CN-PE-3564      1992   BEIJING MUNICIPALITY             BEIJING ENVIRONMENT                    45.00       80.00            0.00         25.79       20.42         2.84
CN-PE-3565      1992                                    SHANGHAI METRO TRANS                    0.00       60.00            0.00          3.89         .68         0.00
CN-PE-3568      1992   R.O.C.                           TIANJIN URB DEV & EN                    0.00      100.00            0.00         18.90       15.24        -6.07
CN-PE-3624      1992   MIN. OF PUBL.HEALTH              INFECTIOUS DISEASES                     0.00      129.60            0.00         34.15       28.47        28.43
Total                                                                                      14,620.00   3,990.00           106.49    10,252.95   2,899.63         220.29



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                                                               Page 73
China: Container Transport Project
Active Projects       Closed Projects           Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):               8,256.18            12,525.26           20,781.44
of which has been repaid:                  64.81            2,473.13            2,537.94
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:              18,438.66             9,692.71           28,131.37
Amount sold                                        0.00                0.00                 0.00
Of which repaid                                 0.00                0.00                0.00
Total Undisbursed                :           10,252.95                28.86           10,281.81
a/      Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note:    Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month and is currently as of 31-Jan-99.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                       Page 74
China: Container Transport Project
Annex 10
China at a glance                                                               1/28199
POE TYan 7dSOW    t |  ;F0;       g-Nti:             \ A*Ia&  tmIddles;.0-|vo             W S                           .
Q~I~IS  acifIc lflcoe  Development diamnond'
POPtJISIIOOi, raid-year l1n83iorw)   : :;3;;i ;  i   2V1,227.2   1,  Z753  Z282    I           Life expectancy
POj3tBlatlett tIt)                         I . . .  lj40  0 0# t24 --t 0    .  1~2   ; GNP            Gross
I    .14...    A.3    ~~~per                       primary
tIt2tr4Oflt9*fallfe 9t;97}0:000        2 (t yead a   1 $ 9 14f lg4;j44!44g;l;i t:0   capilta           enrollment
Ur'e pouatO                                      00! of9S:i fOIofpopuI;' 0I)  32  32 42::y .z;
Ch f ,F: tV :7tild1 maInt1U % .. -r.4>if     u 5)       16                  ..       .       Access to safe water
Acoesatosafewstar(%%populaU~~~~~~~)    90 ~       84       84
Gross Ittwy   olInirt~ ~%Of5Q1-59bpQUI5UOt7) 120   18         1                Chliia
g;i:-00;Xti?i-118  Lower-middle-income group
Economic ratios'
Gros#,done*$ckl  tml~lGP                      79       7~        3.        382 P
*5 >   _,_x>w      --   i$ ii                         t 0    0 0 t 21.3;   E 0  23t4-0  -    3.   |Trade
U0os  o         n                            260    3.2           4.7      47-
}gs#=u!s*IngsIGOP                            28.5  32.3  40   31A
t97e6es  198Sef~p/~D'  196 02  r0.o 0.o                   andg    Investment
ATgldwiuu                                      .8      8.0       15.4      168.3
Indebtedness
ManuScturln176g6                   29.5~S    15.5      137  .   37.3 02
(sve.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ge~~~~~o ano. 0 l u t 
GOP          9,s    I0~~~~~~~~  9s        e.s        ..        '-~~~~~~China
GNP  perivate ta                     8.3      8.6      8.7       7.4                   --- LowermiddIe-onoome group
Imports od goodsand services                  4.,I  55  147       89  85 27.I8                                  Co
STRUCTURE of tIi ECONOMY
1976     1986      1998      1997      Growth rates of output andiment (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                         30
Agncuiture                                   32.8     27.1      20.4       18.7
Industry                                     45.4     44.0      49.5      49.2    20
ManufacurIng                               29.5     35.5       37.8      37.3    10^ o
Services                                     21.      28.9      30.1      32.1
Private consumption                          84.0     51.4      48.7      457              92   93   94   95   99   97
General govemment consumpton                  7.5     13.4       11 9     11.6     o
ImportsofgoodsandsenAces                      4.5     14.7      18.9       18.5
Novetage: annual growth)                  1976.86  1987-97      1996      1997     Growthratesofaexpots andmpots(%)
Thasetage wanna groduedth)  h   eeometEooiscetaaaae
Agriculure                                    6.0      4.4        5.11      3.5   4O.
Industry                                     11.0     13.8      12.1      10.8   30
Manufacturing                              12.8     13.3 1i1.8            9.9
Services                                     12.0      8.7       7.9       8.3
PrivatecoDnsumplton                           9.3      8.8      11.1       8.2   10.
Geoneral govermenft consumption               9.4      9.9       9.5       8.2     0
Gross domestic Investment                    10.8     11.2       8.2        5.6           92   93   04    9       6
Imports of goods and services                22.5     12.8       5.9      13.1             -Expots           -Irnports
Gross national product                        9.8      9.9       9.8        8.5---
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
This table was produced from the Development Economicms central database.
'The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average, if data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                  Page 75
China: Container Transport Project
China
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                            1976    1986       1996      1997     Inflation (%J
(% change)                                                                      25
Consmer prices                                ..     6.5        9.4      7.9    20
Implicit GDP deflator                        4.0     4.6        5.9      1.2    15
Govemment finance
(% of GDP, indudes cwrent grants)                                                o,
Currentrevenue                                ..    24.0       11.4     12.0            92   93   94   95   96
Current budget balance                        ..      5.6       0.6      0.6            -     GDP deflator  -*CPI
Overall surplus/deficK                        ..    -1.8       -1.5     -1.5
TRADE
1976    1986      1996      1997      Export and Import levels (USS IIllIons)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                           ..  30,942   151,066  182,696    200000
Food                                        ..   4,448    10,232   11,054
Fuel                                        ..   3,683      5,929    6,987    150,000
Manufactures                                 ..  19,670   129,141   158,767
Total imports (cif)                           ..  42,904   138,838  142,361      1
Food                                        ..   2,002      7,866    6,308      90,000
Fuel and energy                              ..    504      6,877   10,306
Capital goods                                ..  20,415    59,610   57,930         o
91  92  93  94  95  96  97
Export prte index (1995=100)                  ..      66
Import price index (1995=100)                 ..      69         ..       ..                 * Exprts     * mports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                      .      96
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ Millions)                            '1976    1986       196      1997      Current account balance to GDP rio (%)
Exports of goods and servces               7,383   29.583   171,700  207,253     4
Imports of goods and services              7,125   37,472   154,100  166,755
Resource balance                            258   -7,889    17,600   40,498      2
Net Income                                    0      176   -12,370  -15,900
Net current transfers                         0      255      1,922    4.660     0                 ML--9.
91  92         94  90  96  91
Current account balance                     258   -7,458      7,152   29,258     2 .
Financing items (net)                         ..   5,410    28,248    6.599
Changes in net reserves                       ..   2,048   -35,400  -35,857    -4
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)        ..  16,417   111.728  146,448
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUS$)             1.9     3.5        8.3      8.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976    1986      1996      1997
(US$ millions)                                                                   Conmositon of total debt 1997 (USS mililonsa
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          ..  23,719   128,817  146,697
IBRD                                        ..    965      7,616    8,239                         A: 8,239
IDA                                         ..    774       7,579    7,830          G:31i464            B: 7,830
Total debt service                            ..   2,974    15,756   18,445                                  D: 2,904
IBRD                                        ..      66       840      858
IDA                                                  8        73       81                                    E: 20782
Composiion of net resource flows
Offtcialgrants                              ..    155        249      228                                   /
Official reditors                          ..   1165      4,401     4.315
Private credRors                            ..   3,693      6,454    8.134
Foreign direct investment                   ..   1,875    40,180   44,236
Portfolio equity                            ..       0     3,466    8,457                   F: 75,478
World Bank program
Commtrnents                                 ..   1,120      1,900    2,425     A- IBRD                     E- Bilateral
Disbursements                               ..    607       2,097    2,275     B- IDA    D - Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                        ..       0       364      377      C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Nd flows                                    D      607      1,734    1,898
Interest payments                           ..      75       549      562
Nettransfers                                ..    532       1,185    1.335
Note: This table was produced from the Development Economics central database.                                    1/28/99



Project Appraisal Document                                                                     Page 76
China: Container Transport Project
Annex 11
Action Plan for Facilitating Inland Movement of Seaborne Containers
Policy Goals                          Actions and Steps                          Time        Agency
Frame    Responsible
1. Introduce intra-  1) Conclude a joint venture (JV) agreement with foreign investors to  01/1997  TPA
port competition.  convert Oriental Container Company into a joint venture.
2) Establish a joint venture with its registration with State Business  03/1997  TPA
Administration Bureau and Tax Bureau.
3) Obtain an operating license from MOC                         10/1998      TPA
4) Make a decision to corporatize THCC through public offer in the stock   05/1998  TPA
market.
5) Obtain endorsement of Tianjin Municipality /a               06/1999       TPA
6) Obtain an approval of SSC /a                                 05/2000      TPA
7) Obtain an approval of a relevant stock exchange /a           09/2000      TPA
8) Complete the preparation work to issue the stock at the market /a  11/2000  TPA
9) Offer THCC's stock in the market(s)                         Ata good      TPA
market
condition
2. Initiate a study   1) Establish a study team                                  01/1999      TPA
for enhancing    2) Prepare TOR and send it to the Bank for its review           01/1999      TPA
berth utilization    3) Prepare and issue Invitation for the Proposal            03/1999      TPA
and user         4) Select a consultant and get contract signed                  05/1999      TPA
orientation.     5) Develop a strategy for enhancing berth productivity and user orientation  1211999  TPA
6) Undertake actions to implement the recommendations           01/2000      TPA
3. Develop plans   1) Receive training for the need for and utility of Business Plans for ICD  11/1998  ICDs
for private sector  operations
participation    2) Develop the first Business Plans, including capital requirements, for  11/1999  ICDs
each ICD.
3) Develop updated Business Plans with particular emphasis on strategies  03/2002  lCSs
for the future capital mobilization, including the role of the private
sector.                                                      05/2002      CPMO
4) Examine strategies for the future capital mobilization strategies, in a
review meeting including the representatives of the World Bank.  06/2002  CPMO
5) Based on the results of the review meeting,_formulate plans for private
sector participation for those ICDs with good financial performance.  01/2003  CPMO
6) Implement the above plans where recommended.
4. Remove the    1) Remove these restrictions except for four provinces (Zhejiang, Hubei,   12/1996  MOC
practices of       Jiangsu and Hunan).
imposing         2) Promulgate the Highway Law to declassify seabome containers from  07/1997  MOC
additional permits    heavy-duty cargoes, giving no excuse for these provinces to impose
and extra          these extra restrictions.
charges for the    3) Issue a detailed regulation necessary for the implementation of this  06/1999  MOC
carriage of        new rule set out by the Highway Law.
seabome
containers.
5. Make customs  1) Secure the issuance of a letter of intent by provincial gateway offices to  09/1998  PPMO
clearance          project ICDs with regard to the provision of customs clearance services
available at       as soon as ICD facilities are operationalized.
project ICDs.    2) Equip ICDs with inland gateways' functions.                  01/2000      PPMO
6. Initiate a pilot   1) Start semi-annual reporting of the sampling percentage to CPMO and    06/2000  PPMO
program at         to the Bank
Xintang ICD to    2) Reduce the sampling percentage to 5% (which would not be applied to  12/2001  PPMO
lower the          exceptional items such as drugs, weapon and other items necessary to
sampling            check due to considerations of the public security and national interest)
percentage of    3) Assess the results of the pilot program at Xintang ICD, and develop  01/2002  CPMO
customs            recommendation for the broader application.                                PPMO
inspection.
Notes:  /a  Those actions are subject to the pproval of relevant authorities
Jb Abbreviations: TPA: Tianjin Port Authority; THCC: Tianjin Harbor Container Companies; MOC: Ministry of
Communications; CGA: Customs General Administration; CPMO: Central Project Management Office; PPMO:
Provincial Project Management Office.



Project Appraisal Document                                                        Page 77
China: Container Transport Project
Annex 12
Selection Process and Eligibility Criteria for ICDs
1.    Following SETC's policy initiative, a number of municipalities have decided to promote the
development of ICDs, and 22 have initiated the selection process. Selection process was carried out in a
transparent manner as described below:
* Public announcement was made to advise potential investors of the investment opportunities
with possible access to Bank financing.
* Pre-qualified firms were selected based on related business experience and quality of
management. In most cases three companies were prequalifled. Subsequent to the initial
announcement of prequalification criteria, subsidiaries of Sinotrans and COSCO were
disqualified based on the likely consequence of increased market concentration and control;
* Proposals received from pre-qualified companies were evaluated based on the following
criteria: a) management experience and capacity; b) financial strength; c) location of site
controlled or proposed for development; d) willingness to undertake corporatization reforms
by forming a new limited liability, joint stock company.
* Municipalities reviewed the proposals of all offers and simultaneously conducted
investigations into the merits and strengths of each company before making a final selection;
* In each case municipalities selected a lead strategic investor to form a corporation which
would become the local beneficiary of the project.
* Municipalities assisted the lead strategic investor in negotiating with other local offers and
other investors to assure that each new company was formed with strategically located
property suitable for ICD development and experienced container trucking or terminal
management experience in ownership mix of each new company.
2.     Eight provincial governments have completed ICD proposals selected by municipalities and
presented to SETC for their review.
3.     From the long list of ICD proposals recommended by eight provinces, SETC selected 13 ICDs
covering the five provinces in accordance with a dozen of selection criteria. Those include:
* having adequate demands or potential demands for container handling;
* fitting in with the corridor concept;
* serving as common-user facilities and provide standard menu of services;
* having the legal status of limited liability companies or limited by stock companies;
* demonstrate that private sector investors are not interested in investing in them;
* having connected with major transport network;
* having customs and other cross border inspections be made available;
* having located in operationally and environmentally desirable locations;
* located in the outskirts of cities so as to avert container traffic from moving into the city center;
* having freight forwarding licenses; and
* equipped with EDI so as to provide container location information to other users.
4.    After the discussion with the Bank, the final list of the ICD proposal was reduced to 10 ICDs.
During the negotiations in January 1999, the Chinese delegation advised the Bank of their decision to
drop the Shijiazhuang ICD from the loan.



Project Appraisal Document                                                         Page 78
China: Container Transport Project
Annex 13
Framework for the Lending to Tianjin Port Authority
1.    During the pre-identification mission in November 1996, the Bank made clear to Tianjin Port
Authority (TPA) its prerequisite to the lending to the port sector. The prerequisite is the introduction of the
intra-port competition with the private sector participation in the container terminal operations.
2.    In response to the Bank's position, TPA has taken several actions as follows:
*  TPA decided to form a joint venture (JV) for another affiliate SOE terminal operator, Oriental
Container Company, in 1996. It concluded a joint venture agreement with foreign investors in
January 1997. The JV was established with its registration with State Business Administration
Bureau and Municipal Tax Bureau in March 1997, and operationalized with issuance of
operational license from MOC in October 1998.
*  TPA agreed with the Bank in November 1997 to take the policy action to convert its affiliate SOE
terminal operator, Tianjin Habour Container Company (THCC), into either a joint venture (JV) or a
stock company. In May 1998, TPA decided to pursue the second option, initiating the process for
the corporatization of THCC through the public offering. In August 1998, TPA sent to the Bank a
letter committing themselves in implementing this process within three years (see Annex 11 for
detailed actions). It was agreed during appraisal mission in July 1998 that the public offering is
aimed at mobilizing the fund primarily for the development of the future construction of the
container berths at North Port.
3.    Since the above actions will lead to the introduction of the intra-port competition between two
commercially oriented entities with private sector participation, the Bank has agreed to extend financial
and technical assistance to TPA. The assistance would consist of:
*  lending to the quay-side gantry cranes, rubber tired gantry cranes and other container
handling equipment;
*  technical assistance for: (i) the establishment of a "level playing field" for the intra-port
competition between two terminal operators; and also (ii) the establishment of arm's length
relationship between port authority and terminal operators by separating the regulatory and
operational functions of TPA; and
*  technical assistance for the enhancement of berth productivity by reducing idle time and
taking other measures to increase the utilization of container berths.



Project Appraisal Document                                                         Page 79
China: Container Transport Project
Annex 14
Description of the Technical Assistance (TA)
A. Overall Coordination and Oversight
Because of the multiplicity of the TA activities, CPMO will carry out technical assistance programs
under the following arrangements:
*  A TA plan: To maximize the impact of the TA activities and ensure the well integrated TA
activities, CPMO will prepare a TA plan. The TA plan will set out: (i) the sequence of TA
activities by setting out an overall time table for those activities; (ii) selection criteria for study
team members and those for participants in the study tours; and (iii) reporting requirements
for study tour participants; and (iv) other administrative matters. This TA plan would be
discussed with Bank's Resident Mission in China (RMC) and Canadian Intemational
Development Agency (CIDA) for their review.
* TA Completion Report: Upon the completion of the TA programs, CPMO will prepare a TA
Completion Report which will be sent to SETC, the Bank and CIDA for their review.
B. TA Programs for ICDs
1. [CD Capacity Building Programs
-  Development of business plans: This sub-component would be carried out in two stages: (i)
the organization of a workshop with participation of top managers of project ICDs in which the
needs for and utility of business plans will be explained by foreign consultants and then a
model business plan be developed through the discussions between foreign experts and
participating top managers of ICDs; (ii) the development of business plans for individual ICDs
with technical assistance of foreign consultants. Bank loan proceeds will be used for this TA
totaling US$64,600, of which US$35,000 would be used for the engagement of an individual
foreign consultant.
*  Development of an operational manual: An operational manual would be developed to
ensure the smooth and safe operations of the container yards, proper cargo handling, efficient
use of container handling equipment, safe and economical operations of tractor trailers,
proper gate operations, inspections of containers for proper hand-over, and protection of
environment (see B. 3). A individual foreign consultant will be engaged for this activity with
an estimated cost of US$ 30,000. A series of workshops will be held for training operational
staff of ICDs. The total cost of this TA would be US$61,000, which the Bank would finance.
* Development of financial statements and a manual for their preparation: RMC staff and a
Chinese consultant has developed model financial statements with use of MOF's standard
formats for stock companies, along with the reporting formats for ICD's financial situation. In
parallel, they has also develop a manual which is intended to provide ICD staff with guidance
in preparing financial statements. This activity (costing US$ 15,000) was financed by PHRD
fund since it is a part of the project preparation activities (to demonstrate the financial
management capability of the project entities).



Project Appraisal Document                                                         Page 80
China: Container Transport Project
*  Foreign study tours for govemment officials: CIDA will organize study tours for approximately
60 policy planners of govemment agencies, both central and local. The participants would
include the key officials responsible for transport services, and intermediary services such as
customs, commodity inspections, quarantine, port management, freight forwarding, and other
critical aspects in the delivery of multi-modal transport. CIDA will define selection criteria for the
study tour participants and participate in the selection of the range of potental candidates (to be
discussed between CIDA and CPMO). It is anticipated that three study tours would be
organized by seniority/function of 15-20 persons each. The first one would take place in
November 1998, while the remaining two in 1999. Included in the design would be in-China
preparation seminars to orient the groups generally to the Canadian intermodal transportation
industry, to develop individual/group. It was also agreed that one of the study tours will be
designed around customs and cross-border inspections and customs clearance management as
they relate to intermodal operaffons in Canada. Participants would include trade facilitation
officials from the General Customs Administration of China, representing inspections and
quarantine, as well as port-of-entry policy and administrative personnel connected with
intermodal operatons in the project targeted locations. The cost estimation for this activity has
not yet been made available.
*  Study tours for ICDs: Foreign study tours will be organized to look into the modem ICD
operations in North America, Europe and Asia. In total, 52 people will participate in the tours.
The tours will be organized after the a model business plan is developed. Foreign consultants
recruited for the develoment of business plan would assist CPMO in organizing these foreign
study tours. Similarly arranged domesitic study tours would also be organized for ICD
managers. The costs of these activities (US$234,000) would be funded by the Bank loan
proceeds.
2. ICD Financial Management Enhancement
*  Training for enhancing financial management capability and internal control: CIDA will provide
TA to assist project ICDs to get their staff familiar with accounting standards and practices. This
would facilitate the understanding of the ICD accountants on the background and the utility of
the model financial statemnens to be developed by the RMC experts and the Chinese
consultant. This CIDA training would also be designed to enhance the financial management
capability of the project ICDs and strengthen the intemal control for the accounting processes.
The training would be provided by consultants to be funded by CIDA.
*  Use of the off-the-shelf software for accounting and financial management: As a part of the
above training, CIDA would provide the fund for purchasing appropriate software for financial
management. The cost of training would be covered by supplier of the software.
3. ICD Environment Management Program
* Environmental management module for ICD: CIDA will assist CPMO to develop an
environmental management module, which would include the development of standard
operating procedures such as emergency response planning, developing simulation models for
dealing with emergency response activities, effective spacial planning for container terminals
respecting environmental considerations, environmental assessment and management,
environmental mitigation, integrated environmental services, harzardous manterial handling and
waste water treatment. The standard operating procedures would be incorporated in the
Operational Manual so as to ensure the implementation of environment related
recommendations in the daily operation of the ICDs. The cost estimation for this activity has not
yet been made available.



Project Appraisal Document                                                        Page 81
China: Container Transport Project
4. Study Program of Policy and Regulation
* TA for Drafting Recommendations on Policy and Laws to facilitate Container Transport
Development The study team will be established and would consist of 10 officials and experts
from relevant ministries & commissions of State Council. The team will investigate and research
existing policy, laws, regulations, management systems of China's container transport to find out
problems of the current systems. Then, they will go to Canada to leam foreign advanced
experiences. The study team will put forward specific recommendations for these identified
problems in China. CIDA will fund the study program.
C. TA Programs for Port Component
1. Port Efficiency Enhancement Program
* TA for enhancing berth productivity at Tianjin Port: The study is aimed at enhancing the
efficiency of container handling operations at a container terminal operated by THCC by
improving the current container handling practices. The study consists of a series of tasks:
(i) developing a set of performance indicators which allow TPA to compare its performance
with other similarly situated ports, both domestic and foreign; these performance indicators
should reflect the needs of users, particularly shipping lines; (ii) comparing THCC's
performance with other comparable ports in terms of operational efficiency and user
orientation; (iii) identifying the real causes of low productivity and inadequate user orientation;
and (iv) developing a strategy for enhancing productivity of container operations and
increasing user orientation. The study would be funded by the Bank loan proceeds. The cost
of the study would be in total US$ 52,000, of which foreign individual consultant would be
US$27,000.
2. The establishment of an intra-port competition
- The Bank would provide technical assistance for the establishment of: (i) a "level playing
field" for the intra-port competition between two terminal operators; and also (ii) an arm's
length relationship between port authority and terminal operators by separating the regulatory
and operational functions of TPA. These activities would be financed by the Bank loan
proceeds with estimated cost of US$60,000. Among them, US$30,000 would be allocated for
the engagement of an individual foreign consultant.
3. Foreign studies
* Foreign study tours would be organized for inspecting the situation in foreign countries in
conjunction with the implementation of the above two studies. Details of these foreign study
tours would be elaborated in the TA implementation plan to be submitted to the Bank by
March 15, 1999. The total cost would be US$ 65,000.
4. ICD Environment Management Program
* Environmental management module for Tianjin Port: A module similar to the above TA
environmental program for ICDs would be developed for the TPA and THCC. This activity would
be financed by CIDA by its grant. The cost estimation for this activity has not yet been made
available.



Project Appraisal Document                                                       Page 82
China: Container Transport Project
Annex 15
Evaluation of Project Financial Management System
1.    In accordance with the Bank OP/BP10.02 and the Guide for Review and Design of Accounting
and Reporting System for World Bank Projects (Bank Guide), the task team has conducted assessment
of the Financial Management System on the project. The following is the findings and agreements
reached with Central Project Management Office (CPMO) and Tianjin Port Authority (TPA).
A. Financial Management System of TPA
2.    TPA, an independent state owned enterprise, is one of the borrowers of the project. TPA is
responsible for the implementation of a port component. Actual construction works and installation of the
equipment would be carried out by Tianjin Harbor Container Company (THCC), a subsidiary of TPA.
THCC is not completely independent from TPA with regard to its financial and managerial aspects.
3.    The financial management systems of TPA and THCC were assessed during the appraisal, the
results of which are summarized below.
1)  Intemal Control. TPA is responsible for preparing the consolidated financial reports which cover
its subsidiary companies including THCC. The Financial Division of TPA takes the responsibility
of the financial management, which covers the management of assets and investment and the
consolidation of financial statements. The Accounting Office of the THCC is in charge of the
financial management of company operations, and it reports to the Company Manager and the
Financial Division of TPA. The duties for authority, execution, monitoring and reporting are
separated in TPA and THCC, and the written requirements and procedures are available to the
related staff. Some financial staffs are experienced with the World Bank projects because of
their involvement in the previous Bank projects extended to TPA.
2)  Staffing. The Financial Division of TPA and the Accounting Office of THCC, both, have
experienced financial staff. 18 financial staffs are working in the financial division of TPA, of
which 7 are accountants. 11 financial staffs including 4 accountants are working in the
Accounting Office of the THCC.
3) Accounting System. The accounting standards for the transport sector issued by Ministry of
Finance (MOF) in 1993 has been used by TPA. These standards were developed in accordance
with the latest accounting regulation of Chinese Government which is similar to International
Accounting Standards but with some discrepancy from them. The written policies and
procedures are available and distributed to related staff. The accounting system has been partly
computerized since 1991. Financial Division of TPA and subsidiary companies' accounting
offices are using the same standards, but information exchange between TPA's Financial
Division and the accounting offices of subsidiary companies is still made manually. The
accounting software was developed by TPA and worked very well.
4)  Financial Statement. Basic financial statements, such as Balance Sheet, Income Statement,
Statement of Changes in Financial Position, are regulated by the Transportation Sector
Accounting Standards. In addition, various financial statements have to be provided to different
govemment agencies. The format of these basic financial statements can be understood. The
Bank team and TPA shared the same view that the Bank required financial statements attached
to the Guide can be generated from the current accounting system by adding minor changes to
Charts of Accounts.
5) Arrangements for Audit. There is Audit Division under TPA which is in charge of internal auditing
of the enterprises under TPA. The financial statements of the subsidiary companies should be



Project Appraisal Document                                                       Page 83
China: Container Transport Project
audited prior to the submission to the Financial Division of TPA. However, no regular
independent auditing is carried out for TPA. The Annual Financial Report of TPA is lack of an
audit report (see para 9 for the agreed action ton be taken).
B. Financial Management System of ICDs
4.    Since all ten inland container depots (ICDs) are new companies (either limited liability companies
or stock companies), it is critical to establish a strong institutional capacity for the financial management.
For this purpose, the task team has recommended ICDs to take several actions before the project ICDs
become operational in January or February 2000. Those actions are as follows:
1) Staffing. An adequate number of financial staff should be recruited before the Project gets
started. The Chief Financial Officers should have adequate experience and credentials in
accounting and financial management. They should also be able to maintain accounting books,
exercise adequate intemal control and produce financial information and statements. The staffs
need to be trained to get them familiar with the Bank requirements.
2) Accounting System. In consideration of the fact that project ICDs are to be established as either
limited liability companies or stock companies, the task team recommends these ICDs to use
the accounting standards for stock companies issued by MOF in January 1998, which is much
more closer to International Accounting Standards than the previous accounting standards used
in China. A project financial management manual, which is under preparation by CPMO with
help of the Bank task team should be used as a guideline. The proper accounting software
should also be used.
3)  Internal Control. ICDs should prepare and make available to related staff a detailed guideline on
policies and procedures of the financial management. It should include the internal control over
current and fixed assets, sources and applications of the Bank and local funds, delegation and
segregation of duties, timely and accurate financial reporting requirements. etc.
4) Auditing. Provincial Audit Bureaus were identified as acceptable auditors. These Audit Bureaus
will conduct the project audit and submit four separate annual audit reports for the activities
related to each province. In addition, the corporate financial status should also be audited by
these Bureaus on an annual basis.
5.    In addition, in view of the importance of developing a strong institutional capability for the financial
management, Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) has agreed to provide extensive
training to staff of the project ICDs on the financial management system. CIDA will also provide [CD
operators with computer software for accounting and financial management, and train the staff of ICDs to
get them familiarized with the use of the software.
C. Project Financial Management and Reporting System
6.    TPA and ICDs are the executing agencies of the project which will sign the contracts and use the
loan proceeds. The project accounts will be kept by TPA and project ICDs. Project management offices
(PMOs) and Finance Bureaus (FBs) at each level will monitor the financial management system of TPA
and ICDs, and compile the project accounting reports, corporate financial statements, and audit reports
(see an attached flow chart) . The Special Accounts will be located in the local commercial banks and
managed by provincial FBs. Cash disbursement and approvals of the project expenditure will be carried
out by FBs in consultation with PMOs. The detailed disbursement procedures are described in Annex 6
of PAD. FBs will keep relatively simple books and records related to project funds flow. The project
budget will be prepared by TPA and ICDs, subject to review and approvals by PMOs and FBs, and then
by CPMO. The approved budget will be executed by TPA and ICDs. Provincial Audit Bureaus will audit



Project Appraisal Document                                                      Page 84
China: Container Transport Project
the financial statements of ICDs within their territories, and Tianjin Municipal Audit Bureau will audit those
of TPA. The Bank will receive the separate audit reports from three provinces and TPA through CPMO.
7.    Following the Bank Guide, MOF's accounting regulations on stock companies and the January
'99 agreements on the financial reporting formats reached between the Bank and MOF, CPMO and TPA
has agreed to provide to the Bank the following project financial statements:
Enterprise Financial Statements
(a) Balance Sheet
(b) Income Statement
(c) Cash Flow Statement
Project Financial Reports
(d) Project Balance Sheet
(e) Summary of Sources and Uses of Funds by Components
(f) Statement of Implementation of Loan Agreement
(g) Special Account Statement
8.    The above statements are submitted to the Bank on a semi-annual basis. Statements (a) to (c)
which are regulated by the Stock Accounting Standards would be submitted for each ICD. Statements (d)
to (g) which will be used by project supervision would be consolidated for the whole project. The
statements should be received by the Bank within one rnonth after the end of each quarter. The annual
financial statements (the statements of the last quarter of the calendar year) should be accompanied by
an audit report on them.
D. Agreements Reached
9.    Previous performance of the TPA in the execution of the Bank projects, together with the results
of the assessment carried out by the Task Team member, has indicated that the TPA has adequate
capability of the financial management and internal control except the current practices of auditing. In
recognition of the problem, TPA has agreed to:
*  to get its project accounts and corporate financial statements to be annually audited by
Tianjin Audit Bureau and send audit reports to the Bank for its review.
10.   In consideration of the fact that the project ICDs are new companies, the CPMO has agreed to get
project ICDs to implement the recommendations listed in para 4. To facilitate their implementation,
CPMO has agreed to implement the following actions before project ICDs become operational.
*  Preparation of model financial statements by the end of October, 1998 [A responsible agency:
CPMO] - This was finished at the end of 1998.
*  Development of a Manual for the preparation of the financial statement by the end of October
1998 [CPMO]. The Manual should include the format of the financial statements,
requirements on the accounting, the major discrepancy between the current Chinese
accounting standards and Internationally Acceptable Accounting Standards- This was
finished at the end of 1998.
* Development of a Manual for the Project Disbursement by the end of October, 1998 [CPMOj.
This manual would set out detailed procedures of the internal disbursement processes - This
was finished at the end of 1998.
* Participation in CIDA's training programs designed to enhance the financial management
capability of the ICDs [ICDs]. The training program would be provided between November
1998 to June 1999.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                   Page 85
China: Container Transport Project
World
LZZJ        ZIG                      ~~~~~~Bank
PPMOPF 
Notes:    *      ~     Documentation Flow
4        ~~Fund Flow
............. Supervision



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                                     Page 86
China: Container Transport Project
Annex 16                                                             (Page 1 of 2)
Procurement Plan for Goods (Packaging and Processing Schedule)
20-Jan-99
Procure-                     Procurement Schedule
Bid   Package   No.                  Name of Equipment                 UOf      ment      Drafting    Send to    Evaluation   Contract    Delivery
Unit   Mehd       Bidding      So
Method   Document  The Bank         Report      Signed     of Goods
1       1   Top-lift (40.5 ton)                                9       ICB
2       2   Vehicle crane (50 ton)                             9       ICB       Jul-98      Apr-99       Aug-99      Sep-99      May-00
3       3   Container reach stacker (5 layers)                 1       ICB
4       4   Container fork-lift (6-8 ton)                      4
5   2.5 ton low gate fork-lift                        31      ICB
11  5   6   Container tractor (40 F container)               169
7   Container tractor (20 F container)                95       ICB       Nov-98      May-99      Sep-99       Oct-99      May-00
6       8   Container trailer                                226
9   Oil-tank semi-trailer (volume: 15-18 in3)          2       ICB
7      10   Engineering succumbing vehicle                    21       ICB
8      11   Depot Illumination equipment (high mast lighting)  24      ICE
III     9       12   Quayside container crane (40.5 ton & 56 m stretch)  3      ICB       Nov-98      Apr-99       Sep-99      Oct-99      Nov-00
IV      10      13   Rubber tyred gantry crane (40.5 ton, 23.47 m span)  13     ICB       Nov-98      May-99       Oct-99      Nov-99       Oct-00
V       11      14   Container fork-lift (38 ton, 12 m lift height)     5       ICB       Nov-98      Jun-99       Sep-99      Oct-99      Aug-00
VI      12      15   Server                                            20
16   PC station                                       168
17   Network printer                                    9
18   PC printer                                        72
19   Uninterrupted power supply (UPS)                  18
20   Scanner                                            9
21   Hub                                               27
22   Network adapter                                  168
23   MODEM                                             27
24   Server operation system                            9
25   Database management software                       9
26   Database develop- software                         9
27   Office application software                       18
28   Optical character recognition (OCR)                9
29   Preliminary distribute system (PDS)              195       ICB       Nov-98      Jun-99      Nov-99       Dec-99      Apr-00



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                                         Page 87
China: Container Transport Project
Annex 16                                                               (Page 2 of 2)
Procurement Plan for Goods (Packaging and Processing Schedule)
Procure-                      Procurement Schedule
Bid   Package   No.                  Name of Equipment                   #Of      ment      Drafting
Unit   Mehd        Bidding     Send to    Evaluation    Contract    Delivery
pMethod   Document   The Bank        Report       Signed     of Goods
Vil      13      30   Snow swept vehicle                                   1
31   Sprinkling vehicle                                   1       NS        May-99       Jun-99      Aug-99       Sep-99       Apr-00
14      32   Programmed control switch board (PCSB)               8
33   Telephone                                          360
34   Electrograph                                        45       NS        Apr-99      May-99        Jul-99      Aug-99       Dec-00
15      35   Copy machine                                        27       NS        Apr-99      May-99        Jul-99      Aug-99       Dec-99
16      36   Wireless interphone                                 40
37   Color camera                                        36
38   Monitoring board                                    36       NS        Apr-99      May-99        Jul-99      Aug-99       Dec-99
17      39   Covered outdoor video camera                        36
40   Video cable                                          9       NS        Apr-99      May-99        Jul-99      Aug-99       Dec-99
18-1    41   Electronic vehicle weighing apparatus (Baotou)        1       NS        Oct-99      Nov-99       Jan-00       Feb-00       Sep-00
18-2    42   Electronic vehicle weighing apparatus (Handan,        3       NS        Aug-99      Sep-99       Nov-99       Dec-99       Jul-00
Baoding, Qinhuangdao)
18-3     43   Electronic vehicle weighing apparatus (Cangzho,      2       NS        Jul-99      Aug-99       Oct-99       Nov-99       Jun-00
Tangshan
19      44   Boiler                                               0       NS        Jun-99       Jul-99      Sep-99       Oct-99       Jul-00
20      45   Refueling machine                                    4
46   Electric generator                                   5       NS        May-99       Jun-99      Aug-99       Sep-99       Apr-00



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                              Page 88
China: Container Transport Project
Annex 17
Procurement Plan for Civil Works NCB
Nod    PackOage      Location       Preparation of     Send to RMC    Evaluation Report  Contract signed    Completion of
No.  No.Lcaton               bidding document                                                           construction
Xintang ICD         February 1999       April 1999        July 1999         July 1999       April 2000
il       2    Xiaoshan ICD          February 1999      April 1999        July 1999         July 1999        February 2000
3    Huzhou ICD                                                                                   March 2000
III       4    Baotou ICD           February 1999      April 1999         July 1999        July 1999        October 2000
IV        5    Handan ICD           February 1999       April 1999        July 1999         July 1999       July 2000
6    Qinhuangdao ICD
7    Tangshan lCD
8    Baoding ICD
9    Cangzhou ICD
N.B.  Based on the agreement during the negotiations held in January 1999.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                                                         Page 89
China: Container Transport Project
Annex 18                                                                        (Page 1 of 2)
Main Features of Individual Project ICDs
Site of ICD       Baoding          Baotou          Cangzhou          Handan          Hangzhou           Huzhou         Qinhuangdao        Tangshan         Xiaoshan
Area (m2)           46,200          120,000             45,000          17,200            41,867          21,100            59,740           33,300            95,467
Date set for          9198             8/98              6/98            7/98               8/9S            8/98              7/98             8.98             12/97
forming new Co
Corporate Form    Independent     Independent      Independent      Independent      Independent       Independent      Independent      Independent       Independent
Limited Liability    Limited Liability    Limited Liability    Limited Liability    Limited Liability    Limited Liability    Limited Liability    Limited Liability    Limited Liability
Co.              Co.              Co.              Co.              Co.              Co.               Co.              Co.               Co.
Equity Investors   i) Baoding     i) Baotou       i) Cangzhou      i) Handen No.1   i) hangzhou       i) Huzhou        i) Qui Huang      i) Hebei         I) Zhejiang
Trucking        Trucking Co,     Trsp Grp Cof(4    Trsp General      Xiantang         Harbor           dao Rwy          Intemational      Denfeng
Gen.Co. (na)    (15%)            brd) 92%          Co. (61%)/3       Trucking Co.     Co./(60%)       Admin/(61%)/     ContainerTrsp      Tmsp
ii) Baoding        strategic     ii) Shanghai         brd              (60%)/3 brd   Ii     gtHuzhou     3 brd            Co. (100%)        Grp.Co/(50%)
North China     inetrfbd         Volkswagen    ii) Handen Tongi  ii) Zheljing Port   Integrated    ii) Qui huang     ii) Still seeldng a  1  r
Industrial Co.  ii) Baotou Fuel  Repairing         Gnl Industrial    Econ and        Tmsp             dao              second          ii) Xiaoshan
(%na)           Co. (85%)        Branch/(8%)       Co./(39%)/2 b     Trade Dev.      Co/(20%)         Combined         investment         Municipal
iii) Hebei         passive          I brd            rd                 Co. (20%)/1   iii) Huzhou        Transp           partner           IntemL.
Construction    investor/2 brd                                       brd              Yunlong          Co.I(19.5%)I                       Container
Group Co. (0/4                                                   iii) Zheijiang      Intem.FrtCo./     1 brd                              Tmsp
na) Total                                                            Xizi Elevator   (20%) brd      iii) Qui huangdao                     Co,/(40%)/
brd 7                                                                MfgCo./         membership        No.2 Tmsp                          2 brd
(30%)/1 brd     still pending    CO1( b9.5d )I                   iii) China
1 brd                              Cmeca
Soci(1 0%)/
brd
Equity          i) Cash and      i) Cash and      i) land, cash and  i) Land, cash,    i) land and    i) land and       i) land          i) all assets    i) cash
Contributions      equipment        equipment        existing facility  existing        existing         facilities       equipment        currently in   ii) land and
ii) land         ii) land        ii) cash            facilities and    facilities    ii) equipment    ii) and iii) cash   parent             existing
equipment     ci n i)cah          adcs                               ompany           facility
iii) n.a.                                         ii) same          ii n  i)cs           n  ahwhich will be
iii) cash                           reorganized as  iii) cash
a joint stock
company        _ _       _
Assumed Social   Pension Housing   Pension Housing   Pension Housing   Pension Housing   Pension Housing   Pension Housing   Pension Housing   Pension Housing   Pension Housing
Liability        Medical          Medical          Medical          Medical          Medical           Medical          Medical           Medical          Medical
Background of    Trucking-10 yrs +  Trucking 17 yrs    Trucking 17+ yrs   Trucking 18+ yrs.  Trucking 21 yrs    Trucking 7 yrs  Trucking 8 yrs.    Trucking 20 yrs.   Trucking 8 yrs
Management       CEO GM and                        Finance 5 yrs.   Finance 5 yrs.    Finance - 10+ yrs  Finance 5 yrs  Finance 3 yrs.    Finance 10 yrs.    Finance 5 yrs
soueted foe      Mgt Commitment  CEO part te                        CEO part                 timE a               e      CEO same as fbor
ouletside        100%Oattme                                                                            COpattm           Shijiazhunag,
outside  100%   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~_________part time in both



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                                                         Page 90
China: Container Transport Project
Annex 18                                                                        (Page 2 of 2)
Main Features of Individual Project ICDs
Site of ICD      Baoding           Baotou          Cangzhou          Handan          Hangzhou           Huzhou        Qul huangdao        Tangshan          Xiaoshan
Additional       8.5mm Y:         25.23mm Y:       5.00mm           8.0 mm           12.7mm            Line limit not   7.5mm RMB:      Limited Financing   8.72mm RMB:
Outside          Local            Local            RMB:local        RMB: Local       RMB:Local        defined           Local                               Local
______________                      Commercial
Borrowing       Commercial        Commercial       Commercial       Commercial       Commercial       May not be        Commercial      Required: No        Bank
Bank             Bank             Bank             Bank             Bank             required          Bank            external Fin. in place
Total            18.98mm RMB -   46.07 mm RMB -   24.73mm RMB -   18.61mm RMB -   33.02mm RMB -   Apparently            23.12mm RMB -  30.03mm RMB -         18.47 mm
Capitalization   Debt to equity:  Debt to equity:  Debt to equity:  Debt to equity:  Debt to quity:    19.06mm RMB      Debt to equity:    Debt to equity: .98  RMB - Debt to
1.84 Bank debt    1.83 Bank debt    1.22 Bank debt    1.85 Bank debt    1.75 Bank debt    but needs to be    1.39 Bank debt   Bank Debt to equity:   equity: 1.83
to equity:1.37  to equity 1.24   to equity: 1.00   to equity: 1.41  to equity: 1.37   checked.Debt to   to equity: 1.07    .95             Bank debt to
equity:.81 Bank                                      equity:1.34
debt to equity:
.81
Current         State Owned       State Owned      State Owned      State Owned      Collective        State Owned      State Owned     State Owned         Already exiting
Organizational                                                                                                                                              Lmtd Liability
Status                                                                                                                                                      Co.
Actions Taken    i) Agreement    i) Agreement    i) Agreement    i) Agreement    i) Name              i) Name           i) Agreement    i) Container         i) Adjusting
between two     between           between          between           determined       determined      among            Terminal Co.      Share Holdings
shareholders    shareholders      shareholders     shareholders  ii) Registered    ii) Agreement      investors        already exists,    ii) Selected
ii) Seeking 3rd   ii) implementation  ii) implemen-    ii) Implemen-    with Bureau     between       ii) Survey          currently        key employee
and 4th         agreement in      tation          tation             of I and C       shareholders    markets          expanding
investors       place             agreement in     agreementt in                                      prepared bu.     ownership       itl) Prepared to
iii) Fixed asset    place            place         iii) Seleded key  illtatiPonemen     Plan           ii) Agreement      transferred
evaluation    ill) Key         iii) Key          i)Prepared to       agreement in  iii) Develop        btenemlye
complete         employees        employees         train            place            pre)iminay       shareholders      mployees
iv) Key             selected,        selected         transferred    iv) Fixed asset    design        iii) Construction and
employees                                           employees        evaluation    iv) Key             training plans
selected                                                             complete         employees        being finalized
v) Key             selected
employees
selected
Government       Local ETC        Baotou Local     Local Transport   Local Transport    No reporting   Local            Local           Hebei               Xiaoshan
Oversight                         ETC              Bureau and ETC   Bureau and ETC   relationship to   Transportation   Transportation    Communication      Foreign Trade
Responsibility                                                                       any branch of     Bureau and       Bureau          Department          Bureau
.________   _govemment     MOFTEC



Project Appraisal Document                                                               Page 91
China: Container Transport Project
Annex 19
Performance Monitoring Indicators
Performance monitoring indicators    1996        2000        2001       2002       2003
(actual)   (forecast)  (forecast)  (forecast)  (forecast)
1. Value of imports and exports to and  19.1         33.3       37.8        43.0      49.1
from project cities (in billion US$)
2. Number of containers handled at   148,000      360,000    425,000    495,000    572,000
project ICDs (in TEUs)
3. TEUs handled at THCC              500,000      732,000    805,000    886,000    974,000
4. Number of boxes per vessel hour at     18           23         26         30         34
THCC
5. Average container cycle time (in  11 days       9 days      9 days     8 days     8 days
days) between gateway ports and
selected ICDs (Shijianzhuang and
Hangzhou)
N.B.1 Source: CPMO and TPA.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                  Page 92
China: Container Transport Project
Chart 1
Organizational Chart
SOPC           MF    f             SETC           |MC
1 ___1_ I_ __                             _jjj    l, _  I_               I           I _ _ _ 
Hebe Province                Zhejlan Province               Inner langolia         Tianjin |unicipality
PPLG                            PPLG                         PPLO                      PPMO
PPMO                            PPMO                                  A
~Handan                                                        Baotu                     i
Shijiazhuan                      Hangho          _           Baotou       TFanJin
Baoding.                         aoshang      _____TA                              Pr
_inguangdao
i  r  | MPLG |   Cangzhou     _



MAP SECTION



CHINA                                                           Thi, mop - F,od-e by lhe Mop D Uil f Th. WoId 8-k
CONTAIN ER TRANSPORT PROJECT
<f i Q  ; ~000            -           1       *      -         01.4                      10                        18'ln
4                                                                                                                                       Ym  E0  \    b1v g.at\''
'2~~~~~~~~~~~~
'2<  -~ ~~2
4  4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
TIANJIN - BAOTOU/HANDAN
CORRIDOR                                                 u1 yt
&L PROJECT PORT                                           ~                                                           '     '
-    PROJECT CITIES                                                                         - ---
50   100  150 200  KILOMETERS ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~14 im.                    )e  e <   //
I  CORRIDORS
- SELECTED MAJOR ROADS                     \ <  X _   R  _           S            R
OTHER ROADS                                                             ,          s
-         -'--'-'- ~SELECTED RAILROADS         h'>G          4$ 4          6,r      /p#r                    -4>'2
-36'                    RIVERS                                                  <       ,"      tr
'.                    --- O TE RASPROVINCE BOUNDARIES  '4Z
0 See 5pper0   100     150    200 KILOMETERS .  3    >     J0I0                                                      2
<'2 >                                    tM:%-
RUSSIAN  FEDERATION I              --              .       '<       </                     10          -122'
0~  Mi 'Ml                           SHANGHAI - HANGZHOU/NANCHANG
1 ~~~~        ' ~~~CORRIDORS
MONGOLIA         (                     '*                                                    PROJECT CITIES      ---SELECTED RAILROADS
CIa,,9uhuu  JI,~~~~~~~  ~ ~   0'  '   I   ~~~    CORRIDOR                   RIVERS
"C                                          -    SELECTED MAJOR ROADS        PROVINCE CAPITALS
7IETN>5*_             0                               0EeIiur    N                  OTHER ROADS                 PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
32'-
OE'M                 32    <                            0         50       100       ISO     200 KILOMETERS
ccup,ruip rPEOPLE'S
REP  Of ''                           V       _     _     _     _     _     _     _     _     _     _
7                ~~~~~~KOREAj'                                  7        ' 
.A                    8t'        REP. OF
<           rt ;0                   0                     )  v >   0\s  /--h,'30-
I L J r>x 1>           'I22 -
tA t-         4< ~~~~~~~POINEBUDRS          -----           r
INTRNT- IOA
IS ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ONA
"7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Au 4$ ~ ~ ~
>



