Report No. PID5593
Project Name                     China-Container Transport Project (@+#)
Region                           East Asia and Pacific
Sector                           Transport
Project ID                       CNPE3653
Borrower                         People's Republic of China
Implementing Agencies            Inner Mongolia Province, Hebei Province,
Tianjin
Municipality, and Zhejiang Provinces under
the coordination of the State
Economic and Trade Commission (SETC)
Contact: Prof. Wang Derong and Ms. Wang
Huimin, deputy team leaders, Central
Project Management Office; No. 3 Railway
Middle School, 9, Shanlihe, East
Road, Xicheng District, Beijing; Phone and
fax no. 86-10-6853-3272
Date this PID prepared           February 26, 1998
Appraisal Date                   July 29, 1998
Tentative Board Date             March 16, 1999
Sector Background
Introduction: China's foreign trade has more than doubled in the last five
years from US$109 billion in 1991 to US$274 billion in 1996 with associated
changes in commodity mix from low value to high value cargo. However, this
growth has been regionally unbalanced. Coastal regions have grown rapidly,
while those in the interior have fallen progressively behind in export and
import activities. Interior provinces account for 63 percent of population,
but they account for only 17 percent of foreign trade. This inequality in
foreign trade between interior and coastal regions has aggravated existing
regional income disparities. Unless transport links connecting inland regions
to coastal regions are improved, regional disparities are likely to grow
further in the future.
Containers offer a fast, safe and cost effective means of transportation in
exporting and importing commodities; they are easily transferred from one mode
of transport to another; they enable operators to offer door-to-door, land-sea
through services, with predictable delivery times; and they reduce pilferage
en route. For these reasons, world-wide, 80 percent of general cargo, measured
in terms of value, and 50 percent in terms of weight, now move by containers.
Thus, they effectively shrink economic distances between coastal ports and
inland production centers, and can stimulate import and export industries in
the hinterland. Many companies in developed countries are now unwilling to
place orders with factories located in areas where there are no container
services..
Over the last decade, China's international container shipping has grown



rapidly with port throughput rising from 2.2 million TEUs in 1991 to 8.1
million in 1996 (See Annex 22 for overall container traffic in China). Still,
most of the growth has been confined to the coastal provinces; only 24 percent
of seaborne containers (which are mostly owned and handled by Cosco and
Sinotrans) travel beyond port cities). Indeed, most are stripped in ports and
their cargoes are carried in break-bulk to inland destinations. As a result,
the benefits of container transport, as a means for door-to door or dock-to-
dock transport, have yet to be realized in these localities.
Recognizing the critical importance of developing an inland distribution
system for seaborne containers, the Chinese Government and the Bank jointly
undertook a sector study of transport logistics in 1994. This joint effort
resulted in the production of the sector study, "Container Transport Services
and Trade" (Gray Cover Report No. 15303-CHA, October 1996). This project
responds to the study's principal recommendation to initiate a pilot project
to develop intermodal container links along selected corridors between gateway
ports and inland destinations.
Main sector issues: A sector study carried out jointly by the State Economic
and Trade Commission (SETC) and the Bank identified six major impediments to
the efficient inland distribution of seaborne containers.
(a)     Uncoordinated Government responsibilities. Government agencies are
structured along modal lines. Many deal with intermodal issues solely from
their own perspective, passing laws and regulations without coordinating with
the others. The result is an array of overlapping jurisdictions and fragmented
legal structures. Compounding this problem is the government agencies'
involvement in intermodal operations either in their own right or through
their affiliate enterprises. Although efforts have been made to separate the
regulatory and operational functions, quasi-collusive relationships between
the state and enterprises still persist.
(b)     Lack of effective competition in intermodal markets.    Intermodal service
in China has been dominated by two state owned enterprises (SOEs), Sinotrans
and Cosco groups. Although this dominance has been declining in the coastal
areas, these two giant operators still enjoy more than three fourths of the
market share in inland market, largely due to their nation-wide service
network. For instance, Sinotrans has 56 subsidiaries, covering capital cities
of all provinces and major port/air port cities, and 45 domestic joint
ventures based in major load centers in China. In addition, these two
operators have door-to-door service capability by offering combined services
of freight forwarding, shipping agency and trucking services, allowing them to
continually dominate the inland distribution markets. This dominance has,
however, resulted in costly and less user-oriented service provision.
(c)     lack of container handling facilities and equipment at inland locations.
The lack of inland container handling facilities has made container transport
to and from inland points costly. This does not allow containers to be kept
at inland locations. In addition, the limited availability of customs
clearance function does not permit container cargoes to be carried in bond,
thus necessitating containers to be inspected again at seaports. Compounding
this problem is the limited availability of empty containers and container
trucks. Thus, shippers in these cities have to wait for empty containers and
container trucks to be relocated from the coast to the interior, which adds to
the time and cost.
-2-



(d)     Inadequate transport links leading to inland cities to ports. The
shortage of transport capacity is a long-standing problem in China's transport
sector. The lack of rail capacity has limited shippers' access to cost-
effective long-distance service, the most critical element for moving cargo to
inland destinations. Trucking service is also poor due to underdeveloped
truck manufacturing technologies and the limited highway network system.
(e)     Lack of user orientation of port container terminals:    Container
terminals in Chinese ports have been traditionally operated by port
authorities or their affiliate state-owned enterprises (SOEs), but recently an
increasing number of ports have decided to get the private sector participate
in terminal development and operation. These cases are found in Shanghai,
Yantian, Xiamen and Shekou, but a common problem is that this has created
another monopoly by the private sector operator, bringing little benefit to
shippers (e.g. a sharp hike in container handling charges). The container
operations at Tianjin Port are currently carried out by two SOE terminal
operators. However, no genuine competition exists among them since both are
1009 owned by Tianjin Port Authority (TPA), which has resulted in lack of user
orientation. In addition, a recent Bank team's review of TPA's container
operations has revealed relative low productivity of its container handling
companies. This is due to several factors including the aged container
handling equipment and the lack of practices of setting a cut-off time in
accepting containers at port container yard.
(f)     Onerous cross-border inspections.   Although cross-border inspections have
improved since the mid-1980s, they still delay containers at points of entry.
Repeated inspections by different agencies often cause frustration to
exporters and importers. The inconsistent application of regulations have
confused foreign shippers and delays the process. Cumbersome customs
procedures for bonded transit to inland destinations discourage importers to
clear their cargo at inland locations, perpetuating the practice of opening
containers for customs clearance both at port areas and again at inland
destinations for discharging containers.
Sector issues to be addressed by the project: The project addresses the above
sector issues in such a manner as described below.
(a)     Closer coordination among relevant agencies and the establishment of arm's length
relationships between the Government and intermodal operators: Responding to
the recommendation of the sector study, the Chinese Government has established
a vice-ministerial level group in January 1996 to improve coordination among
different agencies with regard to policy issues associated with container
transport and trade facilitation. In addition, the project would establish a
users' group in which shipping lines, freight forwarders and government
officials would meet to regularly discuss issues associated with intermodal
operations. This would help resolve problems encountered. The project also
requires the conversion of state- or collectively- owned enterprises into
limited liability or stock companies so as to establish an arm's length
relationship between regulatory agencies and inland container depot (ICD)
operators.
(b)
Introduction of effective competition: The project will address this issue by
enabling project ICDs to offer alternative service options to inland exporters
or importers in inland distribution markets that has been dominated by
-3 -



Sinotrans and its affiliate enterprises. The project is also designed to
bring in intra-port competition between SOE and joint venture (JV) terminal
operators in Tianjin Port so as to let them provide more cost-effective
services to users (see Annex 13 for the policy framework diagram for the port
component).
(c)
Development of common-user ICDs at inland locations. The project would assist
qualified enterprises to develop ICDs with custom clearance functions and to
accept containers of all shipping lines. This would enable inland shippers to
get their cargo transported to and from seaports in a safer and more cost
effective manner.
(d)     Capacity expansion of transport infrastructure.   Since this capacity issue has
been and is being addressed by the other Bank projects in the transport sector, this
project would not directly deal with this issue. It would, however, address the
institutional issue by eliminating policy restrictions which impede smooth movement of
cargoes along the existing infrastructure (such as elimination of miscellaneous charges
often levied en route).
(e)
Enhancement of berth productivity: In order to increase berth productivity, the
project would provide THCC with funds for upgrading the container handling
facilities. The project would also address this issue by initiating a port
efficiency enhancement study with the aim of reforming the current operational
practices which lower productivity.
(f)
Streamlining of cross-border inspections: The project will help streamline cross-
border inspections by initiating pilot programs to: (i) reduce the percentage
of sample checking for customs clearance; and (ii) simplify customs procedures
for bonded transit of seaborne containers to and from inland destinations.
Project Objectives:
The project is aimed at facilitating inland penetration of seaborne containers
from gateway ports to inland cities, thus contributing to reducing economic
disparities between coastal and inland areas.
Its developmental impact would be measured by five performance monitoring
indicators: (i) the value of imports and exports to and from project cities;
(ii) the number of containers handled at project inland container depots
(ICDs) located at the ends of the pilot corridors; (iii) the number of
containers handled at Tianjin Harbor Container Company (THCC); (iv) the number
of boxes per vessel hour at THCC; and (v) average container cycle time between
gateway ports and selected ICDs.
Project Description
A pilot project. The Chinese Government and the Bank have agreed to launch a
pilot project to experiment with the principal reform elements along two pilot
corridors which were selected based on several selection criteria. The major
consideration in selecting pilot corridors were: (i) the pilot corridors
should not be chosen from those which could arouse a strong interest among the
private sectors investors (such as the Yangzhe River corridor and the Hong
- 4 -



Kong-Wuhan-Zhengzhou-Beijing corridor), but at the same time: (ii) the pilot
corridors should be financially and economically viable so as to demonstrate
the commercial viability of intermodal operations in inland markets, and thus
trigger the future investments by the private sector. There were not many
corridors which met these two conflicting requirements, but two corridors, one
extending from Tianjin Port through Hebei Provinces to Inner Mongolia
Province, and the other, from Shanghai Port through Zhejiang Province to
Jiangxi Province (Jiangxi Province later decided to withdraw its application
for borrowing from the Bank, but still remain as a beneficiary of the
technical assistance program ), meet these criteria.
Policy framework: Critical to the success of the project is the creation of a
policy framework conducive to the development of an efficient and user
oriented inland container distribution system. To this end, specific policy
actions were discussed and agreed with SETC and other line agencies.
Table available in the InfoShop.
Financing
The Bank would extend the loan to Ministry of Finance (MOF) which would, in
turn, onlend to four provincial governments (Hebei Province, Zhejiang
Province, Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region and Tianjin Municipality), more
specifically their provincial finance bureaus (PFBs). PFBs would further
onlend it to municipal finance bureaus (MFBs). MFBs would then onlend the
money to selected project enterprises. The on-lending terms and conditions
from MOF to PFBs, from PFBs to MFBs, and from MFBs to project enterprises,
would be the same as the Bank's standard terms and conditions. Foreign
exchange risks would be assumed by project enterprises.
Project Implementation
SETC is the coordinating agency, and four provincial governments (Hebei,
Zhejiang, Inner Mongolia and Tianjin) are sub-borrowers. Executing agencies of
the project are project enterprises (Tianjin Port Authority and 9 ICD
operators).
Project Sustainability
Project sustainability would be secured by the implementation of a policy
framework designed to remove major impediments to efficient intermodal
transport system along two pilot corridors. Viability of ICDs are enhanced by
developing their facilities in two stages, starting with a smaller scale and
expanding later when demands guarantee the expansion. It was made conditional
to obtain assurance from relevant agencies for permitting customs officers to
be stationed in the ICDs and for according freight forwarding license to them.
It was also agreed to provide training and technical assistance to enhance
managerial, operational and marketing capability of these ICDs before their
operations start.
Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
- In the past the Bank has undertaken several initiatives in the areas of
intermodalism and logistics management, though few of these have been fully
implemented to date. A major problem in preparing an intermodal
- 5 -



transportation project is finding appropriate implementing agencies that can
effectively deal with multi-sectoral projects. Where capable implementing
agencies are identified, they often number more than two. Multiple
implementing agencies often result in serious coordination problems, and
require an effective coordinating agency. Learning from this experience, the
Bank decided to select SETC as the coordinating agency because it has a
coordinating mandate over activities of line agencies and provincial
governments.
- Experience in China operations shows that the reform elements are often
delayed in implementation due to the time taken in developing a consensus
within the beneficiary agency and/or among relevant government agencies. The
OED report on railway projects (September 1993) recommended that "loan
covenants should be used only if there is a realistic expectation that the
borrowers will comply with them". In view of this experience, the team has
encouraged the Chinese government to implement reforms in an early stage of
the project preparation, thus enabling the Bank to rely less on the legal
covenants.
- An OED report on the port sector (November 1996) urged some caution
regarding port privatization. It stated that "there is no necessary relation
between ownership and competition .. privatization of port assets may lead to
monopolies that are difficult to control and likely to cause political
dispute." This, in fact, has happened in the joint venture operations in
Shanghai's container terminals. A sudden and sharp increase of port charges
by the joint venture operator has triggered controversies on the need for
private sector involvement in the transport sector, and since then, the
Chinese Government has become more cautious about joint venture operations.
Learning from this experience, this project emphasizes the introduction of
intra-port competition. In extending financial assistance to Tianjin Port
Authority as part of the physical component, the Bank has insisted on not only
the introduction of the private sector in port operations, but also that of
intra-port competition for container terminal operations.
Environmental aspects
This project is classified as Category B. The reason is that site specific
environmental impacts are minor. Environmental impacts are mostly related to
noise, dust, and hazardous/dangerous cargo handling.
Program objective categories
Environmentally sustainable development
Contact Point:                   The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
- 6 -



Processed by the InfoShop week ending March 5, 1999.
- 7 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the borrower
prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is required, once it is
prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance with OP 4.01, Environmental
Assessment, it will be filed as an annex to the Public Information Document
(PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA annex;
the findings and recommendations of the EA will be reflected in the body of
the PID.
/      Jiangxi Province would participate in TA activities without borrowing the
money from the Bank.
-8-



