           Document of
          The World Bank




                                    Report No: 33620

IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
            (SCL-44440)

               ON A

              LOAN

  IN THE AMOUNT OF US$71 MILLION

              TO THE

    PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

              FOR A

  CONTAINER TRANSPORT PROJECT




          November 18, 2005

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     (Exchange Rate Effective January 1, 2005)

                            Currency Unit = Renminbi
                             Renminbi 1.0 = US$ 0.12
                                  US$ 1.0 = Renminbi 8.28

                                  FISCAL YEAR
                             January 1 - December 31

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS    Country Assistance Strategy
CCTA   China Communications and Transportation Association
CPMO   Central Project Management Office
EDI    Electronic Data Interchange
EIRR   Economic Internal Rate of Return
FIRR   Financial Internal Rate of Return
ICB    International Competitive Bidding
ICD    Inland Container Depot
ICR    Implementation Completion Report
MIS    Management Information System
PAD    Project Appraisal Document
PPMO   Provincial Project Management Office
SETC   State Economic and Trade Commission
SPC    State Planning Commission
TEU    Twenty-foot Equivalent Unit
THCC   Tianjin Habor Container Company
TOR    Terms of Reference
WTI    Waterborne Transportation Institute

                          Vice President:     Jemal-ud-din Kassum
                         Country Director     David R. Dollar
                          Sector Manager      Jitendra Bajpai
                       Task Team Leader       Graham Smith

                                            CHINA
                              China Container Transport Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            2
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              5
6. Sustainability                                                                  7
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   7
8. Lessons Learned                                                                 9
9. Partner Comments                                                                9
10. Additional Information                                                       14
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             15
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             17
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             21
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             22
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             24
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                25
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            26
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results                                              27
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results                                            28

Project ID: P003653                                                  Project Name: China Container Transport Project
Team Leader: Graham Smith                                            TL Unit: EASTR
ICR Type: Intensive Learning Model (ILM) of ICR                      Report Date: November 21, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: China Container Transport Project                        L/C/TF Number: SCL-44440
    Country/Department: CHINA                                                             Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

         Sector/subsector: Ports, waterways and shipping (100%)
                  Theme: Access to urban services and housing (P); Export development and
                            competitiveness (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 09/04/1997                                     Effective: 12/24/1999                12/24/1999
      Appraisal: 07/06/1998                                        MTR:
       Approval: 03/16/1999                                     Closing: 06/30/2005                 06/30/2005



     Borrower/Implementing Agency:         PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA/STATE ECO & TRADE COMM.& FOUR
                                           PROVINCES
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jemal-ud-din Kassum                            Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director:               David R. Dollar                                Yukon Huang
Sector Manager:                 Jitendra Bajpai                                Jitendra Bajpai
Team Leader at ICR:             Graham Smith
ICR Primary Author:             Kek Chung


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
    The project aimed at facilitating inland penetration of seaborne containers from gateway ports to inland
cities, thus contributing to a reduction in economic disparity between coastal and inland areas.

    Supplementing the primary objective, the project also sought to increase productivity of existing
facilities to expand container handling capacity at the gateway port of Tianjin.
    The project development objective was clear and in line with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
presented to the Board on March 18, 1997 and further discussed in the Progress Report (CAS document
number R98-107) of May 28, 1998. It also met the government's objective of promoting greater economic
development in the interior regions.
    The project, which was intended to be a pilot development, was complex due to the large number of
project entities, the wide geographical dispersion of the project sub-components and the broad range of
policy actions to foster institutional improvements.

3.2 Revised Objective:
    The development objective remained the same throughout the implementation of the project.

3.3 Original Components:
    The project had two main components and numerous sub-components:
(a)    ICD Development consisting of the development of inland container depots (ICDs) in Baoding,
       Cangzhou, Handan, Tangshan and Qinhuangdao in Hebei Province; Baotou in the Autonomous
       Region of Inner Mongolia; and Hangzhou, Huzhou and Xiaoshan in Zhejiang Province and
       comprising
       -    civil works,
       -    the provision of equipment for operating the depots,
       -    technical assistance for the development of an EDI/MIS, a business plan and an operational
            manual as well as training in various aspects of inland terminal management and operation.
       The ICDs would operate under a Customs regime in which import and export containers would be
       cleared at the ICDs. Embedded in the project were several policy actions to remove impediments to
       the movement of containers between gateway ports and inland cities; and
(b)    Upgrading Tianjin Port Container Handling Capacity through
       -    structural improvements of existing berths, container yard and ancillary facilities,
       -    the acquisition of additional container handling equipment for Tianjin Harbor Container
            Company (THCC) and
       -    technical assistance to establish a better institutional environment for container operations.

3.4 Revised Components:
    There were no major changes in project components. There was a minor adjustment in the ICD
Development component when Hebei decided not to proceed with the construction of a depot at Baoding
shortly after the Loan became effective. This led to an amendment of the Loan Agreement on September
18, 2000 to cancel USD3.13 million from the Hebei sub-component of the Loan. The Loan Agreement was
also amended on October 28, 2002 to cancel USD15.48 million from the Tianjin component as a result of
savings achieved in the procurement of equipment.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
    Quality at entry is rated satisfactory. The assessment is based on the
(a) consistency of the project development objective with the Bank's strategy for alleviating transport
    bottlenecks and China's policy and plan for increased economic development in interior regions;
(b) attention given to lessons learned from past projects implemented by multiple agencies in the
    preparation and design of the project; and
(c) comprehensive range of policy actions for institutional improvements.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs



                                                        - 2 -

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
    The development objective of the project has substantially been met. The indicator for measuring
performance is the value of imports and exports to and from project cities. At project appraisal, it was
expected that the ICD cities would generate some US$49.1 billion of imports and exports by 2003. Actual
performance for the year turned out to be US$25.3 billion, increasing to US$ 31.7 billion the following
year.
    The essence of the ICD component of the project was the development of an institutional and
infrastructure framework in which containers could move inland without regulatory and physical
impediments or constraints. When the project was conceptualized, import and export containers underwent
quarantine and Customs inspections prior to delivery or shipment only at gateway ports. "Off-port"
inspection and clearance of cargo were not available and there were little or no proper facilities for the
handling of containers under bond in inland cities. The project overcame these impediments at the selected
cities by providing them with common user container handling facilities and a system and procedure for
cross-border inspections and clearances of cargo. Several policy actions were also implemented to remove
certain regulatory constraints on the trucking of containers. These included declassifying sea-borne
containers as heavy cargo and separating the registration of trailers from prime movers, thus providing
greater flexibility in the use of vehicles.
    While the development objective may have been substantially achieved, the outcomes for the project are
mixed. For the ICD Development component, the outcome is rated unsatisfactory. Although the framework
to facilitate the inland penetration of containers between gateway ports and inland cities has been put in
place, the throughput of the ICDs was disappointingly low. In 2003, only 32,918 teus were handled
compared with the forecast of 572,000 teus. The low volume of containers handled by the ICDs could be
due to the late commencement of operation of the ICDs and the availability of "off-port" clearance of cargo
at local Customs offices of the project cities and premises of importers/exporters who could meet certain
eligibility criteria. Because of delays, by 2003 most ICDs were just getting started instead of in their third
year of operation as foreseen at appraisal. They would require time to grow the business. On the whole,
relative to forecast, the Baotou ICD (2005, 32%) has performed better than the Zhejiang (7.9%) and Hebei
(7.3%) ICDs due to lesser competition. Baotou's longer distance from the gateway port of Tianjin also
makes it more compelling for the through transportation of containers.
    In contrast to the ICD Development component, the project outcome of the Tianjin Port component has
been highly satisfactory. Productivity gains in container handling at berth exceeded 300% from 18 teus per
vessel hour in 1996 to 83.3 teus in 2004. Total throughput at the Tianjin Harbor Container Company
(THCC) tripled between 1996 and 2004 from some 0.5 million teus to 1.5 million teus. Productivity gains
came about mainly as a result of the equipment provided under the project. THCC has also become more
competitive. By 2002, the number of containers handled by THCC at 1.13 million teus exceeded the
number handled by its competitor, the CSX Orient Terminal, by some 200,000 teus.
    Taking into account the complexity of the project, and despite the poor performance of the ICD
Development component, the outcome of the project, overall, is rated satisfactory in light of the fine
performance of the Tianjin Port component.

4.2 Outputs by components:
A. ICD Development
    Outputs achieved under this component comprised:
(a) civil works that included a container yard, a container freight station, a workshop, a vehicle weighing
    station, an administrative building and security fencing that meets the standard of the Customs for
    bonded cargo of varying sizes depending on the traffic at each of the cities of Hangzhou, Huzhou and
    Xiaoshan in Zhejiang Province; Cangzhou, Handan, Qinhuangdao and Tangshan in Hebei Province and
    Baotou in the Autonomous Region of Inner Mongolia. Total investment in civil works amounted to
    US$15.96 million;



                                                      - 3 -

(b) equipment consisting of top-loaders, forklift trucks, tractor/trailers, hardware for an MIS/EDI,
    communication and office equipment, electronic weighing scales, a security monitoring system and
    ancillary equipment at a total cost of US$20.09 million; and
(c) technical assistance in the form of the development of a business plan, an operational manual, an
    MIS/EDI and training at a total estimated cost of US$0.42 million. Bank financed training was
    supplemented by a program funded by the Canadian International Development Agency to enhance the
    environmental and financial management capabilities of the project entities.

B. Upgrading Tianjin Port Container Handling Capacity
    The primary objective of this component was to increase capacity and enhance the productivity of
existing container handling facilities operated by Tianjin Harbor Container Company (THCC). Outputs of
the investment towards the achievement of this objective were:
(a) Civil Works: upgraded electrical substation and ancillary works financed locally at a cost of US$1.60
    million;
(b) Equipment: the procurement of three quay-side container cranes, 13 rubber tired gantry cranes, 5
    forklift trucks and ancillary equipment at a total cost of US$22.56 million; and
(c) Technical assistance: consulting services to establish an institutional and operational environment for
    intra-port competition between terminal operators, institute measures to increase productivity at berths
    and foreign training for Tianjin Port staff at a total cost of US$142,000.

    The investments in this component provided THCC the means and the capability to handle 30,000 dwt
container vessels over four berths with a total length of some 1,200m.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
    The economic evaluation covers the two components separately as well as the entire project combined.
Both costs and benefits reflect December 2005 prices.
    The economic internal rate of return (EIRR) of the project is estimated at 25 percent, and the net
present value (NPV), at a discount rate of 12 percent, is estimated at RMB 868 million; compared to the
PAD estimate of 39 percent and RMB 950 million, respectively.
    Component-wise, the Tianjin Port (THCC) component has an EIRR of 51 percent, compared to the
PAD estimate of 44 percent. The EIRR of the ICD component is estimated at 11 percent, compared to the
PAD estimate of 33 percent.

                                  EIRR (in %) and NPV (12%, RMB million) Summary
                                                            The ICR                          The PAD
                                                      EIRR              NPV               EIRR           NPV
 Upgrading Tianjin Port Container Handling            50.7              1,003             43.8            625
 Capacity
 ICD Development                                       11.4              (27)             32.7            324
                  Total Project                        24.7              868              39.4            950


    THCC: The recalculated EIRR and NPV of the Tianjin Port component are higher than anticipated at
appraisal mainly because of: (a) the lower project cost (about 30 percent lower than the PAD estimate), and
(b) the higher container traffic demand (about 60 percent higher than the PAD estimate).

    ICD: The recalculated EIRR and NPV of the ICDs are lower than the estimates mainly due to the
lower container traffic demand (average only about 9 percent of the PAD forecasted at appraisal), despite
the project cost of the ICDs being lower than estimated by about one third. The detailed economic analysis
is in the project file.


                                                      - 4 -

4.4 Financial rate of return:
    THCC and the eight ICDs are financially independent companies in their provinces, responsible for the
day-to-day management, operations and maintenance of the facilities. The main incomes of these
companies come from container handling, transportation, warehousing, and freight forwarding. The
companies plan to use operation revenue to cover their financial obligations, including the Bank and
domestic loans. Based on the current revenue and operating costs, the eight ICDs may have difficulties in
generating enough internal cash flow over the loan period to finance the operation, maintenance, and debt
services due to the low demand for container services.
    The financial evaluation so far for the project finds that the project as a whole has a FIRR of 7.4
percent with a NPV of RMB 126 million, of which the Tianjin Port component is estimated to have a FIRR
of 35.4 percent while the ICDs (taken together) are expected to have a negative net cash flow at least in
their early years and perhaps longer. Compared with the PAD, the re-evaluated FIRR for THCC at 35.4
percent is higher than forecasted (23.5 percent), and the re-evaluated FIRR for the ICDs (negative value) is
much lower than expected (22.8 percent). As a result, the re-evaluated FIRR for the entire project (7.4
percent) is less than one third of the PAD's estimated 23.2 percent at appraisal. The detailed financial
analysis is in the project file and summarized as follows.

                                    FIRR (in %) and NPV (4.5%, RMB million) Summary

                                                         The ICR                            The PAD
                                                FIRR           NPV (@4.5%)            FIRR           NPV
Upgrading Tianjin Port Container                35.4                1,246              23.5           297
Handling Capacity
ICD Development                                   --               (1,027)             22.8           171
             Total Project                       7.4                 126               23.2           464



4.5 Institutional development impact:
    Despite the wide gap between forecasted and actual container traffic at the inland terminals, the project
has had a positive institutional development impact. The availability of "off-port" clearances of cargo will
promote the through-transportation of containers, thereby relieving congestion at the gateway ports,
expediting the turnaround of containers and, in the process, reducing logistics costs of China's
export/import trade. By requiring that the ICDs be developed and operated by limited liability companies, a
demonstrative model for private sector participation in trade and transport logistics is in place.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
    There were two major factors outside the control of both the government and the implementing
agencies that had a significant impact on the ICD Development component of the project. The first was the
response of the shipping, transport and trading communities to the facilities and services provided by the
project. So far, the extent of use of the facilities and services available at the ICDs has been limited. This
could be attributed to the ICD enterprises being new and had yet to demonstrate the level of consistency
and reliability in service acceptable to the shipping and trading communities. The second factor was the
degree of competition provided by local trucking companies. Intense competition has lowered the rate for
the haulage of containers. At the time of project preparation in 1997, the cost for hauling a container was
estimated at RMB 6 per teu-km. Actual market rate was of the order of RMB 5 per teu-km. Local
competitors used locally manufactured trucks that cost much less than the imported tractors/trailers



                                                       - 5 -

procured by the ICD enterprises. Local trucking companies also tended to use under-powered trucks to
reduce registration fees and the payment of road tolls. Cost-wise, ICD enterprises had difficulty in
competing with local private trucking companies in the haulage of containers.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
    The major factor in the project that was subject to government control concerned "off-port" clearance
of import/export containers at the ICDs. Prior to loan approval, the provincial governments of Hebei, Inner
Mongolia and Zhejiang had signified their intent to designate the ICDs as Class 2 ports upon their
completion. This entailed the stationing of Customs officers at the ICDs. However, the power of the
provinces to designate ports was transferred to the Customs General Administration (CGA) in February
2002. Consequently the provinces could not fully implement their plan and only Baotou, Hangzhou and
Xiaoshan were able to persuade Customs to station officers at their ICDs. For the rest, Customs officers
from the local Customs office were available to inspect and clear cargo at the ICDs upon request until such
time as the volume of traffic handled at the ICDs justified stationing them full time at the ICDs. At the
same time, "off-port" inspections and clearances of cargo were extended to enterprises located at export
processing zones and large importers/exporters who met certain criteria. Customs clearance could also be
undertaken at local Customs offices of the project cities. The availability of such alternative sources for
"off-port" clearance was not envisaged at the time of project preparation. This deviation from the original
design of the project impacted significantly on the business development of those ICDs without Customs
officers on their premises.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
    Factors subjected to implementing agencies' control were those that related directly to the execution of
the project. Apart from Tianjin Port Authority, ICD enterprises, newly created to implement the project,
had no experience in executing Bank-financed projects. Construction of facilities at the ICDs and the
procurement of equipment could have been completed earlier had the implementing agencies and CPMO
been familiar with Bank procedures and procurement guidelines. The delay in the procurement of
equipment at the beginning of project implementation was particularly significant. Delays in the completion
of ICDs ranged from 1½ - 2½ years, shortening the period for the generation of income before the grace
period of the loan expired.

5.4 Costs and financing:
    The total cost of developing the ICDs and upgrading the container handling capacity of Tianjin Port
amounted to US$73.66 million, of which US$48.05 million was financed by the Bank.

                  Summary of Project Cost and Financing by Component
                                              Development Cost        Amount financed by Bank
      Component                                 (US$ million)                (US$ million)

      ICD Development                              49.36                    26.50

      Upgrading Tianjin Container                  24.30                    21.55
      Handling Capacity

                  Subtotal                         73.66                    48.05

     Front End Fee                                 0.71                     0.71

     Total                                         74.37                    48.76


                                                     - 6 -

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
    The sustainability of the project is rated likely. With the growth in containerization, containers will
move inland from gateway ports in increasing numbers. Government appears committed to the
simplification of customs procedures for the clearance of goods. Customs inspection and clearance of cargo
at importers/exporters' premises are likely to increase in line with the global trend to integrate land and sea
transport services goods in international trade. The entry of foreign logistic companies into China will
drive the use of "off-port" inspections and clearances further.
    For some of the ICD enterprises, some form of financial restructuring appears to be required. Due to
the current low volume of containers handled, revenues have fallen far short of expectation. Until demand
for their services picks up or new sources of revenue are found, additional financing is probably required in
most ICD enterprises. This could take the form of cash injections from current shareholders of the ICD
enterprises, new shareholders, or some form of working arrangement or joint venture with a foreign
logistics company planning to enter the China logistics market.
    As for Tianjin Port, the increased productivity and enhanced capacity at THCC brought about by the
project will enable Tianjin Port Authority to handle increasing throughputs until new container berths under
the second stage of its development plan to increase port capacity are developed at the north port area.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
    All project entities are fully in regular operation.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
    The project arose out of a study on transport logistics jointly undertaken by the Bank and the State
Economic and Trade Commission (SETC) in 1994. The study resulted in a sector report in October 1996
(China: Container Transport Services and Trade: Framework for an Efficient Container Transport System).
Informal discussion between the Bank and SETC on the concept of the project was initiated as early as
November 1996. The Bank mounted a project identification mission in May 1997 following the submission
of proposals for investment by SETC. Formal project preparation commenced in November 1997. The
project was appraised in July 1998 and the loan was approved on March 16, 1999. The Bank provided
SETC with considerable inputs in the preparation and design of the project. During project identification,
discussions were held with the State Planning Commission, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Railways,
Ministry of Communications, Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Cooperation, Customs General
Administration and Commodity Inspection Bureau in addition to SETC.
    Bank performance at lending is rated satisfactory although the decision to create new project entities to
implement the ICDs could have been subjected to greater debate. The risks in the project and their impact
on the financial outcome for the ICDs were recognized. However, measures taken to mitigate the risks,
mainly in the form of training, have proved inadequate.

7.2 Supervision:
    The Bank's performance in supervising the project is rated satisfactory. The Bank's team leader for the
project was changed shortly after the loan became effective. The effect of the break in continuity was
minimal. Bank supervision of the project was intensified after an initial period when it was apparent that
project entities in the ICD component needed more support due to their lack of experience in managing the
implementation of a project of this complexity.



                                                       - 7 -

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
    Overall, Bank performance in the identification, preparation and appraisal of the project is rated
satisfactory based on a) the consistency of the project with the government's development
strategy/priorities and the Bank's CAS, b) the resources provided in developing the project and c) the
account taken of lessons learned from past operations in the sector in China in the design of the project.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
    The project was prepared by SETC on the premise that properly designed inland depots adequately
equipped to handle containers and operated as "dry ports", with functions for commodity inspection and
customs clearance of cargo, would overcome major constraints that inhibited the movements of containers
inland of gateway ports. It was also predicated on the belief that such depots would be more efficient if they
were owned and operated by the private sector. To this end, new enterprises, structured to accommodate
future private sector participation, were incorporated as limited liability companies to develop and operate
the ICDs. The development was to be a pilot project in two selected transport corridors. Criteria for the
selection of the two corridors and cities where the depots would be located as well as criteria for the
selection and incorporation of ICD enterprises were established in consultation with the Bank. SETC's
preparation of the project was satisfactory.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
    The project required inputs from and the cooperation of several ministries and government
departments. During the course of implementation, there were major changes in the administrative structure
of the government that realigned responsibilities among ministries that directly or indirectly impacted on the
project. In particular, SETC, the lead agency for the development of the project, was abolished and its
functions redistributed among a newly created National Development and Reform Commission and the
Ministry of Commerce and Trade, and responsibility for ports was transferred from provincial government
to the Customs General Administration (CGA). In the circumstances, the provincial governments of Hebei,
Inner Mongolia and Zhejiang could not carry out their intention to designate the ICDs as Class 2 ports.
Except for this deviation from the original design of the project, appropriate and timely policy actions were
taken to execute the project according to plan. Government implementation performance on the whole is
rated satisfactory.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
    The lead agency in the preparation and management of implementation of the project was SETC.
SETC's supervisory responsibilities were discharged through the Central Project Management Office
(CPMO) established by government decree in July 1997. For the ICD component, management of
implementation was multi-layered. At the top, CPMO was responsible for overall coordination and the
compilation of reports for submission to the Bank, procurement of goods, and management of technical
assistance and training. Day to day implementation of the project was undertaken by the individual ICD
enterprises, coordinated and supervised by the respective provincial government through the Provincial
Project Management Office (PPMO). In the case of the Tianjin Port component, day to day implementation
of the project was undertaken by THCC. The structure was somewhat unwieldy but generally satisfactory.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
    Overall, the borrower's performance in project preparation and implementation by both government
and the implementing agencies is rated satisfactory. The project was completed within the estimated cost
and, except for the low volume of containers handled at the ICDs, the objective of the project was achieved.




                                                     - 8 -

8. Lessons Learned

    In linking the development of a business enterprise (container handling and transportation) to a reform
in government policy (Customs regime), it was not foreseen that a change of such significance might apply
to the trade in general rather than just the project enterprises. The business model of the ICD enterprise,
which relied heavily on the availability of "off-port" clearance of containers, did not take into account the
competition that could come about when alternative sources for obtaining the service became available. The
poor performance of the ICD Development component highlights the importance of technical assistance and
the need for measures to mitigate risks when a new business is embarked upon by an enterprise with no
prior experience.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
    A.     General
    This report summarizes the main jobs, experiences and lessons learnt during the implementation of the
Container Transport Project financed partly by the IBRD loan.

    B. Project Description
    Project Objective
    The objective of the project was to facilitate the penetration of containers from coastal ports to inland
cities in China, thereby helping to balance development between the coastal and inland areas.

    Project Contents
    The scope of the project included:
    -      the improvement of handling capacity of the container berths at Tianjin Port operated by the
    Tianjin Harbour Container Company (THCC);
    -      the development of the eight inland container depots (ICDs) along two transport corridors and
    -      policy reform and practice in container transportation.

    C. Achievement of the Objective
    The objective of the project was achieved. Inland container depots (ICDs) were developed as designed
to handle containers in Hangzhou, Huzhou and Xiaoshan in Zhejiang Province; Handan, Cangzhou,
Tangshan and Qinhuangdao in Hebei Province and Baotou in Inner Mongolia, and equipment to enhance
the container handling capacity in Tianjin Port was provided as planned. The project involved various
ministries and policy actions were taken to revise certain rules and regulations relating to the carriage of
containers in international trade including:
       -   the provision of Customs officers at the ICDs by the China Customs General Administration to
           undertake inspections and clearances of cargo;
       -   separate registration of trailers and tractors to provide greater flexibility in the use of vehicles;
       -   preferential toll charges for container transport vehicles in Zhejiang province; and
       -   reduction in the percentage of containers opened for Customs' inspection to accelerate the speed
           of cargo clearance.

    D. Formation and Preparation of the Project
    A joint study on container transport was initiated by the former State Economic and Trade Commission
(SETC) and the World Bank in March 1994 and resulted in a report in June 1996 which formed the basis
for the development of the project. The study, though not a requirement of the Bank in project preparation,
provided useful information for both the Chinese authorities and the Bank on the rationale and justification
for the project.


                                                       - 9 -

     In 1996, the former State Planning Commission (SPC) included the project in the list of candidate
projects in the 3-year rolling plan (1997-1999) for Bank financing. The Bank sent a project
pre-identification mission in November 1996, a project identification mission in May 1997 and two project
preparation missions in November 1997 and February 1998. In March 1998, SETC approved the
investment proposals submitted by the Tianjin, Inner Mongolia, Zhejiang and Hebei provincial economic
and trade commissions. The approval was contained in four official documents with the references
GUOJINGMAOGAI [1998]145, 146, 147, and 148, included (a) Tianjin port component and (b) an ICD
Development component consisting of the development of ICDs in Baotou in Inner Mongolia; Hangzhou,
Huzhou and Xiaoshan in Zhejiang; and Qinhuangdao, Tangshan, Cangzhou, Baoding, Shijiazhuang and
Handan in Hebei. In March 1999, SETC approved the feasibility studies submitted by the Tianjin, Inner
Mongolia, Zhejiang and Hebei provincial economic and trade commissions in its four official documents
with the reference number of GUOJINGMAOTOUZI [1999]202, 203, 204 and 205, respectively.
Shijiazhuang municipal government subsequently requested that Shijiazhuang ICD be deleted from the
project due to a lack of internal financing for its development.

    The Bank in April 1998 sent a mission to pre-appraise the project and in July 1998 the project was
appraised. The loan agreement was negotiated in January 1999 in Washington D.C. and signed in
September 1999. SPC had in the meantime in July 1999 formally approved SETC's proposal to use a
World Bank loan to finance the proposed project. In June 2000, the Baoding municipal government also
requested that the development of the Baoding ICD be withdrawn due to financial difficulties in connection
with the acquisition of land. The project was therefore left with eight ICDs from three provinces and the
Tianjin port component.

    E. Project Implementation
    Management during project implementation
    Management of implementation of the ICD component faced difficulties mainly because of the
involvement of various ministries and several provinces in the project, the many small operational entities
with small amounts of loan granted and the inexperience of project managerial organizations in project
management. These difficulties were overcome due principally to the structure for managing the project's
implementation.

    The arrangements for supervision of the project were discussed and agreed upon between the Bank and
the SETC during project preparation. In essence, the ICD sub-components were managed at various levels
through the Central Project Management Office (CPMO) setup by the SETC in July 1997. The provincial
and municipal project management offices (PPMO and MPMO) were also established in the provinces to
monitor the implementation of their sub-components. The ICD enterprises were responsible for the daily
management of implementation at their ICDs.

    The Managerial Rules of the Project Implementation of the World Bank Loan Project for Upgrading
International Container Multimodal Transportation System, formulated by CPMO based on an official
document issued by the former SETC with the reference number YUNXING [1999]07 on April 21, 1999,
defined the managerial organization. CPMO was responsible for the liaison and coordination between the
ministries, the Bank and the provinces as well as taking charge of the bidding processes. The
responsibilities of CPMO, PPMO and project enterprises were well defined without duplication or
overlapping to ensure an efficient management practice.

    Emphasis on financial supervision and disbursement
    Financial personnel from the three levels of management were trained by the Bank's resident mission in


                                                      - 10 -

Beijing.

    Civil Works
    Tianjin port:
    The project involved the upgrading of 835 meters of berths at the fourth harbor basin and the
construction of an 800-meter long crane track using domestic funds as well as the purchase of container
handling equipment procured by the Bank loan.

    Engineering design, construction and supervision of civil works in ICDs
    a)     Design: Consultants for the designs of the ICDs were selected by the respective ICD entities.
    b)     Construction: NCB procedure was adopted in the selection of contractors by PPMO and
           construction contracts were signed between ICD entities and the bid winners. The scope of work
           in each ICD included office buildings, container yards, warehouses, service roads and some
           infrastructure for environmental protection. All civil works reached the standard of acceptance
           and have been put into use. However, completion was delayed at some ICDs due to large
           contract variations resulting from design changes to meet potential users' requirements.
    c)     Supervision: The majority of ICD enterprises selected supervision companies through a bidding
           process. Due to proper supervision, the quality of the construction met requirements specified in
           the construction contracts.

    Environmental Impact Statement and Evaluation
    The project was classified as Category B by the Bank. The Tianjin Environmental Impact Evaluation
Center was selected by CPMO to undertake the environmental impact analysis in 1997. An environmental
impact statement was submitted by SETC to the State Environmental Protection Administration for review
and was subsequently approved by the state environmental protection body in September 1998 under
reference number of HUANFA [1998] 326. Provincial environmental protection departments monitored
construction to ensure that requirements contained in the statement were met.

    Equipment Procurement
    The ICB equipment procurement for Tianjin port (quayside cranes, rubber-tired gantry cranes, and
forklifts) was tendered by CNTIC International Tendering Corporation and those of the ICDs were
tendered by CMC International Tendering Corporation. All procedures were in accordance with the
Bank's ICB procurement guidelines. There was a saving of approximately 30% in cost. Miscellaneous
items of equipment which varied among ICDs were procured based on International Shopping (IS)
procedure.

    Technical Assistance
    Staff training
    Key personnel from the nine project entities, and project officials from concerned ministries, provincial
and municipal governments received overseas training financed by the loan, project entities' own funds and
CIDA (Canadian government grant). Training programs included techniques, policy, rules and regulations
in container yard/port management as well as regulations and method of environmental protection
compliance. Such TA activities helped to widen the exposure of officials and enterprise leaders to modern
operation and management of ICDs and provided the foundation for the long term planning and business
development of the ICD enterprises.

    Financial training
    Training in financial management was financed by CIDA. CPMO also organized training on loan
disbursement management.


                                                    - 11 -

    Studies on specific subjects:
    a)     Tianjin port:
    The study on improving Tianjin Port's berth productivity is being reviewed by experts. The study on
establishing a competitive environment for container terminal operations was completed in March 2005.
    b)     ICD:
    The preparation of the ICDs' operation manual and the business plan was completed.

    Development of MIS/EDI integrated system:
    Waterborne Transportation Institute (WTI) was awarded a contract in October 1999 to undertake the
task of developing a uniform EDI/MIS for all eight ICDs. The system was first installed in 2001 followed
by a series of fine tuning and debugging. It was inspected in 2004 and found to have a 95% compliance
with the provisions of the contract.

    Land Acquisition and Resettlement
    No resettlement was required for all the nine project sub-components.
    Land acquisition took place in three project sub-components, namely: Handan, Hangzhou and
Xiaoshan.

    Closing Date
    The loan for the project was closed on June 30, 2005.

    Main Experiences, Lessons and Suggestions
    Procurement
    Both the Chinese party and the Bank took considerable time in reviewing bidding documents and bid
results, which consequently affected the construction schedules of a few ICDs, though the delays had no
impact on the final cost of procurement. The application of NCB procedure for civil works was appropriate
given the relatively small contract sums for works undertaken at the various ICDs. However, the Bank's
requirement that the lowest evaluated bidder be awarded the contract created problems in some ICDs.
There were many elements which were dependent on engineering design and these were difficult to define
clearly in the bidding document. Bidders, who were mostly medium-sized enterprises with little experience
in participating in international bidding, offered - as was usual in China -unreasonably low prices just to
win the bids. After winning the contracts, they would begin to raise problems and a lot of energy and time
were spent in ensuring that they complied with the specifications and requirements contained in the
contracts. It is suggested that for NCB procurement in civil works the Bank give consideration to the
fixing of a lowest acceptable price. Any bid that is lower than the bottom price should be rejected. This
will eliminate the current unhealthy practice in procurement in China.

    Disbursements
    Disbursements by the Bank were on time during project implementation, reflecting that the project
entities had complied with the Bank's rules as well as the Bank's effective supervision and control.

    MIS/EDI
    The development of the MIS/EDI should provide a good lesson for projects.
    Firstly, it was taken too early; secondly it was too idealistic to assume that the same MIS/EDI system
could apply to all the eight ICDs. The shortcoming in the MIS/EDI could not be overcome even after
deferring its commissioning from 1999 to 2004.
    The market for software development in China was immature and still growing. Users' requirements
were apt to change even over a relatively short time. Users' preference for software differed widely and


                                                      - 12 -

there were no standard criteria for evaluating operating systems and application software. Information
technology has been developing rapidly and people's knowledge and skill in network application has been
improving. In such a situation it was a difficult task trying to satisfy all users.

    Long project cycle
    The project cycle was a little long. It took about nine years from the pre-identification mission in
November 1996 to the submission of the Implementation Completion Report following the closing date of
the loan on June 30, 2005. While the various steps for project preparation and implementation are
necessary for both the Bank and the Chinese authorities, it is desirable that both parties reduce the time
taken for project formulation and simplify project processing.

    Difficulty and experience in packaged project management
    The project, though a small one with a Bank loan of USD71 million, involved nine project entities from
nine cities. It also involved various ministries and their subordinate departments including the former
SETC, former State Planning Commission (SPC), MOF, MOR, MOC, Ministry of Public Security
(MOPS), General Administration of Customs (CGA), Department of Sanitary Inspection and Quarantine
and the former MOFTEC. Since project management had to meet the Bank's standard of supervision,
careful consideration had to be given to the arrangements and cost involved. With this objective in mind,
SETC decided to establish a Central Project Management Office and appointed China Communications
and Transportation Association (CCTA) to form the nucleus of the unit. Staff of CPMO comprised
professional staff from CCTA supplemented by specialists recruited from other organizations. The
arrangements for project management were highly successful and cost effective. The establishment of a
Central Project Management Office for coordination should be encouraged in future projects with similar
complexities.

    F. Implication of the project
    The implementation of the project did not merely satisfy the need for the services and/or facilities
rendered by the project. It also had wide ranging implications for container transportation in China. It
drew the attention of the various ministries to the significance of containerization and trade logistics. It
raised the awareness of the need for policy reform in the transportation and logistics sectors among the
ministries, provincial and municipal governments. It also increased the knowledge and enhanced the skills
of the staff of the project entities due to the training provided under the project.

    G. Communication
    The communication and cooperation among the CPMO, PPMOs, project entities and the Bank at every
stage have been efficient and smooth despite the changes of staff in the parties over the period of project
implementation. The occasional disagreements among the parties were resolved through objective
discussions by the highly professional teams among the parties.

    H. Front-end Fee
    There are still objections from the project entities to the payment of the front-end fee of 1% of the loan
amount. The project entities considered that the front-end fee was used to cover the Bank's management
cost and should be funded by the Bank's internal resources instead of having it passed to the borrower.

    I. The World Bank's Work
    The Bank's suggested arrangement for project management was crucial to the successful
implementation of the project and to the saving of supervision cost.

    The periodic visits by the Bank's supervision team offered assistance in resolving issues raised by


                                                       - 13 -

project entities and their supervising organizations and ensured timely implementation of the project.

    Merit of ICB procurement procedure
    The ICB procurement made it possible to obtain high quality equipment at a cost approximately 30%
lower than estimated. It also demonstrated the merit of procurement in an open, transparent and
corruption-free environment.

    The Bank's policy in aiding the development of inland cities/regions was in accordance with the policy
of the Chinese government. It was for this reason that the Baotou ICD was included in the project by the
borrower.

(b) Cofinanciers:
    (Not Applicable)

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
    (Not Applicable)

10. Additional Information




                                                     - 14 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

(a)      Project Development Objective



Development           Key Indicator            Baseline Value Target Value    Actual Value
Objective                                          (1996)       (2003)     (2003)    (2004)

Facilitate inland      Value of imports and
penetration of         exports to and from          19.1         49.1        25.3     31.7
seaborne containers    project cities
from gateway ports to (US$ billion)
inland cities



(b)    Project Outcome



Project Outcome        Key Indicator           Baseline Value Target Value    Actual Value
                                                   (1996)       (2003)     (2003)    (2004)

Increase container     Number of containers       148,000      572,000     32,918   55,110
movement along         handled at project ICDs
project corridors      (teu)

                       Average container cycle       11            8         9.8       9.6
                       time between gateway
                       port and Hangzhou
                       (days)

Enhance berth          Number of containers          500         974        1,351     1,547
productivity of THCC handled at THCC
50% by 2003            (000 teu)

                       Number of boxes handled       18           34         72.5     83.3
                       per vessel hour at THCC
                       (box)




                                               - 15 -

(c)   Project output



 Project Output                             Projected to Complete       Actual Completion
                                                 (PAD 1999)

A.      Develop common user ICDs in

   Zhejiang:
        Hangzhou                         April 2000                October 2001
        Huzhou                           March 2000                September 2001
        Xiaoshan                         February 2000             October 2002

   Inner Mongolia:
        Baotou                           October 2000              July 2003

   Hebei:
        Handan                           July 2000                 October 2003
        Qinhuangdao                      July 2000                 November 2003
        Tangshan                         July 2000                 October 2002
        Cangzhou                         July 2000                 October 2001

B. Upgrade container handling capacity
   at THCC's container terminal:

   - reinforced 835 m of wharf apron
      for crane rail and expanded                                  October 2001
      container berths by 450 m

   - purchase of 3 quayside container
      cranes, 13 rubber tired gantry     October 2000              February 2002
      cranes, 5 forklift trucks and other
      ancillary equipment

   - technical assistance
      (i)  to establish an institutional                           June 2005
           and operational environment
           for intra-port competition

      (ii) for enhancing container
           berth productivity                                      March 2003




                                                  - 16 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing


Table 2.1 Project Cost by Component (in US$ thousand equivalent)




                                             Appraisal          Actual     Percentage of
Project Component                            Estimate      (US$ thousand)   Appraisal
                                          (US$ thousand)

     I. ICD Development

     A. Equipment                             22,606           20,085          88.8
     B. Civil Works                           17,574           15,958          90.7
     C. Technical Assistance & Training          559              418          74.7
     D. Other Investments                     42,669           12,897          30.2
                      Subtotal                83,408           49,358          59.2

II.  Upgrading Tianjin Port Container
     Handling Capacity

A.     Equipment                              36,404           22,561          62.0
B.     Civil Works                             7,802            1,603          20.5
C.     Technical Assistance & Training           177              142          80.2
D.     Other Investments                      27,649               0            0.0
                      Subtotal                72,032           24,306          33.7

Total Baseline Cost                          155,440           73,663          47.4
     Physical contingencies                     2,186               0           0.0
     Price contingencies                         880                0           0.0
     Taxes and duties                            284                0           0.0

Total Project Cost                           157,790           73,663          46.7




                                           - 17 -

Table 2.2A Project Costs by Procurement Methods (Estimated, PAD 1999)

                                                                              (US$'000)
 Component/                                                                 Total cost
 category                ICB              NCB            Other       NBF    including
                                                                            contingency

ICD Component:

 Civil Works                              19,072                                   19,072
                                          (9,345)                                  (9,345)

 Goods                    22,528              74              253        40        22,895
                        (22,528)             (72)           (253)       (0)      (22,854)

 Services                                                     569                     569
                                                            (569)                   (569)

 Other                                                               42,670        42,670
 Investments                                                            (0)            (0)

 Tianjin Port
 Component:

 Civil Works                                                          8,583         8,583
                                                                        (0)            (0)

 Goods                    36,888                                                   36,888
                        (36,888)                                                 (36,888)

 Services                                                     179                     179
                                                            (179)                   (179)

 Other                                                               27,649        27,649
 investments                                                            (0)            (0)

 Total                    59,416          19,146            1,002    78,942        158,50
                        (59,416)          (9,417)         (1,002)       (0)      (69,835)

Figures in parentheses are amounts to be financed by the Bank loan




                                                  - 18 -

Table 2.2B Project Costs by Procurement Methods (Actual to June 30, 2005)

                                                                                   (US$ `000)
  Component/                                                               Total cost
  category             ICB            NCB           Other         NBF      including
                                                                           contingency

ICD Component:

 Civil works                           15,958                                     15,958
                                       (6,634)                                   (6,634)

 Goods                 18,874               0           638           574         20,085
                      (18,874)             (0)        (613)            (0)      (19,487)

 Services                                               380            38            418
                                                      (380)            (0)         (380)

 Other                                                             12,897         12,897
 investments                                                           (0)           (0)

Port Component:

 Civil works                                                        1,603          1,603
                                                                       (0)           (0)

 Goods                 22,561                                                     22,561
                      (21,440)                                                  (21,440)

 Services                                               142                          142
                                                      (106)                        (106)

 Other                                                                  0             0
 investments                                                           (0)           (0)

 Total                 41,435          15,958         1,160        15,112         73,664
                      (40,314)         (6,634)       (1,099)           (0)      (48,047)

Figures in parentheses are amounts financed by Bank loan




                                              - 19 -

Table 2.3 Project Financing by Component

                                                                          (US$ `000)

      Component               PAD estimate           Actual       Percentage of PAD
                          Bank Loan   Govt    Bank Loan    Govt  Bank Loan     Govt

ICD Component:

1. Goods                    22,854        41      19,487      599     59.5       1.2
2. Works                     9,34      9,727      6,634    9,324      20.2       17.8
3. Services                    569         0         380       38      1.2        0.0
4. Other Investments             0    42,670           0   12,897      0.0       24.6
           Sub-total        32,768    52,438      26,501   22,858     80.9       43.6

Port Component:

1. Goods                    36,888         0      21,440    1,121     57.8        3.1
2. Works                         0     8583            0    1,603      0.0        4.5
3. Services                    179         0         106       36      0.3        0.0
4. Other Investments             0    27,649           0        0      0.0        0.0
           Sub-total        37,067    36,232      21,546    2,760     58.1        7.6




Total                       69,835    88,670      48,047   25,618     68.8       28.9




                                            - 20 -

   Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits


      Table 3.1: Economic and Financial Evaluation Summary ( RMB million)

                                                  The ICR                           The PAD
                                  EIRR (%) ENPV       FIRR (%)   FNPV  EIRR (%)  ENPV   FIRR (%)
                                             (12%)              (4.53%)         (12%)             FNPV
1. Tianjin Port (THCC)               50.7    1,003      35.4     1,246    43.8   626      23.5    297
2. Inland Container Depots (ICD)     11.4     (27)       --     (1,028)   32.7   325      22.8    171
           Total project             24.7     868       7.4      127*     39.4   951      23.2    464


   *NPVs for the component do not add to total because NPVs are calculated as of year when
   construction began, which varied from one project site to another; total assumes simultaneous
   start for all.




                             Table 3.2: Traffic Data ( in `000 TEU equivalent)


                        1999            2003               2004             2005               2005

                                                                        PAD     ICR        ICR/PAD (%)

   THCC                 806             1,351              1,547        1,006  1,625           16

   Baotou                                1.5               6.1          26.0     8.7          33.2

   Qinhuangdao                           0.6               4.0          61.0    4.2           6.9

   Tangshan                              3.0               3.3          72.8     3.5          4.8

   Cangzhou                              3.7               5.5          33.0     5.7          17.2

   Handan                                0.2               1.1          33.5     1.3          3.7

   Huzhou                                1.8               1.4          57.9     1.0          1.7

   Hangzhou                             11.2               21.7         297.2   28.0          9.4

   Xiaoshan                             10.8               12.0         176.1   13.0          7.4

   Sub total                            32.8               55.1         757.5   65.4          8.6




            Sources: THCC, ICD and the Bank staff.




                                                     - 21 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              10/30/1996                4    TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             SR. TRANSPORT ECONOMIST
                                             (1);
                                             ECONOMIST (1);
                                             PORT ENGINEER (1)
              05/13/1997                3    TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             INTERMODAL SPECIALIST
                                             (1);
                                             PORT ENGINEER (1)
              02/15/1998                2    TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             INTERMODAL SPECIALIST
                                             (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              07/15/1998                4    TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             SR. TRANSPORT
                                             ECONOMIST (1);
                                             INTERMODAL
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             LEGAL COUNSEL (1)
              01/25/1999                3    TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             LEGAL COUNSAL (1);
                                             DISBURSEMENT OFFICER (1)

 Supervision

              05/09/1999                4    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             TRANSPORT ECONOMIST (1);
                                             PRORUREMENT SPEC. (1);
                                             COORDINATOR WITH PMO
                                             (1)
              06/21/2001                1    FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT             S               S
                                             S (1)
              09/23/2001                1    FINANICAL MAGT SPECL. (1)        U               S
              05/24/2002                5    SR. TRANSPORT ECONOMIS           U               S
                                             (1); SR. TRANSPORT
                                             ENGINEER (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (2); DISBURSEMENT
                                             ANALYST (1)
              12/06/2002                3    TASK LEAM LEADER (1); SR.        S               S
                                             TRANSPORT ENGINEER (1);
                                             TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (1)
              10/16/2003                2    TASK TEAM LEADER (1); SR.        S               S
                                             TRANSPORT ENGINEER (1)
              11/07/2004                5    SR. ECONOMIST/TTL (1);           S               S



                                              - 22 -

                                           LOGISTICS CONSULTANT
                                           (1); CIVIL ENGINEER (1);
                                           SECTOR LEADER/OBSERVER
                                           (1); PROCUREMENT (1)


 ICR




(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation           126.5                           409
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 30.5                           123
  Supervision                           68.3                           549
  ICR                                   20.2                           100
  Total                                245.5                         1,181




                                            - 23 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 24 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 25 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


1    The World Bank      China: Container Transport Services and Trade: Framework for an
                         Efficient Container Transport System , Feb 10, 1996
 2   The World Bank      Project Appraisal Document, Container Transport Project, Feb 14,
                         1999
 3   The World Bank      Amendment to the Loan Agreement, Oct. 26, 2000
 4   CPMO                Inland Container Depot, Operation Manual, Sept., 2001
 5   CPMO                Midterm Implementation Report, Container Transport Project, Dec.
                         21, 2001
 6   The World Bank      Cancellation & Loan Proceeds for Tianjin Port Conferment, Nov. 18,
                         2002
 7   CPMO                Semi-Annual Implementation Report of Container Transport Project,
                         2001 to 2005
 8   CPMO                Clause 9 of the Implementation Completion Report, June, 2005
 9   The World Bank      Supervision Report and Aide-memoires, 2001 to 2005
10   ICD Enterprises     Project Implementation Report, 2001 to 2005
11   Nankai University   An Analysis on the Fair Competition Status of Container Terminal
                         Companies in the Port of Tianjin, June 2002




                                               - 26 -

Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results

(Not Applicable)




                                      - 27 -

Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results

(Not Applicable)




                                      - 28 -

- 29 -

