Page  1
October 26, 2000
Mr. Zhu Guangyao
Director General
International Department
Ministry of Finance
San Li He St.
Beijing 100820
People’s Republic of China
RE:
Container Transport Project (LN 4444 – CHA)
Amendments to the Loan Agreement
Dear Sir:
I refer to the loan agreement between People’s Republic of China (the 
Borrower) and International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) 
for the above-referenced Project, dated September 2, 1999 (the Loan Agreement).  
I further refer to your communication dated September 18, 2000 on behalf of the 
Borrower, advising the Bank of the withdrawal of Baoding Municipality from Hebei 
Province’s Part of the Project and requesting the cancellation of a portion of 
the Loan proceeds.
In order to give effect to the withdrawal of Baoding Municipality, the 
Bank hereby agrees to amend the Loan Agreement as follows:
1.
Sub-sections 1.02 (i)(i) and 1.02 (p)(i) of the Loan Agreement are amended 
by deleting the word “Baoding” so that each of said Sub-sections will read  “ 
[…] (i) the Municipalities of Handan, Tangshan, Qinhuangdao and Cangzhou in 
Hebei; […].”
2.
Similarly, Sub-paragraphs (1)(a) and (2)(a) of Part A of Schedule 2 to the 
Loan Agreement, Description of the Project, are amended by deleting the word 
“Baoding”, so that each of said Sub-paragraphs will read “[…] (a) Handan, 
Tangshan, Qinhuangdao and Cangzhou in Hebei; […].”
3.
Paragraph 1 (c)(i) of Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement is amended to read 
as follows:
“(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to:
(i) $1,000,000 in respect of the Hebei Special Account for Parts A.1 
(a) and A.2 (a) of the Project, to be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account and deposited into the Hebei Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation for 
the Hebei Special Account shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to $600,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals 
from the Loan Account allocated to Category (1) plus the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions for 
Hebei under Parts A.1 (a) and A.2 (a) of the Project shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of $5,000,000;”
In addition, pursuant to Section 6.01 of the General Conditions, at your 
request, the Bank has canceled an amount of $3,130,000 from the Loan.  This 
cancellation is effective as of September 18, 2000, and the commitment charges 
on such amount cease to accrue from that same date.  Schedule 3, Amortization 
Schedule, is being revised by the Bank as a result of the cancellation , and the 
Page  2
revised figures will be sent to you shortly.
Please confirm your agreement, as the duly authorized representative of 
the Borrower, to the amendments set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 above, by 
signing and dating the form of confirmation on the enclosed original of this 
letter and returning it to us for our files. These amendments shall become 
effective as of the date of receipt by the Bank of this original letter signed 
on behalf of the Borrower.
Sincerely,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Yukon Huang
Country Director, China
East Asia and Pacific Region
AGREED:
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Zhu Guangyao
Authorized Representative
Date:
November 2, 2000
