Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11208-VE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
VENEZUELA
NATIONAL PARKS MANAGEMENT PROJECT
NOVEMBER 17, 1992
Environment and Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(as of June 1992)1/
Currency Unit  =    Bolivar (Bs)
US$1.00         =    Be 66.0
US$1 million   =    BB 66 million
US$15,152       =    Bs 1 million
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system is used throughout the report.
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
1/ Appraisal Mission.



FOR OFFICAL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
ABRAE           Protected Areas
(Areas Bajo R6gimen Administrativo Especial)
CAIAH          Amazonian Center for Environmental Research
(Centro Amaz6nico de Investigaci6n Alejandro de Humboldt)
CORDIPLAN       Ministry of Coordination and Planning
(Ministerio de Coordinaci6n y Planificaci6n)
FAC             National Guard
(Fuerzas Armadas de Cooperaci6n)
INOS           National Institute of Sanitation
(Instituto Nacional de Obras Sanitarias)
INPARQUES      National Institute of Parks
(Instituto Nacional de Parques)
IUCN            International Union of Conservation
MAC             Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
(Ministerio de Agricultura y Cria)
MARNR           Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources
(Ministerio del Ambiente y Recursos Naturales)
NGO             Non-Governmental Organization
O&M             Operations and Maintenance
PCU             Project Coordination Unit
PROFAUNA        National Wildlife Office
(Oficina Nacional de Fauna)
REA             Rapid Ecological Assessment
SADAMAZONAS    National Service for the Environmental Development of the Amazon
Region
(Servicio de Desarrollo Ambiental del Amazonas)
WWF             World Wildlife Fund for Nature
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






VENEZUELA
NATIONAL PARKS MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
I. LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  1
II. SECTORAL BACKGROUND  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  4
Country Overview   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  4
Natural Resource Management and Protection   . . . . . . . . . . .  4
Biological Diversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  4
Protected Areas.5. .    .......... 5
Legislative Framework  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  5
Institutional Setting  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  5
Sectoral  Issues  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    7
Experience with Previous Bank Lending  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  7
Lessons Learned from Similar Projects  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  8
III. THE PROJECT .9
Origin and Rationale for Bank Involvement  . . . . . . . . . . . .  9
Project Objectives and Design  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Details of Project Components  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Strengthening of Parks Management and Protection . . . . . . . . 11
Environmental Research .................... . 12
Environmental Education  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Institutional Development  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Project Organization and Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Participation by NGOs and Local Communities in Project Activities. 17
Environmental Impact   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Project  Costs    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  19
Financing  Plan  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  19
Procurement    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  19
Disbursements    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  21
Project Benefits and Justification   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
Sustainability   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
Project  Risks    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  25
IV.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Venezuela from June 22 to July 10, 1992.  The mission comprised Messrs. L.
Coirolo (Mission Leader, Economist), F. Vita (Economist, FAO-CP), R. DuBois
(Environmentalist, FAO-CP), P. Gutman (Environmental Economist, Consultant), J.
Barborak (Institutional Specialist, Wildlife Conservation International), A.
Grajal (Conservation Specialist, Wildlife Conservation International), G. Ledec
(Environmentalist) and Mmes. C. Sobrevila (Ecologist) and G. Leiva (Secretary).



- ii -
ANNEXES, TABLES AND CHARTS
Annex 1: STRENGTHENING OF PARKS MANAGEMENT AND PROTECTION COMPONENT . 28
Table 1.1:  Project Assisted Protected Areas . . . . . . . . 33
Table 1.2: Proposed Locations of Fire Prevention and Combat
Camps and Parks Covered by Region  . . . . . . . 34
Annex 2:  ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH COMPONENT  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
Annex 3: ENVIRONMENTAL EDUCATION COMPONENT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Annex 4:  INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING COMPONENT . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
Chart 4.1:  INPARQUES Organizational Chart  . . . . . . . . . 47
Table 4.1:  Existing Personnel in Project Protected Areas    48
Table 4.2:  Additional Staff for Selected Personnel
Categories under Project  . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
Table 4.3:  Proposed Staffing Levels   . . . . . . . . . . . 50
Table 4.4:  Proposed Technical Staffing Needs Matrix -
Resources Management Program . . . . . . . . . . 51
Annex  5:    PROJECT  COSTS  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  52
Table 5.1:  Estimated Project Costs by Component  . . . . . . 52
Table 5.2:  Annual Phasing of Project Costs by Components,
Including Contingencies   . . . . . . . . . . . . 53
Table 5.3:  Estimated Schedule of Bank Disbursements  . . . . 54
Table 5.4:  Financing Plan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
Table 5.5:  Allocation of Loan Proceeds   . . . . . . . . . . 56
Table 5.6:  Procurement Implementation Schedule -
Estimated Annual Contractual and Other Payments  57
Table 5.7:  INPARQUES' Cost Recovery Program . . . . . . . . 58
Annex 6:  PROJECT SUPERVISION PLAN  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59
Table 6.1:  Key Annual Dates for Project Supervision . . . . 60
Table 6.2:  Bank Staffing Inputs and Skill Requirements for
Project Supervision  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
Annex 7:  PROJECT PHYSICAL TARGETS, IMPLEMENTATION AND IMPACT . . . . . 62
Table 7.1:  Project Physical Targets and Schedule of
of Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62
Table 7.2:  Indicators of Project Impact on
National Park Sustainability . . . . . . . . . . 67
Annex 8:  REPORTS AND DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILES  . . . . . . . . . . . 68
MAP: IBRD No. 24323



VENEZUELA
NATIONAL PARKS MANAGEMENT PROJECT
I. LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            The Republic of Venezuela
Executing Agency:   Instituto Nacional de Parques (INPARQUES)
Amount:              US$55.0 million equivalent
Terms:               Repayable over 15 years, including 5 years of grace at the
Bank's standard variable rate.
Proiect Objectives  The project would help to strengthen the capability of
and Description:    INPARQUES and other public environmental agencies to manage
Venezuela's national and urban parks, natural monuments, and
wildlife reserves; to intensify public environmental
research, training and education efforts; to involve the
private sector more actively in the protection/management
of natural resources; and to improve the economic
sustainability of the national parks and other protected
areas.    The  main  project  components  would  include:
(a) Strengthening of Parks Management and Protection;
(b) Environmental Research; (c) EnvironmentalEducation; and
(d) Institutional    Development,    including    Project
Administration, Training and Technical Assistance.
Prolect Benefits:   Support for national parks and other priority protected
areas in Venezuela is justified from both a national and an
international standpoint. Many of these areas contain the
watersheds of major rivers and storage reservoirs which are
significant for power, agriculture and water supply; and/or
have recreational and tourism potential which could be
further developed provided their natural resource base is
protected and managed in a sustainable manner. By way of
illustration, the present value of the watershed protection
function of the national parks alone has been estimated at
US$285 million p.a. or more.  As a direct result of the
project, the management and protection of a total area of
approximately 110,000 km2 would be significantly improved.
The capacity to manage all of Venezuela's protected areas
(some 0.5 million km2) would also be indirectly strengthened
as a result of the training, education and capacity building



- 2 -
activities  of  the  project.    From  the  international
perspective, despite its relatively small size, Venezuela
contains a vast array of neotropical  ecosystems.   The
investment effort under the project would greatly enhance
the prospects for survival of representative samples of
almost one-tenth of the world's biological diversity and
would thus also have important external benefits.
Pro-ect Risks:       Although there are no major project risks, implementation
could be affected by some institutional weaknesses at the
level of INPARQUES and counterpart funding constraints.
INPARQUES is a well-established, autonomous entity with a
good track record to date, but its present structure and
skills mix do not fully reflect the extent to which its
responsibilities have grown over the years.   To address
these institutional concerns, the project would support:
(a) a decentralization of administrative and technical
functions from INPARQUES' central headquarters to its
regional    and   state   offices   and   field   units;
(b) implementation of a plan of action to diversify
INPARQUES' sources of financial support and thereby help to
strengthen its financial sustainability beyond the project
period; and (c) staff training and technical assistance.
Also, building on successful past collaborative efforts
between the Government and NGOs, domestic and international
NGOs and local communities would participate in various
project activities, thereby lessening some of the
implementation burden on INPARQUES. Finally, the project
implementation strategy places  primary emphasis  on the
contracting out of project works to the maximum extent
possible.  With regard to funding, the level of cost sharing
by the Bank would be somewhat higher (60%) than the average
for other operations in Venezuela, given the strong
environmental focus of the project.  During negotiations,
assurances would be sought that adequate counterpart funds
would be provided to INPARQUES to meet the balance of
project funding needs.



-3-
ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN
L2cl              Forefon          12Xi1
(US# MilLion)
Estimated Project Costs
A. Strengthening of Parks Manaaement and Protection           50.8                 8.1            58.9
-  Northern NationaL Parks                          (30.8)               (4.4)          (35.2)
-  Wildlife Reserves                                 (0.9)               (0.2)           (1.1)
- Amazon NationaL Parks                              (3.1)               (0.3)           (3.4)
- Urban Recreational Parks                           (9.8)               (1.1)          (10.9)
-  Fire Prevention and Control                       (6.2)               (2.1)           (8.3)
B. Environmental Research                                      1.9                 4.5             6.4
C. Environmental Education                                     2.3                 0.2             2.5
D. Institutional Development                                   7.2                 5.4            12.6
Project Administration                            (3.0)               (3.0)           (6.0)
-  Training                                          (3.1)               (0.1)           (3.2)
Technical Assistance                              (1.1)               (2.3)           (3.4)
Total Baseline Costs                                  l2               a182m4
-  Physical Contingencies                             5.8                 1.1             6.9
-  Price Contingencies                                6.7                 2.0             8.7
Total Project Costs                                     7                 il             96.0
Financing Plan:
Government of Venezuela                              41.0                             41.0 if
IBRD                                                33.8                 21.2         55.0
Total                                                Lilu 90
Estimated Disbursements:
FY                      1993          1994         1995         1996         171
Annual                11.5 ?/          9.0         12.2         11.5           8.8         2.0
Cumulative            11.5 Z/         20.5         32.7         44.2         53.0         55.0
Rate of Return: N.A.
Matp: IBRD No. 24323
1/ Including USS3.8 million in local taxes.
2/  Including initial deposit of USS5.0 million into the Special Account  nd USS5.0 miLLion of retroactive
financing.



a



-4-
II. SECTORAL BACKGROUND
Country Overview
2.01    Venezuela, situated on the north coast of South America and bordered by
Colombia, Brazil and Guyana, is the continent's sixth largest country with an
estimated area of 916,442 km2 (see Map). In addition to its mainland, Venezuela
possesses 72 islands and a maritime area of 362,000 km2 (the country's declared
exclusive economic zone). The total population is estimated at just under 21
million inhabitants (1990), some 83% of whom live in urban settlements located
mainly in the northern states.
2.02    Although Venezuela lies entirely in the tropics, there is considerable
variation in climate due principally to differences in elevation and topographic
effects. Average rainfall ranges from less than 500 mm on the north Caribbean
coast to more than 4,000 mm in parts of the Orinoco Delta and the eastern part
of the Cordillera de M6rida.  Humidity is generally high with average values
exceeding 80% in the Amazon, eastern plains (llanos), and the Maracaibo lowlands.
Annual average temperatures range from 240 C at elevations below 800 m to 00 C
at elevations over 3,000 m.  The Orinoco river system drains some 80% of the
national territory.
2.03    Venezuela's per capita GDP of US$2,560 (1990) is the second highest in
Latin America. Oil and other minerals account for approximately 90% of total
exports.    GDP  is also  heavily  influenced  by  these  same  activities:  oil
production, mining, petrochemicals and energy have generated up to 30% of GDP in
recent years; other manufacturing provided 12%; agriculture and construction 6%
each; and services 46%.
2.04    Due to its heavy dependence on petroleum exports, the rapid growth rates
which Venezuela achieved during the 1974-78 period of high oil prices fell
dramatically during the 1980s.   In spite of a successful debt rescheduling
program, economic activity stagnated until about 1985, picking up again in 1986-
88 as oil prices recovered and official exchange rates were modified. In 1989
the economy began to slump again, but subsequent adjustment efforts and debt
restructuring have started to yield results.
Natural Resource Management and Protection
2.05    Biological  Diversity.    Venezuela  is a sparsely populated  country
situated in the tropics and enjoying a wide range of geographically extensive
habitats, many of which still remain little disturbed. As a result, Venezuela
has been identified as one of the world's most biologically diverse countries,
and has been classified by the World Wildlife Fund for Nature as one of Latin
America's six megadiversity countries. Estimates of the country's flora exceed
21,000 species of high vascular plants, 5,000 of which are judged to be endemic
to Venezuela.   Other indicators include some 1,300 species of birds out of a
world total of 9,000, 40% of 3,300 known species of neotropical birds and more
than 300 species of mammals, 18 of which are classified as endangered.



- 5 -
2. 06    Protected Areas.  To manage its biodiversity wealth and to protect its
natural resources, over the past 50 years Venezuela has put a significant part
of its territory under different forms of protection.   At the core of the
protected areas system are the country's 39 national parks, 17 natural monuments
and 10 wildlife refuges and reserves (Annex 1). Today Venezuela's national parks
and monuments encompass more than 14 millon has, or 15% of the national territory
(compared with a world average of 5%). In addition to preserving much of the
country's biological resources for future generations, Venezuela's protected
areas provide considerable economic and social benefits in terms of protection
of critical watersheds, water supply, electricity production, and eco-tourism.
The national parks are the natural catchment areas supplying about 30% of the
water supply to major towns, and almost 30% of the water utilized by all the
hydroelectric dams of the country.
2.07    Legislative Framework.  Venezuela has developed an impressive body of
environmental legislation and a fairly comprehensive environmental management
system. Fundamental laws for environmental protection relate to: (a) medium- and
long-term environmental goals; (b) administration and policy implementation; and
(c) law enforcement. The medium- and long-term environmental goals are set forth
in the Organic Law on the Environment (Ley Org&nica del Ambiente - LOA) and the
Organic Zoning Law (Ley Organica para la Ordenaci6n del Territorio - LOOT). The
LOA, passed in 1976, provides Venezuela's general environmental policy framework.
In 1983, the Government enacted the LOOT, mandating extensive land zoning and
planning at the national, regional and local levels. Policy implementation and
management of the environment are addressed in the 1976 Organic Law on Central
Administration (Ley Organica de la AdministraciOn Central (LOAC), which created
the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources (MARNR) and conferred on it
broad authority to issue regulations in pursuit of its mandate. The 1988 organic
Law of Municipal Regime (Ley Organica del Regimen Municipal) defines the
environmental competence of the municipalities, and the 1989 Organic Law on
Decentralization (Ley Organica de Decentralizaci6n) promotes the transfer of
authority and responsibilities from the national level to the state and local
levels. A new and stringent Environmental Penal Law (Ley Penal del Ambiente) has
also recently been enacted (April 1992).
2.08    Institutional  Setting.   MARNR,  with  headquarters  in  Caracas  and
delegations in each state, is responsible for the enforcement of environmental
standards and the preparation of most environmental and land planning at the
national and regional levels. MARNR is also responsible for management of much
of the publicly owned natural resources, including inland waters, forests and
protected areas.   MARNR operates through several autonomous institutes and
services which enjoy greater management freedom than do the line Ministries. The
Instituto Nacional de Parques (National Institute of Parks, INPARQUES) which
manages the national parks, natural monuments and urban parks is one of the more
important autonomous institutes linked to MARNR. Two other relevant autonomous
services are the National Wildlife Office (PROFAUNA), in charge of wildlife
protection, and the National Service for the Environmental Development of the
Amazon (SADAMAZONAS), which focusses on the environmental protection of
Venezuela's sparsely occupied Federal Amazon Territory.



-6-
2.09    INPARQUES was created in 1978 to administer national parks, natural
monuments and urban/recreational parks. By regional Latin American standards,
INPARQUES is a relatively successful protected areas management agency. Most of
the parks and wildlands for which INPARQUES is responsible are not "paper parks",
but rather have at least some basic infrastructure and on-site management
activities. INPARQUES also has a sizeable cadre of highly motivated personnel.
Nonetheless, Venezuela's national park system has expanded rapidly over the last
few decades, and the large number of newly created parks has strained INPARQUES'
ability to fulfill its legally mandated management responsibilities,  partly
because of its present fairly centralized structure and staffing/skills mix
pattern, exacerbated by budgetary constraints associated with declines in
domestic oil revenues.   Hence,  it is clear that the rapid expansion of
Venezuela's protected areas system now needs to be followed by a period of
consolidation and more effective management of these areas, with significant
emphasis on the institutional strengthening of INPARQUES and some of the other
key agencies mentioned below.
2.10    PROFAUNA  was  created  in  1989  to  manage  the  country's  wildlife,
particularly 10 wildlife refuges and reserves. SADAMAZONAS was also created in
1989 to coordinate, plan and execute the environmental policy for the Amazon
territory. The Alejandro de Humboldt Amazonian Center for Environmental Research
(CAIAH), attached to SADAMAZONAS, is the focal point for coordinating and
implementing all research activities in that part of the Amazon basin which lies
within Venezuela. Many other Venezuelan institutions also perform activities
which concern the environment. The Ministry of Coordination and Planning Office
(CORDIPLAN) has a major role in coordinating environmental issues of national
scale.   Although heavily concentrated at the national level, environmental
management is beginning to be decentralized to state and local authorities, in
accordance with the new decentralization law (para. 2.07). Also of interest is
the involvement of the Ministry of Defense in activities of environmental police
and law enforcement. The Fuerzas Armadas de Cooperacion (FAC) is the military
corps devoted to surveillance and protection activities (frontier control,
customs, public properties protection, etc.).   Since 1952, it has also been
responsible for enforcing environmental policy on the ground. Certain units of
the National Guard are seconded to MARNR, and consequently to INPARQUES, to
assist   in  inspection  and  control.        FAC  presently  maintains   fixed
warden/inspection posts in four national parks (El Avila, El Tama, Canaima and
Maria Lionza).
2.11    There are several strong (both in terms of organization and professional
staff) Venezuelan NGOs which have been acting for many years on problems relating
to environmental conservation. Specifically, they have been working in applied
research and environmental education, in helping to channel private sector
resources to environmental causes, and in the actual implementation of small
conservation and natural resource management projects.   Both national  and
international NGOs have also already been working with the Government in the
preparation of studies and management plans for protected areas.



2.12    Sectoral Issues.  A Bank Environmental Issues Paper (EIP) for Venezuela
(IBRD Report No. 8272-VE, issued in December 1991) documents in detail
Venezuela's environmental achievements. However, the EIP also points out that
the weakest point in Venezuela's environmental system is its limited capacity to
enforce environmental standards and to manage its natural resources in a
sustainable manner. More specifically the paper points to:
(a) the need to integrate more systematically environmental objectives into
economic decision making;
(b) the need to reduce deforestation and illegal mining and to control
industrial and urban water pollution, through better monitoring and
surveillance, enforcement of existing regulations, new price mechanisms
and investment in pollution control technologies; and
(c) the need to improve management of the country's protected areas. On the
latter point, the paper states that "the principal threat to Venezuela's
vast biological diversity is poor on-the-ground management of its most
important protected areas....  As a result, many have been subject to
slash-and-burn agriculture, deforestation for pasture or extensive
illegal  hunting  and  fishing".       To  cope  with  this  situation,
infrastructure and equipment are in short supply, and research to guide
sustainable development management is lacking, as are resources for
educating park users and for working with local communities. Given the
budgetary constraints which the Government faces, the report concludes
that if Venezuela is to sustain its national park system and build upon
its past accomplishments, technical and financial support for its
efforts to conserve its natural heritage will need to be increased at
both the national and international levels.
Venezuela has demonstrated a strong history of concern for conservation issues.
It possesses a comprehensive body of sound environmental legislation and the
basic institutional framework for protected areas management, particularly with
regard to its national parks system. Further, work done under the EIP indicated
that there are no serious policy or pricing distortions in place which would
threaten the sustainability of that system.   In this context, the focus of
efforts to improve natural resource protection over the medium-term should be on
strengthening the national capacity to implement existing legislation,
regulations and environmental programs.
ExRerience with Previous Bank Lendinq
2.13    Between 1961 and June 1992, the Bank approved 23 loans to Venezuela,
totalling  US$2,425.2  million.    These  included  support  for  agricultural
development (three projects), transport (four projects, including an airport
loan), power (four projects, including part of the Guri hydroelectric project),
telecommunications (two projects), water supply and urban development (two
projects), education and social development (two projects), debt and debt service
reduction (one loan), and support for structural adjustment and related policy
reform efforts (four projects) and technical assistance (one project). Most of



-8-
the 14 fully disbursed loans have been viewed as relatively successful, and the
ongoing operations are not experiencing any significant implementation problems.
Lessons Learned from Similar Prolects
2.14    While many Bank-financed projects include environmental components,
loans primarily in support of environmental objectives are still small in number.
During 1991 the Bank listed two such projects in Latin America and a total of
eleven around the world (The World Bank and the Environment, A Progress Report.
1991). In reviewing these efforts, as well as experiences with park management
in more developed countries, the Bank has drawn several lessons which have been
duly considered in the design of the proposed project, among them:
(a)  Management Strengthenina.  The effective implementation of a national
parks system requires significant on-the-ground management. Management
objectives have to be translated into specific measures with a budget
for implementing them. These measures usually include the training of
personnel, the provision of infrastructure and equipment, and the
development of scientifically sound management options.
(b) Local Community Participation. Early and sustained involvement of local
communities and environmental NGOs is critical for several reasons: (i)
to gain the support of the public for environmental conservation; (ii)
to properly include sound demands of the local population in the parks,
management plans; and (iii) to enlist the community and the private
sector in sharing the costs of the conservation programs.
(c)  Decentralization  of  Management  and  Technical  Decisions.    Over-
centralization of decision making at national parks headquarters results
in poor management at the field level and low capacity to react to
environmental and social change.   Decentralization (empowering local
officers and communities) seems to be an effective way to increase
management efficiency and community participation.
(d) Increasing Revenues. Although national parks and other protected areas
are the source of important economic benefits for society, the national
park administrations normally capture few of these.   Increasing the
revenues collected directly from the public could enhance national park
administrations in many ways: (i) operational costs could be partially
isolated from national budget fluctuations; (ii) the demand for, and the
benefits of, the national parks system would become more visible; (iii)
a more equitable sharing of costs could be developed, including charges
to off-site consumers.
2.15    These lessons have been taken into account in the design of the proposed
project, which aims to consolidate the existing network of national parks through
better management. The bulk of the project investment would be made at the local
level. Specific decentralization goals and means to achieve them are also part
of the project. INPARQUES already conducts consultation workshops with local
communities before major management decisions are taken.   These activities,



together with extensive NGO involvement, would be encouraged by the project.
Efforts to increase revenue collection to sustain park operations would also be
an important feature of the project.
III. THE PROJECT
Origin and Rationale for Bank Involvement
3.01    In the course of reviewing the Bank's draft Environmental Issues Paper
for Venezuela (para. 2.12), discussions were held with the Government on a
possible project to help strengthen the management of its protected areas system.
Priority was given to national parks and wildlife refuges, because of their
importance in both ecological and economic terms.  An identification mission
visited Venezuela in early December 1991. The general scope of the project was
defined, and INPARQUES appointed a technical team to prepare the project in
consultation with other potential participant agencies and NGOs. A subsequent
preparation mission was conducted in January 1992; pre-appraisal took place in
March/April 1992; the project was appraised during June/July 1992; and Loan
negotiations took place in mid-October 1992.
3.02    The Bank's operational strategy in Venezuela is to support sector-
specific efforts aimed at increasing decentralization and efficiency of public
services; private sector development; poverty alleviation; and environmental
protection.   This project touches upon most of these Bank objectives, in the
context of strengthening Venezuela's capacity to manage and protect its national
parks.
(a) The project would improve public sector performance by helping the
Government to implement an already existing and well-designed body of
policies,   legislation   and  regulations   concerning  environmental
conservation of an important part of Venezuela's natural resource base.
(b)  It would result in significant environmental gains through biodiversity
preservation and sustainable management and protection of valuable
natural resources. Important economic benefits could also be generated,
since many of Venezuela's national parks protect natural resources of
high economic value.
(c) It would encourage private sector involvement and active NGO
participation in project implementation, and subsequently in helping to
ensure the economic sustainability of the national park system.
(d) The project would support decentralization of national parks management
and the greater involvement of local communities. These actions would
have a modest, but positive, impact on the well-being of poor
populations living in the vicinity of national parks (new livelihood



- 10 -
opportunities, technical support for sustainable resource use and better
environmental infrastructure).
Proiect Obiectives and Desian
3.03    The project would help to strengthen the capability of INPARQUES,
SADAMAZONAS, PROFAUNA and FAC to manage Venezuela's national and urban parks,
natural monuments, and wildlife refuges and reserves; to intensify public
environmental research, training and education efforts; to involve the private
sector more actively in the management and protection of natural resources; and
to improve the economic sustainability of the national parks and other protected
areas.  The main project components would include:
(a) strengthening the management and protection of 16 national parks in
northern Venezuela, four national parks and two natural monuments in the
Amazon region, two wildlife refuges, and seven urban recreational parks;
and establishing an effective fire prevention and fire fighting capacity
throughout the national parks system;
(b)  applied environmental research, to support sustainable management of
various parks, generate useful scientific knowledge on the ecology of
the parks, and assist Venezuela in safeguarding its rights with respect
to research findings and the possible commercial use of its biodiversity
resources;
(c)  environmental education, both at the regional and local levels, to
disseminate  information,   raise  the  level  of  knowledge  about
environmental issues and their linkages with economic development, and
engage the active participation of the community in supporting
environmental protection; and
(d) institutional development, including training, technical assistance and
studies; physical infrastructure, equipment, furniture and other
operational support for institutions engaged in the implementation of
the project.
3.04    In designing the project, due attention has been paid to the selection
of specific parks, monuments and refuges; and to institutional capacities and
their required strengthening. Selection of areas and parks has been based on an
analysis of the representativeness of the different ecological zones present in
Venezuela, using the system developed by Huber and Alarc6n. Ten of the country's
15 ecological sub-regions are represented in the protected areas proposed for
inclusion in the project.   INPARQUES is the only institution in Venezuela
responsible for the conservation of natural resources in national parks, and is
also principally responsible for the management of many of the country's urban
recreational parks. Its experience, accumulated over many years of activity, is
quite good, although there is a need for streamlining, decentralization and
strengthening of various administrative, financial and technical functions and
procedures.



- 11 -
Details of Proiect Components
3.05    Components and sub-components of the project over the five years of the
project would be as follows:
3.06    Strengthening of Parks Management and Protection (US$58.9 million of
baseline costs):
(a) Improvement of the administration and management of 16 national parks
in northern Venezuela through the provision of basic infrastructure,
equipment,  and personnel.   A list of the selected parks, and other
component details, is provided in Annex 1. The project would support:
(i) administration (offices, residential facilities in isolated parks,
maintenance  warehouses,   etc.);   (ii)  park  protection   (boundary
demarcation, access controls, guard posts, etc.); (iii) environmental
education and interpretation (visitor and information centers,
interpretative trails and signs, observation towers, etc.); and
(iv) tourism and recreation (recreational area development, access road
rehabilitation, kiosks, etc.).   Equipment needs consist primarily of
transport (trucks, motorcycles, and boats) as well as office and field
equipment.   Personnel costs include incremental staff to strengthen
INPARQUES'  protection,   resources  management,   and  administrative
activities at the field level.
(b) Improvement of the administration and management of four national parks
and two natural monuments in the Amazon recion, with emphasis on
protective  activities  (Annex  1).    This  sub-component  would  be
coordinated with  SADAMAZONAS.    Specific  activities  would  include:
(i) financing a minimum number of inspection and control posts in
strategic   areas   (airstrips,  river  confluence,   etc.),   equipped
principally with radio equipment and boats; (ii) strengthening the
regional office to support these posts; (iii) staffing of ranger and
park guards and supporting office and living equipment; and (iv) support
for  an  aerial  surveillance  and  logistics  program.          A  strong
environmental research program is also envisaged, to help develop
management plans and improve basic knowledge of these parks (para.
3.07).
(c) Improvement of infrastructure and equipment in two PROFAUNA wildlife
refuges (Cuare and Tortuga Arrau). These two refuges were selected for
their importance as conservation areas and for their proximity to two
national parks included in the project (Morrocoy and Cinaruco-
Capanaparo, respectively). Specific activities to be financed include:
(i) infrastructure in support of administrative, management, and
educational activities; (ii) equipment for administrative, research, and
field operations; and (iii) incremental staffing for management and
educational activities. Each of the two refuge-national park complexes
would be managed as integral protected area units facilitating the
coordination of public information, environmental education, management,
and research activities.



-12 -
(d)  Strengthening of the administration and management of seven urban
recreational Parks located in the country's largest metropolitan areas.
These parks are large green areas of about 10 to 80 hectares each; they
were selected for their proximity to national parks and because they
receive a large number of visitors annually, which enables them to play
an important role in reinforcing environmental education efforts.
Limited investments would consist of: (i) engineering studies and the
development and restoration of basic park infrastructure and selected
attractions; (ii) the construction and equipping of visitor and
information centers in support of the project's environmental education
component (para. 3.09); (iii) equipment for education and recreational
activities; and (iv) additional personnel for administrative, security,
educational and recreational activities. Educational activities would
be coordinated with similar efforts planned in the adjacent national
parks.
(e) Expansion of INPARQUES' fire prevention and control capacity. Fire is
probably the most serious threat to natural resource conservation in
Venezuela. However, at present, INPARQUES has only one fire prevention
and control base camp located in El Avila national park. The project
would support the establishment of an additional nine principal and 13
auxiliary camps which would extend protection to 28 of the country's
most fire-prone areas (Annex 1).   This sub-component would include:
(i) administrative offices, residential quarters, and garage and storage
facilities in each of the nine principal and 13 auxiliary camps;
(ii) equipment for fire prevention and control and rescue operations;
(iii) vehicles for fire combat;  and (iv) incremental staffing.   A
critical factor in reducing the risk of park fires is the development
and implementation of an effective public education campaign directed
at reducing the human causes of forest fires.   This need would be
addressed under the project's environmental education component (para.
3.09).
3.07    Environmental Research (US$6.4 million of baseline costs).   Although
various Venezuelan universities, INPARQUES, other public institutions and private
NGOs engage in research on environmental topics, there is still an acute shortage
of information and data on the problems affecting conservation of the country's
protected areas. Both park ecology and the interaction with communities living
inside and adjacent to the national parks are poorly known.  This limits the
effectiveness of park management and, therefore, the long-term prospects for
sustainability of the parks. The situation is particularly acute for the parks
in the Amazon region, given their lesser accessibility and the large geographic
areas which they cover.   To increase the availability of natural and social
science information for effective management of Venezuela's national parks,
natural monuments and wildlife refuges, the project would finance the conduct of
research programs and studies, as well as infrastructure, equipment and materials
for research. Research activities would be coordinated by INPARQUES and also by
the other project participating agencies, PROFAUNA (wildlife refuges) and
SADAMAZONAS (in the Amazon region). Park-specific project inputs are presented
in Annex 2 and would include the following:



- 13 -
(a) the acquisition and systematization of baseline information on national
park environments, including: (i) establishment of a data base of
currently available information on national parks; (ii) Rapid Ecological
and Social Assessments in 10 national parks; (iii) production of
thematic maps and geographic data bases (e.g., vegetation cover, land
use hydrology and related variables) for eight national parks;
(b) basic studies leading to the preparation of management plans for three
national parks and two groups of national monuments in the Federal
Amazon Territory;
(c) monitoring of physical and biological processes, including water quality
studies, in five coastal and marine national parks and wildlife
population studies and management programs in two wildlife refuges and
adjacent national parks; and
(d) financing of 36 studies (11 in the Amazonian parks) to address socio-
environmental problems in national parks management, such as the impact
of tourism and slash and burn agriculture, and sustainable technologies
for the communities living inside and around parks.
(e) the establishment of five stations which would support the research
activities of INPARQUES and PROFAUNA, and would also be used by
universities and NGOs.
3.08    The project research component has been designed to enhance the role of
the national parks as research resources for Venezuela. INPARQUES' capabilities,
both to conduct applied research itself, and to foster, coordinate and orient
research activities in the parks by other public and private institutions, would
be strengthened. Towards this end, a peer review system would be introduced.
It would draw on recognized national and international experts, to assist
INPARQUES in assessing research proposals and evaluating results to guide and
evaluate INPARQUES' research efforts.  Also, measures would be developed and
introduced under the project to help safeguard Venezuela's rights with respect
to the publication and potential commercial use of research findings which
originate from work carried out on the biodiversity resources in its national
parks and wildlife refuges. At present, research in the parks is carried out
with no control as to the eventual use of the findings. A technical assistance
specialist to be retained under the project institutional development component
(para. 3.10) would assist INPARQUES to develop a contract that would be entered
into with all future researchers, and to prepare any supporting legislation and
regulations which may be required to establish and protect Venezuela's property
rights.
3.09    Environmental Education (US$2.5 million of baseline costs).  Based on
INPARQUES' past experience in environmental education, the project would support
the expansion and establishment of present and new educational activities in a
number of urban recreational parks, national parks and wildlife refuges. The
program would strengthen INPARQUES' decentralization program, with the reach and
depth of environmental education activities being greatly increased by training
volunteers as multiplying agents. This would also increase the involvement of



- 14 -
local community groups, NGOs and educational associations.   The programs are
designed to reach the entire spectrum of park users, namely: local communities
within and around national parks, school-age children and their families,
volunteer groups and park visitors, and the broader society at large in
Venezuela. If successful, this public education effort should lead to noticeable
changes in public perceptions and behavior, in support of natural resource
conservation. Specific project activities are presented in Annex 3; financing
would be provided for educational and planning equipment for INPARQUES' central
office, visitors centers and information centers; training costs; and incremental
staffing costs. A consultant specialized in community environmental education
and extension would be retained under the institutional development component
(para. 3.10) to help orient and evaluate INPARQUES' educational program.
3.10    Institutional Development  (USS12.6 million in baseline costs).   The
project would support the project administration activities and institutional
strengthening of INPARQUES, SADAMAZONAS, PROFAUNA and FAC. This would include
assistance for a major decentralization of INPARQUES' administrative and
technical functions from its central headquarters to the regional, state and park
levels; strengthening of INPARQUES' in-house training capacity and increasing the
availability of trained manpower for implementing project activities; and
provision of essential technical assistance. The specific activities which would
be financed are detailed in Annex 4. These would include support for:
(a)  office equipment,  infrastructure  and other  facilities  required to
support INPARQUES' decentralization and administrative reform process;
(b) rehabilitation of the Rancho Grande training center to serve as a
training forum for INPARQUES personnel, and the training of personnel
at all grades and levels; and
(c) technical assistance of up to 29 consultant years to assist in
INPARQUES' decentralization process and the establishment of modern and
more efficient management and control systems; environmental research;
public environmental education and promotion of community participation
in park management; ad hoc management studies, including cost recovery
options for national parks; and development of efficient management,
administrative and financial procedures (e.g., bidding, contracting,
disbursement, accounting, auditing and personnel management).
3.11    INPARQUES is a well-regarded protected areas management agency, with a
sizeable cadre of highly motivated personnel at both the technical and
administrative levels.   Nonetheless, various institutional weaknesses reduce
INPARQUES' overall effectiveness. For the most part, these relate to an over-
centralization of administrative and technical support functions, and staffing,
in Caracas (62% of total administrative and technical staff are based in, or near
Caracas), which results in inefficient servicing and backstopping of the needs
of the more distant national parks.   At the same time, many of INPARQUES'
regional and state offices and field units still do not possess the critical mass
of staff, infrastructure, equipment and training needed to discharge their
functions properly.    To  address these  issues,  INPARQUES  has developed  a
preliminary Decentralization and Administrative Reform Plan, which the project



- 1 5 -
would help to implement. The Plan was detailed during project preparation and
appraisal and a final version was reviewed during loan negotiations. The main
elements include a realignment of the institutional chain of command and
structure; a shifting to the regional and state offices of many special programs
(e.g., El Avila, Los Roques, Guatopo) and other functions currently carried out
by INPARQUES' central office; strengthening of the capacity of a much leaner and
more efficient central office to supervise and coordinate planning, policy,
administrative procedures and technical support; reform of INPARQUES'
recruitment, training and incentives policies to professionalize and upgrade
staff at all levels; and essential investments in training, infrastructure and
equipment, and expansion of staff (particularly at park level, and largely
through redeployment) to implement these changes.   Examples of the kinds of
functions  to be decentralized  include:  (a)  selection  and  contracting  of
personnel; (b) bidding and contracting for purchase of equipment, materials and
works up to specified levels; and (c) cooperative agreements with municipalities
and other local groups, and concessions (e.g., for tourism or recreational
purposes) which do not commit land and buildings for the long term.
3.12    As detailed in Annex 4, most of the activities under the project
training and technical assistance components have been designed to support
implementation of the Decentralization and Administrative Reform Plan.   To
advance the process, terms of reference for six specialists to advise INPARQUES
on priority administrative and technical matters were agreed during appraisal,
and INPARQUES has already initiated recruitment with a view to having the
consultants in place before loan effectiveness. Draft terms of reference for all
other specialists were reviewed and agreed during loan negotiations.   If not
completed earlier, conditions of loan effectiveness would be: (a) the approval
by MARNR of a satisfactory Decentralization and Administrative Reform Plan for
INPARQUES (para. 4.03 (c)); (b) the establishment by INPARQUES of a new Capital
Region  Office  (para.  4.03  (d));  and  (c)  the  transfer  by  INPARQUES  of
responsibility for selected special programs to the regional offices (para. 4.03
(e)). Also during negotiations, assurances were obtained that INPARQUES would
implement the Decentralization and Administrative Reform Plan in a satisfactory
manner over the life of the project including timing, functions by type of
administrative units and staffing (para. 4.02 (a)).
Proiect Organization and Implementation
3.13    The principal implementing agency for the project would be INPARQUES.
However, for certain specific project components (wildlife, Amazonian parks, law
enforcement), INPARQUES would need to secure the collaboration of other relevant
public environmental agencies (PROFAUNA, SADAMAZONAS, FAC). Particular attention
would be given to the arrangements for coordination among the implementing
* agencies participating in the project, the administration of their annual plans
and budgets, and the auditing of accounts.
3.14    The President of INPARQUES would be responsible for overall project
administration and policy direction. He would consult on overall policy aspects
with  the  existing  Governing  Board   (Junta  Directiva)   which  includes
representatives of the private sector, NGOs, trade unions, universities and oil



- 16 -
companies. The President would be assisted on a day-to-day basis by a Project
Coordination Unit (PCU) which would be responsible for planning and coordinating
technical activities and for monitoring and evaluation of project results. If
not completed earlier, the satisfactory establishment of the PCU would be a
condition of loan effectiveness  (para. 4.03 (a)).   Staff from the technical
divisions of INPARQUES would support project supervision and would maintain close
contact with regional, state and field office personnel. Financial control would
be the responsibility of the Administration and Finance Division within
INPARQUES, both at the central and regional levels. To formalize implementation
arrangements with other entities in the project, INPARQUES would sign
Participation Agreements with SADAMAZONAS, PROFAUNA and FAC. Drafts of these
agreements were reviewed during negotiations and, if not completed earlier, the
signing of satisfactory Participation Agreements would be a condition of loan
effectiveness (para. 4.03 (b)).
3.15    Comprehensive annual plans and budgets would be used to monitor project
implementation and progress towards meeting agreed targets and objectives. These
plans and budgets would be drafted by the PCU and submitted to the President and
Governing Board of INPARQUES for approval. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained that: (a) adequate counterpart funds would be made available to the
project in a timely manner (para. 4.01 (a)); and (b) by June 30 of each year of
the project, the draft annual operating plan and budget proposal for the next
project year would be made available to the Bank for review and comments, and the
Bank would receive a copy of the final annual plan and budget as soon as they are
approved (para. 4.02 (g)). With regard to the first year of the project, the
Government provided evidence at negotiations that adequate counterpart funds have
been included in the draft 1993 budget.
3.16    INPARQUES would regularly collect and analyze data on key indicators to
monitor progress in physical execution and assess project impact, comparing
results obtained with targets stated in a Supplemental Letter to the Loan
Agreement (Annex 7). INPARQUES would prepare and send to the Bank semi-annual
progress reports, based on its regular quarterly reports, and would also report
to the Bank on specific studies carried out during project implementation. The
semi-annual reports would both describe progress in project execution, and
identify possible implementation issues and propose appropriate solutions. The
Bank would supervise the project regularly, and INPARQUES and the Bank would hold
joint annual supervision reviews in April/May of each year  (Annex 6).   In
addition, each year INPARQUES would invite an Independent Evaluation Committee
to monitor and evaluate project implementation progress. The composition of the
Committee would include, inter alia, representatives of relevant NGOs. INPARQUES
would make the findings of the Committee available to the Bank by March 31 of
each year and these would be discussed during the joint annual supervision
reviews. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that: (a) the Bank would
receive copies of semi-annual project progress reports for review by March 31 and
September 30 of each year, beginning in 1993 (para. 4.02 (c)); (b) joint annual
supervision reviews would be held with the Bank in April/May of each year,
beginning in 1993 (para. 4.02 (d)); (c) the findings of the annual Independent
Evaluation Committee would be made available to the Bank for review by March 31
of each year, beginning in 1993 (para. 4.02 (e)); and (d) a project mid-term



- 17 -
review would be carried out no later than three years after the beginning of
project implementation (para. 4.02 (f)).
3.17    Each agency participating in the project would be required to maintain
separate accounts for project expenditures. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained that: (a) these accounts and the Special Account (para. 3.25) would be
audited annually by independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank; (b) terms of
reference for the auditors would include, inter alia, detailed procedures for the
examination and verification of the Statements of Expenditures for project
accounts; and (c) copies of the audited reports of the participating agencies and
the Special Account would be provided to the Bank through INPARQUES within six
months of the end of each fiscal year.   The audit reports would convey the
auditor's opinion and comments as necessary on the methodology employed in the
compilation of the statements of expenditures, their accuracy, the relevance of
supporting documents, eligibility for financing in terms of the project's legal
agreements, and standards of record keeping and internal controls related to the
above (para. 4.01 (b)).
Participation by NGOs and Local Communities in Proiect Activities
3.18    The  project  includes  various  important  mechanisms  for  increasing
participation by NGOs and local communities in park management and related
activities.   Such participation is important because: (i) some NGOs are well
qualified to carry out certain tasks under contract to INPARQUES, thereby
reducing the direct burden of implementation on INPARQUES and facilitating
efficient project execution; (ii) NGOs and local communities can substantially
increase the scope and effectiveness of certain INPARQUES programs by
contributing their labor, expertise and other assistance (as is already the case
in some of the parks); and (iii) local community and NGO participation in park
planning and management serve to increase support for (and minimize potential
resistance to) park protection programs. Both international and domestic NGOs,
and local communities, were consulted during the preparation and appraisal of the
project and would be encouraged to participate actively in the implementation
stage as well, in the following ways:
(a) with regard to national park management, new management plans (planes
de ordenamiento) would require the review of local communities and other
interested members of the public, as mandated under existing Venezuelan
law. INPARQUES would also promote increased use of local volunteers for
a variety of park protection, management and fire prevention and control
activities;
(b) the environmental education component is designed to reach the entire
spectrum of park users -- local communities as well as all types of park
visitors.   The component would rely heavily on the use of local
volunteers to increase the dissemination and multiply the impact of
environmental education activities;
(c)  the   environmental   research   component   would   support   baseline
socioeconomic studies of communities in the vicinity of 10 national



- 18 -
parks where human pressures are considered significant, so that this
information can be incorporated into park management planning;
(d) the institutional strengthening component would include: (i) support for
INPARQUES' decentralization, which is expected to include the hiring of
approximately nine new social scientists (one in the central office and
one in each regional office), as well as additional specialists in
environmental education, community relations and outreach, and liaison
with local governments (at the regional, state and conservation unit
levels); and (ii) a technical assistance specialist to assist INPARQUES
in community extension and promotion of local participation among people
living in and near national parks;
(e) under the training sub-component, relevant courses for INPARQUES staff
would also be open to NGO representatives, private tourist guides, and
local government officials, to enhance their collaboration with
INPARQUES' park planning and management efforts; and
(f) at least once a year throughout the project period, and more often if
necessary, INPARQUES would organize regular public meetings at each of
its regional or state offices with local community and NGO
representatives, inter alia, to: (i) review the progress of project
implementation (including the annual operating plans for each park) and
discuss any suggested changes; and (ii) consider options for increased
participation by local communities and NGOs in project implementation
(e.g., as paid contractors, volunteer assistants, or advocates for
changing specific activities which impact on the parks).
Environmental Impact
3.19    The proposed project would have a positive environmental impact by
directly enhancing the management and protection of an area of approximately
110,000 km2, and by indirectly strengthening the capacity to manage all of
Venezuela's protected areas (some 0.5 millon km2, an area as large as Spain)
through training, education and institutional capacity-building activities. No
involuntary resettlement is envisaged. Six of the national parks which would
receive direct project support have indigenous people living within their
boundaries, but no adverse project-related interventions are expected. This is
because none of the planned investments in these parks would promote:
(i) increased access to indigenous areas by outsiders; (ii) significantly
increased contact between indigenous people and outsiders; or (iii) new
restrictions on traditional resource use by indigenous people. Interventions in
the four Amazonian parks where larger indigenous communities are located would
be limited to research for the development of management plans and protective
activities. Support for two more accessible national parks (Canaima and Santos
Luzardo) where smaller indigenous groups are located would limit visitors to
designated sections, and would aim generally to reduce the pressure on critical
conservation and indigenous sub-areas. Project-supported mechanisms for local
community participation in park planning and management would also apply in these
six parks.



- 19 -
Project Costs
3.20    The  total  project  cost,   including  taxes,  physical  and  price
contingencies, is estimated at US$96.0 million, with a foreign exchange component
of US$21.3 million, or about 22% of total cost (Annex 5, Table 5.1). The project
baseline cost, estimated using June 1992 price levels, amounts to US$80.4
million.  Physical contingencies of US$6.9 million, or about 9% of the total
baseline cost, have been estimated at 15% for civil works and furniture, and 10%
for  travel,  subsistence  allowances,  vehicles,  office  supplies  and  other
miscellaneous incremental costs. Price contingencies of US$8.7 million (11% of
base costs) were estimated using expected annual price increases as follows:
local -- 25% for 1993, 20% for 1994, and 15% for subsequent years; and foreign
-- 3.9% for 1993 and 1994, and 3.8% for subsequent years.
Financing Plan
3.21    The total project cost of US$96.0 million would be financed by a Bank
loan of US$55.0 million and a government counterpart contribution of US$41.0
million.   The Bank would cover the full foreign exchange component (US$21.3
million) and 45% of local costs. Local cost financing is justified because of
the strong environmental focus of the project. The Government would finance all
incremental operating costs. The loan would be made to the Republic of Venezuela
and would be repayable over 15 years, including a five-year grace period.
Procurement
3.22    A Country Procurement Assessment Report for Venezuela was issued in June
1990.   Subsequently, in August 1990, the Government issued a Procurement Law
which expressly states that all contracts for goods, works and services which
will be totally or partially financed by international organizations will be
undertaken in accordance with the procurement procedures of such institutions.
The proposed procurement arrangements for this project are summarized in the
following table:



- 20 -
Procurement Arranaements
(US$ million)
Procurement Method
TOTAL
Category                        ICB      LCB   OTHER        NBF        COST
Civil Works                     -      38.8    5.0 1/       -       43.8
(28.0)  (3.6)                (31.6)
Equipment, Machinery           6.0     10.6    2.0 j/       -       18.6
Vehicles and                 (3.4)    (5.8)  (1.0)                 (10.2)
Furniture
Technical Assistance,           -        -    13.2 ai       -       13.2
Training and Studies                         (13.2)               (13.2)
Incremental Operating           -        -         -      20.4      20.4
CosBtS 
Total                          6.0     49.4    20.2       20.4      96.0
(3.4)   (33.8)   (17.8)     (-)      (55.0)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts expected to be financed
by the Bank.
1/   Shopping procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2/   Consulting services.
3.23  Civil works include buildings,  access roads and tracks,  other minor
infrastructure and demarcation works, most of which are relatively small in size
and are geographically dispersed among over 30 parks and reserves.   As the
largest single contract is not expected to exceed US$1.5 million, it is unlikely
that foreign contractors would be interested. Accordingly, Local Competitive
Bidding procedures satisfactory to the Bank would be used, although interested
foreign bidders would be allowed to participate. Very small works which cannot
be grouped into contracts of at least US$50,000 would be procured on the basis
of price quotations solicited from at least three eligible contractors, provided
they do not exceed US$5.0 million in the aggregate.   Contracts for aoods
exceeding US$250,000 would be awarded through International Competitive Bidding



- 21 -
following Bank procurement guidelines.  Contracts for goods expected to cost
between US$25,000 and US$250,000, not exceeding an aggregate amount of USS10.6
million, would be procured under LCB.  Office equipment, furniture and other
similar goods expected to cost less than US$25,000 per contract would be awarded
on the basis of evaluation of price quotations invited from at least three
suppliers, provided they do not exceed an aggregate of US$2.0 million.
Consultant services would be procured in accordance with Bank guidelines on the
use of consultants.
3.24 All ICB contracts, and the first two LCB contracts each for goods and works
would be subject to prior Bank review of bidding documents, bid evaluation, award
proposals and final contracts. Prior review procedures would cover about 50% of
Bank-financed procurement, which is acceptable given the characteristics of the
project.   During negotiations,  INPARQUES presented draft  standard bidding
documents which would be used for all procurement under the project. Also during
negotiations, assurances were obtained that the procurement arrangements
described in paras. 3.22-3.24 would be followed (para. 4.01 (c)). A margin of
preference in accordance with Bank guidelines would be granted to local
manufacturers for goods procured under ICB.  The Procurement Implementation
Schedule and Estimated Annual Contractual and Other Payments are summarized in
Annex 5, Table 5.6.
Disbursements
3.25 The Bank loan of US$55.0 million would be disbursed over about five years.
The proceeds would be disbursed against eligible project expenditures at the
rates of: (a) 75% for civil works; (b) 100% of foreign expenditures and 45% of
local expenditures for equipment, machinery, vehicles and furniture; and (c) 100%
for technical assistance, training and studies. Except for contracts requiring
prior review, disbursement would be made against certified statement of
expenditures (SOEs) for which detailed documentation evidencing expenditures
would be made available for the required audit and also for review by Bank
supervision missions. Retroactive financing would be provided up to a maximum
of US$5.0 million in respect of eligible expenditures incurred between the end
of project appraisal (July 1992) and loan signing.  This would permit early
contracting of essential technical assistance specialists required during the
first year of the project, and the start-up of priority protection activities in
selected parks. A Special Account in US dollars would be opened at the Central
Bank, with an initial deposit of US$5.0 million equivalent.  Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that the Government would establish and maintain the
Special Account (para. 4.01 (d)).
Proiect Benefits and Justification
3.26 Support for national parks and other priority areas in Venezuela is
justified from both a national and an international standpoint. Many of these
areas contain the critical watersheds of major rivers and storage reservoirs
which are significant for power, agriculture and water supply; and/or have
significant recreational and eco-tourism potential that could be further
developed provided their natural resource base is protected and managed in a
sustainable manner. Although many of these benefits are not readily quantifiable



22 -
in economic terms, an effort has been made to estimate their value for
illustrative purposes, as summarized below.
(a)   Watershed Protection.  The Canaima national park includes more than
one-third of the catchment area of the Guri hydroelectric dam on the
Caroni River. It is estimated that if this catchment area were not
protected, accelerated erosion and downstream sedimentation due to
agriculture and logging would reduce the dam's useful life by
between 10% and 15%. Given an expected life of 60 years and a total
cost of US$9.1 billion (1990 prices), at a discount rate of 8%, the
net present value of the additional energy investments that would be
required to compensate for the shortened life of the reservoir (and
which could be avoided through proper watershed protection in two
national parks) could range from about US$150 million to about
US$225 million.
(b)   There is no comprehensive assessment of the role of national parks
in protecting the country's urban water suiDlies, but available
information suggests that the offtake generated from 13 national
parks which is used to satisfy the needs of about 9.6 million people
(i.e., 60% of the entire national population), is 27 m3/sec of
water. According to MARNR's estimates, water availability from the
above mentioned parks could diminish by 10% and 30% over the next 20
years because of the combined effects of deforestation and erosion.
Failure to protect these catchments could thus result in the
Government's having to reinvest in the replacement of water supply
losses (about 8 m3/sec). Assuming that replacement investment would
be evenly distributed over 20 years, at an average cost of US$25.0
millon per m3, the conservation of the upper basins in the national
parks would save replacement investments with a net present value of
between US$90.0 million and US$285.0 millon.
(c)   While specific data to estimate the impact of the national parks on
rainfed agriculture is lacking, rough calculations made for
irrigated agriculture indicate that some 20% of the total irrigated
area in Venezuela depends on surface or groundwater which originates
in national parks. The life span of the irrigation works averages
10 years for private wells and surface derivations and 30 years for
public reservoirs, with investment in irrigation ranging from
US$1,000 per ha for private groundwater irrigation to US$5,000 per
ha for more expensive public projects.  The net present value of
investment losses stemming from the lack of national park
conservation could range from US$45.0 million to US$140.0 million.
(d)   Maintenance of Ecological Processes in Coastal Marine Ecosystem.
The mangrove ecosystem constitutes a reservoir, refuge and breeding
and feeding grounds for many commercial species of plants and
animals. The appraisal mission estimated that within the marine
parks to be included in the project there are approximately 15,000
ha of mangrove  forest.   The economic value of similar highly
productive ecosystems varies from US$500 to 1,500/ha/year for other



- 23 -
Caribbean areas with conditions similar to those of Venezuela
(Hamilton/Snedaker, 1984).   Because mangrove ecosystems are very
fragile and highly vulnerable to urban and commercial pressures,
severe degradation can be expected if they are not properly
protected. Assuming that half the mangrove areas were lost over a
10-year period, if not protected as national parks, and considering
the lowest estimates of harvest value, the net present value of
potential losses over a 30-year period would be about US$19 million.
3.27 In summary, the estimated net present value of additional investments which
could be avoided through protection of critical watersheds and coastal ecosystems
in the national parks, could range from over US$300 million to about US$670
million.   Benefits from tourism, carbon sequestration and other potentially
marketable products may also be high, but the aggregate value cannot be
determined from available information. It should be stressed that these figures
present only a partial idea of the magnitude of benefits accruing from national
parks conservation in Venezuela. On the other hand, the full value of the above
benefits cannot be attributed to the proposed project alone, since the national
parks are already in place and therefore only the benefits of incremental
conservation  should  be  counted.    Unfortunately,  reliable  information  on
historical investments in the parks, which could be used to make such an
estimation, does not exist. However, there is sufficient evidence to suggest
that an effort on the scale of the proposed project is urgently required to
ensure adequate management and protection of the natural parks, and that the cost
of this effort would easily be offset by the benefits that would accrue.
3.28 Finally, from the perspective of biodiversity preservation, despite its
relatively small size, Venezuela contains a vast array of neotropical ecosystems
and is therefore considered to be among the world's 10 most important sites of
biological diversity (para. 2.05).   Hence, protection of the country's main
conservation areas would also have important external benefits.
Sustainability
3.29 Although national parks and other protected areas are the source of
important economic benefits for Venezuelan society, few of these benefits are
captured directly by INPARQUES. For that reason, like many other national park
administrations, INPARQUES depends heavily on government budget appropriations.
This has obvious drawbacks when fiscal problems arise. Increasing the share of
revenues collected directly from the public would enhance the administration of
most national park administrations in several ways: (a) operating costs would be
insulated from national budget fluctuations; (b) the demand for and the benefits
of the national parks system would become more visible and this in itself could
help to attract new investment resources; (c) charging for services would
increase environmental awareness among the public; and (d) the prospect of
generating revenues might stimulate the development of new, innovative ways to
charge off-site consumers and beneficiaries.
3.30 At present, INPARQUES' annual expenditures are financed by government
budgetary allocations, private domestic and international donors, and its own
resources  (entrance  fees  to  several  urban  parks,  users'  fees  for  some



- 24 -
recreational facilities in a few national parks, and concession payments from
private firms which operate recreational or private infrastructure in national
and urban parks). Over the 1985-91 period, INPARQUES' annual budget has remained
at about US$13.1 million in constant terms.  This represented a considerable
increase in current terms, because annual inflation rose from 11.5% in 1986 to
34% in 1991, but no real growth in purchasing power. During the same period, the
share of INPARQUES' total expenditures which were not sourced from the government
budget increased from US$0.9 million to US$3.9 million. This healthy growth in
other sources was offset by a commensurate decrease in official budget
contributions, from US$12.2 million to US$9.2 million, also in constant terms.
Approximately 55-60% of INPARQUES's annual expenditures have been for recurrent
purposes.
3.31 During the project implementation period, the Government counterpart
contribution would average about US$8.0 million p.a., in addition to its normal
support of INPARQUES' recurrent costs of about US$7.5 million.   This would
require an annual budget allocation of about US$15.5 million, or about a 50%
increase over the average annual allocation of the last few years. This is quite
feasible, and would represent only 0.14% of the central government's total 1991
budget. At the close of the project period, annual recurrent expenditures by
INPARQUES would be about US$9.2 million, or 59% of its total budget. To improve
INPARQUES' financial sustainability both during and after the project
implementation period, measures should be taken to ensure that receipts from
other than the Government budget would increase from the present US$3.9 million
to about US$6.2 million per year. This would represent about 40% of INPARQUES'
overall expenditures, or about 67% of its recurrent costs. Under that scenario,
the total contribution from the Government would be feasible and INPARQUES would
have a sufficiently balanced funding position to cushion it against periodic
fiscal constraints.
3.32 To ensure that INPARQUES' financial position improves as forecasted, the
agency developed a preliminary Financial Plan of action during project
preparation and appraisal.  A final Financial Plan, including implementation
timetable, to achieve agreed targets in terms of financial sustainability of
INPARQUES (Table 5.7), was reviewed during negotiations. Also at negotiations,
assurances were obtained that the Plan would be implemented on a schedule
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.02 (b)).  Its implementation would be monitored
closely throughout the project implementation period. The main elements of the
Plan include:
(a)   the charging of entry fees in heavily visited parks which still do
not collect them and increasing of fees in parks which already
collect them;
(b)   the assessment of charges for other activities which also depend
substantially on the conservation of the natural resources
safeguarded within the park system (e.g., commercial fishing and
tourism companies' licenses, hotel taxes and water users' fees); and
fees for the use of park lands by governmental or private
telecommunications facilities, power lines, pipelines or similar
infrastructure located within or traversing the national parks;



- 25 -
(c)   the possible receipt of revenues derived from part of the proceeds
of a new tax, proposed by the President's Office on June 5, 1992,
for watershed protection, based on an incremental 0.5% of the water
tariffs and 1% of electricity tariffs;
(d)   the assignment of specific responsibilities and authority for the
assessing and monitoring of tariffs and revenue policies to the
Director General at INPARQUES' headquarters;
(e)   the assignment of specific responsibilities within INPARQUES for the
coordination of fund raising among private national firms and
international donors; and
(f)   the  launching of a public information  campaign explaining the
rationale and objectives of national parks tariff and fund-raising
policies.
Project Risks
3.33 Although there are no major project risks, implementation could be affected
by the institutional weaknesses of INPARQUES and counterpart funding constraints.
INPARQUES is a well-established autonomous institution with a good track record
to date, but adequate project implementation would require improvements in its
structure and skills. The proposed project would place considerable additional
demands on its administrative, financial and technical capacities. To address
these institutional concerns, the project would support: (a) implementation of
INPARQUES' Decentralization and Administrative Reform Plan, shifting many
technical and administrative functions, and staffing from INPARQUES' central
headquarters to its regional, state and field offices (para. 3.11); (b)
implementation of a Financial Plan to diversify INPARQUES' sources of financial
support and thereby help to strengthen its financial sustainability beyond the
project period (para. 3.22); and (c) substantial staff training and technical
assistance  (para.  3.10 and Annex  6).   Also,  building on successful past
collaborative efforts between the Government and NGOs, domestic and international
NGOs and local communities would participate in various project activities,
thereby lessening some of the implementation burden on INPARQUES (para. 3.18).
Finally, the project implementation strategy places primary emphasis on the
contracting out of project works to the maximum extent possible. With regard to
funding, the level of cost sharing by the Bank would be somewhat higher (60%)
than the average for other operations in Venezuela, given the strong
environmental focus of the project. During negotiations, assurances would be
sought that INPARQUES would be provided with adequate and timely counterpart
funds to meet the balance of project funding needs (para. 3.15).



- 26 -
IV. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
4.01 Durina negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Borrower that:
(a)   Adequate counterpart funding would be made available to the project
in a timely manner (para. 3.15);
(b)   (i) The project accounts and Special Account would be audited
annually by independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) the
terms of reference for the auditors would include, inter alia, the
Statements of Expenditures for the project accounts and Special
Account; and (iii) copies of the audited reports would be provided
to the Bank through INPARQUES within six months of the end of each
fiscal year (para. 3.17);
(c)   Procurement arrangements would be as specified in paras. 3.22-3.24;
and
(d)   The Special Account would be established and maintained  (para.
3.25).
4.02 During neaotiations, assurances were obtained from INPAROUES that:
(a)   INPARQUES' Decentralization and Administrative Reform Plan would be
implemented in a satisfactory manner (para. 3.12);
(b)   The Financial  Plan to  improve the  financial  sustainability of
INPARQUES would be implemented in a satisfactory manner over the
life of the project (para. 3.32);
(c)   Copies of semi-annual progress reports would be sent to the Bank by
March 31 and September 30 of each project year, beginning in 1993
(para. 3.16);
(d)   Joint annual supervision reviews would be held with the Bank not
later than May 31 of each project year, beginning in 1993, reviewing
progress against performance indicators stated in a Supplemental
Letter to the Loan Agreement (para. 3.16);
(e)   INPARQUES would invite an Annual Independent Evaluation Committee,
including, inter ali, representatives of relevant NGOs, to monitor
and evaluate project implementation progress, and the findings of
the Committee would be sent to the Bank no later than March 31 of
each year, beginning in 1993 (para. 3.16);
(f)   A project mid-term review would be carried out no later than May 31,
1995 (para. 3.16)t and



- 27 -
(g)   Beginning June 30, 1993, and for each June 30 thereafter throughout
the project implementation period, the draft annual operating plan
and proposed budget for the succeeding year would be made available
to the Bank for review and approval (para. 3.15).
4.03 Conditions of loan effectiveness, if not completed earlier, would be:
(a)   Satisfactory establishment by INPARQUES of the Project Coordination
Unit (para. 3.14);
(b)   The signing of satisfactory Participation Agreements for project
implementation between INPARQUES and PROFAUNA, SADAMAZONAS and FAC
(para. 3.14);
(c)   Approval  by  MARNR  of  a  satisfactory  Decentralization  and
Administrative Reform Plan for INPARQUES (para. 3.12);
(d)   Satisfactory establishment by INPARQUES of a new Capital Region
Office (para. 3.12); and
(e)   Transfer  by  INPARQUES  of  responsibility  for  selected  special
programs to its regional offices (para. 3.12).
4.04 Subject to the above agreements and conditions, the proposed project would
constitute a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$55.0 million equivalent to the
Republic of Venezuela, repayable in 15 years, including a 5-year grace period,
at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.



- 28 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 5
VENEZUELA
NATIONAL PARKS MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Strenathenina of Parks Management and Protection Component
Backaround
1.        Relative to many other Latin American countries, Venezuela has a
strong economy, a small but well-educated population, and a natural resource base
that still remains largely intact. The significance of its natural resources is
such that Venezuela is recognized internationally as being one of the world's
most biologically-diverse countries. Indicators of this diversity include more
than 21,000 species of higher vascular plants, 5,000 of which are judged to be
endemic to Venezuela; some 1,300 species of birds out of a world total of 9,000;
40% of 3,300 known species of neotropical birds; and more than 300 species of
mammals, 18 of which are classified as endangered.   These abundant natural
resources have provided the basis for development over the past 50 years of a
very comprehensive national protected areas system.
2.        Venezuela's earliest attempt at protecting its biological resources
began with the establishment of the Rancho Grande National Park in 1937 (now
known as Henri Pittier). This was followed by the creation of the country's
first natural monuments in the 1940s and the addition of three more parks in the
1950s. Then, beginning in the 1960s, the system expanded more rapidly, a trend
attributable in part to the creation of the Ministry of Agriculture and Natural
Resources (MARNR) and the National Park Service (INPARQUES). By the end of the
decade, four new national parks had been created, only to be surpassed in the
1970s with the creation of 17 more parks and 8 natural monuments. At present the
system has grown to include 39 national parks and 17 natural monuments, which in
total comprise 137,510 km2, or some 15% of the national territory.
3.        Major criteria used in the selection and creation of the country's
protected areas have included uniqueness and diversity of habitat; watershed
protection for water supply, power production and irrigation; and potential for
recreation  and eco-tourism development.    Present  interest  in Venezuela's
protected areas, both nationally and internationally, is at an all-time high, as
reflected in the country's recent selection as the venue for the 1992 World
Congress on National Parks and Protected Areas.
4.        The recent rapid expansion of Venezuela's national system of protected
areas is laudable, but it is clear that this must now be followed by a period of
consolidation and more effective management of these areas. The large number of
newly created parks has far outstripped INPARQUES' ability to fulfill its
legally-mandated management responsibilities, partly because of its present
fairly centralized structure and staffing/skills mix pattern, exacerbated by
budgetary constraints associated with declines in domestic oil revenues. The
main issues to be addressed include the absence or inadequacy of basic
infrastructure and equipment in many park.; insufficient and/or inadequately-



- 29 -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
trained human resources; basic information gaps; and limited environmentally-
based public education and training programs.
5.        Data from a recent survey of 35 national parks indicate that two are
facing difficulties in terms of maintaining park integrity (Mochima and Canaima)
and two others are in a precarious condition (Aguaro-Guariquito and Morrocoy).
The threats to the remaining parks appear to be more "localized" in nature, with
the most significant impacts occurring in El Avila, Laguna de Tacarigua and Los
Roques.   More  recently,  data  compiled  from an  INPARQUES  survey  of park
superintendents indicated that the main problems for the parks situated north of
the Orinoco River were: fire, encroachment, illegal hunting and fishing, and
water pollution.   Further to the south,  in the Amazon region,  accelerated
sedentarization among the indigenous populations is resulting in unplanned land
clearing in proximity to some of the region's national parks and natural
monuments (e.g., Yapakana, Parima-Tapirapeco and Duida-Marahuaca national parks
and the natural monuments in the areas of the Autana-Cao-Sipapo and Valle del
Manapiare groups). Other issues include illegal mining and hunting. While data
is poor, it is thought that the country's wildlife refuges and reserves suffer
from many of the same pressures as those faced by the national parks in the same
areas.
Strenathenina of National Parks Manaaement and Protection Component
6.        The objective of the proposed component is to improve the conservation
of Venezuela's renewable natural resources by addressing the management issues
and other constraints identified above, and by increasing public awareness of the
role of national parks and reserves in supporting the country's present and
future development needs. Five sub-components would focus on the needs of: (i)
16 national parks north of the Orinoco River; (ii) 4 national parks and 2 natural
monuments in the Amazon Federal Territory; (iii) 2 wildlife refuges; (iv) 7 urban
or recreational parks; and (v) fire prevention and control efforts throughout the
national park system.
7.        Northern National Parks.  This sub-component is designed to promote
more efficient administration and management of 16 national parks north of the
Orinoco River. Criteria used to select parks for inclusion in the project were:
the  existence  or  pending  approval  of  a park  management  plan  (plan  de
ordenamiento); diverse representation of the country's ecological regions; and
a discernible need for management interventions based on presence and degree of
threat to park integrity.
8.        The project would finance:
(a) infrastructure needed to support administrative functions (offices,
residential facilities in isolated parks, and maintenance warehouses),
park protection (guard posts, access controls, fencing, watch towers),
environmental education and interpretation (visitor and information
centers, interpretative trails and signs), and recreation and tourism
(access road rehabilitation, rehabilitation, recreational area
development, observation towers), and research;



- 30 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 5
(b) equipment for transport (trucks, boats, and motorcycles), office,
and field activitiesi and
(c)  incremental staffing for protection and resource management activitis
and administration of the new field management units to be established
as part of INPARQUES' decentralization process.
9.        Amazon Parks and Natural Monuments. Presently, the largest protected
areas in the Amazon basin are located in Venezuela.  In its Amazon Federal
Territory (TFA), Venezuela has legally established 4 large national parks, 5
natural monuments protecting 15 tepuis (sandstone plateaux), and one biosphere
reserve. In the aggregate, these account for 47.5% of all protected areas in
Venezuela and 36% of the TFA (not including the newly created Alto Orinoco-
Casiquiare biosphere reserve). The Venezuelan TFA is still largely intact, with
estimated deforestation of only 0.5-1% (1985). It is also significant to note
that, unlike the Brazilian Amazon which is almost exclusively a lowland area, the
Venezuelan TFA comprises six biogeographic regions (Huber and Cerda, 1990), which
makes it one of the most biologically diverse areas of the world.
10.       Since INPARQUES  still has only a limited presence  in the TFA,
including an office in Puerto Ayacucho and a superintendency in Culebra with a
total of five staff, it works in close cooperation with the Autonomous Service
for the Environmental Development of the Amazon (SADAMAZONAS).  SADAMAZONAS was
established in June 1989 under MARNR. The following year, in 1990, the Alejandro
de Humboldt Amazon Environmental Research Institute (CAIAH) was established under
SADAMAZONAS as Venezuela's response to an understanding reached during the
international meeting at which the presidents of the countries involved signed
the Treaty of Amazonian Cooperation (May 6, 1989).
11.       Under the proposed national parks management component, the project
would seek to establish an institutional and operational structure for INPARQUES
to meet minimal basic administrative, monitoring and patrol functions in the TFA.
Also, under the research component (Annex 2), management plans would be developed
for three of the four national parks and two natural monuments, and an applied
research program would be established to increase knowledge about the natural
resources of the Amazonian parks and the main threats to their future
preservation.   The specific activities under the national parks management
component would include:
(a) construction of one central administrative office and a visitors,
center  for  INPARQUES  in  Puerto  Ayacucho;  support  for  five
professionals, 8 administrative and 4 support staff (to supplement the
present positions of Regional Director and his assistant), and new
residences and equipment for these staff;
(b) support for an aerial surveillance program for patrolling, food and
fuel support for the posts and emergencies.  This program would be
coordinated with SADAMAZONAS and would include the renting of small
airplanes and helicopters;



- 31 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 5
(c) establishment of one sub-state office and operations center for
INPARQUES in La Esmeralda, with one professional, two administrative
and four support staff; and
(d) support for the posts of six rangers and their assistants, and 13
guard posts with four park guards each.  The ranger and guardposts
were selected to ensure the best control (airstrips, river confluence,
etc.) and would be equipped principally with radios, boats and
essential subsistence equipment.
12.       Wildlife Refuaes.  Two priority wildlife refuges (Cuare and Tortuga
Arrau) would be assisted under the project. Criteria used for their selection
were: significance as refuges for threatened or endangered wildlife; the
existence of (or soon to be approved) management plans; the presence of pressure
or threats to the habitat and/or specific species in the refuge; and proximity
to national parks included in the project (the Morrocoy and Cinaruco-Capanaparo
national parks,  respectively).   The project would support infrastructure,
equipment, and incremental personnel.
13.       Despite the proximity of national parks and refuges in Venezuela, and
the fact that they share common conservation objectives, these protected areas
are  managed  as  independent  entities.    This  results  in  administrative
inefficiencies and could adversely impact on the well-being of the resources and
habitat in the respective areas.   To address this problem, each of the two
refuge-national park complexes supported by the project would be managed as
integral protected area units, to the extent that existing legislation allows.
This will be accomplished through the coordinated development of annual operating
plans specifying collaborative activities, including coordinated public
information and environmental education programs, protection activities, and fire
prevention and control. A cooperative research program would be facilitated by
the sharing of supportive research-related infrastructure and equipment between
PROFAUNA and INPARQUES in each of the two protected area complexes.
14.       Urban Parks.  An important characteristic of Venezuela is that the
large  majority  of  the  population  is urban-based.    This  facilitates  the
development and implementation of a cost-effective environmental education
program, using the country's recreational parks. These large, urban-based parks
attract many users, cutting across all socio-economic classes. A well-designed
program supported by the necessary infrastructure and equipment would be a highly
cost-effective means to increase consciousness and support for park conservation
efforts. To this end, seven recreational parks (Del Este "R6mulo Betancourt",
Caricuao, Guaiqueri, Andres Eloy Blanco, Jose Maria Ochoa Pile, Metropolitano de
Maracay,  Galindo)  have been identified for inclusion in the project.   The
principal criteria used in their selection were proximity to the country's major
urban centers and one or more national parks, status of land ownership, and
estimated number of visitors.   The main investments would consist of the
development or restoration of basic park infrastructure and selected public
attractions; the construction and equipment of educational cum information
centers in support of the project's environmental education sub-component; and
incremental personnel.



- 32 -
ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 5
15.       Prevention and Combat of Forest Fires.   INPARQUES'  capability to
prevent and combat forest fires would be enhanced, building on the experience of
the "Campamento de Incendios Pajaritos" in the El Avila national park. The El
Avila program consists basically of a small core of professional park staff, a
large network of trained volunteers for ad hoc search and rescue operations, and
a rapid response capability based on effective communications, transport, and
fire fighting equipment. During the wet season, personnel are used for preparing
and implementing fire prevention plans and educational programs.
16.       The fire prevention and combat subcomponent of the project would help
to extend this successful model to a total of 28 of Venezuela's most fire-prone
protected areas. The main investments would be for:
(a)  construction   of   basic   offices,   residential   quarters,   and
garages/storage facilities in each of 9 principal and 13 auxiliary
base camps;
(b)  vehicles  and equipment  for  fire  combat  and transport,  personal
protection, training and office support; and
(c)  personnel costs, including part-time contracting of instructors to
support training of INPARQUES' personnel and volunteer groups in fire
prevention and combat operations, and the contracting of fire combat
personnel for six months each year during the fire season.   There
would also be provision for a modest search and rescue activity for
selected parks where previous experience justifies the need for
increasing local INPARQUES' capacity.
Another critical factor in reducing the risk of park fires is the development and
implementation of an effective public education campaign directed at reducing the
human causes of forest fires. This need would be addressed simultaneously, under
the project public environmental education component (see Annex 3).



- 33 -
ANNEX 1
Table 1.1
VENEZUELA
NATIONAL PARKS MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Proiect Assisted Protected Areas
Initial Year     Location                       Area          Year of Plan
Protected Area         of Declaration   (State)                       (km2)            Decree:
National Parks and Natural Monuments
(Northern Venezuela)
1. Aguaro-Guariquito    1974            Guarico                       5,858               1/
2. Canaima             1962             Bolfvar                       30,000             1991
3. Cinaruco-Capanaparo  1988            Apure                          5,844             2/
4. El Avila            1958             Fed. Dept./Miranda              852               3/
5. El Copey            1974             Nueva Esparta                    71              1991
6. El Tama             1978             Tachira/Apure                  1,390             1991
7. Henri Pittier       1937             Aragua/Carabobo                1,078              1/
8. Laguna Restinga     1974             Nueva Esparta                    189             1991
9. Laguna Tacarigua    1974             Miranda                         390              1991
10.Los Roques          1972             Federal Department            2,211              1990
1 1.Marfa Lionza       1960             Yaracuy                         120               3/
12.Medanos de Coro    1974              Falc6n                          903               1/
13.Mochima             1973             Anzoategui/Sucre                949              1990
14.Morrocoy            1974             Falc6n                          321               2/
15.Sierra Nevada       1952             Merida/Barinas                2,764               3/
16.Yurubi              1960             Yaracuy                         237               31
(Amazon Federal Territory - TFA)
1. Duida Marahuaca     1978             TFA                       190,800 ha              2/
2. La Neblina          1978             TFA                   1,360,600 ha 4/             2/
3. Parima-Tapirapeco    1991            TFA                      3,750,000ha              Z/
4. Yapacana            1978             TFA                         320,000               2/
5. Autana-Sipapo       1990             TFA                         450,000               2/
6. Ventuari            1990             TFA                         750,000               2/
Wildlife Refu2ees:
1. Cuare               1972             Falc6n                          119
2. Tortuga Arrau       1989             Apure and Bolfvar                76               _/
I/ Approval expected in 1993.
2/ Plan development is a project objective.
3/ Scheduled for mid-1992.
4/ Bi-national Park, between Brazil and Venezuela, with a total area of 3,560,000 ha.



- 34 -
ANNEX I
Table 1.2
VENEZUELA
NATIONAL PARKS MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Proposed Locations of Fire Prevention and Combat Camps
and Parks Covered by Region
Region            Location of           Number of             Other Protected Areas
Principal Camp     Auxiliary Camps         Covered by Regional
Network
D.F.              N.P. El Avila            3**               R.P. Caricuao
N.P. Macarao*
N.M. Cueva del Indio*
R.P. Mariches*
N.M. Codazzi**
R.P. V.E. Sojo*
R.P. El Encanto*
R.P. Vinicio Adames*
N.P. Guatopo*
Aragua            N.P. Henri Pittier        1                 N.M. German Roscio*
N.M. Arfstedes Rojas*
Carabobo          N.P. San Esteban*         1
Yaracuy           N.P. Yurubi               1                 N.M. Marfa Lionza
Sucre             N.P. Mochima              1
Merida            N.P. Sierra Nevada        2                 N.P.S. La Culata*
Monagas           N.P. El Guacharo*         1
Apure-Gu5rico     N.P. Aguaro-Guariquito    1                N.P. Cinaruco-Capanaparo
Tlchira           N.P. El Tama              2                 N.P. Chorro El Indio*
N.P. Los Paramos*
Tot:              9                        13                 16
R.P. = Recreational Parks
N.P. = National Parks
N.M. = Natural Monuments
* Protected Areas not included within the project.
** The auxiliary base camp proposed for R.P. Caricuao would use only existing infrastructure.



- 35 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 3
VEN'EZUELA
NATIONAL PARKS MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Environmental Research Comoonent
Background
1.          The emphasis on research for national parks management has been
growing fast over the last twenty years, as park management goals have shifted
from simple control of trespassers to more active resource management, with a
view to long-term sustainability.   Also, the need to cope with increasing
pressures from conflicting demands -- tourism, local community concerns, national
development needs -- requires more and better problem-oriented research.
2           The project's research component aims to: (a) help strengthen the
role of national parks as research resources for the country; (b) assist
Venezuela to safeguard its rights with respect to research findings and the
possible commercial use of its biodiversity resources;   (c) focus research
efforts and scarce resources on issues which are relevant to the sustainable
management of national parks; (d) introduce a peer review system to evaluate and
guide INPARQUES' research activities; (e) reinforce INPARQUES' capabilities both
to conduct essential applied research itself, and to coordinate, foster and
orient other public institutions, universities, NGOs and other private entities,
to carry out priority environmental research; and (f) undertake a special
research effort in support of the little known Amazonian national parks.
Project Research Activities Coordinated by INPAROUES
3.          These activities, at a cost of US$3.14 millioni, would include:
(a)   establishment of a data bank on existing information on Venezuela's
national parks (US$83,000);
(b)   Rapid  Ecological  and  Social Assessments  of  10 national  parks
(US$425,000);
(c)   preparation of thematic maps and geographic data bases for eight
national parks (US$1,028,000);
The costs of the activities listed in sub-items (f), (h) and (j) are
not included in the research component costs, but rather under the
costs of the strengthening of national park management and
protection component (sub-item (f) and the institutional development
component (sub-items (h) and (j)).



- 36 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 3
(d)   twenty-five research tasks to help solve management problems of
national parks on issues such as tourism, fire, the activities of
local  populations  in  national  parks,   resource  inventories
(US$1,154,000);
(e)   water quality studies in five national parks (US$154,000);
(f)   establishment of five stations to support research activities of
INPARQUES and PROFAUNA.   These stations would also be used by
universities and NGOs (Us$595,000 1/);
(g)   appointment of an independent research council to conduct peer
evaluations of the research program (US$177,000);
(h)   training  activities  on  information techniques  and the use  of
environmental research for parks management (US$68,000 1/);
(i)   a research dissemination program to foster the incorporation of
research results into park management plans and practices
(US$115,000);
(j)   appointment of a research management team during the five years of
the project US$130,000), with the support of an external consultant
(US$32,000 1/);
Proiect Research Activities in the Amazon Coordinated by SADAMAZONAS and
INPARQUES
4           At  a cost of US$3.3 million,  SADAMAZONAS  and INPARQUES would
coordinate basic studies leading to the preparation of management plans for three
national parks and two groups of national monuments in the Amazon Federal
Territory, and additional research studies to address socio-environmental
problems affecting Amazon national park management.
5.          The process of developing park management plans requires: basic
studies; the design of the plan; participatory consultation with local
communities, NGOs and other concerned groups through workshops; and official
approval of the plans.   Because of the inaccessibility of the Amazon parks,
relatively little useable information or data is available2, and basic studies
are therefore essential to launch the management plan process. These will be
conducted by SADAMAZONAS' new semi-autonomous Humboldt Center (CAIAH, see Annex
1).  CAIAH has a main building, documentation center and herbarium in Puerto
Ayacucho, and a research center is presently under construction in La Eameralda.
Hence, the project will not provide any additional infrastructure; project costs
2/     The government of Spain, through the Agencia Esparlola de Cooperaci6n
Internacional (AECI), is financing remote sensing and related ground
truthing for the Duida-Marahuaca national park. The results will be
used in the preparation of the management plan for that park.



- 37 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 3
mainly cover field exploration by multidisciplinary scientific teams, acquisition
and analysis of data, and workshop equipment and materials. In addition, the
project would support three incremental professional staff at the level of
INPARQUES, to participate actively in the preparation of the basic studies and
subsequently assume responsibility for concluding the plans.
6.          In addition, the project would support an Amazon research program on
six major topics which have been selected in consultation with scientists in the
area and local communities, and are based on knowledge of obvious threats to park
sustainability:   (a) tourism impact assessment; (ii) impact of subsistence
activities on the parks and their surroundings; (iii) impact of mining
activities; (iv)-(v) socio-economic and health studies of local communities; and
(vi) auto-ecological studies of indicator and endangered species. This list of
topics would be re-examined over the life of the project by an Independent
Research Council (para. 3 (g) above) which is being established within INPARQUES,
to ensure that it responds to priority management issues faced by the parks.
Specific research proposals would be invited from the public (NGOs, universities,
private research entities), and the merits would be evaluated through a peer
review process.
Prolect Research Activities in Wildlife Areas Coordinated by PROFAUNA
7.          Research activities coordinated by PROFAUNA, at a cost of USS0.218
million, would include:
(a)   the equipping of two scientific stations to be jointly used by
PROFAUNA and INPARQUES (US$163,000); and
(b)   five wildlife population studies and management programs in two
wildlife refuges and adjacent national parks (US$54,000).



- 38 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 2
VENEZUELA
NATIONAL PARKS MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Environmental Education ComDonent
Background
1.        INPARQUES  presently  has  two  units  dedicated  to  environmental
education: (a) the Directorate of Environmental Education and Recreation, under
the General Sectoral Directorate of Parks and Recreation, which deals exclusively
with educational activities in the urban recreational parks; and (b) the
Environmental Education, Interpretation and Dissemination Division, under the
General Sectoral Directorate of National Parks, which works in the national
parks. The two units have traditionally worked in isolation from each other,
although INPARQUES now has one staff member charged with maintaining liaison and
is making progress in improving communications and coordination.
2.        INPARQUES' educational activities can be classified as active and
passive. Active education involves direct interaction with the public through
specially trained personnel such as guides or facilitators (e.g., excursions and
camping events, guided tours, cultural events, etc.). Passive education involves
the preparation and dissemination of environmental messages without such direct
interaction (e.g., audiovisual and printed materials, signs, exhibitions, etc.).
In addition, INPARQUES provides training for environmental education facilitators
(e.g., workshops for guides of ecological games, camping guides, interpretation
of nature, basic school teachers, etc.).
Environmental Education Component
3.        The project would expand environmental education activities, both at
the regional and local levels, to disseminate information, raise the level of
knowledge about environmental issues and their linkages with economic
development, and engage the active participation of the community in supporting
environmental education. The focus would be on three groups: (a) communities
of fishermen, hunters, farmers and others residing in areas adjacent to national
parks; (b) school age children and youths and their families, volunteer
conservation associations; and (c)  the broader public, through educational
messages read or heard in visitors' centers, on radio or television, etc.
4.        Over a five-year period, the project would train at least 4,500 guides
and facilitators; more than 100,000 persons would be exposed to active education
programs; and more than eight million persons would be exposed to various kinds
of environmental education messages.   If successful, this public educational
effort should lead to noticeable changes in public perceptions and behavior, in
support of natural resource conservation. The strategy for reaching this
relatively large number of people is based on:



- 39 -
ANNEX3
Page 2 of 2
(a) intensive educational use of the recreational parks which serve
some of Venezuela's largest urban centers;
(b) maximizing the multiplier effect of facilitators and guides (both
volunteers and part-time workers who are not regular INPARQUES'
staff); and
(c) the strategic location of Information Centers and Visitors Centers
in the national and recreational parks.
5.        Consistent  with  its  overall  decentralization  plans,  INPARQUES'
educational activities would be regionalized. A small central office in Caracas
would be responsible for strategic planning, national coordination and program
evaluation. Regional coordinators located in INPARQUES' regional office. would
be responsible for regional planning; and for liaison with public institutions,
NGOs and community groups. State coordinators and their staff would be based
either in INPARQUES' state offices or in the Visitors Centers of the national and
recreational parks and monuments. They would be directly responsible for managing
facilitators and guides, coordinating with local fire prevention and combat
efforts, and maintaining liaison with local community associations, local and
international NGOs, educational groups and the staff of PROFAUNA.
6.        The project would support educational and planning equipment and
materials for the Central Office, Visitors Centers and Information Centers;
training costs; and incremental staffing costs.  A consultant specialized in
community environmental education and extension would be retained on a part-time
basis during the project years 1, 3 and 5, to orient and evaluate INPARQUES'
educational program (costs included under the project Institutional Development
component).



- 40 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 7
VENEZUELA
NATIONAL PARKS MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Institutional Strenothenina Component
Background
1.          By Latin American standards, INPARQUES ia a relatively successful
protected areas management agency. Most of the wildlands and parks for which
INPARQUES is responsible are not "paper parks", but rather have at least some
basic infrastructure and on-site management activities.  Total visits to the
urban parks and wildlands exceeds 10 million and one million a year,
respectively. In addition, INPARQUES has a sizable cadre of well-trained and
motivated personnel at both the technical and administrative levels. The fire
control program and the award-winning environmental education program are
excellent examples of how to involve the larger public in protected area
management.
2.          Nonetheless,  various institutional weaknesses reduce INPARQUES'
capability to function well.  For the most part, these relate to the over-
centralization of administrative and technical support functions, and staffing,
in Caracas, which results in inefficient servicing and backstopping of the
administrative needs (programming, budgeting, purchasing, contracting, personnel
services and technical support) of the more distant parks. All parks near
Caracas, and some others as far away as Morrocoy, as well as most special
programs (eg., environmental education, fire prevention and control) are micro-
managed from the central office. Hence, an exceedingly high number of employees
are based and administered out of Caracas (essentially, INPARQUES' relative
levels of staff strength at the central, regional and state, and park levels is
an inverted pyramid). At present, INPARQUES has 1,020 staff, of which 864 are
permanent employees and 156 are on short-term contracts. Of the permanent staff,
32 are managerial, 161 professional and technical, 144 administrative, and 527
laborers. Of the total permanent and contracted staff, 311 are assigned to the
central office in Caracas; an additional 322 work on special programs (e.g., El
Avila, Los Roques, Guatopo) managed out of Caracas and many of these are
therefore physically located in Caracas; and only 387 are assigned to regional
and state offices and to parks not managed from Caracas. Little differentiation
is made between the role of Caracas as a national headquarters, responding to the
needs of all national parks, and its regular support of those parks located in
the capital region.
3.          At the same time, the number of regional offices is greater than
necessary, and they do not posses. the critical staff, infrastructure and
equipment, training, or authority to be able to exercise direct administrative
or technical functions in the parks. On the other hand, their staffing levels
exceed those needed to discharge day-to-day support functions for the parks. At
the park level, INPARQUES' field strength is very low, in terms of the
supervisory, technical and ranger staff needed to deal with fire control,
poaching, visitor management, etc.   INPARQUES currently has only about 231
rangers, most with less than a high school education and limited specialized
training.



- 41 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 7
4.          Finally, despite the centralization of staff numbers and skills,
INPARQUES needs further strengthening in the areas of strategic planning to set
and implement the institution's long-term goals; and financial planning to
improve INPARQUES' sustainability, through improved systems of fee charging and
collection, and better mobilization of domestic and international public and
private support. INPARQUES currently relies on annual central government budgets
and transfers from state and local governments for most of its operating budget.
Although it has made important strides in recent years, INPARQUES still has
relatively little experience in fund raising and proposal writing to obtain
support from other sources.
Institutional Development Component -
Decentralization and Administrative Reform
5.          To  address  the  above  issues,   INPARQUES  has  developed  a
Decentralization and Administrative Reform Plan, which the project would help to
implement. The main elements include a realignment of the institutional chain
of command and structure; shifting to the regions and state offices of many of
the functions currently carried out by the central office; significant expansion
of the staffing and infrastructure at park level; strengthening of the capacity
of a much leaner and more efficient central office to supervise and coordinate
planning, policy, administrative procedures and technical support; reform of
INPARQUES' recruitment, training and incentives policies to professionalize and
upgrade staff at all levels; and essential investments in training,
infrastructure and equipment to implement these changes.
6.          A revamped and streamlined INPARQUES, better equipped to complete its
mission, is the guiding objective of the institutional strengthening component.
Eight specific goals are as follows:
(a)   strengthening  of  the  senior management  and operations  of  the
institution at all levels through a reformed, leaner management
structure;
(b)   development of a comprehensive training program for current and new
staff, and of career incentives for improving personnel performance;
(c)   greater delegation of administrative and operational responsibility
to regional offices and field management units;
(d)   decentralization of the management of urban recreational areas and
nature reserves of primarily local or regional importance to other
institutions;
(e)   maximizing the efficiency and effectiveness of INPARQUES' limited
financial and human resources and its capacity to generate a greater
share of its own operating expenses;
(f)   strengthening of INPARQUES' capacity to draw on the influence and
technical and financial support of potential collaborators at both
the national and international level; and,



- 42 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 7
(g)   increase citizen participation at all levels in planning, policy
making and program implementation of INPARQUES.
7.          Central Office Reorcanization.  To function efficiently, INPARQUES'
central office should not get involved in the day-to-day operations of parks or
special programs.   In early 1993, a National Capital Region Office would be
created (absorbing all personnel and responsibilities currently attached to the
central office for management and supervision of the national parks and
recreation areas in the Federal Department, Miranda and federal dependent
territories).
8.          Responsibility for selected special programs would be passed to the
appropriate regional office by early 1993, with others devolved in accordance
with the Decentralization and Administrative Reform Plan. A number of functions
which are currently dispersed and sometimes duplicated among the   sectoral
directorates of national parks, infrastructure and recreational parks would be
combined by functional area. The technical staff at the central level would not
have direct supervisory responsibilities for their programmatic areas at the
region and park level. They would instead play a strong role in backstoppina
regional staff and in defining overall volicv and procedures for their areas of
technical expertise. Many tasks currently carried out directly by INPARQUES'
staff would contracted out, improving flexibility and reducing costs.
9.          Purchases of up to Be. 1 million, contracts for services up to
Bs. 3.5 million and those for construction up to Bs. 4 million would be handled
by the regions, as well as cooperative agreements and concessions which do not
commit land and buildings for the long-term. Therefore, the role of the central
office administrative support staff would be limited to only very larae purchases
and  large contracts,  cooperative agreements,  and overall  coordination and
definition of operational plans, budgets, finance, purchases, and norms and
procedures (e.g., bidding, disbursements, etc.).
10.         The total staff size of the central office would be around 150
individuals:  nearly  100  less  emplovees  than  at  Present.    However,  the
professional profile would be greatly enhanced, with fewer unskilled workers and
lower-level technicians and more Drofessionals. hiaher level technicians and more
experienced secretaries. Through the training sub-component, opportunities would
be offered to all INPARQUES professional and technical staff to increase their
capacity or gain proficiency in performing new tasks.
11.         Reaional Office Reorcanization.   As a fundamental  step in the
decentralization and administrative strengthening process, INPARQUES' 15
regional offices would be consolidated into eiaht greatly strengthened offices
with greater responsibilities, staff levels, and geographic scopes. The regions,
the states, and the national parks and monuments they include, would be the
following:
(a)   National Capital Region (headquartered in Caracas, but not at the
central office). This region would include the Federal District,
Miranda,  and federal territories.   Parks and monuments in this
region would include Guatopo, Tacarigua, El Avila, Macarao, Los
Roques, Cueva Alfredo Jahn, and Pico Codazzi.



- 43 -
ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 7
(b)   Falcon-Zulia Region (headquartered in Coro, Falcon), and including
the states of Falcon and Zulia. Parks and monuments in the region
would include Perija, Cienega de Catatumbo, Morrocoy, Quebrada de la
Cueva del Toro, Medanos de Coro, Sierra de San Luis, and the Cerro
Santa Ana.
(c)   Centro-Occidente  Region  (headquartered  in  Barquisimeto),  and
including the states of Lara, Maracuy and Portuguesa. Parks and
monuments in the region would be Yacambu, Terrepaima, Cerro Saroche,
Loma de Le6n, Shurubi, Maria Lionza, Dinira, and Guache.
(d)   Amazonas Region (headquartered in Puerto Ayacucho), would include
only parks and monuments in the Amazon Federal Territory. They are
Serrania La Neblina, Llapecanaa, Duida-Marahuaca, Parima-Tapirapeco,
Piedra de Cocuy, Cerro Autana, and that part of the Tepuyes NM which
is in the TFA.
(e)   Andean Region (headquartered in Merida), would include the states of
Merida, Trujillo, Tachira and Barinas, and the parks and monuments
of Sierra Nevada, Sierra La Culata, Laguna de Arao, La Chorrera-La
Gonzalez, Guramacoy, El Tama, Chorro del Indio, Los Paramos de
Batall6n y la Negra, and Urivante.
(f)   Nororiente Region  (headquartered in Cumana),  would include the
states of Sucre, Anzogtegui and Nueva Esparta, and the parks and
monuments of Laguna de la Restinga, Cerro El Copey, Laguna de la
Merites, Tetas de Maria Guevara, Cerros Matasiete y Guamuri,
Mochima, Peninsula de Paria, and Turuepano.
(g)   Southeast Region (headquartered in Maturin) and including the states
of Bolivar, Delta and Monagas, and the parks and monuments of
canaimA, Jaua-Sarisarinama, El Guacharo, Alejandro de Humboldt,
Mariusa-Delta, and tepuyes in the state of Bolivar.
(h)   Aragua-Carabobo-Guarico-Apure  (headquartered  in  Maracay),  this
region would include Henri Pittier, San Esteban, Aguaro-Guariquito,
Moro de San Juan, Platill6n, and Cinaruco-Capanaparo.
12.         Each regional office would house about 12 professional employees,
five technicians, four secretaries and one worker, plus in many cases the state
supervisor (a professional), executive assistant (a technician) and a secretary
for that state. In states where little construction activity is planned, the
design specialist and works supervisor positions could be combined into a post
for one architect or engineer. The total number of full time staff for the eight
regional offices is estimated at about 178. Wherever possible, when there are
several nearby protected areas for which INPARQUES has responsibility, these
would be managed by a single superintendent with overall supervisory
responsibility.
13.         State Coordinatina Offices.  The 23 state coordinating offices would
be extremely small, with only the state supervisor, a highly qualified executive
assistant, and a secretary. In those states that are not regional headquarters,



- 44 -
ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 7
every effort would be made to locate coordination offices in MARNR state
headquarters or to use existing INPARQUES infrastructure in or very near state
capitals, such as that already built in key recreation park areas. These offices
would be responsible for direct supervision and logistical support to all
management units within the state, provision of information and formal and
informal environmental education to the public about the national park system,
and coordination of activities with and seeking of support from state and local
government agencies, other national agencies, and the private sector. Each office
would also coordinate volunteer recruitment for their state, a function that
would become increasing important in Inparques. Three full time staff would be
needed for each of 23 state coordinating offices (totalling 69 staff overall).
14.         Field Management Units.  When several protected areas are located in
close proximity (eg., a national park and two nearby monuments; a group of tepuy
monument sites; several recreation areas; or a park, monument and recreation
area), these should become a single management unit with one superintendent
wherever this is feasible. Many sectors of large national parks are much more
complex in their management than small recreation areas and national monuments
or even small national parks. Thus, a sector chief for a large complex national
park should be hierarchically equal to directors of smaller and less complex
individual management units.   At the management unit level, the number of
professional, technical and support staff needed would vary considerably.
However, the basic outline of responsibilities by program would remain the same,
even though in smaller and less complicated areas an individual employee might
have to fulfill a wider range of functions.
15.   The management structure would include the superintendent and protection,
resource management, and administration divisions. Like at the regional level,
no specific drivers, maintenance or security personnel would be on permanent
payroll. Specific construction jobs, investigations, etc. would all be done by
contract.   The size of the revolving or petty cash fund for each management unit
would be increased to levels which permit purchase of most supplies, disposable
equipment, and similar items without requiring intervention by state or regional
offices.    A limited number of the largest and most complex parks, mainly south
of the Orinoco where management arrangements are the weakest (Canaima, Mariusa,
Cinaruco-Capanaparo, Guariquito, and Amazon parks and tepuys), and those parks
with the greatest public impact and management threats, would require special
strengthening measures.
16.         Current levels of staff at almost all national parks and monuments
in Venezuela is still too low to guarantee effective protection and address the
basic needs which were identified through the rapid analysis of management
problems which was carried out during project preparation. While it is possible
to reduce staff greatly at INPARQUES' central office, and to make a significant
improvement in effectiveness without a major increase in staff numbers at the
regional and state offices, the same does not follow for individual parks and
monuments.
17.         Recreational Parks.  Unlike the national parks and monuments, for
which the central government is unequivocally responsible under both national law
and international agreements, many recreational parks are already managed by
state and local governments, NGOs and commissions.   INPARQUES would further
reduce its role in managing urban recreation areas (from the present 107 to 50
such parks by the end of the project period). INPARQUES would seek to remain



- 45 -                            ANNEX 4
Page 6 of 7
involved in the management of mainly recreational parks in major population hubs,
which can be used for public education purposes to reinforce conservation
messages regarding the importance of the national parks and monuments to a large
urban audience of potential users and/or citizens who may never visit the more
remote parks and monuments.   For those parks which would be turned over to state
and municipal governments, NGOs and inter-institutional groups, INPARQUES would
continue to play a technical assistance role.
Training
18.         The  project  training  sub-component  would  support  INPARQUES'
management and staff in carrying out the Decentralization and Administrative
Reform Plan and in implementing the project. At a base cost of US$3.2 million,
the sub-component would finance:
(a)   formal training courses coordinated by INPARQUES in three high
priority areas covering about 65 different course modules:   ()
management and administration skills, techniques and procedures; (ii)
park management and related technical subjects; and (iii) computer
skills;
(b)   equipment and other investments needed to carry out the training
programs at: (i) the Rancho Grande Training Center (an existing
building in the Henri Pittier Nation Park, which requires
rehabilitation and furnishing); and (ii) the Training Coordination
Unit (involving an extension of about 70 m2 which would be added to
INPARQUES' existing single-story headquarters building);
(c)   selected training activities offered outside of INPARQUES, including
some short-term foreign study; and
(d)   acquisition of supplemental training materials  (e.g., technical
books) for INPARQUES' regional and central offices, major national
park ranger posts, and the library at the Rancho Grande Training
Center.
Technical Assistance
19.         The project technical assistance sub-component (US$3.4 million base
cost) would finance approximately 29 consultant-years of specialists to advise
INPARQUES on critical  administrative  and technical  matters.   Six of the
consultants would work with INPARQUES counterpart staff to bring about rapid
improvements in the areas of:
(a)   administration of goods and services;
(b)   personnel management;
(c)   internal control;
(d)   management of civil works;
(e)   planning, budgeting, monitoring and evaluation; and
(f)   financial management.



- 46 -
ANNEX 4
Page 7 of 7
Terms of reference for these six specialists were reviewed and agreed during
appraisal, and INPARQUES has already initiated recruitment. These consultants
would begin work well before the date of loan effectiveness, under retroactive
financing. Terms of reference for the remaining specialists were reviewed during
loan negotiations and with recruitment initiated shortly thereafter, for
specialists in the following areas:
(a)   overall project administration, with particular attention to timely
and   smooth   execution   of   INPARQUES'   Decentralization   and
Administrative Reform Plan;
(b)   improving the management of national and recreational parks;
(c)   implementation and fine-tuning of INPARQUES' training program;
(d)   implementation of the project applied research component;
(e)   environmental   education   and  promotion   of   local   community
participation in park management;
(f) analysis of options to improve INPARQUES' recurrent cost recovery;
(g)   mobilization of external financing and support from international
development agencies, NGOs, private foundations and businesses, etc.;
and
(h)   approximately  12  consultant-months  of  specialized  short-term
consultancies to meet unanticipated needs as they arise.



VENEZUELA
NATIONAL PARKS MANAGEMENT PROJECT
INPAROUES Organizational Chart
PRESIDENT
Strategic Planning  ||Public Relations
Unit                                                                      Office
|DIRECTORt GENERAL 
Comptrol ler s     l                                                             Legal
Office                                                                      Counset
Budgete   onitoring                                       Technical
and Evaluation                                           Services                   Administration
STA TEl
COORDIRATOR
FIELD MANAGEMENT
UN IT                                                                                      r 
E--~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t
Protection                     Natural Resource                 Adinistration
|   Program           |       |Management Prog ramin                   Program                      



- 48 -
ANNEX4
Table 4.1
VENEZUELA
NATIONAL PARKS MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Existing Personnel in the Project's Protected Areas
Adminis-     Parks     National   Maintenance    Drivers
National Parks                 trative     Guards    Guards         Workers
Aguaro-Guariquito                 1           4                                      1
Canairna                          -           -
Duida-Marahuaca 1/                            -
El Avila                          -           37                       -             -
El Copey                          1           4           -            2             1
El Tama                           1           12         4             -             -
La Neblina 1/                     -           -           -            -
Laguna Restinga                   1           3          2             8             1
Laguna Tacarigua                  1           4           -            2             -
Los Roques                        1           5          6             1             -
Heni Pittier                      1           23          -           27             2
Marfa Lionza                      1           12          5            15            1
Medanos de Coro                   1           7           -            -             -
Mochima                           -           8                        2
Morrocoy                          1           11          -15                        1
Parima-Tapirapeco 1/              -           -           -
Santos Luzardo                    1           4           -
Sierra Nevada                     1           18          -            5             1
Yapacana 1/                       -           -           -            -             -
Yurubi                            1           12          -
Wildlife Refuges
Cuare                             1           4    |
Tortuga Arrau                     1           -         P.T.                  [
1/    Amazon Parks
P.T. = Part-Time



- 49 -
ANNEX4
Table 4.2
VENEZUELA
NATIONAL PARKS MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Additional Staff for Selected Personnel Categories under Project
National Parks North of the Orinoco            Administrativej/  Technical Park Guards   Other
__________     staff    _   _  _  _
Aguaro-Guariquito                                                 I                          12
Canaima                                                          11              4           20
El Avila                                                                                     23
El Copey                                                                         2
El Tama                                                           3              4           10
Laguna Restinga                                                   3           *             **
Laguna Tacarigua                                                  2              5           8
Los Roques                                                        3              3           7
Hcnri Pittier                                                     4              4           1T-
Maria Lionza                                                      3              4
Medanos de Coro                                                   6              3
Mochima                                                           6              6           15
orocoy                                                          2              S           1
inaruco-Capanaparo                                              4                          16
ierra Nevada                                                     3              7           8
urubi                                                           3              3            6
Sub-Total:                                                       59            65           162
Amazonian National Parks and Natural Monuments
Pto. Ayacucho/La Esmeralda                                                                   -           14
Duida-Marahuaca                                                                              6
La Neblina                                                        11-                        T           T
Parima-Tapirapeco                                                 1                          8           1
Yapacana                                                          1              -           8            1
Autana-Sipapo N.M.                                                1                          6           -
Ventuari N.M.                                                     I                          10          1
Sub-Total:                                                       10lo1
Wildlife Refuges                                                                                         =
Cuare
Tortuga Arrau
Su-Total:                                                  _
Recreational Parks
Andres Eloy Blanco                                                2                          S
Parque del Este                                            __8
Guanquen                                                            
Miochoa Pile                                                      2
Metro de Maracay                                                  2              -           15
nta Pahnita                                                    3              1            7
o Caricuao                                                      -             4                             .
u Total:                                                         9                         S        _0
ota:                                                            77 W
1/ Includes administrators, administrtive assistants and technical supervisors.



- 50 -
ANNEX4
Table 4.3
VENEZULELA
ON AL PARKS MANAGEMENT PROJECI
Po    sed Staffing Levels
RESOURCE MANAGEMENT AND PROTECTION                             ADMINISTRATIVE
PROGRAM                                          _              PROGRAM          _
NATIONAL PARKS
Technician      Techicias    Parkguards
Professionals    (Superiore)      (Pit o)        (Pemones)    Administrator    Secretarie
5
Los Roques                          2               7               3                               2
El Avila                            1               8               24                              2                I
Morrocoy                            2               5               10                              1                2
Marfa Lionza                        3               7               3                               -*
Mochima                             4               5               15                              3                2
Canairma                            2               11              1              20               3               2
H. Pittier                          2               6               10                              3                3
Sierr Nevada                        3               9               8                               3                2
Cerro Copey                         2               3               2                              - 
Aguaro-Guariquito                   1               9               13                              3               2
El Ta                               4               6               6                               3               2
Laguna Tacarigua                    3               6               9                               3                1
Yurubi                              3               8               6                               3                3
Laguna de La Restinga               1               9               6                               3               3
M&danos de Caro                     2               7               7                               3                2
Cinaruco-Capanaparo                 3               9               16                              3                1
TOTALS           38              115             144             20              38               26
*      Administrative stff shared with Yurubf NP.
*S     Administrative staff shared with Laguna de LA Restinp NP.



- 51 -
ANNEX 4
Table 4.4
VENEZUELA
NATIONAL PARKS MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Proposed Technical Staffing Needs Matrix
Resources Management Program
PROFESSIONALS                                          TECHNICAL (SUPERIORES)
PARKS       MAR. 1            ING.    ING. |          I                    ING.      TOURJ J                       RES.  |ENV.
BIO.    SOC.   FOR.   AGR.   ANT.   GEO.   ECO.   MAINT.                  REC.    EXT. j_FISH.   MGMT.    ED.
Los Roques     X         X                                  X                  X          X        X                            X
El Avila                 X                 X                         X         X          X        X                  X         X
Morrocoy        X        X                                  X                  X          X         X                           X
Marfa                             X                 X                          X          X         X                 X    X
Lionza
Mochima         X        X                 X                X                  X          X        X        X                   X
Canaima                                    x        x       x        x         x          x        X                            x
H. Pittier                                                  X                  X          X        X                            X
Sierra                            X        X                         X         X          X        X                            X
Nevada
Cerro                                      x                                   x          x        x                            x
Copey                 I__  _    _ _ _    _ _ _    _ _ _                     _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _
Aguaro-                                                              X        X           X        X        X         X         X
Guariquito                                                                                               _         ______
El Tami                 x                 x                 x                 x           x        x                            x
Laguna         X        X                                                     X           x        X        X         x         x
Tacarigua
Yurubi                           X                          X                 X           X        X                            X
Laguna de                                                                     X           X        X        X                   X
La  Restinga &        _        _        _        _                         _           _________
Medanosde                                  X                                   X          x        x                 x          x
Coro
| Cmnaruco-                           I         I l  |   |  X           l       X   |    X                                T
Capanaparo ___ ___                              =   =   = | --iL__-
MAR. BIO.:       Marine Biologist
SOC.:            Sociologist
ENG. FOR.:       Forest Engineer
ING. AGR.:       Agricultural Engineer
ANT.:            Anthropologist
GEO.:            Geographer
ECO.:             Ecologist
ING. MAINT.:    Maintenance Engineer
TOUR.IREC.:      Touriam/Recreation
EXT.:            Extension
FISH.:           Fisheries
RES. MGMT.:    Resources Managenent
ENV. ED.:         Environmental Education



- 52 -
ANNEX 5
Table 5.1
VENEZUELA
NATIONAL PARKS MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Estinuted Project Costs by Comnonent
Local          Foreign         Toiti
fUSS Million)
Estimated Project Costs
A. Strengthening of Parks Management and Protection  50.8               8.1         58.9
- Northern National Parks                   (30.8)            (4.4)       (35.2)
- Wildlife Reserves                          (0.9)            (0.2)         (1.1)
- Amazon National Parks                      (3.1)            (0.3)         (3.4)
- Urban Recreational Parks                   (9.8)            (1.1)        (10.9)
- Fire Prevention and Control                (6.2)            (2.1)         (8.3)
B. Environmental Research                             1.9               4.5          6.4
C. Environmental Education                            2.3              0.2          2.5
D. Institutional Development                          7.2              5.4          12.6
- Project Administration                     (3.0)            (3.0)        (6.0)
- Training                                   (3.1)            (0.1)        (3.2)
- Technical Assistance                       (1.1)            (2.3)        (3.4)
Total Baseline Costs                         6.                1            NA
- Physical Contingencies                      5.8               1.1          6.9
- Price Contingencies                         6.7               2.0          8.7
Total Project Costs                          74.7              al          29.



- 53 -
ANNEX S
Table 5.2
VENEZUE.
Annual Phasina of Proioct Cosa by Conons. inchldin  Contnenci.
(USS million)
Year      01       02         03        04         05       Total
A. Parks Management and Protection
1. Northern National Parks             7.15       8.77      9.71       9.68      7.47      42.78
2. Wildlife Reserves                   0.40       0.58      0.10       0.10       0.11      1.29
3. Amazon National Parks               0.51       0.74       1.01      0.98       0.80      4.04
4. Urban Recreational Parks             1.18      2.9       4.81       2.97       1.57     13.52
5. Fire Prevention and Control          1.27      1.96      2.88       2.17       1.56      9.84
Sub-Total                              10                  mm 1L5                IUI S714
B. Environmental Research                  124        Lb        La         La        0          L92
C. Environmental Education                20                                                     Li 2&  2& 05
D. Institutional Development
1. Project Administration              1.95       2.02      1.33       0.96      0.50       6.76
2. Training                            0.55       0.89      0.92       0.74       0.62      3.72
3. Technical Assistance                 1.38      0.70      0.52       0.41      0.61       3.62
Sub-Total                                         La                   21          7       141
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                       16m 01      f=       249        l9 U       1f6       96.04



- 54 -
ANNEX S
Table 5.3
VENEZUELA
NATIONAL PAR}CS MANAGEMeNT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Bank Disbur rnme
(USS million)
Bank       Quarter         Disbursement          CumuladveDsbursement          Balance
Fiscal Year  Ending       During Quarter        Amount           Total         of Loan
1993       December31, 1992        -                -               -             5S.0
March 31, 1993        5.7 1/            5.7            9.8            49.3
June30, 1993          5.8.1/           11.5            19.8           43.5
1994       Sept. 30, 1993         2.0             13.5            24.6           41.5
Dec. 31, 1993         2.0              15.5           28.2            39.5
March 31, 1994        2.5              18.0           32.7            37.0
June 30, 1994         2.5              20.5           37.3            34.5
1995       Sept. 30, 1994         2.7             23.2            42.2            31.8
Dec. 31, 1994         3.0              26.2           47.6            28.8
March 31, 1995        3.0              29.2           53.1            25.8
June 30, 1995         3.5              32.7           59.4            22.3
1996       Sept. 30, 1995         3.0             35.7            64.9            19.3
Dec. 31, 1995         3.0              38.7           70.4            16.3
March 31, 1996        3.0              41.7           75.8            13.3
June 30, 1996         2.5              44.2           80.4            10.8
1997       Sept. 30, 1996         2.5             46.7            84.9            8.3
Dec. 31, 1996         2.3              49.0           89.1             6.0
March 31, 1997        2.0              51.0           92.7             4.0
June30, 1997          2.0              53.0           96.4             2.0
1998       Sept. 30, 1997         1.0             54.0            98.2             1.0
Dec. 31, 1997         1.0              55.0           100.0            0.0
I/ Including initial deposit of US$5.0 million into the Spocial Account and US$5.0 million of retroactive
financing.



- 55 -
ANNEXS
Table 5.4
VENEZUELA
NATIONAL PARKS MANAGEMENT PROJEC
Financin Pl
(USS million)
Govt. of
IBRD      Vnezuela           Total
A.    Strengthenimn of Parks Management
and Protection
Northem National Parks                 23.4          19.4          42.8
Wildlife Reserves                       0.6           0.7            1.3
Amazon National Parks                   0.7           3.3           4.0
Urban Recreational Parks                7.8           5.7           13.5
Fire Prevention and Control             5.0           4.8           9.8
B.    Environmontal Resoarch                   6.3           1.4            7.7
C.    Environmental Education                  2.4           0.4            2.8
D.    Institutional Development
Project Administration                  3.0           3.8           6.8
Training                                2.4           1.3           3.7
Technical Assistance                    3.4           0.2           3.6
TOTAL                                  55.0          41.0          96.0



- 56 -
ANNEX S
Table 5.5
VENEZUELA
NATIONAL PARKS MANAGEMENT PROJEC
Allocation of Loan Proceeds
CATEGORY                   % OF EXPENDITURES             TOTAL
TO BE FINANCED            AMOUNT
(NET OF TAXES)              (USS M)
1.   Civil Works                        75%                       28.4
2.   Goods                    100% of foreign expenditures         9.2
and 45% of local expendibur
3.   Technical As _tac
Training and Studies              100%                       11.9
4.   Unallocated                                                   _.
TOTAL                                                        55.0



- 57 -
ANNEX 5
Table 5.6
VENUZUEL&
NATIONAL PARKS MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Procurement Imolementation Schedule
Estimated Annual Contractual and Other Pavmento
(USS Million)
Pa~nt Years                         Total
1       2        3        4        5       Payment       Remarks
CiviL Works
7.8      9.7    11.3       6.9      3.1       38.8        LCB
1.0      1.3      1.8     0.9                  5.0        Shopping
Equipment, Machinery
Vehicles and Furniture
1.5     2.5      2.0       -        -          6.0        ICe
1.3     2.0      2.0      3.3      2.0        10.6        LCB
0.5      0.5      0.5      0.5      -          2.0        Shopping
Technical Assistance,
Training and Studies
2.8      2.9      3.3      2.2      2.0       13.2
Incremental Operational
Costs
1.1     2.3      3.4      6.0      7.6        20.4        NBF I/
TOTALS                            16.0    21.2    24.3    19.8    14.7            96.0
Bank-Financed                    t15.5)V(10.7)  (12.5)  (10.3)   (6.0)    (55.0)
1/ NBF Not Bank-Financed
21 Including USS5.0 mitLion of retroactive fInancIng.



VENEZUELA
NATIONAL PARKS MANAGEMENT PROJECT
INPAROUES Cost Recovery Program
Financial Plan
(Bs. million)
1.        1.          1994        19          199         197         1998    TOTAL
-                                                      m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9-
NATIONAL PARKS              21.0       23.0       25.3        28.0        30.8        34.0        38.0      179.1
RECREATIONAL                41.0       45.6        51.0       57.0        64.0        72.0        80.0      369.6
PARKS
WAlERSHED                     _-                     -           -         10.0       25.0        55.0       90.0
PROIECT[ON
RELAY STATION                1.5        2.5         3.3        4.3         5.6         7.3        10.0       33.0
INFRASTRUCTURE
AGREEMENTS WIT             162.7      162.7       162.7      162.7       162.7       162.7       162.7      976.2
LOCAL
GOVERNMENTS
NATIONAL AND                20.0       20.0        20.0       20.0        20.0        20.0        20.0      120.0
INTERNATIONAL
AGREEMENTS
TOTAL                      242.2      253.8       262.3      272.0       293.1       321.0       365.7      1767.9
t1n
(D M
-.1X



- 59 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 3
VENEZUELA
NATIONAL PARKS MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Proiect Supervision Plan
1.        Supervision of the National Parks Management Project would take place
at two levels, and would be intensive throughout the implementation period. In
broad terms, the principal responsibilities for supervision would rest with
INPARQUES' central office (through the Project Coordination Unit, PCU) and the
Bank (through the Environment and Agriculture Division, Country Department I, of
the Latin America and Caribbean Region, LA1EA). Non-governmental organizations
(NGOs) and the technical assistance specialists would also play important roles.
2.        At the level of INPAROUES, the PCU would routinely supervise the work
of the central, regional, state and field offices of INPARQUES, as well as the
project-related activities of SADAMAZONAS, PROFAUNA and FAC, based on periodic
monitoring and evaluation reports prepared by these various bodies.  The PCU
would also receive the support of several technical assistance specialists
retained under the institutional development component of the project (Annex 4).
3.        INPARQUES' Governing Board (Junta Directiva), chaired by INPARQUES'
President, would meet at least once quarterly (or more often, as needed) to
review project implementation progress and take decisions on outstanding issues.
Semi-annual progress reports, annual operating plans, the report of an Annual
Independent Evaluation Committee, and the mid-term evaluation report would all
be reviewed and discussed by the Governing Board.
4.        Within the Bank, LA1EA would coordinate all supervision work on the
project.  The Bank would receive two consolidated semestral progress reports
compiled by the PCU. The timing of supervision inputs may vary over the course
of any one year, depending on the specific needs of individual project
components, but normally two main supervisions would be mounted, in April/May and
October/November. The first, intended to be a full annual joint Bank-Government
implementation review, would inter alia review the report of the second semester
of the previous calendar year and consider the findings of the Annual Independent
Evaluation Committee. The October/November mission would review the report for
the first semester of that project year and the annual audit report on the use
of loan and counterpart proceeds. This mission would also be timed to coincide
with the review of the budgetary allocation for the project and the final version
of the annual operating plan for the next project year.
5.        NGOs have participated in project preparation and would also be
involved in monitoring implementation.   NGOs are represented on INPARQUES'
Governing Board. Through their participation in this Board, they would have the
opportunity to review and approve all annual operating plans for the project,
review and discuss all semi-annual supervision report. and other monitoring and
evaluation reports and materials which come to the Board, and would participate



- 60 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 3
in all major project-related decisions. Selected NGOs would also participate as
members of each Annual Independent Evaluation Committee.
6.        The following would be key dates each year, from the standpoint of
project supervision:
Table 6.1: Kev Annual Dates for Prolect SuDervision I/
Date                                Activitv/Report Due
March 31       Second semestral report for the preceding year
(July 1-December 31) due to the Bank for review
Annual Independent Evaluation Committee Report
due to the Bank for review
April/May      FULL BANK SUPERVISION MISSION (Annual Joint
Bank-Government Implementation Review)
June 30        Proposed annual budgetary allocation for following
project year presented to the Bank for review
Draft annual operating plan for the following
project year presented to the Bank for review
Annual project audit report on previous financial
year due to the Bank for review
September 30   First semestral report for current year
(January 1-June 30) due to the Bank for review
October/
November     FULL BANK SUPERVISION MISSION
I/ In addition, a project launch workshop would take place in January 1993, foLLowing loan
effectiveness, and a mid-term evaluation mission would take place in mid-1995.
7.        About 93 sw of inputs would be required for Bank supervision of the
project over the five-year project period, including the project launch workshop,
mid-term evaluation mission, final supervision/completion mission, routine annual
supervision missions and Headquarters review tasks. The inputs are heavier in
the first three project years, declining thereafter on the assumption that
project progress is satisfactory. The estimated staffing inputs and skill
requirements are detailed in Table 6.2.



- 61 -
ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 3
Table  6.2:    Bank  Staffing  Inputs  and  Skill  Recauirements
for Prolect Supervision
Bank FY/Activity                            Skill Requirements and Est. Total Inouts (sw)
FY93                                                                                                       15
Project Launch Workshop               Econ./Task Mgr.(2); Env.Spec./Ecol.(1); Inst.Spec.(1);  )
in Venezuela                          Proc.Off.(0.5); Disb.Off.(0.5)                               )  4
ApriL/May Supervision                 Econ./Task Mgr.C2); Env.Spec./Ecol.(2); Inst.Spec.(2);  )
Mission                               Nat.Res.Econ.(2);                                            )  a
Headquarters Review Tasks             Econ./Task Mgr.(1); Env.Spec./Ecol.01); Proc.Off.01);
[Lawyer (1)] 1/                                                 3
FY94                                                                                                       is
Oct./Nov. Spn. Mission                Econ./Task Mgr.(2); Env.Spec./EcoL.(2); Env.Res.Spec.(2)) 6
ApriL/May Supervision                 Econ./Task Mgr.(2); Env.Spec./EcoL.(2); Inst.Spec.(2);   )
Nat.Res.Econ./Fin.Spec.(2)                                   ) 8
Headquarters Review Tasks             Econ./Task Mgr.(2); Env.Spec./EcoL.(1); Proc.Off.(1)         )
[Lawyer (1)3  /                                                4
FY 95
Mid-Term Evaluation Mission           Econ./Task Hgr.(4); Env.Spec./Ecol.(2); M&E Spec.(1);
Inst./Park Mgment.Spec.(2); Nat.Res.Econ./Fin.pec.(2);   )
Community Part.Spec.(2); Env.Res.Spec.t1)                    ) 14
ApriL/May Spn. Mission                Econ./Task Mgr.(2); Env.Spec./EcoL.(2)                       )  4
Headquarters Review Tasks             Econ./Task Mgr.(2); Env.Spec./Ecol.(1); Proc.Off.(C)         )  4
FY96-97                                                                                                    12(24)
Oct./Nov. Spn. Missions               Econ./Task Mgr.(2); Inst.Spec.(2)                            )  4(8)
April/May Spn. Missions               Econ./Task Mgr.(2); Env.Spec./Ecol.(2)                       )  4(8)
Headquarters Review Tasks             Econ./Task Mgr.(2); Env.Spec./EcoL.(1); Proc.Off.(1)    )  4(8)
FY98                                                                                                       14
Final Spn./CompLetion                 Econ./Task Mgr.(4); Env.Spec./Ecoi.(2); Inst.Spec.(1);  )
Mission                               Nat.Res.Econ.t1); Env.Res. Spec.(t); Oper.Asst. (3)          ) 12
Headquarters Review Tasks             Econ./Task Mgr.(1); Proc.Off.(1)                             )  2
TOTAL SUPERVISION INPUTS                   93 1/
j/ Time of Country Lawyer not included in sw totals.



VENEZUELA
NAllONAL PARKS MANAGEMENT PROJET
Proiet Pbysical Tndem =d Schdule of lawI d
YEARS
COMPONENTtTARGEr
UD;X               1                   2                   3                  4                    5                 TOlW
A. STRENGTIENINO Op PARKS
MANAGEMENT AND PROTEClON
(NATIONAL PARKS)
Mmq
SuperkhwdiB"imp                              N-                 4                   1                   -                   4                                        9
AdmnistratftOtficm                           N.                 7                   3                   3                   6                   -                    19
IlcramM1AdminitifiveSft                      N.                12                  26                  44                  60                  64                   64
Guud,poso                                    N.                34                  43                  11                  32                   3                   131
ObseevimTowm                                 N.                                     -                   2                   2                   2                    6
Accm  Cacmgo                                 N.                 2                   6                   4                   4                                        16
TmnW-t (Aggmmg-)                             N-                2                   21                  53                  79                  27                   202
1nc_emal Park G_iud Slff                     N-                20                  49                  s0                 125                 134                   134
V  en'C_                                     N'                 2                   4                   1                   1                   2                    10
iafoan.biC aia,                              N-                 I                                       6                   6                   3                    24
RecmlioaAm                                   N        -         7                   3                  13                   6                   6                    35
(MME PREVIDION AND CONTROL)
Prkcil B_ C_s                                 N.                3                   3                   3                                       -                     9
Auxia yD B_ C_-                               N.                3                   4                   3                   2                   -                    12
ObservoiTowm                                 N-                 6                   6                   4                   2                   1                    19
Inc,  lV   ,is                           N'                 11                  *                   35                 16                    5                   75
l     aceminl Pa                     Pei medmp            720                 2640               3840                4560                5760                  5760
E.N-(Agvmsgud)                                               1                  2                   3                   2                    1                    9
N.A.: Not Appimh
O 4-
Fb 



VENEZUELA
NATIONAL PARKS MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Proicct Phvsksl TarSeb n Scb mule of Iuivlemn*atic
YEARS
COMPONENT/TARGET
Unit               1                   2                   3                   4                   5                 Toil
(WILIDLFE RERUGES)
Admbinirative Offics                       N                                       I                                                                                I
OCUsOsb                                    N                   4                   1                                                                                5
Accs C rol                                 N                   -I                                                                                                   I
Tr_n- (Agg  s5e)                           N-                  3                  6                                                                                 9
P k,t GOumn                                N-                  2                  6                                                                                 S
Inftrbinniducd
lafoemaie Cenc.                                                I                   1                                                                                2
Imnpoved Mmaauant
CooaMnsnrmmel.aa/                         N-                  4                  4                   4                   4                   4                    20
lncrnSdM .ginm  Ph m/                      N-                  2                  2                   2                   2                   2                    10                  I
(RECREATONAL PARKS)
Br sevp
W -cr Tr_                                  h                   -                  4S                 74                  28                    -                  ISO
EkdricW Syam                               ha                  -                  30                 44                  20                    -                   94
Cumi_ Amco
A bihcsk                                   N                   I                   I                   .                   1                                        3
ChiMz'usGm                                 N                   -                   2                   -                   I                   -                    3
GmeeAns D      pamcst      b               ha                  4                  35                 41                  20                  20                   120
LagmResatrn                                N                   3                                       I 1                 -                  -                     4
Anei          K ExI- RcsIorsio.                                -                   9                   3                                                           12
EdBctis Casu                               N'                  3                  2                   2                                        -                    7
bI ps    Pmu r                             ha                                     4S                  16                  59                   -                  123
N.A.: Nt Applicbl
I/ Fiuu    cda bo& md ips.
0*
I.1FI-..
U'1



VENEZUELA
NATIONAL PARKS MANAGEMENT PROIECT
Proibet PFbicl Trrets and Schedule of Imp nagm sxt
YEARS
COMPONENT/TARGET
Unis                1                    2                    3                     4                    5                  Total
. EDNIRONMENTAL RESEARCH
Eagbliabmm of R=csrch Sw*om                     N                   -                    2                     1                    1                    1                      5
Rapid Ecogical A m                              N-                  1                    3                    3                     3                    -                     10
Thmlic Miq                                      Paiu                2                    3                    3                                          -                      8
W"r Quf lyStadle                                N-                  1                    2                    2                     -                    -
Put M=4ma
AppLid Rmaeb (Noh of Orioco)                    N*                  2                    4                    6                     7                    6                     25
Park Mangmn
Applied Rcrch (Amazo Pas                        N-                  2                    5                    4                     -                    -                     11
Widhfc Re6fge
Applied Rearch  d Monoring                      N-                  4                    3                    2                     2                    -                     11
C. ENVIRONMENTAL EDUCATION
Co_nmuniy Workzbo9s                             N-                 36                   38                   40                    42                   40                    196
Tzummg of Vob _mce ad W oitsbm
witb NOOs an Par  Prcmcico                    N-                  30                   32                   32                   32                    34                   160
Tyinmg of Educelou, and Vohumeem
to wk with Put U                              N-                  30                   45                   40                   49                    39                   203
Educaion Acsvm  with Cilimae,
Sbdamt ad odie Viitor to
Natial Paks                                   N-                 223                  269                  267                  267                   240                  1.266
Educam Aetvita witd Cbild,
Sbadaah* Teacua, mad other
V.sizm to Nujiml Pats                          N'                490                  668                  715                  762                   765                  3,400
0* l
Lm
tD  1  >C
O   _4



VENEZUELA
NATIONAL PARKS MANAGEMENT PROJCT
Projet Pbysicl Tameu. s  Schjdule of IDpmg nmioe
YEARS
COMPONENT/TARGET
Units              1                    2                   3                    4                   5                  Total
D. INSTITUTONALDEVELOPMENT
Bimg/RPmoeJing of Regiad
Offices id Tma  FPAiis                      u'                970                 660                  650                 290                    -                 2,570
T,_Ling C _um -w
M- on.M md Ad_miijUio.                      N.                 13                   17                   9                   5                    3                    47
-n11w Col                                   N-                  4                   3                    7                   2                                         16
-     iPlg -d Bdsdipm                       N-                  4                   7                    a                   2                    3                    24
-Coeef3CsofCiv Woeks                         N-                 3                    5                   2                   5                    -                    is
-NauIe  Ph&al _sakaMmgm                     N-                 13                   19                  26                  24                   is                   100
-UrbtssPmx*s Mnsgu._                         N-                 7                   10                  11                   6                    -                    34
- Eviro v llBduoo                           N'                  1                    5                   3                   2                                         I I
-Fuucm _go                                   N-                 2                    2                   2                    2                   2                    10
- Envisoata1almptA_mumt                     N-                  3                    3                   3                    1                   1                    11
-Ccmp,erT,smg                             aff/days            335                  205                 120                  100                  95                   aSS
t-n
Taiel Ass imc. am
Adms1__&a ia         suF _     _gcnt     m/yes                4.5                  1.5                  1.5                 1.5                  l.5                  10.5
Propt a Pub Mmage_                         u_nyes              1.0                 1.0                 0.3                  0.3                 0.3                    2.9
Resusb id Ta_%                          man/yes                1.5                 0.3                 0.5                  0.3                 0.3                    3.4
Caumiky Ps,aipdia                        ma/es                 0.5                                      0.5                   -                 0.5                    I.S
F S_
Serie Cgm& Tifie                       n/yeasu               1.0                  1.0                 0.3                  0.3                 0.3                   2.9
FmsachiAibmo.                           M/y-I                1.0                    -                                       -                                        1.0
S Io1T emCa_muhcie                        Iyesaa               0.2                 0.2                  0.3                 0.3                 0.3                    1.1
0Q a'Z
u  



- 66 -
ANNEX 7
Table 7.1
Page 5 of 5
VENEZUELA
NATIONAL PARKS MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Schedule of Implementation by Parks and Wildlife Reserves
YEAR
NATIONAL PARK/RESERVE
|Morrocoy                                   <       -------------           >
Mochima                                        <-------------                                >
Los Roques                                 <--------                       -
Canaima                                              .............,,,,,,,            >
Yurubi                        <------------------>
EL  Avita                                             < . . . . .   . . . .    . . . .   . . . .     . . . .>
Cuare                                       <--------->
Tortuga Arrau                               <-------. .
Henri Pittier                                                   --------------------------------------->
San Esteban*                                <----->
Sierra Nevada                                                     <--------------------*-*---     >
El Tams                                                                      <----------         ...-...--.>
Aguaro-Guariquito                                                            <------------------                              >
Laguna de La Restinga                                                        <--------------->
Laguna de Tacarigua                                                                            --------- *-----------  >
Marfa Lionza                                                                                  *-----------------           *- >
Cerro Copey                                           <---------- >
M6danos de Coro                                                                               <-----                          >
Cinaruco Capanaparo                                       <- .
EL Guacharo      f iiivestmcnt                                                                                                >
Recipient parks of investment support under the fire prevention and combat element.



- 67 -                                             ANNEX7
Table 7.2
VENEZUELA
NATIONAL PARKS MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Indicators of Project Impact on National Park Sustainability I/
Sensitivity Index _/    |        Hazard Index J/          [      Overall Threat Index
National Parks                     -         -
Year 1   Year 3   Year 5        Year I    Year 3   Year 5    Year I    Year 3    Year S
Aguaro-                   6.94      6.94      6.20        0.87       0.90      0.58        6.04      6.04        3.60
Guariquito
Canaimr                   6.88      6.60     6.10          1.21      1.05      0.79       8.32       6.43        4.82
Duida-Marahuaca           6.53      6.25      5.50        0.39       0.36      0.33        2.55      2.25        1.82
El Avila                  5.82      5.40      5.00        0.86       0.75      0.60        5.01      4.05        3.00
El Copey                  7.12      7.12      6.40        0.44       0.42      0.37        3.13      2.99        2.37
El Tana                   6.00      6.00      5.40         0.55      0.50      0.45        3.30      3.00        2.43
La Neblina                5.82      5.70      5.50         0.41      0.38      0.35        2.39      2.17        1.93
Laguna Restanga           7.29      7.29      6.40        0.55       0.55      0.40        4.01      4.01        2.56
Laguna Tacarigua          6.71      6.30      5.50        0.76       0.76      0.53        5.10      5.10        2.91
Los Roques                6.12      5.80      5.39        0.74       0.62      0.48        4.53      3.60        2.59
Henri Pittier             5.64      5.64      5.20         0.78      0.70      0.50        4.40      3.95        2.60
Marf Lionza              N.A.          -                  NA.           -         -       N.A.          -           -
Medanos de Coro           6.94      6.94      6.20        0.50       0.50      0.38        3.47      3.47        2.36
Mochima                   6.41      5.85      5.36         1.42      1.15      0.89        9.10      6.73        4.77
Morrocoy                  7.41      6.80      5.61        0.80       0.68      0.60        5.93      4 62        3.37
Parima-                  N.A.          - A                N.A.          -         -       N.A.
Tapirapeco
Santos Luzardo           NA.           -         -        NA.           -         -       N.A.
Sierra Nevada             5.60      5.60      5.20         0.67      0.62      0.45        3.75      3.47        2.34
Yapacana                  6.71      6.71      5.90        0.61       0.61      0.47        4.09      4.09        2.77
Yurubi                    6.18      5.80      5.20        0.51       0.45      0.38        3.15      2.61        1.98
I/ IMPACT INDICATORS as developed by an INPARQUES study of the sources and level of threats to the wustainability of individual
national parks. On a scale of 1-10, the various Sensitivity Indicators and Hazard Indicators (see footnotes 2 and 3, respectively) were
weighted and combined into an overall Sensitivity Index and a Hazard Index for each park. The Senaitivity Index was then weighted
against the Hazard Index, to obtain an overall Threat Index for each park. The project would aim to achieve a signirficant reduction in
the overall threat index of each park.
I/ SENSITIVITY INDEX is a weighted composite of various indicators of the sensitivity of each park, including: park diwmensiona, the
raturity of the fauna community, relative isolation, landscape diversity, presence of endangered species, degree of human intervention,
recovery capacity of soils and vegetative cover, basin control, existence of approved park regulations, degree of land regularization,
existence of a park management plan, budget, technical suff, equipment, installations, control and vigilance capacity, and access.
21 HAZARD INDEX is a weighted composite of various indicators of hazard or disturbance to each park, whether legally authorized or
note, including: public recreation, conmercial recreation, educational use, scientific use, therpeutic use, indirect use, water rearvea,
deforestation, mining, fires, agriculture, hunting, grazing, comrnercial fishing, sport fishing, presence of native villages, neighboring
villages, highways, electrical lines, pipelines, ports and other uses.
N.A.: Not applicable.



- 68 -
ANNEX 8
VENEZUELA
NATIONAL PARKS MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Documents Available in Proiect File
WORKING PAPERS
1.        NATIONAL PARKS AND OTHER PROTECTED AREAS
2.        ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (SPANISH)
INVESTIGACI6N Y MONITOREO AMBIENTAL
3.        ENVIRONMENTAL EDUCATION (SPANISH)
EDUCACI6N AMBIENTAL
4.        AMAZONIAN PARKS (SPANISH)
PARQUES AMAz6NICOS
5.        INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
6.        COSTS RECOVERY AND INPARQUES FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY (SPANISH)
RECUPERACION DE COSTOS E INPARQUES SUSTENTABILIDAD FINANCIERA
7.        PROJECT COST TABLES
OTHER DOCUMENTS
1.        FAO/CP PROJECT PREPARATION REPORT.  NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT
PROJECT (NATIONAL PARKS). VOLUMES I AND II.
2.        APPRAISAL MISSION AIDE-MEMOIRE






18RD 24323
AUA    NETHERLANDS ANTILLES                          CARIBBEAN  SEA
(NETH)C                                     I
IZ- L.,-.co r                                 ARCHPEAGOELOS                                                                  -  GRENADA
MPDANOS                                                                                                                                    AT AFLANTIC
/   t  O~~~~    54              >9 ~~ DE CORO NLP                         _A    AN    C
LAGUNA DE LA  TASICETR   P  NLPDEYAM                                          OCEAN
N%ACA~~~AO         P~~S11NOA ~~     CRRO COPEY NP.
J i i S b\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OR ROCOY NL P                                      T4o^g                      *      AWN1N           PENINSULA DE
|  RACAISO3& 0j '                _ _; _ N            r,    ESTAN    N P  ELCAVILA N P               IAS                 DE LAS MAT       PAR                   TRINID
NP~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
c.b.,..                                                 1LXDO~coo~zOOLS  ~ -~N    TACARIGUA NP
-i >{ s -AX aX-a- StNFlLlf VALENCIA   _~~  NY          C^MCICIJA:ARO  0                           1
SAN FILIPE(                   TESE
EL,                   BARCuISNETO-_             ' A          PPOUOE MARCELONA L                             G,A2"A ?
A    G> S                 -,                    ONZV                                                                           T 
\~~~~~~~~Gd                                                      S. )UA _E 'CR A       )UNR                                            UCPTs/4t
..                                               DE ''LOS MORROS
SN CAK-(S                                                                 AUN
AAGU A              &GUANA R                                          A -U-CUP                                                         G.ITA       
DE UkAO                                               v;_:~~~ 
'STOPLE                   JoBLE A                        FRNAN!X_
>-"-                                                       --= - q'NDO
C  O  L OMB I A                       \X2a                                                                                            
EI-Oo , doo  t               G  U  Y A  N  A
* PUERTO                                                                       MA
V  E  N    E Z  U  E  L A                                                    -4-                                        
NATIONAL PARKS MANAGEMENT PROJECT   a-
\0     _ X NATIONAL PARKS
w.P     WILDLIFE REFUGES
o    NATIONAL MONUMENTS
/  >  CoribbesnSA           ST.LUCIA Q  APlcre,. _TLI.
RIVERS                                                                                                                                                  NTL        STVINENT
o       SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                                                                                    R E--INI*AD AN
3 STATE OR FEDERAL TERRITORY CAPITALS                                                                                                                                                   TOBAGO
_ _ ~~~~~~~~~PAR hMA TAP RiAPEC  eK
 t)     NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                                                        vENEZUELA
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                    GUYANA'
AU   _ NEK ' A                                                  CN#  3  0        L U M a I A    
200         0
KALOMETERs
'77                        7r                          68'                         -'                         '                                                                BRECUAiAt cZILoscR ,99zA
OCOBtRp 1992



