Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13813
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION NOTE
VENEZUELA
NATIONAL PARKS MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3535-VE)
DECEMBER 21, 1994
Natural Resources & Rural Poverty Operations Division
Country Department II
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients onlv in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
At appraisal (June 1992) US$1 = 66 Bolivares
Current (June 1994) US$1 = 170 Bolivares
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
FAC                 National Guard
(Fuerzas Armadas de Cooperaci6n
INPARQUES           National Institute of Parks
Instituto Nacional de Parques
SADAMAZONAS   National Service for the Environmental Development of the Amazon
Region
(Servicio de Desarrollo Ambiental del Amazonas)
PROFAUNA            National Wildlife Office
(Oficina Nacional de Fauna)



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION NOTE
VENEZUELA
NATIONAL PARKS MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3535-VE)
1.    This is an Implementation Completion Note for the Venezuela National Parks Management
Project (Loan 3535-VE).
2.    Background. The project had its origins in the Bank's draft Environmental Issues Paper for
Venezuela, issued in December 1991. Priority was given to national parks and wildlife refuges,
because of their importance in both ecological and economic terms. An identification mission to
Venezuela in December 1991 defined with Government the general scope of the project and
INPARQUES (National Institute of Parks) appointed a technical team to prepare the project in
consultation with other government agencies and non-government organizations (NGOs). A
subsequent preparation mission was conducted in January 1992; pre-appraisal took place in
March/April 1992; the project was appraised during June/July 1992 and Loan negotiations took
place in mid-October 1992. The World Bank Loan, for US$ 55 million, was approved by the
Board November 17, 1992. Since the Loan was not signed within 18-months of Board approval, it
was withdrawn following Bank policy on June 8, 1994.
3.    Obiectives. The objectives of the project were to:
(a)    Strengthen the capability of INPARQUES, SADAMAZONAS (National Service
for the Environmental Development of the Amazon Region), PROFAUNA
(National Wildlife Office) and FAC (National Guard) to manage Venezuela's
national and urban parks, natural monuments, and wildlife refuges and reserves.
(b)   Intensify public environmental research, training and education efforts.
(c)   Involve the private sector more actively in the management and protection of
natural resources.
(d)   Improve the economic sustainability of the national parks and other protected
areas.
4.    Description. The project was to have financed specific investments in four components:
(a)    Management and protection of 16 national parks in northern Venezuela, four
national parks and two natural monuments in the Amazon region, two wildlife
refuges, and seven urban recreational parks; and establishment of an effective fire
prevention and fire fighting capacity throughout the national parks system.
(b)    Applied environmental research to support sustainable development of various
parks, generate useful scientific knowledge on the ecology of the parks, and assist
Venezuela in safeguarding its rights with respect to research findings and the
possible commercial use of its biodiversity resources.



2
(c)    Environmental education, both at the regional and local levels, to disseminate
information, raise the level of knowledge about environmental issues and their
linkages with economic development, and engage the active participation of the
community in supporting environmental protection.
(d)    Institutional development, including training, technical assistance and studies; and
physical infrastructure, equipment, furniture and other operational support for
institutions engaged in the implementation of the project.
5.     Expected Benefits.  Analysis carried out during project preparation and appraisal found
that the estimated net present value of additional investments in watersheds, urban water supply,
irrigated agriculture and coastal ecosystems, which could be avoided through proper management
of national parks and other protected areas, could range from US$ 300 million to US$ 670 million.
Other benefits, for example, tourism, carbon sequestration, and the sale of potentially marketable
products, were not quantified, but were expected to be of high value.
6.     Loan Signing Delays. "Normal" delays associated with legislative approval of new projects
in Venezuela were exacerbated by several political crises. There was an unsuccessful coup attempt
in November 1992, the month the Board approved the Loan. The President resigned in May 1993
and was followed by two interim Presidents. In July 1993 (8 months after Board approval), the
1993 external assistance budget, the Ley Paraguas, a prerequisite for Loan signing, was finally
approved by the Congress, but included authorization for only US40.8 million of the US$55
million Bank Loan, delaying Loan signing further. Although the remaining US$14.2 million was
approved by the Congress in September 1993 as part of the 1994 Ley Paraguas, under the
budgetary rules then prevailing, (a) the 1993 Ley Paraguas and the 1994 Ley Paraguas could not
be "combined"; and (b) the 1993 Ley Paraguas authorization would expire December 31, 1993 if
the Loan were not signed. In late 1993, there was a last minute attempt to increase the 1993 Ley
Paraguas authorization to the full US$55 million by reallocating funds from another Loan.
However, although this proposal received the required legislative approval, it did not receive final
executive branch approval by the December 31, 1993 Government of Venezuela deadline, and thus
the 1993 Ley Paraguas authorization was voided. In February 1994 the current Administration took
office; however, given the time required for the new Administration to reach a consensus regarding
its new investment priorities, actions required to proceed with the project were not taken before the
Bank's deadline of June 8, 1994 (18 months after Board approval), and the Loan was withdrawn.
7.     Proiect Implementation. Although Loan signing did not take place, effectiveness conditions
were met. Moreover, INPARQUES, the main executing agency, has been implementing some
project activities; the government has spent a total of about US$3 million to date. For example, as
part of the decentralization and administrative strengthening component, INPARQUES is
consolidating the 23 regional offices into 8; 3 of the regional offices are fully staffed and equipped;
and the budget transfer mechanism  is in place.  Consultants have carried out studies on
decentralization, cost recovery and financial control. A unit to solicit and coordinate international
donations for parks is being established. In two parks - Canaima, and Sierra Nevada -
infrastructure works have been completed, including the building of visitor centers. A considerable
amount of environmental education has been carried out, consisting of guided tours and classes for
those living near the parks. Recent discussions between the Bank and the government confirm that
the project objectives are a high priority for the government and the design of the project remains
sound.



3
8.     Lessons Learned.
(a)    Although such environmental projects are not yet common, analysis during project
preparation demonstrated that it is increasingly possible to quantify the direct
economic benefits accruing to them. This provides a stronger economic
justification for such projects in addition to the other important, but non-
quantifiable benefits.
(b)    Where the legislative branch has a direct role in approving external loans, it is
imperative to ensure, before seeking Board approval, that the "normal" procedures
for legislative approval and the prevailing political situation are such that Loan
signing and effectiveness can be achieved within a reasonable time.



Annex
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION NOTE
VENEZUELA
NATIONAL PARKS MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(Ln 3535-VE)
Basic Information
Country        Venezuela
Project:       National Parks Management Project
Loan number:  3535-VE
Estimated      US$96.0 million
Project Costs:
Loan amount:   US$55.0 million
Borrower:      Republic of Venezuela
Implementing   INPARQUES (National Institute of Parks)
agencies:
Beneficiaries:  110,000 km2
On-lending     Repayable over 15 years, including 5 years of grace at the Bank's standard
terms:         variable rate.
Time taken to   6 months
prepare
project:
Project        June/July 1992
Appraisal:
Completion of  October 22, 1992
negotiations:
Board          November 17, 1992
presentation:
Loan signing:   N/A
Loan expiry:   June 8, 1994



