Report No. 11OOa-TO                                                            FILE  COPY
Appraisal of Maritime Region
Rural Development Project Togo
May 21, 1976
Regional Projects Department
Western Africa Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of tie World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their offic-ial duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1.00 - CFAF 225
CFAF 1 00 - US$ 0.444
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
1 millimeter  (mm) -  0.0394 inches
1 meter        (m)  - 39.37 inches
1 kilometer   (km  =  0.62 miles
1 hectare      (ha) -  2.47 acres
i square
kilometer   (km2)   0.386 sqare miles
1 kilogram    (kg) =  2.205 pounds
1 ton          (t)  - 2.205 pounds
1 liter        (1)  =  0.26 gallons
ABREVIATIONS
CNCA              - Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole
FAC                - Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (France)
IBRD              - International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA               - International Development Association
IITA               - International Institute of Tropical Agriculture (Nigeria)
IRAT              - Institut de Recherches Agronomiques Tropicales et
Cultures Vivrieres (France)
IRCT              - Institut de Recherches sur le Coton et Textiles (France)
IRRO              - Institut de Recherches sur les Huiles et Oleagineux (France)
ODEF               - Office de Developpement des Eaux et Forets
OPAT               - Office des Produits Agricoles Togolais
SONAPH             - Societe Nationale du Palmier a Huile
SORAD              - Societe Regionale d'Amenagement et de Developpement
SOTOCO            - Societe Togolaise du Coton
SRCC              - Societe pour la Renovation du Cafe et du Cacao
UNDP               - United Nations Development Program.



FOR OFFICAL USE ONLY
TOGO
MARITIME REGION RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMIARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ..................................    i-vil
I.    INTRODUCTION  .................................... .oe .....                            1
Il.    BACKGROUND  ........ ................                 .......................           1
A.    General  .............................................                           1
B.  The Agricultural Sector ...................                                        2
C.    Government  Sectoral Objectives and Strategies                     .......       5
III.  THE PROJECT AREA .........................                                                6
IV.    THE PROJECT  ..............................................                             7
A.  Description .........................                                              7
B.    Detailed Features  ......             .............................              8
V.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT  ..............................                            16
VI.    COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS  ....                       ............     18
A.    Cost Estimates  ......................................                          18
B.    Proposed Financing  ..................................                         20
C.    Credit Arrangements  .................................                          22
D.    Procurement  .........................................                         22
E.    Disbursements  .......................................                         23
F.    Accounts and Audits  .................................                         24
VII.    PRODUCTION,  MlARKETS,  FARMER AND GOVERNMENT BENEFITS  ......                         24
A.    Yield and Output  ....................................                          24
B.  Prices and Markets                    ..........                                  ..........   26
C.    Farmers'  Benefits  ................           ..      .................        28
D.    Cost Recovery and  Impact  of the Project on the
Government's  Fiscal  Position  .........           ..     ...........      29
VIII.      BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION  ...............................                          29
IX.    AGREEMENTS  REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  ....................                           31
This report is based on the finding of a mission composed of Messrs. S. Weed,
B. Kanchanalak and J. Pelissier (IDA) and H. Vieilhescaze (consultant) that
visited Togo in November-December 1975.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Worid Bank authorization.



- 2-
ANNEXES
1.  SORAD Maritime
Table 1     - Personnel Breakdown
Chart 15733 - Project Organization
2.  Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole (CNCA)
Table 1     - Balance Sheets
Table 2     - Trading Account
Table 3     - Project Credit Cash Flow
Chart 15739 - Organization Chart
3. Project Area
4. Farm and Crop Development
Table 1: Crop Yield Development
5. Farm Models and Budgets
Table 1      - Coastal Plateau - Development of a 1.60 ha Farmi
Table 2     - Coastal Plateau - Cash Flow
Table 3     - Depleted Coastal Plateau - Deveiopmenet of a 1.20 1ha Paii
Table 4      - Depleted Coastal Plateau - Cash Flow
Table 5     - Savannah - Development of a 1.50 ha Farm
Table 6     - Savannah - Cash Flow
Table 7     - Rainfed Rice Farm (0.50 ha) - Cash Flow
Table 8     - Vegetables (0.1 ha) - Cash Flow
Table 9     - Coconuts (0.5 ha) - Cash Flow
6.  Project Phasing and Production
Table 1     - Project Farmers
Table 2     - Crops and Production
7.  Field Trials, Seed Multiplication, Project Monitoring and Eval;jatior
Table 1     - Certified Seed Requirements
Table 2     - Seed Multiplication - Investment Costs
8. Agoueve Vegetable Irrigation Rehabilitation
Table 1     - Present Irrigation Costs
Table 2     - Irrigation Water Requirements
Table 3     - Pump Capacity and Energy Consumption
Table 4     - Cost Estimates (Electrical Pumps)
Table 5     - Cost Estimates (Diesel Pumps)
Table 6     - Pump Specifications



- 3-
ANNEXES (Continued)
9. Renovation of Coconut Plantings
Appendix I - Varietal Resistance of Coconuts to Kaincope
10. Infrastructure
Appendix 1 - Details of Design and Features of Tubewells
Appendix 2 - Detailed Features of a Small Dam
Table 1    - List of Road Operation and Maintenance Equipment
Table 2    - Details of Road Construction Costs
Table 3    - Details of Costs of a Tubewell
Table 4    - Small Dam Cost Estimates
11. Irrigation Engineering Study
Appendix l - Terms of Reference of Consultants
Table 1    - Cost Estimates
12. Reporting Requirements
Table 1    - Progress Report - Farm & Crop Development
Table 2    -                   - Yields
Table 3    -                   - Crop Production (Improved)
Table 4    -                   - Input Use
Table 5    -                   - Adoption Rates
Table 6    -                   - Output Prices
Table 7    -                   - Input Prices
Table 8    -                   - Labor
Table 9    -                   - Average Cost - Benefit Ratios
Table 10   -                   - Farm Budgets
Table Il   -                   - Total Return to Economy
Table 12   -                   - Project Staff
Table 13   -                   - Cost Breakdown
13.  Terms of Reference for Internationally Recruited Staff and Counterparts
14. Project Costs
Table 1    - Summary
Table 2    - On-farm Costs - Yearly Incremental
Table 3    - Vehicles and Equipment
Table 4    - Project Staff Requirements
Table 5    - Operating Costs
Table 6    - Project Buildings



-4 -
ANNEXES (Continued)
15. Economic Prices
Table 1    - Price Structure for Maize
Table 2    - Price Structure for Rice
Table 3    - Price Structure for Cotton
Table 4    - Price Structure for Groundnuts
Table 5    - Price Structure for Copra
Table 6    - Price Structure for Fertilizers
Table 7    - Price Structure for Rock Phosphate
16. Project Financing
Table 1    - Annual Commitments
Table 2    - Semi-annual Disbursements of IDA Credit
17.  Government Cash Flow
Table 1    - Government Cash Flow
18. Economic Rate of Return
Table 1    - Economic Rate of Return
Table 2    - Sensitivity Analysis
MAPS
Map 11885 - Project Area
Mlap 11886 - Ecological Zones
Map 12155  -  Irrigation Engineering Study - Proposed Scheme



TOGO
APPRAISAL OF MARITIME REGION RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
Background
i.        The Government of Togo has asked for the assistance of IDA and
France's FAC to help finance the agricultural development of the Maritime
region, one of the country's most heavily populated regions. The prime
objectives would be to improve and diversify crop production, and to
strengthen the agricultural services, for the benefit of some 20,000
farm families over the five-year period 1976 to 1981. The proposed
project was identified by an RMWA mission in July 1973. The feasibility
study, financed by the UNDP, was carried out by consultants in May-June
1974; FAC financed the preparation of soil maps. A pre-appraisal mission
of Messrs. S. Weed and J. Pelissier visited the country in June-July 1975.
It was followed by an appraisal mission comprising Messrs. Weed, Pelissier
and Kanchanalak (IDA) and Vieilhescaze (consultant) in October-November,
1975, supported by Mr. G. Losson (IDA) on coconuts and Mr. M. Harrison (In-
ternational Institute of Tropical Agriculture) on agricultural research.
The Project Area and Summary Description
ii.       The project area would be the Maritime region in the south of
Togo. It supports 37% of the country's population, while covering only
10% of the total area, and includes an overpopulated zone with depleted
soils.
iii.      The proposed project would be the first phase of an integrated
rural development program for the project area. It would directly benefit
about 20,000 farm families over the five year period of 1976 to 1981. It
would be carried out primarily by the SORAD Maritime, the regional develop-
ment agency, and would involve:
(a) Farm and Crop Development. Providing farmers with
inputs, equipment, and extension and credit ser-
vices to (i) improve and diversify the produc-
tion of the principal upland crops (maize, cas-
sava, groundnuts, cowpeas, and cotton) on some
18,500 ha for 12,000 families; (ii) develop about
3,000 ha of lowland rainfed rice for 6,000 fami-
lies, and provide about 110 power tillers and 75
village rice mills; (iii) develop 25 ha of vegeta-
ble production for 250 families, and rehabilitate
irrigation facilities on 20 ha of existing vegeta-
ble production; and (iv) renovate 600 ha of small-
holder coconut for 2,000 families.



- ii -
(b) Farmer Support Services. (i) Strengthening
SORAD Maritime by providing additional staff,
staff training, buildings and vehicles, ex-
panding seed multiplication, and establishing
an input supply unit; and (ii) establishing
an agency of CNCA to meet project credit require-
ments.
(c) Infrastructure. Constructing or improving
300 km of roads, 15 dispensaries, 20 wells,
2 earth dams, 20 village markets, and 150
village stores.
(d) Studies and Field Trials. (i) Carrying out
an engineering study for the gravity irriga-
tion of 1,000 ha in the lower Zio valley for
rice production; (ii) conducting field trials
on techniques to restore the productivity of
depleted soils, and to test the resistance of
coconut hybrids to Kaincope disease; (iii) estab-
lishing a project monitoring and evaluation unit;
and (iv) providing consultant services to make
investment proposals for the area of North Togo to
be cleared of onchocerciasis.
Field Development
iv.       The project would encourage the adoption of improved farm tech-
niques including the use of selected seed varieties, fertilizers, pest con-
trol and improved crop husbandry by making available to farmers inputs on
credit and extension services.
v.        Upland Crops.  In the savannah, on-farm development would focus
on promoting cotton production in rotation with maize and groundnuts among
3,000 farmers. The main thrust of this subproject, however, would be in the
coastal plateau (8,000 farms) where rainfall is marginal for cotton and the
principal problem is the threat of soil depletion. Farmers would be encour-
aged to emphasize maize during the long rainy season, because the short sea-
son is risky, and to stress rotation with legumes. In the depleted coastal
plateau, the principal problem is that soils have lost most of their produc-
tive potential due to population pressure and continuous cropping. Unfor-
tunately, techniques are not yet available to restore productivity econom-
ically. Thus the project would include field trials of promising techniques
developed at IITA (minimum tillage and mulching) for dissemination during
the last two years of disbursement. Meanwhile, limited improvements would
be sought among 1,000 farmers by stressing legumes, groundnuts and cowpeas
intercropped with fertilized maize during the long rainy season.
vi.       Lowland Rainfed Rice.  The project would provide for the develop-
ment of 3,000 ha of rice to benefit some 6,000 families. SORAD would be
equipped to open up the land on credit by plowing. Growers associations



- iii -
would receive credit for pedal threshers, hand winnowers and small rice
mills. The project would test the use of power tillers and, if the tests
are satisfactory, 100 tillers would be procured beginning the third year
of the project.
vii.      Coconuts.  Renovation program on 600 ha benefitting 2,000 small-
holders would be carried out chiefly by organizing the supply on long-term
credit of hybrid seedlings resistant to the Kaincope disease. The project
would develop a 6 ha seed orchard with technical support by IRHO.
Infrastructure
viii.     The project would strengthen SORAD's engineering unit to execute
the infrastructure part of the project. The construction, improvement and
maintenance of feeder roads would be carried out by SORAD on force account
as the Department of Public Works deals only with primary roads. Contrac-
tors would be hired to construct secondary roads. The wells would be con-
structed by the Ministry of Public Works and upon completion would be turned
over to district authorities as is usual in Togo, as would the village mar-
kets built under contract. The village stores would be built by members of
the growers association who would be provided with materials on medium-term
credit. Dispensaries would be located in agreement with the Ministry of
Hlealth, which would ultimately take over the facilities and ensure their
proper staffing, maintenance and supply.
Organization and Management
ix.       Project Management.  At the outset, the SORAD Maritime would exec-
ute the project in cooperation with CNCA and other specialized Government
services. Government intends to unify all extension services under the
Ministry of Rural Development. IDA would have the opportunity to comment
on any reorganization to minimize disruption of project execution.
x.        Key Staff.  The present director of SORAD, who is a competent
Togolese national, would be the project manager.  He would be assisted by
a technical director, an administrative and financial director, and a chief
of the engineering unit responsible for infrastructure development.
xi.       Extension Services.  Sector chiefs would be in charge of the five
sectors which correspond to the administrative districts of the region, and
would supervise the subsector chiefs. The project would deploy an addi-
tional 20 subsector chiefs and 143 field extension workers, giving an over-
all satisfactory density of five field workers for each subsector chief,
and one extension agent per 150 farmers. Project funds would provide the
extension services with appropriate buildings, 35 motor vehicles, 48 motor-
cycles and 202 bicycles.
xii.      Grower Associations.  The project staff would assist and monitor
the organization of 7-15 participants into grower associations. At a later
stage, these informal groups would federate into cooperatives. Extension,



- iv-
input supply, and credit would be delivered through grower associations.
Ultimately, it is expected that the cooperatives would control input pro-
curement and distribution.
xiii.     Supply of Inputs and Equipment.  To ensure effective input sup-
ply to farmers, a special unit would be staffed and equipped under the
project within SORAD. The long-term objective would be to give profes-
sionally managed grower associations full responsibility for input sup-
ply. The unit would be organized with this objective in mind and, by the
fourth year of the project, a review would be made of the possibilities
of achieving this purpose.
xiv.      Credit Agency.  A credit agency would be established as a branch
of CNCA for the Maritime region at Tsevie, and would work in close liaison
with project management. The head of the credit agency would be a quali-
fied and experienced senior credit specialist, who would supervise four
credit assistants provided and equipped by the project.
xv.       Staffing.  The key posts which remain to be filled are those of
technical director, administrative and financial director, training spe-
cialist, research specialist, chief of the engineering unit and head of
the credit agency. It is anticipated that a competent national would be
available to become the chief of the engineering unit, but expatriates
are expected to be necessary for the other posts. The technical direc-
tion would be assured by an expatriate during the disbursement period,
while other expatriate staff would be required for periods ranging from
2 to 4 years. A research specialist would be assigned to conduct field
trials on depleted soils.
xvi.      Training.  As staff and farmer training is an important aspect
of the project, funds would be provided for the construction and operation
of a training center at Tsevie. The program would be organized by a train-
ing specialist appointed under the project. Funds would also be allocated
for specialized training of technical personnel at the International Insti-
tute of Tropical Agriculture (IITA) in Nigeria.
xvii.     Consultants would be engaged to coordinate a gravity irrigation
engineering study for the devèlopment of 1,000 ha for one cycle cropping
with rice, and give technical support for field trials on the resistance
of coconuts to the Kaincope disease and on the rehabilitation of depleted
soils. Consultants would also be engaged to give support to the project
monitoring and evaluation unit, and to carry out feasibility studies on
the development of the area benefiting from onchocerciasis eradication.
Project Costs and Financing
xviii.    The estimated cost of the project is US$15.7 million or US$13.9
million net of taxes and duties (which are about 11% of total costs). The
foreign exchange component would be US$9.3 million, or 67% of the total net
of taxes. Physical contingencies and expected price increases would amount
to 35% of base cost estimates, which are as of April 1976.



v 
xix.      The IDA credit of US$9.5 million would be made to Government at
standard terms. FAC has agreed to cofinance the project on a pari passu
basis through a grant of FF 10 million (US$2.2 million). The remainder
of project costs would be financed by Government and farmers.
xx.       Except for the costs of rice land preparation and water for vege-
table growing, which would be fully charged to beneficiaries and represent
a minor portion of project cost, other costs to be incurred by SORAD would
be for services and investments which are normally financed out of the gen-
eral budget and are not directly recoverable from users. Therefore CFAF
1,940 million (US$8.6 million) would be passed on to SORAD as a grant.
CNCA's own resources are limited. Consequently, the project funds to fi-
nance the operating costs of the credit agency and the revolving fund for
the purchase of seasonal inputs (CFAF 291 million or US$1.3 million) would
be a Government contribution to CNCA. The funds required for the medium-
term and long-term credit (CFAF 140 million or US$0.6 million) would be
on-lent to CNCA at 5.5% (the Central Bank's rediscount rate for medium
term lending) for a term of 15 years including seven years of grace.
Credit Arrangements
xxi.      Credit to farmers would bear an interest rate of 8% and would
require guarantee fees totalling 3%. Medium-term credit would be for a term
of four years and long-term credit for coconut rehabilitation would be for 12
years, including a grace period of seven years.
Procurement
xxii.    Contracts for the supply of goods other than rock phosphate, which
are estimated to cost US$50,000 or more each, would be awarded on the basis
of international competitive bidding in accordance with IDA guidelines (total
cost about US$3.4 million). Domestically manufactured goods would be allowed
a preference of up to 15 percent or the level of applicable duty, whichever is
less, when comparing domestic bids with those of foreign manufacturers. Supply
contracts valued at less than US$50,000 (the number of which would be minimized
by bulking procurement and which would total about US$200,000) would be let
after competitive bidding in accordance with local procedures, as would
contracts for the construction of 90 km of secondary roads (total cost about
US$1.2 million) and of project buildings, dispensaries and rural markets
(total cost about US$0.9 million) which would be individually small and widely
dispersed. IDA staff have reviewed the local procedures, which are acceptable;
there would be adequate competition. Rock phosphate, costing about US$0.1
million, would be procured at reasonable prices from Government mines. Small
items costing less than US$10,000 would be awarded after solicitation of
quotations from at least three suppliers (US$100,000). Inputs purchased
directly by farmers, would be obtained through local shopping (US$0.5 million).
SORAD, which would be adequately equipped under the project, would construct
or improve about 210 km of feeder roads and build two earth dams on force
account for an estimated total cost of US$1.7 million. The project well
component (costing about US$1.8 million spread over five years), would be
carried out on force account by the well brigade of the Ministry of Public



- vi -
Works which is competent and sufficiently equipped. Consultant services and
expatriate staff (totaling about US$2.6 million) would be obtained according
to IDA's normal procedures. Costs for local personnel and other operating
costs, which do not lend themselves to competitive bidding, amount to about
US$3.2 million.
Disbursements
xxiii.    The IDA credit would be disbursed to cover:
(a)  80% of foreign expenditures or 60% of total expenditures
for incremental fertilizer, pesticides and imported seeds,
and for equipment for farmer groups (US$0.77 million);
(b)  80% of foreign expenditures or 60% of total expenditures for
building construction; the procurement of equipment, vehicles
and office furnishings; incremental staff salaries and train-
ing grants; and other incremental costs of SORAD and CNCA
(US$3.28 million);
(c) 60% of costs of infrastructure construction (US$2.25 million);
(d) 100% of the costs of consultant services for the planning of de-
velopment for areas to be freed from onchocerciasis (US$0.3 million);
(e) 80% of the costs of project monitoring and evaluation, and of other
studies and consultant services (US$0.52 million).
The remaining funds would cover a contingency reserve of US$2.38 million.
Marketing and Prices
xxiv.     Because of the net food deficit of the country, the demand is strong
for foodgrains and groundnuts, which are sold at attractive prices on local
markets. The export outlook for cotton is good and prices are adequate, mar-
keting arrangements are satisfactory. The demand and incentives exist, there-
fore, for increased production such as planned under the project.
Benefits and Justification
xxv.      The project's direct benefits, from the increased output of maize,
yam, groundnuts, cowpeas, cotton, rice and vegetables would accrue to some
20,000 families who, consequently, would considerably increase their pres-
ently low farm incomes.  Net family incomes from farming would increase from
about US$80 to about US$170 in the poorest areas, from US$190 to US$350 in
most cases, and by up to US$460 for vegetables. The project would also have
important non-quantifiable social, institutional and ecological benefits.
Improved health services would benefit about 150,000 people, and water sup-
plies about 44,000. At full development, the project would provide additional
seasonal agricultural employment totaling about 1.4 million man-days per



- vii -
year. The project would have a major institution building impact, partic-
ularly on SORAD Maritime and CNCA, and would help create conditions for
replicating rural development projects in the project area and the country
at large. The project is also intended to set the stage to prevent further
soil depletion in the coastal plateau area and to reverse soil depletion
where it has already occurred, in one of the poorest areas of the country.
xxvi.     The economic rate of return of the project would be 37% over 15
years (30 years for coconuts). Sensitivity analysis shows that the dominant
parameters are the assumptions on yields and prices. Separate rates of
return calculated for the six production components range from 13% for coco-
nuts to 52% for vegetables.
Risks
xxvii.    The project would represent the first major involvement of IDA in
up-land arable crop production in a bi-modal rainfall area of West Africa.
Indeed the project would be the largest externally financed project in such
an area in Western Africa. Throughout most of the region the principal crops
in these areas are tree crops - cocoa, coffee, oil palm and rubber - and agri-
cultural research has concentrated on the requirements of these largely ex-
port tree crops. The food crops of the area have generally been neglected
by researchers and even where technology packages have been developed, the
period and scale of testing at the farmer level has been limited. Therefore
the assumptions concerning yield increments at farm level may be subject to
substantial error and, as a consequence, so may the assumptions regarding
farmer response to innovations promoted under the project. Further, although
in these areas total rainfall and the duration of the rainy season appear sub-
stantially better than in areas further north, where a single peak rainfall
occurs and the rainy season is much shorter, the benefit of such a rainfall
regime may be more illusory than real. This is because the second rainy
season is often too short to guarantee profitable crops; and crops grown in
the area during the wet season often have to be harvested and stored under
very adverse wet and humid conditions. Given these circumstances, the tech-
nology base for the project generally is less firm than for other arable crop
projects in Western Africa and although the situation is improving, in partic-
ular, because of the establishment of the International Institute for Tropical
Agriculture at Ibadan, Nigeria, which was specifically created to deal with
the problems of this ecological zone, the risks involved in the project must
be considered substantial. Nonetheless, the critical situation in the proj-
ect area, described in the report, demands that the risk be taken.
Recommendation
xxviii.   With the assurances and conditions set out in Chapter IX, the
project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$9.5 million.






I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Togo has asked for the assistance of IDA and
France's FAC to help finance the agricultural development of the Maritime
region, one of the country's most heavily populated regions. The prime
objectives would be to improve and diversify crop production, and to
strengthen the agricultural services, for the benefit of some 20,000
farm families.
1.02      The proposed project was identified by an RMWA mission in July
1973. The feasibility study, financed by the UNDP, was carried out by
consultants in May-June 1974; FAC financed the preparation of soil maps.
1.03      A pre-appraisal mission of Messrs. S. Weed and J. Pelissier vis-
ited the country in June-July 1975. It was followed by an appraisal mission
comprising Messrs. Weed, Pelissier and Kanchanalak (IDA) and Vieilhescaze
(consultant) in October-November, 1975, supported by Mr. G. Losson (IDA)
on coconuts and Mr. M. Harrison (International Institute of Tropical Agri-
culture) on agricultural research.
1.04      The Bank has made three credits to Togo:  Credit 131-TO (US$3.7
million) in 1968, and Credit 450-TO (US$8.7 million) in 1973 for road main-
tenance; and Credit 503-TO (US$6.0 million), signed in June 1974 for the
improvement of smallholder cocoa and coffee production, which is progress-
ing satisfactorily.
Il. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      Togo is located on the Gulf of çuinea and bounded by Ghana, Benin
and Upper Volta; it covers some 56,000 km . Population is about 2.1 million
and growing at about 2.7% per year.
2.02      From 1960-73, Togo experienced one of the highest growth rates in
per capita income in Africa, averaging more than 4% per year. The sustained
expansion in Togo's economy through 1970 was largely due to a vigorous ex-
pansion of external commerce spurred by favorable market conditions for two
of the country's principal exports, cocoa and coffee, and by continued devel-
opment of Togo's position as an important regional commercial entrepot. In
the early 1970's, economic growth slowed down. Adverse weather conditions,
particularly in the period 1971-73, affected agricultural production; a size-
able reduction in border trade coupled with a reversal of market conditions
for Togo's main exports led to a deterioration of the balance of payments.
From 1971 to 1975, however, the country's economic development was sustained
primarily by the expansion of the industrial and mining sector (and to a
lesser extent the service sector) with the phosphate boom in 1974 trigger-
ing a resurgence in economic growth. It is tentatively estimated that per
capita income reached US$250 in 1975, although rural incomes average only
about 1/3 of that amount. Togo's longer-term outlook is favorable with



prospects for GDP growth during the next decade of about 6 percent per
year, based on further diversification of the economy and exploitation of
natural resources, and for further improvement in income distribution and
regional development.
B. The Agricultural Sector
General
2.03      Agriculture is the most important sector of the economy, employing
about 80% of the active population. It accounts for about 30% of both GDP and
export earnings.
2.04      During the first plan, agricultural production in real terms in-
creased by an estimated 3-4% per year. However, the second plan (1971-75)
goal of 6.5% annual growth in constant prices apparently was not met, although
poor statistics make a full assessment of the situation difficult. Estimates
for food crop production (essentially yams, cassava, maize and sorghum) are
particularly weak. It is clear however that an adequate supply of domestic
foodstuffs is likely to become increasingly a problem; in 1973 Togo imported
about 20,000 ton of foodgrain (wheat, rice and maize).
2.05      The value of agricultural exports has tended to stagnate, as produc-
tion of all major crops has declined in recent years. Cocoa and coffee have
suffered from lack of new investment and of proper maintenance due to the
low levels of producer prices in the early 1960's. Recent price increases,
and the establishment of the coffee-cocoa renovation agency (SRCC) to promote
rehabilitation and new planting, should help reverse this trend. Cotton pro-
duction also suffered from a lack of adequate price incentives and technical
support although an ambitious cotton development program is under prepara-
tion. Copra production has been sharply decreased by the ravages of the
Kaincope disease and exports have ceased, while the production of groundnuts
has been largely diverted to local consumption because of low official prices.
Regional Characteristics
2.06      The northernmost Savannah region is characterized by an irregular
and short-duration fainfall pattern (1,100 mm). The overall population den-
sity is about 30/km , but while the Oti Valley is virtually empty becaus9 of
onchocerciasis, other parts of the region are overpopulated (up to 90/km ).
Principal crops are millet/sorghum, groundnuts, and recently, rice; the area
has moderate prospects for livestock development.
2.07      The Kara region, a mountainous region, has adequate rainfall
(1,400 mm) but low agricultural potential due to overpopulation and the  2
resultant depletion of soil fertility. Population density averages 53/km
but reaches almost 300/km in some areas, while about one fourth of the
region is unpopulated due to onchocerciasis. Migration to the south, both
seasonal (about 20% of the male population) and permanent, is already signi-
ficant and will have to continue if the problems of overpopulation in the
region are to be solved.



- 3 -
2.08 2    The Central region is the least populated region with only about
19/km . Precipitation, which averages about 1,300 mm in a single season, and
generally adequate soils can support crops such as cotton, groundnuts, yams,
maize, and pulses. However, the absence of an easily accessible aquifer to
supply drinking water is a major constraint to settlement and agricultural
development.
2.09      The Plateau region, with average rainfall of 1,200-1,6002mm (bi-
modal), generally good soils and population density of about 30/km , has
the best agricultural potential. Cocoa and coffee dominate the wetter, moun-
tainous area to the west, while the eastern part of the region is suited for
integrated cotton/food crop development and intensive maize cultivation.
2.10      The Maritime region in the south would be the project area.  Its
description is outlined in paras 3.01-3.10 and detailed in Annex 3.
Institutional Framework
2.11      Responsibility for the Agricultural Sector is shared by two min-
istries which replaced the Ministry of Rural Economy in early 1975. The
Ministry of Rural Development (MDR) is essentially concerned with policy
formulation and program coordination for production activities. The Ministry
of Rural Equipment (MER) is concerned primarily with infrastructure develop-
ment such as irrigation works and rural roads.
2.12      The execution of development projects in the sector is entrusted
to autonomous public corporations which are either regionally or product
oriented. The five SORADS (Societes Regionales d'Amenagement et de Devel-
oppement), one for each region listed in para 2.06-2.10, were established
in 1966-67 with responsibility for all development activities. A major
problem of the SORADS has been the lack of clearly defined programs (Annex
1). The proposed project would for the first time constitute a well-defined,
comprehensive program for the SORAD Maritime. Another problem has been gov-
ernment's requirement that the SORADS attempt to be self-financing primarily
through commercial activities. In retrospect this objective has proven to
be unsound, as the SORADS' main activities (extension, training) are of a
type that are normally financed from Government budgets, and it is difficult
to recover these costs except under very exceptional circumstances. Commer-
cial activities have recently been taken over by specialized agencies: SRCC
for coffee and cocoa, SONAPH for oilpalm, TOGOFRUIT for fruits, SOTOCO for
cotton, TOGOGRAIN for foodgrains. The responsibilities of these agencies
range from the supply of inputs through the provision of extension services
to primary marketing and processing. In many instances, duplication of ex-
tension efforts has resulted between the specialized agencies and the SORADS.
Government is now considering the regrouping of all extension activities
under a unified service, organized along regional lines, attached to the
MDR. Technical support, training, marketing and processing for specific
crops would still be supplied by the specialized agencies (already report-
ing to MDR). The SORADS, which have been assigned to the MER, would ulti-
mately concentrate on rural engineering and infrastructure activities.
Although Government has no timetable as yet for this reorganization, its
objectives are sound.



- 4 -
2.13      The marketing of agricultural exports is the responsibility of
OPAT (Office des Produits Agricoles Togolais). Its main function is the
stabilization of prices for export crops; it is also involved in the financing
and overall supervision of the marketing of these crops. OPAT purchases are
executed through a network of registered buyers at official prices. Such
prices normally allow OPAT a sizable export profit margin and thus, as is
customary in French-speaking West African countries, OPAT's profits have been
used to finance general development, but only some 6% for agriculture.
2.14      The Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole -- CNCA (Annex 2) was
established in 1967 to provide credit to the agricultural sector. Most
of CNCA's credits to farmers have been channelled through the specialized
corporations or the SORADS. Inadequate credit policy and weak management
resulted in a high percentage of defaults and arrears; but a new manage-
ment (installed in 1974) should improve operations considerably. Non-
agricultural loans have now been stopped. Direct arrangements with
farmer groups, being successfully tested under the cocoa-coffee project
financed by IDA (Credit 503-TO) and to be encouraged under the proposed
project, should improve loan recovery. A report on CNCA's reorganization
and credit administration, prepared in 1975 under the IDA Credit, was re-
ceived favorably by Government, and CNCA has begun to implement the recom-
mendations which are detailed in Annex 2.
2.15      Research is carried out by French commodity oriented institutes
(food crops, coffee-cocoa, oil crops, fiber crops, animal husbandry). Re-
cently, Government created a multidisciplinary research institute (Insti-
tut Polyvalent de Recherches) with headquarters at Cacavelli near Lome.
This new agency has presently a limited staff and carries out a limited
program.
Subsidies
2.16      To promote the use of inputs as part of improved farming prac-
tices, Government has been subsidizing fertilizers and pesticides. The
current fertilizer cost to the farmers is CFAF 15/kg, which means a sub-
sidy of 50% to 70% of costs. It is almost universally argued in West
Africa that subsidies are necessary to introduce the use of modern in-
puts to farmers. While this argument has merit, it is also true that
once farmers become acquainted with the use of inputs, subsidies may
lead to their misuse and become a burden on public finances. A policy
of gradual reduction of the level of subsidies is therefore advisable,
and this would be facilitated by the expected decrease in world fertil-
izer prices. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from Gov-
ernment that it would consult annually with IDA on prices to be paid by
farmers for fertilizers and pesticides, with a view to progressively
eliminating the subsidy element.



- 5 -
C. Government Sectoral Objectives and Strategies
2.17      The third development plan (1976-80), now in the final stages of
preparation, calls for substantial improvements in agricultural performance
both in industrial and food crops.
2.18      In the case of industrial crops, government's objectives are to
restore traditional exports, and to diversify into new products. A major
program for coffee and cocoa, which account for about 90% of agricultural
exports, was begun in 1974 with IDA assistance (Credit 503-TO), and should
begin yielding results by the end of the decade. A five-year cotton program
aimed at increasing production from 12,000 to 42,000 tons has been submitted
to the Bank Group for consideration but may require a scaling down of these
objectives. There is some scope for rehabilitating traditional copra produc-
tion, but marginal ecological conditions rule out any significant development
of coconuts. Other possibilities, including sugar cane, tobacco and cashew
nuts, are being studied by Government.
2.19      In the case of food crops, Government hopes not only to slow down
imports but eventually to reach self-sufficiency. This objective should be
attainable. A change in the mix of food crops is predicted in the plan. The
production of traditional food grains (maize, millet, sorghum) is expected to
increase but that of tubers (yams and cassava) would lag behind population
growth, because of changes in demand that reflect changes in dietary habits
associated with urbanization. An increase is expected in the production of
pulses and groundnuts. Rice production, and its share of total foodgrain
production, would about double.
2.20      The principal sources of agricultural growth seen in the plan would
be both improvement of yields and expansion of cropped areas. Area increases
are foreseen as being achieved through double-cropping, intercropping or de-
creasing fallow. But substantial efforts will have to be made to bring new
land into production. Some of this land will be found in areas to be freed
of onchocerciasis under the ongoing Regional program; preparation of proj-
ects for the development of these areas is being actively pursued and would
be supported under the proposed project (para 4.26). It is also envisaged
that additional output would come from water resource development, which
would be given priority. Water for human and animal consumption -- crucial
to opening up areas in Central Region and the northern part of Maritime re-
gion -- would be developed through construction of wells and small water-
retention dams. Government also envisages relatively ambitious irrigation
schemes on the Zio, Haho, Mono, and Oti rivers, but there is scope for sim-
pler, less expensive approaches, including the development of lowland areas
for rainfed rice and other crops, and low cost gravity irrigation for which
good potential exists.



- 6 -
III. THE PROJECT AREA
3.01      The project area would be the eniire Maritime region in the south
of Togo (Map 11885). The region, 6,100 km in area (about 10% of the coun-
try), lies on the coast of the Bight of Benin; it includes the capital city
of Lome. It has a tropical climate, with a bimodal rainfall ranging from 800
to 1,100 mm. It is divided into the ecological zones outlined below (details
in Annex 3).
3.02      The savannah in the north has the highest rainfall and thus sup-
ports two crops annually; it is a gently rolling plateau with soils of lim-
ited fertility but easy to work and suitable for a variety of crops: maize,
cotton, groundnuts, cassava, yam. It is sparsely populated, and has a good
potential for development of agriculture and settlement, though lacking access
roads and adequate village water supply. Some areas are subject to river-
blindness.
3.03      The coastal plateau of the center can produce two crops, but the
low rainfall of the second rainy season reduces the potential for productive
second cropping. It has a flat topography, deep, red and well-structured
soils with high productivity, suitable for maize, cassava and groundnuts;
fallowing has largely disappeared because of population pressure. Mixed
cropping of maize and cassava prevails.
3.04      The depleted coastal plateau of the southeast has marginal rain-
fall, with cropping during the second season risky. High population and
overcropping have caused severe fertility depletion and erosion of soils,
which further limit the agricultural potential. Maize and cassava dominate.
3.05      In the coastal sands, between the sea and the lagoons, the only
cash crop is coconuts although large scale commercial production is not
practicable because of low rainfall.
3.06      The Lama or Bado depression, crossing the coastal plateau, is made
up of heavy, poorly drained soils but nevertheless has a good potential for
rice. Some areas need access roads.
3.07      The river valleys (Zio, Haho and Mono) have a good potential for
rice and irrigated crops. In the Zio and Haho valleys the river flow with-
out regulation limits the irrigation potential mostly to single cropping.
The Mono river offers possibilities for double cropping. Rainfed rice, a
recent introduction in the western tributary valleys, can be expanded.
3.08      The population of the region is about 806,000, or some 37% of the
national total. The annual rate of increase averages 3.1% (2.7% in rural
areas, 4.5% in the ciiies). While northern parts have a population density
of no more than 25/km , the s9uthern part of the coastal plateau supports
a rural density of 160-200 km , causing a heavy strain on very restricted
soil resources.



3.09      Farm Size and Tenure.  The average farm family has 8 people, of
which 5 are active. About half the farms cover less than 1 ha, one third
1-2 ha, and only 3% have more than 4 ha. Farm size increases from the
southern part of the Coastal plateau to the savannah of the north. The
area has a complex land tenure system, with communal ownership being prog-
ressively replaced by individual ownership. In the overpopulated areas, up
to one fourth of the land is managed by tenant farmers. This system would
not affect the project which would have limited involvement in the overpop-
ulated zones.
3.10      Present Problems.  The main problems encountered in the project
area are: (a) net food deficit; (b) overpopulation, soil depletion, and
low income particularly in the Southeast; (c) Kaincope disease 1/, which
has drastically cut coconut production, the only source of cash income on
the coast; (d) limited coverage of support services to farmers; and (e)
insufficient infrastructure (chiefly roads and village water supply) in
the north.
3.11      The Oti valley in the Savannah region outside the project area (see
insert Map 11886) would be the object of feasibility studies (para 4.26).
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Description
4.01      The proposed project would be the first phase of an integrated
rural development program of the Maritime region. The project would cover
the entire region, but areas of concentration would be selected to benefit
about 20,000 farm families over the five year period of 1976 to 1981. It
would be carried out primarily by the SORAD Maritime and would involve:
(a) Farm and Crop Development. Providing farmers with inputs,
equipment, and extension and credit services to (i) improve
and diversify the production of the principal upland crops
(maize, cassava, groundnuts, cowpeas, and cotton) on some
18,500 ha for 12,000 families; (ii) develop about 3,000 ha
of lowland rainfed rice for 6,000 families, and provide about
100 power tillers and 75 village rice mills; (iii) develop 25
ha of vegetable production for 250 families, and rehabilitate
irrigation facilities on 20 ha of existing vegetable produc-
tion; and (iv) renovate 600 ha of smallholder coconut for
2,000 families.
1/   Apparently caused by a mycoplasm (a parasitic microorganism), resulting
in dropping of the coconuts, followed by a progressive drying up of the
leaves, and the death of the trees.



-8-
(b)  Farmer Support Services.  (i) Strengthening SORAD Maritime
by providing additional staff, staff training, buildings
and vehicles, expanding seed multiplication, and establish-
ing an input supply unit; and (ii) establishing an agency of
CNCA to meet project credit requirements.
(c)  Infrastructure.  Constructing or improving 300 km of roads,
15 dispensaries, 20 wells, 2 earth dams, 20 village markets,
and 150 village stores.
(d)  Studies and Field Trials.  (i) Carrying out an engineering
study for the gravity irrigation of 1,000 ha in the lower
Zio valley for rice production; (ii) conducting field
trials on techniques to restore the productivity of
depleted soils, and to test the resistance of coconut
hybrids to Kaincope disease; (iii) establishing a project
monitoring and evaluation unit; and (iv) providing con-
sultant services to make investment proposals for the
area of North Togo to be cleared of onchocerciasis.
B. Detailed Features
Field Development
4.02      Upland Crops.  The project would expand the adoption of improved
farm techniques already introduced by SORAD, and including use of seed of
improved varieties, fertilization, pest control and improved crop husbandry,
by making available to farmers inputs on credit (para 6.09) and extension
services. Technical details and typical farm budgets are respectively at
Annexes 4 and 5; and the phasing of field development is at Annex 6. Tech-
nical recommendations would be tailored to fit the major farm types and the
ecology of the main zones of the project area as described in the following
paragraphs.
4.03      In the savannah, on-farm development would focus on promoting
cotton production--following techniques successfully introduced by SOTOCO--
in rotation with maize and groundnuts, among some 3,000 farmers. Partici-
pants would be provided with cotton seed variety Allen 333, which is the
best adapted variety available, and with 14-21-21 fertilizer to be applied
at a rate of 150 kg/ha. This is in line with current recommendations in
neighboring countries. They would also be provided with endosulphan or pre-
prothion to make 6 annual pest control applications. Farmers would also
be provided with ATC x Niaouli maize hybrid seed which they would plant,
after seed dressing, to achieve a plant stand of 16,000 to 40,000 per ha,
depending on intercropping. Fertilization with 30-30-30 kg/ha NPK (as rec-
ommended by IRAT and subject to adjustments depending on the results of fur-
ther trials) would be restricted to long-season maize that does not follow
cotton or bush fallow. Farmers would be provided with short cycle ground-
nuts seed of the 55-437 variety and seed dressing. A desirable stand would



- 9 -
be 120,000 to 160,000 per ha depending on intercropping. With these im-
provements, farmers are expected to reach yields of 900 kg/ha of seed cot-
ton, 1,600 kg/ha of shelled maize, and 1,000 kg/ha of unshelled groundnuts.
Maize shellers would be made available to grower associations, see para 4.12,
on credit.
4.04      The main thrust of the project would be in the coastal plateau
(8,000 farms), where productivity is high per unit area for foodcrops, and
SORAD has already been promoting improved practices, but the rainfall is
marginal for cotton, and the principal problem is the threat of soil deple-
tion. Farmers would be encouraged to make judicious use of fertilizer, to
emphasize maize during the long season because the short season is risky,
and to stress rotations with legumes (groundnuts and cowpeas) which can add
nitrogen to the soil. Fertilization (30-30-30 kg/ha of NPK) would be recom-
mended for maize. Varieties and crop husbandry practices, and expected yields
would be the same for maize and groundnuts as in the savannah. Cowpeas would
receive two insecticide applications and the crop would be stored in sealed
plastic bags.
4.05      In the depleted coastal plateau the principal problem is that soils
have lost most of their productive potential due to population pressure and
continuous cropping (para 3.04). As a result yields average a mere 400 kg/ha
each for maize and groundnuts. Unfortunately techniques are not yet available
to restore productivity and improve farm incomes. Attempts have been made by
SORAD to rehabilitate depleted soils, essentially by plowing crop residues,
but the results have been disappointing because of high costs. On the other
hand very promising results have been achieved on humid tropical soils at the
International Institute of Tropical Agriculture (IITA) with minimum tillage
and mulching. Thus the project would field test those techniques at the farm
level (para 4.23 and Annex 7) and promote their extension, if proven to be
viable, to project farmers during the last two project years. Meanwhile
limited improvements would be sought by stressing legumes (groundnut and
cowpeas) in the rotation with maize during the long season and by applying
to maize the improved practices described in para 4.04. The project would
make available inputs and technical support to allow 1,000 farmers to par-
ticipate in the program.
4.06      Lowland Rainfed Rice.  The project would provide for the develop-
ment of some 3,000 ha of rainfed rice on valley land for the benefit of
about 6,000 families, building on previous successful experience of SORAD.
Trained SORAD staff would identify suitable terrain, select farmers, or-
ganize them in grower associations (para 4.12), and supply them with tech-
nical advice. SORAD would be provided with five 80 HP tractors and equip-
ment to initially open up the land by plowing, after bush clearance by the
growers themselves. Farmers would repay the full cost of this operation on
credit. Because of soil compaction and the density of the grass cover,mech-
anical plowing is the only practical method to open up the land. Farmers
would be provided with the Ainachen variety, seed dressing and fertilizer
(80 kg/ha of rock phosphate and 100 kg/ha of urea). Growers would also be
provided with seed and seed dressing for a second crop with cowpeas. Grower
associations would receive credit for pedal threshers, hand winnowers, and
rice mills (1 ton per day). These inexpensive mills, which have been suc-
cessfully introduced in the area, are in great demand.



- 10 -
4.07      In the initial stages of rice development, it is assumed that
the majority of farmers would limit their participation to 0.5 ha, w-hich
would be in addition to their traditional activities. Under these condi-
tions, no labor constraints are foreseen and, after initial plowing by the
project, land preparation would be done by hand. However, as the farmers
place more emphasis on rice growing in their overall activities, land prep-
aration could face labor bottlenecks. Consequently, SORAD would test ox
drawn cultivation as a possible means of increasing labor productivity. As
discussed in Annex 4, the use of power tillers would also be tested under
the project. Funds would be allocated for the purchase during PY 1 of 10
power tillers which would be made available, under appropriate terms, to a few
progressive grower associations or selected individuals. SORAD would submit
to IDA a report on the performance the power tillers at the end of PY 2. If
the tests are judged satisfactory by SORAD and by IDA, credit funds would be
released for the procurement and sale of about 100 additional tillers to
growers starting in PY 3. During negotiations, Government agreed to (a)
follow the proposed sequence for the deployment of power tillers, and (b)
cause SORAD to maintain an adequate stock of spare parts of such power tillers
as are purchased.
4.08      Vegetables.  Small vegetable operations are scattered through-
out the project area, under hand irrigation (Lome area), rainfed, or under
flood recession management. There is scope to improve vegetable production,
through the promotion of productive varieties, more intensive and comprehen-
sive fertilizer use, pest control, and hand irrigation (Annex 4). Therefore
the project would provide extension and supply services to some 250 vegeta-
ble growers throughout the project area, and would set up two small tech-
nical support centers, one near Lome and another in the Zio valley, for
variety testing, field trials and demonstration, and training of exten-
sion personnel.
4.09      For several years, SORAD has operated a vegetable center at Agoueve,
some 15 km north of Lome (Map 11885). This center serves as a vegetable
testing and demonstration station and provides irrigation facilities for some
80 growers cultivating 0.2 ha each. The basic infrastructure is sound;
however replacement of the existing diesel powered pumps is needed. The
project would provide for their replacement by electric pumps which are less
expensive to operate and maintain. Details of the rehabilitation program are
at Annex 8. In view of the relatively high profitability of vegetable growing
(see farm budget, Annex 5), full cost of the investment and operation would be
recovered from the growers through water charges. Up to now SORAD has not been
fully successful in recovering water charges from growers, and a condition of
disbursement against the purchase of new pumps would be that SORAD had initia-
ted an effective system of collecting water charges.
4.10      Coconuts.  The only promising way to cope with Kaincope disease
appears to be the utilization of resistant coconut breeds, esseritially
hybrids of local Talls with imported Dwarfs, such as have been developed
by the French Oil Crop Institute (IRHO). Although there is still some un-
certainty as to the exact degree of resistance of these hybrids, there is
enough evidence on their good performance to recommend their adoption at



- il -
least for small scale plantings (Annex 9 - Appendix 1).  Thus, a renova-
tion program on 600 ha benefitting 2,000 smallholders would be carried
out by organizing the supply on long term credit of hybrid seedlings, fer-
tilizers and pesticides, and providing extension services. To ensure the
supply of hybrid seedlings, the project would develop a 6-ha seed garden
out of existing dwarf plantations, using imported pollen of Tall trees, and
a 2-ha nursery for the production of hybrid seedlings under irrigation, with
technical support by IRHO (para 4.24). Seed production would start in about
1978.
Support Services to Farmers
4.11      Strengthening of SORAD Maritime.  To cope with the project workload,
the staff of SORAD would be strengthened at both management (para 5.07) and
field levels (para 5.05). The project would also finance the expansion of
SORAD headquarters, the building of a training center, the purchase of 35
vehicles for management staff, and 48 motorcycles and 202 bicycles for
extension workers (Annex 1).
4.12      Grower Associations.  SORAD has relied on grower associations as
an effective means of delivering support services, basically input supply
and credit to farmers. This policy is sound and would be encouraged under
the project. Initially, farmers would be organized informally into 7 to
15-member associations which would be closely assisted and monitored by the
field extension staff. At a later stage it is expected that associations
would federate at the village level to form cooperatives. The associations
would own and operate equipment such as maize shellers, paddy threshers and
winnowers and rice mills, that would be too expensive to be purchased by
individuals. The associations would be eligible to obtain medium term cred-
it for these items (para 6.09). The project would provide training to asso-
ciation leaders.
4.13      Extension Services.  Field staff in the project area, total 122 (70
SORAD and 52 SOTOCO), and can only give skeletal extension coverage to the
area's 70,000 farmers; the ratio is one extension worker for more than 500
farmers. The project would deploy an additional 143 field extension workers
and aim at a ratio of one worker to 150 farmers for upland crops, one to 100
for rice and coconuts, and one to 40 for vegetables. This would correspond
to a ratio of one worker to about 15 grower associations for upland crops;
this is a high overall ratio, but during any particular year only the newly
created associations would require close attention. In addition to providing
farmers with agronomic support, extension workers would help farmers and
grower associations to prepare credit applications (para 6.09), and collate
orders for inputs (para 4.15).
4.14      Training.  Basic agricultural training for middle level staff is
available at the agricultural institute at Tove which is located well out-
side the project area. However, the training of lower level field personnel
is normally the responsibility of the individual agencies such as SORAD. As
staff and farmer training would be an important aspect of the project, funds
would be provided for the construction and operation of a training center at



- 12 -
Tsevie which is centrally located (Map 11885). The program would be organized
by a training specialist appointed under the project (see Annex 13 for terms
of reference) with technical expertise being drawn from crop and other special-
ists from within or outside the project. The training division would also be
responsible for the development and production of pamphlets and posters in the
vernacular, for distribution by the extension agents. The project would pro-
vide funds for crop production training (sessions of about 6 months correspond-
ing to a cropping cycle) of technical personnel by the International Institute
of Tropical Agriculture (IITA) in Nigeria. During negotiations, assurances
were obtained that the training specialist would prepare a comprehensive
training program, for discussion with IDA, before December 31, 1976.
4.15      Supply of Inputs and Equipment.  Traditionally, the inputs and
equipment required for agricultural development have been supplied through
extension services such as SORAD.  However, these services have been poorly
organized and as a result there has been recurring difficulty in obtaining the
necessary inputs on time and in adequate quantity. As it is crucial to avoid
these difficulties, an input supply unit, attached to SORAD, would be created
with responsibility for (a) determining input needs on the basis of estimates
collected by the extension services; (b) procuring the supplies on credit
(para 6.09); and (c) organizing their distribution. Individual orders would
be bulked at the association level, and the associations would be responsible
for input distribution among members. The long term objective would be to
enable the grower associations to assume full responsibility for input supply
on a commercial basis, with the help of professional management. To this end
the project's supply unit would maintain accounts in sufficient detail to
identify distribution costs (para 6.08), and by June 30, 1980 a review would
be made of the operations of the input supply unit, of its prospects for
operating on a commercial basis, and of the possibilities of eventual control
of input supply activities by cooperatives. These arrangements were confirmed
during negotiations.
4.16      Seed Multiplication (Annex 7).  SORAD would continue to have re-
sponsibility for seed multiplication in the project area, partly under con-
tract with selected growers. Thus far SORAD has been able to assure a lim-
ited supply of hybrid maize and rice seed using foundation seed supplied by
IRAT. Existing arrangements would be inadequate to meet the substantial
demand generated by the project, and SORAD would be provided with funds to
acquire appropriate equipment and storage facilities. Furthermore, a full-
time seed production officer would be appointed and assurances were received
from Government in this respect. In accordance with ongoing arrangements, the
production of foundation seed would be carried out by IRAT at the Tsevie
station, where the project would build and equip a seed testing laboratory,
and provide for a seed technician.
Infrastructure (Annex 10)
4.17      Roads.  The lack of roads and the poor maintenance of existing
roads especially in the north of the project area hinder crop extraction,
input delivery and the development of underpopulated areas. The project



- 13 -
would finance the construction and improvement of feeder roads and second-
ary roads where justified by the volume of traffic. Government has sub-
mitted a list of roads to be constructed, improved and maintained. The
program would include the upgrading of 90 km of feeder to secondary roads,
the improvement of 120 km of feeder roads, and the construction of 90 km of
new feeder roads. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from
Government that it would present to IDA for its approval, on the basis of
annual work plans, a detailed program setting forth timing and supervision of
construction, and design and maintenance standards. The SORAD engineering
unit would construct, improve and maintain feeder roads on force account, as
the Department of Public Works deals only with primary roads. Under the
project SORAD would procure the necessary equipment as detailed in Annex 10.
Secondary roads would be constructed by private contractors and maintained by
SORAD.
4.18      Village Water Supply.  Domestic water supply is a major problem
in the project area, and in particular hinders the expansion of cropping
on otherwise productive land in the savannah zone and the northern part of
the coastal plateau. To contribute to the solution of this problem the
project would provide for the construction of 20 tubewells equipped with
pumps (similar to those already operated by somre local administrative dis-
tricts) and 2 small retention dams to catch the natural runoff, to serve
about 2,000 people each. During negotiations, assurances were obtained
that Government would present to IDA for its approval, on the basis of annual
work plans, an engineering design and construction program of tubewells and
dams for which operation and maintenance expenses would be met under appro-
priate arrangements.
4.19      Storage and Marketing.  To ensure the storage of farm inputs and
output, the project would finance on credit the 2materials required for the
construction of 150 village stores, each 17.5 m in size, by grower asso-
ciations, using the members' labor. To promote the marketing of the increased
crop production and to ensure more favorable prices to growers by increasing
competition among middlemen, the project would build 20 village markets, to
complement facilities which already exist in some villages and have proved
effective. Each market wruld consist of a simple shed to shelter traders'
stalls and covering 382 m , constructed by local contractors. Ten sites have
been selected; the remainder would be selected by PY 3, after evaluation of
relative needs. As is customary the facilities would be administered by the
district authorities.
4.20      Dispensaries.  In Togo, the basic level of health care is provided
through dispensaries each designed to serve 10,000 people or a radius of 7
km. They are staffed with a nurse, an auxiliary midwife, and by one or more
health assistants who make regular visits by bicycle to the surrounding vil-
lages, giving simple care and referring more serious cases to the health cen-
ter. All staff are trained in Lome. Coverage of the southern part of the



- 14 -
region is generally adequate, but falls off sharply toward the north. Thus
the project would, under SORAD's supervision, provide for the construction
and equipment of 15 six-room dispensaries. Assurances were given by Govern-
ment that the locations of the dispensaries would be agreed with IDA, and that
the facilities would be properly staffed, maintained and supplied through the
Ministry of Health.
Studies and Field Trials
4.21      Irrigation Engineering Study and Design  (Annex 11).  Government
wishes to develop irrigation in the Maritime region (para 2.20). The ap-
praisal mission identified a possible development of gravity irrigation on
some 1,000 ha of the lower Zio valley (Map 12155) for single cropping of rice.
The scheme would consist essentially of a dyke for flood protection, a simple
water intake on the Zio, and a canal system for irrigation and drainage dur-
ing the flood season. More information is needed before the scheme can be
appraised. The project would therefore provide funds to carry out the neces-
sary study which would be under the responsibility of SORAD with the coopera-
tion of specialized local agencies. The overall task would comprise a feasi-
bility phase followed by a detailed design phase. SORAD would entrust the
execution of both phases to a competent irrigation engineering consultant who
would be hired for up to 12 months (terms of reference in Annex 11). During
negotiations, Government agreed that it would cause SORAD to engage a consult-
ant before December 31, 1976. Survey would include topography and hydrology
by the MER Rural Engineering Department, soil suitability by the MDR Soil
Survey Services, and land tenure by SORAD. The consultant would prepare a
feasibility report at the end of about six months, and contingent upon satis-
faction of Government and IDA, the second phase would be undertaken comprising
the detailed engineering design, the preparation of bidding documents, and
proposals for agricultural development. To complete this second phase, SORAD
would hire a design engineer as a second consultant for a period of about six
months.  SORAD services would be responsible for the preparation of the
agricultural development aspects, for which the assistance of RMWA would be
made available upon request. During negotiations, assurances were given by
Government that it would cause SORAD to employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience, and terms and conditions of employment would be acceptable to
IDA.
4.22      Field Trials (Annex 7).  The project would finance personnel,
infrastructure and equipment to carry out field trials designed to tackle
two important problems which impede the agricultural development of two
sections of the region: soil depletion in the coastal plateau, and the
Kaincope disease of coconut on the coast.
4.23      SORAD would appoint and equip a research specialist and supporting
field personnel to test promising soil management techniques, especially
minimum tillage and mulching, which have been developed by IITA. The research
specialist would design the details of the trial program outlined in Annex 7
in liaison with IRAT and IITA. This was agreed during negotiations. The
project would provide a budget to cover the travel expenses of IITA personnel
who would visit the project twice a year to give support to the trials program.
The results of the trials would be used in an extension program in the depleted soil



- 15 -
area, hopefully starting by PY 4. During negotiations, Government gave
assurances that it would make arrangements  suitable to IDA, with IRAT
and IITA to carry out the trials.
4.24      The project would carry out a comparative trial of coconut hybrids,
under the responsibility of SORAD's coconut specialist with consultant sup-
port (12 man-months) from IRHO.  Assurances were received from Government
that it would enter into a satisfactory agreement with IRHO including prep-
aration of the details and budget of the trial program before December 31,
1976.
4.25      Project Monitoring and Evaluation (Annex 7).  The nature of the
project suggests the advisability of building into it an "early warning"
system to detect problems which may develop and allow either corrective
action or changes in relative emphasis. To this effect the project would
provide funds to establish and operate a monitoring and evaluation unit which
would be charged with determining base line data and organizing sampling as
the project develops. During negotiations, Government indicated that the
monitoring and evaluation unit would be created within the Ministry of Rural
Development or the Ministry of Planning, as a nucleus for a unit operating at
the national level, and agreed to create the unit by November 30, 1976.
Besides preparing quarterly reports on project progress, the unit would also
prepare comprehensive annual reports (Annex 12). The project would supply 30
man-months of consultant support to help design the monitoring program and
assist in preparing guidelines on data collection and analysis. Assurances
were given by Government that it would engage a consultant acceptable to IDA to
prepare a monitoring program and submit this to IDA no later than three months
following his employment.
4.26      Development of Onchocerciasis-Free Area.  The Oti Valley (para
2.06) is included in the ongoing regional program to eradicate onchocerciasis
in the Volta valley system. Consultants financed by UNDP have initiated the
necessary surveys--socio-economic and soil, including aerial photography--
necessary to complete the data bank on which to base a comprehensive devel-
opment plan for the Valley. This work should lead to a definition of the
feasibility studies needed to endow the development plan with specific in-
vestment projects for the Valley. No provision for such studies has been
made as yet by Government or donor agencies. Under the project, therefore,
an allocation of US$300,000 would be made for consultant services to carry
out the feasibility studies during the disbursement period. The studies
would be supervised by the Ministry of Planning. During negotiations,
assurances were given by Government that the consultants employed for these
studies would have qualifications and terms and conditions acceptable to
IDA.



- 16 -
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Project Management
5.01      The project would be carried out by the SORAD Maritime, and by
CNCA for the credit component. SORAD Maritime has overall responsibility
for rural development in the project area, see para 2.12 and Annex 1, but
additionally SOTOCO provides a full range of support services to growers in
the cotton area in the north including extension services. Government has
decided that the role of SOTOCO in the Maritime region should be restricted
to cotton input supply, purchasing seed cotton, and providing specialized
technical support to the SORAD extension service that in future will deal
with all other farmers in the Region. The number of cotton farmers is small,
and only about 1,500 ha are grown currently. A draft agreement defining the
relative responsibilities of SOTOCO and SORAD and procedures, financial and
administrative, for any necessary transfer of staff was discussed at negotia-
tions. Additionally, and in view of Government's intention to reorganize
extension and other farmer support services on a national scale, assurances
were obtained from Government at negotiations that (a) IDA would be given the
opportunity to comment on any proposed changes and that (b) no changes would
be effected in the Maritime region that would adversely affect the management
and execution of the proposed project.
5.02      Existing activities of SORAD Maritime are described in Annex 1.
A major component of its program are attempts to regenerate the depleted
coastal soils; this has come to an end, however, with the conclusion of
FAC financing. Other activities include work with rice, coconuts and vege-
tables, rural road maintenance, and the delivery on credit of relatively small
amounts of inputs. While most of these latter activities would be absorbed
within the course of the project development period by project actions which
would be better planned, financed and directed, there would be some overlap of
'project" and "non project" activities, and possibly a small residuum of "non
project" activities would remain indefinitely. Financing of SORAD under the
project would cover the incremental staff and other costs stemming from
"project" activities. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from
Government that: (a) in addition to the incremental staff, it would maintain
the pre-project level of extension services throughout the disbursement.
period; (b) no new "non project" activities would be undertaken within the
project development period without the mutual agreement of Government and IDA;
and (c) Government would cause SORAD to make a comprehensive review of all its
activities including "non project" activities, and by June 30, 1977, would
discuss the findings of this review with IDA. Through these measures, by
the end of the project development period, the overall rural development
program in the Maritime region should be satisfactorily oriented.
5.03      The project would rely largely on the present management and staff
of the SORAD Maritime. The Project Manager would be the current Director of
SORAD, a Togolese (Annex 1). The Project Manager would be assisted by a
Technical Director and an Administrative and Financial Director (Chart 15733
shows the proposed organization and terms of reference for key personnel are



- 17 -
at Annex 13). During negotiations Government gave assurances that it would
employ a Project Manager with powers and responsibilities acceptable to IDA.
5.04      The Technical Director, an experienced agronomist, would be re-
sponsible for field activities and other physical aspects of project ex-
ecution. He would assist the Project Manager with staff selection. He
would be assisted by specialists in agricultural research, training, rice,
coconuts, and vegetables. The training specialist would head the project
training center (para 4.14). The Administrative and Financial Director, a
qualified and experienced administrator, would be responsible for all per-
sonnel, administrative, financial and procurement matters; he would also be
responsible for the Input Supply Unit (para 4.15).
Field Organization
5.05      The project would employ the existing five SORAD sectors, cor-
responding to the administrative districts of the region (Aneho, Lome,
Tagligbo, Tsevie, and Vogan). Each sector is, and would continue to be,
managed by a sector chief who would report to the Technical Director. At
full development each sector chief would supervise 5 to 10 subsector chiefs.
At present there are 23 subsector chiefs supervising 70 field extension
workers under SORAD and another 5 subsector chiefs and 47 field workers
under SOTOCO. The project would deploy an additional 20 subsector chiefs
and 143 field extension workers, giving overall an average of five field
workers for each subsector chief.
Credit Agency
5.06      To handle project credit CNCA would establish the Project Credit
Agency (PCA) in headquarters to be built under the project at Tsevie. A
condition of Board presentation would be satisfactory evidence that estab-
lishment of PCA had been authorized. The terms of reference for the head
of PCA are at Annex 13. He would be administratively responsible to CNCA
but would work in close liaison with the Project Manager and the Technical
Director under similar arrangements to those that are being satisfactorily
implemented under the IDA financed cocoa-coffee project. The head of PCA
would supervise four credit agents who would be given geographic respon-
sibilities depending on actual credit volumes. During negotiations,
Government gave assurances that it would cause CNCA to maintain PCA, and
would appoint four qualified credit agents.
Staffing
5.07      Management Staff.  The Project Manager and the rice, coconut and
vegetable specialists are already in post and are acceptable to IDA. The
posts of Technical Director, Administrative and Financial Director, Train-
ing Specialist, Research Specialist, Chief of the Engineering Unit, remain
to be filled. It is anticipated that the post of Chief of the Engineering
Unit would be filled by a qualified Togolese. International recruitment
is expected to be necessary, however, to fill the other posts. Assurances



- 18 -
were given during negotiations that the qualifications, experience, and terms
of reference and conditions of employment of the personnel listed in this
paragraph as well as the head of PCA would be acceptable to IDA for the
duration of the project development period. The appointment or reconfirmation
of the appointment of the Technical Director, the Administrative and Financial
Director, and of the head of the PCA would be conditions of effectiveness.
5.08      Togolization.  Each internationally recruited staff would be as-
signed a Togolese deputy who would be trained to ultimately take over the
responsibilities of the incumbent. It is expected that the technical direc-
tion would be assured by an expatriate throughout the development period.
The expatriate Administrative and Financial Director would stay in post for
a maximum of four years, the Training and the Research Specialists for a
maximum of three years, and the Vegetable Specialist for two years. The
training responsibilities of the expatriate staff are stressed in the terms
of reference contained in Annex 13. Government gave assurances that it
would promptly appoint qualified nationals as deputies to expatriate staff
members.
VI. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS
A. Cost Estimates
6.01      Project cost estimates are based on estimates as of April, 1976.
Togolese staff salaries are based on the current salary scale fixed by Gov-
ernment. Expatriate unit costs average US$58,000 per year and include basic
salaries, allowances, lodging, travel expenses and provisions for annual
leave, consultants supervision, and overheads. Consultant costs average
US$6,000 per man-month, including travel expenses. Physical contingencies
have been applied to equipment and on-farm costs (10%) and to buildings and
infrastructure (15%). Expected price increases total about 26% of base costs
plus physical contingencies. The total expected cost of the project is
US$15.7 million including 11% taxes and import duties (US$13.9 million net
of these) with a foreign exchange component of about US$9.3 million or 59%.
The following table summarizes project costs; further details are at
Annex 14.



- 19 -
SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS
Local      Foreign                      Local     Foreîgn
Costs      Exchange      Total          Costs     Exchange    Total          Foreign
------------CFAF Million ------         -------US$ Million--------            Exchange
I. ON FARM COSTS
Seeds                                      54            4          58           0.24        0.02         0.26            7
Pesticides                                  6           36          42           0.02        0.17         0.19           85
Fertilizers                                34           69         103           0.16        0.30         0.46           67
Hand tools and bags                        19           28          47           0.08        0.12         0.20           60
Subtotal                             113          137        250           0.50        0.61         1.11            55
Il. MEDIUM TERM CREDIT TO FARMER GROUPS
Light Farm Equipment                        9           40          49           0.04        0.18         0.22           80
Rice Mills                                  8           22          30           0.04        0.10         0.14           75
Power Tillers                              12           35          47           0.05        0.16         0.20           75
Cooperative Storage                         3            8          il           0.01        0.04         0.05           75
Subtotal                              32          105         137          0.14        0.47         0.61            77
III. SORAD
A. Administration, Technical and
Extension Services
Buildings                                  14            9          23           0.06        0.14         0.10           40
Vehicles and Equipment                     19           42          61           0.08        0.19         0.27           68
Personnel                                 226          155         381           1.01        0.69         1.70           41
Other Overating Costa                      21            9          30           0.09        0.04         0.13           32
Subtotal                            280          216         495           1.24        0.96         2.20           44
B. Input Supply Unit
Vehicles and Equipment                     10           18          28           0.05        0.08         0.13           64
Personnel                                  41           -           41           0.18         -           0.18           -
Other Operating Costs                      24           13          37           0.10        0.06         0.16           36
Subtotal                              75          31          106           0.33       0.14         0.47            30
C. Training
Buildings                                   3            2           5           0.01        0.01         0.02           40
Vehicles and Equipment                      1            2           3           0.01        0.01         0.02           68
Personnel                                  14           30          44           0.07        0.13         0.20           69
Other Operating Costs                       3            2           5           0.01        0.01         0.02           28
Subtotal                             21           36          57           0.10        0.16         0.26           63
D. Rural Engineering Unit
Vehicles and Equipment                     43          121         164           0.19        0.54         0.73           74
Personnel                                  69           42         111           0.31        0.19         0.50           38
Other Operating Costs                      47           26          73           0.21        0.11         0.32           35
Subtotal                            159          189         348           0.71        0.84         1.55            54
TOTAL SORAD                         535          472       1,007            2.38       2.10         4.48            47
IV.  CNCA PROJECT CREDIT AGENCY
Buildings                                   5            3           8           0.02        0.02         0.04           40
Equipment and Vehicles                      5            9          14           0.02        0.04         0.06           63
Personnel                                  55           44          99           0.25        0.19         0.44           44
other Operating Costs                      18            7          25           0.08        0.03         0.11           28
Subtotal                              83           63         146           0.37       0.28         0.65            40
V. INFRASTRUCTURE
Roads                                     123          288         411           0.55        1.28         1.83           70
Village Water Systems                     102          239         341           0.46        1.06         1.52           70
Markets                                    24           15          39           0.11        0.06         0.17           40
Dispensaries                               25           39          64           0.11        0.17         0.28           60
Subtotal                            274          581         855           1.23        2.57         3.80            68
VI. STUDIES AND CONSULTANT SERVICES
onchocerciasis Areas                       -            68          68            -          0.30         0.30          100
Irrigation Study                           13           28          41           0.06        0.12         0.18           70
Project Monitoring and Evaluation          23           72          95           0.10        0.32         0.42           75
Coconuts                                   -            10          10            -          0.05         0.05          100
Subtotal                              36          178         214           0.16       0.79         0.95            83
TOTAL BASE COSTS                  1,073        1,536       2,609           4.78        6.82        11.60            59
Physical Contingencies                66         128         191           0.28        0.57         0.85           68
Expected Price Increases             408          434         732           1.32       1.93         3.25           59
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS               1,434        2,098       3,532           6.38        9.32        15.70           59



- 20-
B. Proposed Financing
6.02      The proposed financing of the project is shown below:
IDA      FAC      Government  Farmers    Total
----------------US$ million------------------
I. On-Farm Costs              0.40     0.10        0.28        0.33       1.11
Il. Medium Term Credits        0.37     0.09        0.15          -        0.61
III. SORAD                      2.84     0.83        0.81          -        4.48
IV. CNCA                       0.44     0.11        0.10          -        0.65
V. Infrastructure             2.25     0.42        1.13          -        3.80
VI. Studies and Con-
sultant Services
Onchocerciasis Areas    0.30         -           -           -        0.30
Other                    0.52      0.10        0.03          -        0.65
VII. Contingencies              2.38     0.60        0.96        0.16       4.10
TOTAL                   9.50      2.25        3.46        0.49      15.70
Total net of taxes      9.50      2.25        1.68        0.49      13.92
Percentage               68        16          12           4        100
6.03      FAC has agreed in principle to co-finance the project through
a grant of FF 10 million (US$2.2 million). Signature of the grant agree-
ment between Government and FAC would be a condition of credit effective-
ness.
6.04      An IDA credit of US$9.5 million would be extended on standard
terms. The credit would substantially cover the foreign exchange cost or
a total of 68% of project costs net of taxes and duties.
6.05      The proceeds of the IDA credit and FAC grant, together with Gov-
ernment's contribution, would be deployed as follows:
(a)  CFAF 1,940 million (US$8.6 million) to SORAD as a
grant to finance the construction of project build-
ings, roads, water supplies, dispensaries and mar-
kets, to purchase vehicles and equipment, to cover
the incremental costs of personnel and other oper-
ating expenses, and for irrigation studies and
consultant services for coconuts;



- 21-
(b) CFAF 291 million (US$1.3 million) as an additional Govern-
ment equity contribution to CNCA to finance the construction
of a credit agency at Tsevie and to cover the cost of vehicles,
personnel and other operating costs connected with project
credit activities (CFAF 146 million); and to cover the cost
of incremental fertilizers, pesticides and other seasonal
inputs that would be supplied to project participants through
the mechanism of a revolving fund (CFAF145 million); and
(c) CFAF 140 million (US$0.6 million) as a loan to CNCA to finance
medium and long term credit to farmer groups for equipment,
power tillers, rice mills, storage facilities, and coconut
seedlings.
Government would use CFAF 68 million (US$0.3 million) to finance feasi-
bility studies in the areas to be freed of onchocerciasis, and CFAF 95
million (US$0.4 million) to create and operate a Project monitoring and eva-
luation unit. The remainder, CFAF 888 million (US$3.9 million), would be
retained as a contingency reserve. Farmers would contribute CFAF 110 million
to the onfarm costs.
6.06      Except for the costs of rice land preparation (para 4.06) and
irrigation water for vegetable growing (para 4.09), which would be fully
charged to beneficiaries (and which represent a minor portion of project
cost), other costs incurred by SORAD would be for services and investments
which are normally financed out of the general budget and are not directly
recoverable from users. Therefore, channeling project funds to SORAD as a
grant would be justified. During negotiations, Government agreed to establish
at the Treasury a Project account for the pre-financing of SORAD activities
under the Project, and to replenish the account every three months. The
establishment of the Project account with an initial deposit of CFAF 70
million would be a condition of effectiveness.
6.07      As described in Annex 2, CNCA has limited resources of its own
and is forced to finance short-term operations, such as seasonal credits,
with costly long- and medium-term borrowings. In order to reduce the aver-
age cost of CNCA resources, it is proposed that CFAF 291 million of proj-
ect funds (para 6.05(b)) should be passed on to CNCA as equity. The loan
to CNCA (para 6.05(c)) would be made at an interest rate of 5.5% (the Cen-
tral Bank rediscount rate for medium term lending), for a term of 15 years
including seven years grace. The form of a subsidiary loan agreement covering
the above was discussed during negotiations, and signature of such agreement
satisfactory to IDA would be a condition of credit effectiveness.
6.08      As discussed in para 2.16, fertilizers and pesticides benefit from
Government subsidies. Consequently, the project revolving fund, which
would finance purchase of inputs at cost, but, because of the subsidy, only
receive part of the cost in credit repayments, would need topping up by
Government to the extent of the subsidy. This would ensure the input supply
unit (para 4.15) against financial difficultiès stemming from the subsidies.



- 22-
The revolving fund would be reimbursed from the IDA Credit and FAC grant for
the costs of incremental input requirements, repayments from farmers, and
payments by Government to cover the difference between delivered costs and
the price paid by farmers.  Assurances were obtained from Government
that it would (a) cause SORAD to keep separate accounts for the input sup-
ply unit, recording full costs of input procurement and distribution, in
order to clearly identify the full amount of the subsidy; and (b) reimburse
the revolving fund annually on the basis of statements for the cost of the
subsidy. Establishment of the revolving fund with an initial deposit by
Government of CFAF 30 million would be a condition of effectiveness while
IDA disbursements to the fund in the second and subsequent years of the
project would be dependent on Government's having satisfied its obligation
for the preceding year.
C. Credit Arrangements
6.09      Loans to farmers not able to purchase inputs for cash would be in
kind and would be channeled through the farmers associations which would col-
lectively guarantee loans made to their members. Loans would be made on the
recommendation of SORAD's field staff. Credits would bear interest at 8%,
and borrowers would pay a fee of 3% which accrues to CNCA's statutory guaran-
tee fund (1%) and new guarantee funds to be set up for the Project Credit
Agency and the farmer groups (1% each); the latter would be held by the
Credit Agency. This is consistent with the arrangements under the coffee-
cocoa project (Credit 503-TO). Individual requirements for seasonal credit
(fertilizers, pesticides, seeds) would be grouped at the association level,
and the granting of subsequent credit to an association would be dependent on
full repayment of any outstanding credit; repayments would be due at harvest
and a penalty of 3% would be charged for late payments. Medium term credit
for rice mills, storage facilities, power tillers and other shared equipment
would be made directly to the associations with all members as cosigners;
repayments would be made over four years. Because there is a seven year
wait before the trees enter production, coconut credit to cover the cost
of seedlings, fertilizers, pesticides, and hand irrigation equipment (to-
talling CFAF 9,790 for each 1/10 ha with a maximum of 0.5 ha or CFAF 48,950
per farmer) would have a term of 12 years including a grace period of 7 years
during which interest would be capitalized. Such credit would be made to
individuals, with the collective guarantee of all association members.
D. Procurement
6.10      Contracts for the supply of goods other than rock phosphate, which
are estimated to cost US$50,000 or more each, would be awarded on the basis
of international competitive bidding in accordance with IDA guidelines (total
cost about US$3.4 million). Domestically manufactured goods would be allowed



- 23-
a preference of up to 15 percent, or the level of applicable duty, whichever
is less, when comparing domestic bids with those of foreign manufacturers.
Supply contracts valued at less than US$50,000 (the number of which would be
minimized by bulking procurement and which would total about US$200,000) would
be let after competitive bidding in accordance with local procedures, as would
contracts for the construction of 90 km of secondary roads (total cost about
US$1.2 million) and of project buildings, dispensaries and rural markets
(total cost about US$0.9 million) which would be individually small and widely
dispersed. IDA staff have reviewed the local procedures, which are acceptable;
there would be adequate competition. Rock phosphate, costing about US$0.1
million, would be procured at reasonable prices from Government mines. Small
items costing less than US$10,000 would be awarded after solicitation of quo-
tations from at least three suppliers (US$100,000). Inputs purchased directly
by farmers, would be obtained through local shopping (US$0.5 million). SORAD,
which would be adequately equipped under the project, would construct or
improve about 210 km of feeder roads and build two earth dams on force account
for an estimated total cost of US$1.7 million. The project well component
(costing about US$1.8 million spread over five years), would be carried out on
force account by the well brigade of the Ministry of Public Works which is
competent and sufficiently equipped. Consultant services and expatriate staff
(totaling about US$2.6 million) would be obtained according to IDA's normal
procedures. Costs for local personnel and other operating costs, which do not
lend themselves to competitive bidding, amount to about US$3.2 million.
E. Disbursements
6.11      The proceeds of the IDA credit would be disbursed against costs in-
curred in the five year period between signing and mid-1981.  The FAC grant
would also cover five years, but would include start up costs, primarily the
salaries of key personnel (technical director, training and research officers,
and vegetable specialist) beginning earlier in 1976.  The IDA credit and FAC
grant would generally cover all items in the same ratio, 4 IDA: 1 FAC except
for studies and consultant services, and for infrastructure where FAC's
participation would be 15%, and 11% respectively; FAC would not participate in
the financing of the onchocerciasis area studies. The IDA credit would,
therefore, be disbursed to cover:
(a) 80% of foreign expenditures or 60% of total expenditures
for incremental fertilizer, pesticides and imported seeds,
and for equipment for farmer groups (US$0.77 million);
(b) 80% of foreign expenditures or 60% of total expenditures for
building construction; the procurement of equipment, vehicles
and office furnishings; incremental staff salaries and training
grants; and other incremental costs of SORAD Maritime and CNCA
(US$3.28 million);
(c) 60% of costs of infrastructure construction (US$2.25million);



- 24-
(d) 100% of the costs of consultant services for the plan-
ning of development for areas to be freed from oncho-
cerciasis (US$0.3 million);
(e) 80% of the costs of project monitoring and evaluation,
and of other studies and consultant services (US$0.52
million).
The remaining funds would cover a contingency reserve of US$2.38 million.
Disbursements would be against contracts and certified statements of ex-
penditure prepared by the SORAD Maritime or CNCA. Any funds remaining un-
disbursed upon completion of the project would be cancelled. A schedule
of estimated disbursements is at Annex 16, Tables 1 and 2.
F. Accounts and Audit
6.12      During negotiations, assurances were obtained that SORAD and
CNCA would keep separate accounts of their respective project components,
in accordance with consistently maintained and sound accounting practices.
Assurances would also be obtained that Government would:
(a) cause SORAD and CNCA to appoint independent qualified auditors
acceptable to IDA;
(b) submit audited accounts and the auditors' reports thereon to
IDA within six months of the end of each financial year; and
(c) assure that the reports of the auditors would be of such scope
and in such detail as IDA may reasonably have requested.
VII. PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND FARMERS' AND GOVERNMENT'S BENEFITS
A. Yields and Output
7.01      Yields obtained by farmers participating in the project would
depend on a range of factors including ecological zone, whether a long or
short rainy season, and degree of intercropping. It is expected that the
average participant would take three years to gain full benefit from project
actions concerning arable crops. It is expected further that during this
time the average 1/ yields of all participants would increase as follows:
1/   Non-weighted average of yields in Coastal Plateau and Savannah.



- 25-
At the End of Three         %
Without Project    Years' Participation    Increase
kg/ha                  kg/ha
Maize Grain
- Long season                 600                  1,075                79
- Short season                400                    600                50
Cassava Tubers                5,500                  7,000                30
Yam Tubers                    6,000                  8,000                33
Shelled Groundnuts
- Long season                 525                    800                50
- Short season                400                    600                50
Seed Cotton                     -                      900               -  /1
Paddy Rice                      -                    2,500               -  1l
Cowpeas                         250                    500               103
/1   Cotton and rice would be new crops and thus there would be no "without
project" situation.
7.02      As new farmers would begin participating in the project in each
of the five project development years, by the end of the project development
period the expected 20,000 participants would be at various stages of yield
development (Annex 4) as well as at various stages of change in cropping
patterns (Annex 5). The estimated total production of these farmers in the
fifth and final year of project development, and the areas of crops culti-
vated are summarized below and compared with the estimated without project
situation.



- 26-
Without Project                 With Project (PY 5)
Area      Total Production        Area       Total Production
(ha)            (ton)             (ha)            (ton)
Maize              20,400           12,100           18,930            22,200
Cassava             7,100           42,300            5,170           41,200
Yam                   750            4,500               750            4,800
Groudnuts           1,450              800            2,470             2,415
Cowpea                -                -              3,910             2,100
Seed Cotton                                           1,800             1,600
Rice                                                  3,000             6,850
7.03      In project calculations coconut production is expressed in terms
of copra although much production would be sold as fresh nuts. Palms are
expected to start bearing six years after planting and to reach full produc-
tion 13 years after planting, when they will be producing an estimated 1 ton
of copra/ha annually, and to live for an estimated 30 years. At maturity of
the 600 ha of project, coconut plantings, annual production is estimated at
1,100 ton of copra equivalent.
B. Prices and Markets
7.04      In the table below, average farmgate prices now obtained for pro-
duce such as would be produced under the project are shown together with the
estimated economic value of this produce at farmgate, both in 1976 and 1980.
The latter values have been calculated on the basis of either that the pro-
duce could be exported (groundnuts, seed cotton, and copra), or that project
induced production would substitute for imports (maize and rice). As there
is no organized world trade in cassava and yam tubers, or in cowpeas and
African vegetables, current farmgate producer prices are used as a proxy
for the economic value of these commodities. The economic value for groud-
nuts and copra are conservative, as in practice a large proportion of the
production would be consumed internally. In the calculations of economic
values, the forecast world prices of the commodities made by the Bank's
Commodities and Export Projections Division have been used. Prices are
expressed in 1975 terms, and the calculations are shown in Annex 15.



- 27-
Price/Value at Farmgate
Price                     Economic Value
------------CFAF/kg----------------
1976                      1976       1980
Shelled Maize                        27                         39         37
Cassava Tubers                        3                          3          3
Yam Tubers                           15                         15         15
Shelled Groudnuts                    45                         82         50
Seed Cotton                          46                         87         80
Paddy Rice                           30                         55         43
Cowpeas                              85                         85         85
Vegetables                           42                         42         42
Copra                                35                         48         47
The table shows that present farmgate prices are generally lower than the eco-
nomic value of the product and consequently some upward movement in producer
prices would be justified. However, Government intervenes effectively only
in the pricing of cotton and groundnuts, as a monopoly purchaser for export;
the remainder of the trade in project commodities, apart from a limited par-
ticipation by TOGOGRAIN, is in private hands. Government would appear to be
able to make an upward adjustment in the cotton price, but has little room
for maneuver in the case of groundnuts because the world price is expected
to decline over the next five years. As current producer prices appear to
provide adequate incentives, as shown in Annex 5, and because there is ade-
quate competition in the local market, it is not proposed to make upward
price revisions a condition of the proposed credit.
7.05      Both domestic and established export markets exist for cotton,
groundnuts and copra, and given the small quantities involved marketing
problems are not anticipated. Yams are a preferred staple and the ex-
pected small increment in production should be readily saleable. The
same would be the case for cowpeas which are in heavy demand in both
Togo and neighboring countries. Relatively large annual production in-
crements would be generated in rice, 7,000 tons, and maize 10,000 tons.
Togo now imports about 20,000 tons of cereals (wheat, rice and maize)
and, without the project, this amount would be expected to increase an-
nually. Therefore little problem is seen for absorbing generated grain
production.



- 28-
C. Farmers' Benefits
7.06      About 20,000 farmers are expected to increase their incomes through
participation in the directly productive components of the project. The ex-
tent of income benefits has been estimated on the basis of six models. Three
of the models represent the impact of the project in providing technology
packages, that are designed to increase the yields of existing crops and
permit beneficial changes in the cropping pattern, to typical farmers in
the Coastal Plateau, Depleted Coastal Plateau, and Savannah areas. The
remaining three models cover new activities that would be sponsored under
the project: rice growing, coconut planting, and vegetable farming, and
that would be additional to existing activities. The models, which assume
that the farmer takes three years to assimilate the package and optimize the
benefits, are described in Annex 5 and the results are summarized below:
Incremental Ben-
efits from Adop-                                         With Project
tion of Techno-          Without Project        After 3 Years of Participation
logy Packages           Annual Net Income  Annual Net Income  Return per Manday
CFAF         US$   CFAF           US$          US$
Coastal Plateau
(1.6 ha farm)         41,580          185  75,830         337          1.4
Depleted Coastal
Plateau (1.2 ha
farm) (after 5
years)                17,670           79  38,120          169          0.9
Savannah (1.5
ha farm)              45,730          203  84,600          376          1.3
Annual Net Income
New Activities      After 3 Years of Participation   Return per Manday Employed
CFAF         US$                         US$
Rice Growing
(0.5 ha)              37,830          168                         2.8
Vegetable Farm-
ing (0.1 ha)         103,300          459                         1.8
Coconut Plant-
ing (0.5 ha)
(after 13 years)      25,840          115                         2.6
7.07      Adoption of the technology packages and the new activities will
both require a substantial increase in labor inputs. The technology pack-
ages will require a 15-20% greater farm family labor input, but as shown
in Annex 5 this is feasible since most farm families are underemployed



- 29-
throughout the year. While coconut planting would not require much labor
and the average family could plant and maintain their 0.2 ha without prob-
lems, adoption of rice growing and vegetable farming would create labor
problems. Consequently it is anticipated that participants in the rice
and vegetable components would have to give up some of their traditional
farming activities. The returns per manday employed in these two activi-
ties are sufficiently high to encourage farmers to make such a shift.
7.08      Overall the net incomes from farming of participating farm fam-
ilies in the Coastal Plateau and Savannah would nearly double from about
US$190 to US$350 (per capita, from about US$24 to US$44); while this is a
significant improvement, income levels, even with the inclusion of other
income, would remain at a level well below the national per capita aver-
age of US$250. In the Depleted Coastal Plateau average current production
levels are inadequate to feed the farm family, and it must be sustained by
off-farm employment. Through project actions basic food self-sufficiency
would be attained by this particularly poor group of farmers.
D. Cost Recovery and Impact of the Project
on the Government's Fiscal Position
7.09      Direct cost recovery would apply only to project costs incurred
in irrigation rehabilitation and rice land preparation totalling some US$1.1
million in the project development period. These costs would be recovered
fully through the mechanisms described in paras 4.09 and 4.06.  In the five
year development period Government would expend a further US$13.1 million in
capital and recurring expenditures related to the provision of a basic infra-
structure and moderately intensive farmer support services in the project
area. Recovery of the US$13.1 million would be only through indirect means:
export duties and OPAT and SOTOCO profits generated by project induced cot-
ton and groundnut production, and taxes resulting from the greater economic
activity expected in the project area as a consequence of the increased
spending power of project beneficiaries. This contribution cannot be esti-
mated with much precision. Nevertheless, making the conservative assumption
that project farmers would spend one half of their incremental revenue in
the modern commercial sector, and given that goods traded in that sector
bear an average tax of 20%, the project would at full development generate
indirect taxes of the order of US$0.3 million. This would allow Government
to show a positive cash flow by PY 8 and to recover its contribution to proj-
ect costs by PY 15, assuming the implementation of a policy of reducing the
subsidy on agricultural inputs by 10% per year beginning in 1978 (Annex 17).
VIII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
8.01      The project's direct benefits would be the increased output of
maize, yam, groundnuts, cowpeas, cotton, rice and vegetables (para 7.01).
The project would also have important non-quantifiable social, institutional
and ecological benefits. Improved health services would benefit about 150,000



- 30-
people, and water supplies about 44,000. At full development, the project
would provide additional seasonal agricultural employment for family and
hired labor totaling about 1.4 million man-days per year. The project
would have a major institution building impact, particularly on SORAD
Maritime and CNCA, and would help create conditions for replicating rural
development projects in the project area and the country at large. The
project would also initiate steps to prevent further soil depletion in the
coastal plateau area, and to reverse soil depletion where it has already
occurred in one of the poorest areas of the country.
8.02      The economic rate of return is estimated at 37% over a project
life of 15 years (30 years for coconuts). Details on the assumptions and
calculations are in Annex 18. The sensitivity of the economic rate of re-
turn has been tested against changes in the most important parameters.
Reducing the life of the project from 15 to 10 years would decrease the
rate of return to about 32%. A 25% decrease in benefits would reduce it
to 21%, while cost increases of 15% would reduce it to 29%. Details of the
sensitivity analysis are also at Annex 18. Separate returns have been cal-
culated for the six production models (savannah, coastal plateau, depleted
coastal plateau, rainfed rice, coconuts, and vegetables), by imputing to
each an appropriate proportion of overhead costs, and of the costs of devel-
oping markets and feeder roads. These rates of return range from 13% for
coconuts to 52% for vegetables. Secondary roads, which are expected to
generate benefits in addition to those estimated for the project, were
separately evaluated and a rate of return in the order of 18% is indicated.
No attempt has been made to quantify the benefits derived for village water
supply and health dispensaries.
Risks
8.03      The project would represent the first major involvement of IDA in
up-land arable crop production in a bi-modal rainfall area of West Africa.
Indeed the project would be the largest externally financed project in such
an area in Western Africa. Throughout most of the region the principal crops
in these areas are tree crops - cocoa, coffee, oil palm and rubber - and agri-
cultural research has concentrated on the requirements of these largely ex-
port tree crops. The food crops of the area have generally been neglected
by researchers and even where technology packages have been developed, the
period and scale of testing at the farmer level has been limited. Therefore
the assumptions concerning yield increments at farm level may be subject to
substantial error and, as a consequence, so may the assumptions regarding
farmer response to innovations promoted under the project. Further, although
in these areas total rainfall and the duration of the rainy season appear sub-
stantially better than in areas further north, where a single peak rainfall
occurs and the rainy season is much shorter, the benefit of such a rainfall
regime may be more illusory than real. This is because the second rainy
season is often too short to guarantee profitable crops; and crops grown in
the area during the wet season often have to be harvested and stored under
very adverse wet and humid conditions. Given these circumstances, the tech-
nology base for the project generally is less firm than for other arable crop



- 31-
projects in Western Africa and although the situation is improving, in partic-
ular, because of the establishment of the International Institute for Tropical
Agriculture at Ibadan, Nigeria, which was specifically created to deal with
the problems of this ecological zone, the risks involved in the project must
be considered substantial. Nonetheless, the critical situation in the proj-
ect area, described in this report, demands that the risk be taken.
IX. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
9.01      During negotiations, the following principal assurances were ob-
tained from Government, that:
(a)  it would consult annually with IDA on prices to be paid
by farmers for fertilizers and pesticides, with a view to
progressively eliminating the subsidy element (para 2.16);
(b)  it would present to IDA for its approval annual work plans,
detailing (a) the construction and improvement program of
feeder and secondary roads, and (b) the engineering design
and construction program of tubewells and dams, for which
operating and maintenance expenses would be met under appro-
priate arrangements (paras 4.17 and 4.18);
(c)  it would consult with IDA on any proposed changes in the
organization of farmer support services, and no changes
would be effected in the Maritime Region that would
adversely affect the management and execution of the
proposed project (para 5.01);
(d)  no new "non project" activities would be undertaken within
the project development period without the mutual agreement
of Government and IDA, and Government would cause SORAD to
make a comprehensive review of all its activities including
"non project" activities and, by June 30, 1977, would discuss
the findings of this review with IDA (para 5.02); and
(e)  it would establish at the Treasury a Project Account for the
purpose of prefinancing SORAD activities under the project,
and replenish the account every three months (para 6.06); and
it would cause SORAD to keep separate accounts for the input
supply unit, recording full costs of input procurement and
distribution, in order to clearly identify the full amount
of the subsidy, and reimburse the revolving fund quarterly
on the basis of statements for the cost of the subsidy
(para 6.08).



- 32-
9.02      Conditions of effectiveness would be:
(a) the appointment, or reconfirmation of the appointment, of
the Technical Director, Administrative and Financial
Director, and the head of PCA (para 5.07);
(b) signature of the grant agreement between Government and
FAC (para 6.03);
(c) establishment of a Project Account for SORAD, with an
initial deposit by Government of CFAF 70 million
(para 6.06);
(d) the signature of an agreement acceptable to IDA between
Government and CNCA (para 6.07); and
(e) establishment of a revolving fund with an initial deposit
by Government of CFAF 30 million (para 6.08).
9.03      Conditions of disbursement would be:
(a) against the purchase of additional power tillers after
PY 2, that the previous tests are judged satisfactory
by SORAD and IDA (para 4.07);
(b) against the purchase of new pumps, that SORAD had initiated
an effective system of collecting water charges (para 4.09);
and
(c)  against the revolving fund in the second and subsequent
years of the project, that Government had satisfied its
obligation for the preceding year (para 6.08).
9.04      With  the above assurances and conditions, the project is suitable
for an IDA credit of US$9.5 million.



ANNEX 1
Page 1
TOGO
MARITIME REGION RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SORAD MARITIME
A.   Current Status
1.        The SORADs (Societes Regionales d'Amenagement et de Development)
were created in December 1965 to be responsible for development, essentially
rural development, in each of the five economic regions of the country.
Objectives
2.        The SORAD Maritime is entrusted with the implementation of the
development plan for its region. Its main objective is to improve the standard
of living of rural populations and the economie and social development of the
region as a whole. Specifically the SORAD is responsible for:
(a) rural education to train leaders and develop farm organi-
zations;
(b) land improvement;
(c) maintenance of collective improvements (dams, canals, planta-
tions, soil conservation works);
(d) development of rural artisanal activities; and
(e) regional organization of cooperatives, contract work, agricul-
tural credit, crop extraction, and marketing.
Management
3.        SORAD Maritime is a para-statal agency with a large measure of
administrative autonomy. Prior to reorganization, there was a three-layer
administrative directorate: a board of directors, chaired by a representative
of the Minister of Planning and including representatives of the Ministries of
Rural Economy, Social Affairs, and Commerce; the Economic and Social Council;
the Chamber of Commerce and Agriculture; the district chiefs of Tsevie,
Tabligbo, Vogan, Aneho and Lome; 10 farmer representatives; and the Government
superintendent; was responsible for approval of the annual program. A permanent
management commission made up of a representative of the region, a representa-
tive of the Ministry of Rural Economy and a representative of the Ministry of
Social Affairs, was responsible for regular over-sight of SORAD activities
between meetings of the board of directors. A director, appointed by govern-
mental decree, executed the decisions of the board of directors.
4.        Following reorganization of the Ministry of Rural Economy in
early 1975, SORAD was placed under the administrative jurisdiction of the



ANNEX 1
Page 2
Ministry of Rural Equipment (MER), despite the fact that many of its activi-
ties remained under the technical responsibility of the Ministry of Rural
Development (MDR). Government envisages turning SORAD into a regional agency
responsible for rural infrastructure under MER, and to create regional exten-
sion services responsible to MDR. SORAD is thus going through a transitional
period, along with other government institutions dealing with agriculture.
Organization
5.        The headguarters organization currently comprises five divisions:
(a) administrative, with. sections dealing with secretariat, documentation,
general services and archives; (b) production, with sections dealing with
coconuts, vegetables, rehabilitation of depleted soils, and rice; (c) train-
ing, with sections concerned with organization, grower associations and co-
operatives; (d) economic and planning, with sections dealing with accounting,
credit, special cassava credit, programs, investment budget, and supply; and
(e) rural engineering, dealing with rural roads, land development and village
water supply.
6.        The field organization comprises five sectors corresponding to
the five administrative districts (circonscriptions). Each sector is admin-
istered by a sector chief appointed by the director of SORAD. Each sector
is divided into subsectors, which in turn are divided into extension zones.
Financial Resources
7.        SORAD resources include an endowment of CFAF 5 million in cash
paid by Government and an endowment of CFAF 1 million for each district,
taken from the account of the Federation of the former Public Corporations
for Rural Action. These endowments are deposited in an account at CNCA.
The SORAD was credited with the goods, properties and cash contributed by
the rural communities following the termination of the Public Corporations
of Rural Action. The SORAD's capital can be increased by self-financing
activities. SORAD can also use funds coming from: borrowings that it is
entitled to make; annual dues of its members; benefits from the sale of
farm inputs; benefits from its marketing, processing or transport activ-
ities; agricultural credit commissions. Until now SORAD has been unable
to achieve financial autonomy, since its field of action is primarily food
crops.
8.        Following is a summary of SORAD's recent balance sheets (as of
December 31):



ANNEX 1
Page 3
1972            1973             1974
---------------- CFAF --
Assets
Fixed assets                       51,913,214        37,432,593       28,722,381
Operational assets                  8,723,809         5,627,751        8,746,624
Cash at hand & receivables         68,355,724        39,505,088       50,621,233
Losses                              6,155,986        15,467,711        2,775,520
Total Assets                 135,148,733        98,033,143       90,865,758
Liabilities
Equity                             23,616,405         1,549,558       17,017,269
Medium- and long-term commit-
ments                            33,594,175        15,795,208        1,360,681
Short-term debts                   77,938,153        80,688,377       72,487,808
Total Liabilities            135,148,733        98,033,143       90,865,758
9.        Financing by foreign agencies.  SORAD has received assistance
from FAC, FED and UNDP through agreements with Government. According to the
statutes, the foreign aid agencies can supervise the financial and technical
aspects of the programs for which they provide financing. SORAD has been
reinforced by personnel financed by FAC, FAO/UNDP and FED. As of December
1975, FAC-financed personnel consisted of an advisor to the Director, a
vegetable specialist and a mechanic.
10.       Financing by OPAT.  OPAT plays an important role in financing
projects dealing with infrastructure (roads, silos). OPAT has also assisted
production activities, such as the financing of coconut extension workers, and
finance marketing operations, although SORAD's role in cotton, marketing has
been assumed by SOTOCO.
Activities
11.       SORAD currently engages in a number of specialized activities in
addition to its activities in the five sectors:
(a) mechanization: this is the "operation regeneration des terres
de barre" (rehabilitation of depleted coastal plateau soils)
based on plowing to incorporate organic matter in the soil;
the operation has been financed by FAC, which terminated its
financing at the end of 1975;



ANNEX 1
Page 4
(b)  vegetables:  SORAD has developed an irrigated vegetable scheme
at Agoueve near Lome, as described in Annex 8;
(c) rural engineering: essentially rural road maintenance and land
development activities;
(d) coconuts: this section is responsible for extension services
to growers, plantation of dwarfs and hybrids,
and operates a non-irrigated seed orchard at Agoueve; and
(e) credit: SORAD has been acting as an intermediary for credit to
farmers from CNCA. A major problem has been that of subsidies:
SORAD has been charged the full cost of inputs, especially ferti-
lizers, while farmers repaid only the subsidized price, the balance
corresponding to a debit for SORAD on CNCA books. The credit
program was terminated with the creation of TOGOGRAINS, the agency
responsible for food grain marketing. With the creation of
TOGOGRAINS, SORAD was stripped of its last remaining marketing
function. However, SORAD has still been providing "production"
credit to cassava growers in order to ensure the supply of raw
material to Government's starch factory at Ganave. The program has
been financed by the factory and amounts to advance purchases rather
than production credit.
B.   SORAD Maritime under the Proposed Project
Organization
12.       The SORAD Maritime would form the management unit of the proposed
project. To carry out its expanded activities SORAD would be reinforced as
described in the following paragraphs. Main features would be the assignment
of a Technical Director, an Administrative and Financial Director, a training
specialist; and the creation of an Input Supply Unit, and a Monitoring Unit.
13.       The Project Manager would be the Director of SORAD Maritime and
would be responsible for all operations. He would assure the coordination of
project activities with those of CNCA, SOTOCO and other agencies in the
project area. He would be assisted by a Technical Director, an Administrative
and Financial Director, and a Chief of the Engineering Unit. A Technical
Director, an experienced agronomist, would be appointed and he would supervise
the work of the sector chiefs. He would also coordinate the trials program
with national and other research agencies. He would be assisted by special-
ists in training, research, rice, coconuts, and vegetables. The training
specialist would supervise the training center to be established at Tsevie.
An Administrative and Financial Director, a specialist in administration and



ANNEX 1
Page 5
finance with management experience, would be assigned to assume responsibil-
ity for all personnel, administrative, financial and procurement matters; he
would also be responsible for the Input Supply Unit. The Chief of the Engi-
neering Unit would be responsible for the construction of roads, wells,
markets, dispensaries, project buildings, whether built on force- account
or under contract. The unit would include a small design section.
14.       Field Organization.  The project would deploy an additional 20
subsector chiefs, and an additional 143 field extension workers, giving an
overall average of five field workers for each subsector chief. The addi-
tional extension workers would be assigned as follows: Aneho: 29 (16 to
coconuts); Lome: 7 (4 to coconuts, 3 to vegetables); Tabligbo: 43 (6 to
rice); Tsevie: 51 (30 to rice, 3 to vegetables); Vogan: 13 (10 to rice).
Input Supply Unit
15.       SORADs has been supplying inputs to farmers on a limited, ad-hoc
basis, as part of its extension function. A problem with imported inputs,
especially fertilizers, has been late delivery The project activities would
result in a substantial increase in demand for seasonal inputs, and the
success of the crop production programs would depend largely on the timely
delivery of inputs. To meet future needs an Input Supply Unit would be
created within SORAD with responsibility for (a) determining input needs
on the basis of estimates collected by the extension services; (b) procur-
ing the supplies; and (c) organizing the distribution to grower associa-
tions.
16.       The Chief of the unit would operate under the responsibility of
the Administrative and Financial Director. He would be assisted by book-
keepers and a chief warehouseman. The unit would maintain detailed accounts
of its operations.
Investments
17.       The expanded organization and activities of SORAD Maritime would
require investments in buildings and equipment. The headqu2rters at Lome
would be expanded by building a second story covering 420 m , on the
pres2nt structure. The training center to be built at Tsevie would cover
80 m . The Engineering Unit would be equipped with road maintenance equip-
ment (Annex 10), and the project would finance the purchase of 35 vehicles
for the management staff, and 48 motorcycles and 202 bicycles for the field
staff (Annex 14).



TOGO
MARITIME REGION RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SORAD MARITIME - PERSONNEL BREAKDOWN 1/
Rural
Headquarters Aneho Lome Tabligbo Tsevie Vogan Mechanization Vegetables Engineering Coconuts Credit Total
Director                             1          _      _       _         _          _                                   -            -         _       1
Management Personnel                 4          -      -       -          -      -           1             2            2            1         1      il
Sector Chiefs + Assistants           -          2      1       2         2       2           -                          -            -         -       9
Sub-sector Chiefs                    -          4      3       3         6       2           -             1            -            1         1      21
Field Extension Workers              -         29      4       6          6     15           1             8            1            3         -      73
Others                              20          7     10       6         9       3          10             5           16           13        2      101
Total                               25         42     18      17         23     22          12            16           19           18         4     216
of which
Civil Servants                       6         34      7      il         8       3           1             4            2            1        2       79
On contract                         19          8     il       6         15     19           5            12           17           12        2      126
FAC financing                        -          -      -       -          -      -           6             -            -            -         -       6
OPAT financing                       -          _5 _                                                                                                   5
Ae>t
1/    As of December 1975 - expatriates excluded                                                                              -|



TOGO
MARITIME REGION RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT ORGANIZATION CHART
TECHNICAL AND
MARKETING
AGENCIES ( SOTOCO,             - -                          PROJECT                                                                                                                                     CNCA
TOGOFRUIT, TOGOGRAIN,                                       MANAGER
OPAT, ETC...
CREDIT
AND FINANCIAL          TECHNICAL                                                                                                          ERN RURAGEDNTC
3                DIRCTC iDIRETOR                                                                                                                            NGINEIGANC
PERSONNEL                    VEGETABLE              RICE              COCONUT
UNITSECTORS                                    -SECTOR-----                         ------                         ------                     
SUB-SECTORS
FAR. FAMILY                                ~~~~~~~~~ADMINISTRATIVE CONTROL
TECHNICAL SUPPORT
................... ARKETING
World Bonk-1573312R)






ANNEX 2
Page 1
TOGO
MARITIME REGION RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CAISSE NATIONALE DE CREDIT AGRICOLE (CNCA)
A.   General Structure and Performance
1.        Agricultural credit was one of the least successful activities of
the multipurpose development bank, Credit du Togo (CT), which was dissolved
in 1967 and replaced by: (a) a Government agency for agricultural credit,
the Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole (CNCA); and (b) a semi-public general
development bank, the Banque Togolaise de Developpement (BTD). BTD inherited
the assets and liabilities of Credit du Togo, but CNCA was able to start off
with a clean slate.
2.        Management.  CNCA is responsible to the Ministry of Rural Develop-
ment, and is administered by a board of 12 dir'ectors including the Minister of
Rural Development (Chairman), the Ministers of Finance and Planning or their
delegates, the directors of OPAT,1/ the SORADs,2/ BCEAO, 3/ and BTD, and five
representatives of the farm community. The Director General is appointed by
the Council of Ministers, his deputy by the Minister of Rural Development.
3.        Objectives.  CNCA is empowered to extend short-, medium- and long-
term credits, to individuals or societies actively engaged in agriculture,
livestock, marketing of products, fisheries and rural handicrafts, and more
generally any operations concerned with rural development. Decisions on loan
applications are the responsibility of a Loan Committee, whose members are the
Chairman, two Directors, and the General Manager. A Government Commissioner
attends all meetings.
4.        Organization.  CNCA's head office, which also covers the Maritime
Region, is in Lome. Four other regional branches were opened in 1973 and 1974
at Atakpame, Sokode, Lama Kara, and Dapango in the Plateau, Savanah, la Kara
and Central Regions, respectively. CNCA plans to open local offices in se-
lected areas, particularly at Tabligbo in the Maritime region.
5.        CNCA has a staff of 83, with 27 in the four branches.  The general
service staff (drivers, guards, etc.) accounts for about one-fourth of the
personnel establishment. Since the alternative reorganization, which was
completed early in 1975, stress has been put on the recruiting of personnel
having banking, accounting, or business management certificates. Together
with those of General Manager and Deputy, the key posts in the Credit, Fi-
nance and Accounting, and General Inspection Departments are held by quali-
fied university graduates, and in-service training is now in progress.
1/   Office des Produits Agricoles du Togo.
2/   Societes Regionales d'Amenagement et de Developpement.
3/   Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
6.        CNCA was reorganized in 1974.  The new organization chart (Chart
15739) includes five departments: (a) credit (loan applications, appraisal
and disbursement); (b) finance and accounts (at centralized level); (c) loan
collection and legal action; (d) general inspection, directly responsible
to the General Manager (control of head office and branches, staff training);
and (e) administration and personnel. A Project Credit Unit (PCU), to admini-
ster loans to farmers under the IDA-financial Cocoa/Coffee Project (503-TO),
was established in June 1975.
7.        Resources.  Over the last four years, CNCA's equity averaged 30% of
total resources; the other 70% was provided through (a) medium-term and sight
deposits; and (b) financial facilities from public agencies, particularly
OPAT. The average cost of medium-term deposits and financial facilities is
high (over 5%), and the sight deposits (mainly from civil servants and compan-
ies) are characterized by rapid fluctuations and many small and costly move-
ments.  Rediscounting facilities are liimited to medium-term credit as long as
the BCEAO considers that local banks, taken as a whole, have enough deposits
to self-finance their short-term operations. Agricultural loans do not fit
with this concept, and CNCA has recently requested BCEAO to reconsider the
matter. If BCEAO agrees, CNCA would have more flexibility in planning its
lending program; but the cost of resources would still reflect BCEAO's redis-
count rate of 5.5%. Considering the Government's rural development policy,
CNCA will require growing resources. Some of these might come from growth of
deposits, through promotional efforts. The larger part would have to be
provided by the Government through increased equity; Government has promised
CFAF 200 million, and CFAF 100 million was paid in 1975 as a first installment.
8.        Lending Activities.  From 1967 to 1974 (September 30), roughly
CFAF 5 billion was lent on a short- and medium-term basis. Some 3% went to
seasonal production, and 9% for on-farm development loans. The bulk went into
marketing credits (73%); the remainder went for non-agricultural loans, 4% to
enterprises (private as well as public or semi-public) and 11% to individuals.
CFAF 840 million went to the five SORAD's for purchase of inputs (CFAF 202
million), equipment (CFAF 66 million), production marketing (CFAF 300 mil-
lion), and for special projects (CFAF 272 million).
9.        Prior to the recent reorganization, CNCA suffered from an inade-
quate credit policy, reflected in superficial appraisal of loans, and lack of
aggressiveness in loans recovery. As a result, as of August 31, 1975, arrears
amounted to CFAF 257 million, 23% of the portfolio. About 40% (CFAF 104
million) of arrears are on non-agricultural loans made to companies. Most of
the balance of CFAF 153 million is on loans to SORADs, mainly on fertilizer
debited to the SORAD at actual cost, under government instruction, whereas the
fertilizer had to be   sold to farmers at a subsidized price.  Measures to
balance the SORAD overdue accounts are under consideration by Government.
Reserves to cover arrears have been provided to the level of CFAF 69 million
(27% of arrears). Heavy losses however are expected for non-agricultural
loans.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
10.       The 1974 change in management, and the subsequent reorientation
toward the agricultural sector, have given CNCA a new lease on life. Non-
agricultural loans have been stopped; loans applications are being more
carefully appraised; and arrears are being followed up (CFAF 55 million
collected in 1975).
11.       Financial Position.  Liquid assets amounting to CFAF 220 million,
or 15% of total assets, and short-term assets of CFAF 837 million cover
more than twice short-term liabilities (CFAF 440 million). Fixed assets
(CFAF 61 million) and long- and medium-term assets (CFAF 299 million, including
net doubtful debts) are fully covered by CNCA's equity. Long-term resources
amount to CFAF 509 million.
12.       As indicated in para 7, it is rather unsound to finance short-term
operations with costly long- and medium-term resources. And it would appear
that as long as sight and saving deposits are relatively scarce in the country,
the best alternative is to substantially increase CNCA's equity.
13.       Financial Results.  Profits were declining prior to 1973, and
losses were incurred in 1974 and probably in 1975 (Table 3). The reasons
are the high cost of resources, fast growing general expenditures caused
by branch openings and personnel recruiting, and the unchanged rate of interest
on loans. A reversal of this trend is being pursued on four fronts: (a)
increasing CNCA's equity to lower the cost of resources, (b) controlling
general expenditures, (c) developing lending operations on a sound basis,
and (d) strengthening loan recovery operations. If necessary, a further step
would be to raise, by one or two points, the present rates of interest (7%
for production loans and 8% for marketing credits).
14.       Auditing.  In addition to the internal controls, CNCA is audited
once a year by the statutory Accounts Commissioner, who is the Director
of Budget in the Ministry of Finance, and CNCA is also subject to the inspection
of the Government Auditor General. As specified in the IDA financed Cocoa-
Coffee project, CNCA is audited by a firm of auditors of international stand-
ards which, with IDA agrement, also audits the project accounts.
B. Consultant Review of Organization and Finances
15.       One of the objectives of the Project Credut Unit (PCU) created under
Credit 503-TO (para 6) was to provide a training ground for CNCA staff that
would be later replicated in the CNCA operations throughout the country.
Provision was made under the credit for consultant services to (a) review the
procedures and structure of CNCA, in order to create the environment in which
the experience of PCU could be used; and (b) make recommendation on the
organization of PCU.
16.       The consultant review was carried out, and its recommendations
submitted, in 1975. With respect to the organization and finances of CNCA,
the main recommendations were:



ANNEX 2
Page 4
(a) CNCA should revert to its original purpose of granting credits
only to the agricultural sector, and all credits to commercial
concerns should be stopped;
(b) all loan applications and decisions thereupon should be made
by a loan committee having meetings at least once a month;
minutes of the meetings should be prepared and signed by all
members of the committee; and
(c) special consideration should be given to the administrative
expenses of CNCA with regard to personnel and further recruit-
ment should be stopped.
17.       CNCA has begun to implement these recommendations, by stopping
non-agricultural loans, and by creating a loan commitee. Regarding the
financial status and personnel expenses, the situation is being monitored
by supervision missions.
C.   Project Credit Agency (PCA)
18.       CNCA would be responsible for providing effective credit services to
the project through a Project Credit Agency (PCA) which would be set up for
that purpose. PCA would make recommendations to CNCA's Loan Committee regard-
ing project loans to farmers on the basis of (a) technical considerations and
advice of the Project Management, and (b) CNCA's financial criteria.
19.       Organization.  PCA's offices would be located in Tsevie, geographic
center of the Project area. All facilities would be located in premises built
by the project. The Director would be a credit specialist with prior exper-
ience in a similar position (see terms of reference, Annex 13). Other staff
would be his deputy, four credit assistants (one for each main Project area)
one accountant, four bookkeepers, one cashier, two secretaries, one driver,
one messenger. The Director, his deputy and the four credit assistants
would be provided with adequate transport facilities. The four credit assis-
tants would each cover one of the four major project areas: West of Tsevie,
around and north of Tsevie, Tabligbo (northeast of Tsevie) and the Vogan -
Aneho area in the eastern part of Maritime Region. The first two assistants
would be based in Tsevie, the third one in Tabligbo, and the fourth one in
Ganave (Aneho District), where SORAD Maritime already has a credit office
(Annex 1, para 11).
20.       Lending Purposes and Terms.  PCA would provide seasonal, medium-
and long-term credits to grower associations of about 7 to 15 members, for
procurement of inputs and equipment, and for land preparation in rainfed rice
areas. No cash credits would be extended. Instead, PCA would directly pay
the supplier for inputs and equipment, and thé Project's Rural Engineering
Service for the land preparation cost. Seasonal credit for inputs and land
preparation would not exceed 10 months, but an extension of two months would
be possible if justified by marketing circumstances. Medium-term credits for
equipment would be repayable in four annual installments. Long-term credit
would be made for inputs and equipment for coconut development, with a term of



ANNEX 2
Page 5
12 years including a grace period of seven years (the gestation period for
coconut plantings) during which interest would be capitalized. All loans
would carry an interest rate of 8% p.a. In addition, a commission of 3%
would be levied on all loans to: (a) cover the statutory guarantee require-
ments of CNCA (1%), and (b) build guarantee funds for the PCA and the grower
associations (1% each). Thus the effective interest would be slightly more
than 11% for medium- and long-term loans and over 13% for most seasonal
credits. These terms and conditions are consistent with arrangements made
under the cocoa/ coffee project (Credit 503-TO).
21.       Loans would be made to individual members of each group, with a
collective guarantee of repayment. PCA's credit assistant would study each
applicant's farming plan, and apply criteria related to financing require-
ments and repayment ability, applicants debts, farm budget, and family liv-
ing needs. After annotating the application with his comments and recommen-
dations, the credit assistant would submit it for a final recommendation
before presentation to the CNCA Loan Committee for decision.
22.       After approval of each credit, PCA would announce the decision
to the grower associations'leader. Documentation would be completed and
signed by both parties. The Input Supply Unit, on the evidence of delivery
orders issued by PCA, would deliver the corresponding inputs and/or equip-
ment to the grower association leader against acknowledgement of a receipt
signed by him. A copy of this receipt would be sent to PCA.
23.       Farming activities would be supervised and guided throughout the
credit period by project extension officers. PCA, through its credit assis-
tants, would be kept informed of each group's credit repayment prospects.
One month before the harvest, PCA would remind borrowers of the date of
their credit repayments. Close cooperation between the project extension
officers and PCA credit assistants would minimize the amount of default.
While repayment would be collectively guaranteed, the main guarantee of
loan recovery would be careful evaluation of credit-worthiness, subsequent
credit supervision, and pressure on borrowers at the time of harvest and
marketing of crops financed. Should one member of the group fail to repay
his loan when due, no loan would be made to the group until (a) the loan in
default had been fully collected in principal and interest; or (b) extension
of the due date had been arranged for the principal, provided interest due
is paid in cash.
24.       Credit Documents and Records.  A credit agreement would specify
conditions and terms of each credit, and would be signed by all farmers in
the association. For medium- and long-term loans, the agreement would
include the loan repayment schedules for principal and interest.
25.       The record system and procedures developed for the cocoa-coffee
project (credit) would be adapted to the proposed project, and no difficul-
ties are expected. Briefly, files would reveal the credit position, in
principal and interest, for each grower association as a whole and for each
member. There would be separate sets of records for seasonal and for medium



ANNEX 2
Page 6
(or long) term loans. Loans applications would be registered chronologi-
cally in number and amount and classified by term and category or purposes;
loans approved would also be registered and classified in like manner. Min-
utes of CNCA Loan Committee meetings would be signed by committee members.
Decisions on loans would be supported by comments.
26.       Financing Project Credit.  A revolving fund established in CNCA
would be used to finance procurement by the Project Input Supply Unit and
would receive reimbursements form IDA, FAC, and Government for the cost of
incremental inputs, repayments from farmers, and Government subsidies to
cover the difference between the actual cost of inputs and the prices
charged by farmers. When repayments are collected from the farmers, CNCA
would reimburse the revolving fund for the principal of the credit retaining
the 8% interest for its services in administering the credit as well as the
3% commission for the various guarantee funds.
27.       In the case of medium- and long-term credits, CNCA would advance
the required amounts from its own resources, for which reimbursement would
then be claimed from Government, FAC and IDA.  Because of the high cost
of establishing the PCA relative the initial volume of credit (in part due
to the artificially low prices of seasonal inputs) and because of the gen-
eral need to increase CNCA's equity, funds to cover investment and operating
costs in the project period would be passed on to CNCA as a grant; funds to
finance medium and long term credit would be on-lent to CNCA at 5.5% for a
term of 15 years including 7 years of grace.
28.       Accounts and Auditing Requirements.  In addition to individual
and group accounts, CNCA would be expected to maintain separate accounts
for medium- and long-term credits, for PCA investment and operating ex-
penses, and for each of the three guarantee funds. PCA would be subject
to continuous CNCA internal inspection and the audit of the independent
auditing firm which, in agreement with Government, FAC and IDA, would audit
project; including project credit accounts.



TOGO
MARITIME REGION RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CAISSE NATIONALE DE CREDIT AGRICOLE (CNCA)
BALANCE SHEETS
(Bilans)
(CFAF '000)
as of                                                                                      as of
ASSETS (ACTIF)                     9/30/1972   9/30/1973   9/30/1974    8/31/75            LIABILITIES (PASSIF)               9/30/72      9/30/73     9/30/74       8/31/75
FIXED ASSETS (ACTIF IMMOBILISE)                                                            OWN  RESOURCES (RESSOURCES PROPRES)
Land 1/ (Terrain)                            3,211       3,211        3,211    3,211        Capital   (Capital)                      258,000      283,011     308,000       333,000
Buildings 1f (Constructions)                 8,961       16,692      32,504   34,584         Governt. grant (Dotation du Gouvernement)                                      100,000
Reserves                                 24,938       62,910      65,037        55,925
Furniture-vehicles-equipment 1/              4,478       15,204      14,939   22,557         Provisions                               26,399            -            -       17,414
(Mob ilier-vehicules -equipment)
Participation (Titre de Participation).       475          475         475      475
17,125      35,582      51,129   60,827                                                 309,337      345,921     373,037       506,339
LONG & MEDIUM TERM ASSETS (ACTIF REALISABLE A MOYEN ET LONGTERME)                           LONG & MEDIUM TERM LIABILITIES (EXIGIBLE A MOYEN ET LONG TERME)
Long term loans (Prets a long terme)        5,470       10,579      29,553   45,586        Advances & special deposits              350,000      336,689                   386,923
(Avances et depots speciaux)
Medium term loans (Prets a moyen terme)   68.907        77,376      66.875   65.447         Long & medium term deposits              69.043      _ _          619,296      121.941
74,377      87,955      96,428  111,033             (Depots a long et moyen terme)       419,043     336,689      619,296      508,864
DOUBTFUL LOANS (CREANCES DOUTEUSES)  86606         101500      257547      257547
LESS PROVISIONS                -13605         -40217      -69702      -69702
73.001      ÉLa283     187.845  187,845
147,378     149,238     284,273  298,878
SIIORT TERM ASSETS (ACTIF REALISABLE A COURT TERME)                                         SHORT TERM LIABILITIES (EXIGIBLE A COURT TERME)
Short term loans (Prets a court terme)   385,559      455,467      512,846  730,103         Sight and savings deposits               71,640      455,321      179,360      352,687
(Depots a vue et d'epargne)
Payable accounts (crediteurs divers)    31,485        14,376      38,323        87,418
Receivable accounts (debiteurs divers)   109,259      424,470      107,895  107,210
494,818     879,937     620,741  837,313                                                  103,125     469,697      217,683       440,105
LIOUID ASSETS (ACTIF DISPONIBLE)           184,136       89,190     227,147  219,793
RESULTS (RESULTATS)                           -            -         26,726   38,4972/      RESULTS (RESULTATS)                        11,952       1,640         -             -
843,457    1153,947    1210,016 1455,308                                                  843,457   1153,947      1210,016      1455,308
1/ Net accounting value. (Valeur comptable nette)
2/  provisional.  Includes losses 1973/1974 brought forward for 27,107 in the trial balance as of 8/31/75.                                                                                   aN
(Provisoire - y dompris perte exercice 1973/74 reportees pour 27,107 sur la balance au 31/8/75.
H r



TOGO
MARITIME REGION RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CAISSE NATIONALE DE CREDIT AGRICOLE (<RA)
TRADING ACCOUNT (compte d'exploitation)
(CFAF '000)
9/30/72      9/30/73      9/30/74    8/11/75
9/30/1972    9/30/1973   9/30/1974   8/31/75
EXPENDITURES  (Depenses)                                                                  EARNINCS  (Revenus)
Staff (Personnel)                   13,770       18,139       33,122     38,366           Interest on loans                   32,630                    78,382      56,106
(interets percus sur prets)                     75,257
Operating-maintenance expenses        5,514         9,496      20,102     22,770           Interest on Deposits with Bannks     8,939                     6,749      13,899
(Frais d'exploitation et                                                                   (interets percus sur depots
entretien)                                                                           en Banques)
Financial charges                    17,290       18,693       29,674     32,774          Miacellaneous (Divers)               15,899         7,544       8,846       8,948
(charges financieres).
Depreciation (Amortissement)          1,497        3,474        8,535
Previsions                            7,764       31,922       29,485
Gross profit (profit brut)           11,633        1,077          -          -             Gross loss (perte brute)               -             -        26,941      14,9571/
57,468       82,801     120,918      93,910                                              57,468        82,801      120,918     93,910
PROFIT & LSS ACCOUNT
(compte-de pertes et profits)
Gross loss (perte brute)                -             -        26,941     14,957          Gross profit (profit brut)           11,633         1,077         -            -
Exceptional Profits                     319           563        195          499
(profit exceptionel)
Profit on Previous years operation:
(profit sur operation des annees anterieures)                    20        1,533
Profit previous years pending appropriation                                  1,535
(profit en instance d'affectation)
Net profit (profit net)              11,952         1,640                    -            Net loss (perte nette)                 -             -         26,72/   11,3901/
11,952        1,640      26,941      14,957                                               11,952        1,640       26,941      14,957
1/ Provisional
Z/ Has been brought forward for 27,107 in the trial balance as of 8/31/1975
(a ete reportee pour 27.107 sur la balance au 31/8/75).
o) M)



TOGO
MARITIME REGION RURAL DEVELOFMENT PROJECT
CAISSE NATIONALE DE CREDIT ACRIOeLE
PROJECT CREDIT CASH FIOW
(CFAF Millions)
1976     1977      1978     1979      1980     1981      1982     1983      1984      1985     1986      1987     1988      1989      1990     1991      1992
I. BASIC CASH FIOW
A. Sources of Funds
Govern,ent Grant                        21.7     32.4      34.3     35.2      44.8      20.9      -         -        -         -         _        -         _        _         _         _        _
Government Loan                          -       15.5      27.0     58.3      70.9      69.8      -         -        -
Farmer Repayments
Seasoual Loans                        -       10.0      29.7     87.8    147.3    181.5    243.5    283.8    312.9    362.6    388.0    415.1    444.2    475.3    508.6    544.1    582.1
Medium-trem Lans                     -        4.4      11.4     27.0      45.1     57.0      50.0     34.4      16.3            -        -         -             -         -         -        -
Loug-term Loans                       -        -         -        -         -        -         -        -         0.5       2.3      5.8      11.0    l1.1       17.6      15.7     12.3       7.1
Subtotal                        -        14.4     41.1    114.8    192.4    238.5    293.5    318.2    329.7    364.9    393.8    426.1    462.3    492.9    524.3    556.4    589.2
Guarantee Funds
CNCA                                  -        0.2       0.6      1.4       2.1      2.4       2.3      2.6       2.9       3.4      3.6       3.8      4.1       4.4       4.7      5.0       5.4
Project                               -        0.2       0.6      1.4       2.1       2.4      2.3      2.6       2.9       3.4       3.6      3.8       4.1      4.4       4.7       5.0      5.4
Farmerts Groups                       -        0.2       0.6      1.4       2.1       2.4      2.3      2.6       2.9       3.4       3.6      3.8       4.1      4.4       4.7       5.0      5.4
TOTAL SOURCES                  21.7      62.9    104.2    212.5    314.4    336.4    300.4    326.0    338.4    375.1    404.6    437.5    474.6    506.1    538.4    571.4    605.4
B. Applications of Funds
Buildings                             2.5      8.0       -         -        -         -        0.6      0.6       0.6       0.7      0.7       0.8       0.8      0.9       1.0       1.0      1.1
Vehicles snd Equipment                6.6      0.7       1.8       -        7.2       -        1.5      1.6       1.8       1.9       2.0      2.1       2.3      2.5       2.6       2.8      3.0
Personnel                             8.7     19.3       6.8     29.0      31.0     13.8      14.8     15.9      17.1      18.2     19.5      20.9      22.4     23.9      25.6     27.4      29.3
Other Operating Costs                 5 9      4.4       5.7      6.2       6.6      7.1       7.5       8.1      8.6      943        9.9     10.6      11.3     12.1      13.0      13.9     14.9
Subtotal                       21.7      32.4     34.3      35.2     44.8      20.9     24.4      26.2      28.1     30.1      32.1      34.4     36.8      39.4     42.2      45.1      48.3
Nominal Medium-term Loans                -        14.7     23.2      31.5     60.0      54.1      -         -        -         -         -        -         -         -        -         -         -
Nominal Long-term Loans                  -         1.2      4.7       8.6     13.1      17.8      -         -        -         -         -         -        -         -        -         -         -
Repayments te Revolving Fund             -         9.0     26.7      78.9    132.3    163.1    218.7    254.9    281.0    325.7    348.5    372.9    399.0    426.9    456.8    488.7    522.8
Guarantee Funds for Seasonal Inputs    -           0.3      0.8       2.4      4.1       5.0      6.8       7.9      8.7      10.1      10.8     11.5      12.3      13.2     14.1      15.1      16.2
Debt Service on Goverement Loan          -        0.4       1.6       3.9      7.5      11.4     13.3      13.3     38.1      38.1      38.1     38.1      38.1      38.1               38.1       -
TOTAL APPLICATIONS             21.7      58.0     91.3    160.5    261.8    272.3    263.2    302.3    355.9    404.0    429.5    456.9    486.2    517.6    551.2    587.0    587.3
Cash Plow Annual                         -        4.9      12.9     52.0      52.6      64.1     37.2      23.7    (17.5)   (28.9)   (24.9)   (19.4)   (11.6)   (11.5)   (12.8)   (15.6)    18.1
Cumulative                    -         4.9     17.8      69.8    122.4    186.5    223.7    247.4    229.9    201.0    176.1    156.7    145.1    133.6    120.8    105.2    123.3
Il. REVOLVING FOND
A. Sources
Governuent Grant                        30.0      13.0     28.8      53.7     59.7      55.6      -         -        -         -         -        -         -         -        -         -         -
Farmer Repayments                        -         9.0     26.7      78.9    132.3    163.1    218.7    254.9    281.0    325.7    348.5    372.9    399.0    426.9    456.8    488.7    522.8
Gvernrment Subsidy  2/                   -        4.0      15.9      19.9     31.0      60.5     20.5       1.1      -         -         -        -         -         -         -        -         -
TOTAL                          30.0      26.0     71.4    152.5    223.0    279.2    239.2    256.0    281.0    325.7    348.5    372.9    399.0    426.9    456.8    488.7    522.8
B. Applications
Input Purchasea                          -       13.0      42.6     98.8    163.3    223.5    239.2    256.0    273.9    293.0    313.6    335.5    359.0    384.1    411.0    439.8    470.5
Supply Unit  3/                          -        -         -         -        -         -        -         -        7.1      32.7      34.9     37.4      40.0     42.8      45.8      48.9      52.3
TOTAL                           -        13.0     42.6      98.8    163.3    223.5    239.2    256.0    281.0    325.7    348.5    372.9    399.0    426.9    456.8    488.7    522.8
Cash Flb  Annual                        30.0     14.0      28.8      53.7     59.7      55.7      -         -        -         -         -        -         -         -        -         -      2        .
Cumulative                   30.0      44.0     72.8    126.5    186.2    241.9    241.9    241.9    241.9    241.9    241.9    241.9    241.9    241.9    241.9    241.9                .9
1/    Curreut prince, using inflation factors as indicated in Anuex 14, Table 1.                                                                                                                             t| 
2/    Assuming producer price increases by 107. per year beginning in 1978.
3/    Producer price begins te cover distribution costs in 1984, with full coverage fren 1985, at whihc tins, Revolving Fund could be dissolved.






TOGO
MARITIME REGION RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CNCA
ORGANIZATION CHART
1. HEAD OFFICE
BOARD OF
DIRE CTORS
LOAN COMMITTEE 1
GENERAL
MANAGER
[     GENERAL CT|NSECRETARIAT
LOAN COLLECTION                  ADMINISTRATION               NCE
CREDIT        ~~~AND                           ANDOC
LEGAL ACTION                     PERSONNELDANACCOA NT
LOME                ATKPAME                SOKODE              LAMA-KARA              DAPANGO
BRANCH              BRNCH                  BRANCH              BRANCH                 BRANCH
Il. 8RANCH
|  BRAC          |
MANAE
|  CASH   l       l    COUNTER                         ACCOUNTS                  CREDIT
-collection              -reception                      -clients                 -control of
-disbursement             of clients                      accounts                  credit
-opening of                    -statements of             application
accounts                        accounts                -preliminary
credit
study
World Bank 15739






ANNEX 3
Page 1
TOGO
MARITIME REGION RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
THE PROJECT AREA
Location
1.        The project area comprises with the Maritime region, the southern-
most region of Togo (Mag 11885). It occupies a roughly rectangular block be-
tween latitudes 6 °nd 6  50' North, and longitudes 0° 409 and 1  50' East.
It covers 6,100 km , or nearly 11% of the total area of the country. It
faces the Gulf of Benin along its southern boundary, a stretch of 50 km
between Ghana and Benin, with Lome (population of 233,000) located at the
Western end of coast.
Population
2.        The population of the Maritime region is 806,000 (1l74) and is ex-
pected to reach 1 million by 1980. Population density per km ranges from
25 in the north, to as high as 200 in the depleted coastal sediment area.
Some two-thirds of the population is rural; 50% is less than 14 years of age;
and among the adults the ratio of women to men is 1.35. The rural population
increases at an estimated yearly rate of 2.7%, the urban population at
4.5%.
3.        According to a 1973-74 survey, the rural population is distributed
over 59,600 farms, with each household made up of an average of 7.7 members,
of which 5 are active. There are three major ethnic groups: (a) the Ewe
(40%) mainly west of the Haho river and in the Tsevie district; (b) the
Ouatchi (29%) in the Tabligbo, Aneho and Vogan districts; and (c) the Mina
(15%) in the south of the Aneho and Vogan districts.  While the Ewe and
Ouatchi women participate in agricultural operations, the Mina women are
traders.
4.        Administration.  Each of the five districts of the region (Lome,
Tabligbo, Tsevie, Aneho, Vogan) is headed by an administrator (chef de cir-
conscription) who has administrative and political responsibilities.  He is
assisted by a district council made up of village and "canton" chiefs. The
district administrators are responsible to the central governnent; there is
no administrative structure at the regional level.
Ecological Characteristics (Map 11886)
5.        Climate.  The average annual rainfall increases from 850 mm along
the coast to over 1,200 mm in the Northwest. During the long rainy season
from mid-March to mid-July, the average rainfall ranges from 600 mm to 750 mm;
for the short rainy season, from mid-July to mid-November, the averages range
from 230 to 450 mm.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
6.        Rainfall is the main determinant of agriculture in the project
area. It is estimated that maize and rainfed rice can produce satisfactory
yields when the monthly rainfall levels (R) are more than half the evapotrans-
piration levels (ETP). The following table shows the rainfall probabilities
for Tabligbo and Tsevie, in the productive coastal plateau belt, in terms of
net water budgets (rainfall R vs evapotranspiration ETP) for various lengths
of the rainy season.
Length of rainy season (days)
above 90       60-90      less than 60
----------- % probability -----------
long season   R > ETP          Tab         31          34               35
Tse        51           26               23
ETP > R > ETP/2  Tab          69           31               0
Tse        46           54               O
short season  R > ETP          Tab         10           10              80
Tse          6           9              85
ETP > R > ETP/2  Tab          42           28              30
Tse         35          41               24
While no such data are available for the depleted coastal plateau of the south-
east, the probability of occurrence of rainfall deficits is higher there than
in other parts of the project area. Taking an average long season of 90 days,
it is expected that the yield index for maize and rainfed rice would be af-
fected by the water regime as follows:
water regime       R > ETP       ETP > R > ETP/2        ETP/2 > R
yield index        1.35               1.00                 0.50
On average, the yield index for the short season is 0.80 compared to the index
for the long season. Usually the north enjoys a reliable long season and a
relatively reliable short season; the center has a fairly reliable long season
and an unreliable short season; and the south has a fairly unreliable long
season and a risky short season.
7.        Where rainfall is scarce maximum use should be made of the available
rains. Techniques designed to accomplish this purpose, minimum tillage and
mulching would be tested under the project (Annex 5). The project would also
encourage the adoption of short-cycle, drought-escaping crops such as ground-
nuts and cowpeas for upland rainfed farming. Lowland cropping under natural
flooding or controlled irrigation would be promoted in the valleys.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
8.        Hydrology.  Three main rivers cross the project area.  The Zio to
the west has a flow rangig from a maximum of 80 m /sec during the monsoon
(June-July) to a minimum of 0.248 m /sec in the dr! season (February-March).
The Haho river in the center has a maximum of 50 m /sec and a minimum of zero.
T5e Mono which marks the bouniary with Benin in the east has a maximum of 800
m /sec and a minimum of 0.8 m /second. A continuous groundwater table, with
depth increasing towards the south, ensures a satisfactory domestic water
supply in the coastal plateau, but the groundwater supply in the crystalline
rocks of the savannah is spotty, and the local populations in that zone have
to rely on rainwater storage during the dry season.
9.        Vegetation.  The vegetation consists mostly of a wooded savannah
which is dominated by volunteer stands of oil palm. Stands of oil palm cover
some 10,000 ha along the Mono river, 8,000 ha in the Vogan area, and 12,000 ha
to the north of Tabligbo. The tree vegetation becomes sparse in the depleted
soil area of the Southeast, and becomes thicker to the north which receives
more rain. A relatively dense forest is found occasionally along the main
streams. The depressions and valleys are covered with a grass prairie (prima-
rily Andropogon sp.)
10.       Soils.  The savannah soils overlie the basement complex made up
of acid crystalline formations, primarily migmatite and gneiss. They are
mostly leached ferruginous tropical soils, poor in nitrogen and phosphorus,
with a sandy to sandy clay texture, and depth limited by the underlying rock
or a ferruginous crust. There are local variations: in the West-Northwest
the sandy and hydromorphic character of the soils limit their development
potential; in the East-Northeast (Yoto area) relatively good soils with medium
texture offer good development potential; in the central area (Agbelouve-
Assahoum) productive red sandy clays can be found in spots, and the valley
bottoms are suitable for rainfed rice. The coastal plateau soils (terres de
barre) developed on sedimentary sands and clays are red ferrallitic, deep,
with a sandy to silty texture in the top layer, and a higher clay content at a
depth of 20-40 cm; they are low in nitrogen and potassium, but well supplied
with phosphorus in areas overlying phosphate-rich sediments. Because of their
good structure and depth, they are highly productive, and considered to be
among the most productive of West Africa. The depleted coastal plateau soils
(terres de barre degradees) coincide with high population density (200 per
km2). The heavy pressure on the land has resulted in a drastic reduction or
the abandonment of fallowing, and a depletion of the fertility reserves
brought about by losses of clay, org.anic matter and nutrients through over-
cropping and erosion. To make matters worse, the area of depleted soils
coincides with the area subject to the lowest and most erratic rainfall in the
region (para 6). The vertisols and hydromorphic soils of the Lama depression
are dark, deep soils, poorly drained, with a high clay content, and good
levels of organic matter, nitrogen, and calcium; they developed on marl and
limestone. Because of the expanding type clay, they harden in blocks during
the dry season, and become sticky during the wet season. They have an ex-
cellent productive potential, but two main constraints have to be overcome:
poor drainage and poor tilth. The soils of the alluvial valleys overlying



ANNEX 3
Page 4
alluvial deposits are deep with varying texture, but frequently containing
30-50% clay, which makes them suitable for rice; towards the sea some of these
soils are affected by salinity. The soils of the coastal deposits (sea or
lagoon) have a deep profile, a high sand content with low fertility on marine
deposits, and a high clay content and good fertility on lacustrine deposits;
all have a high water table; the sandy soils are well suited to coconuts;
vegetables are grown on these soils near Lome; the lacustrine soils have a
limited potential because of their salinity.
Farming Systems
11.       Size of farm families.  Traditional agriculture is largely limited
to rainfed crops on upland soils. According to the 1973-74 survey by the
agricultural statistical services, the area cropped annually (including double
cropping) is higher on average in the North (1.7 - 2 ha in Tsevie-Tabligbo)
than in the South wlth a higher population (1.1 - 1.3 ha in Lome, Aneho and
Vogan districts).
12.       Sources of farm income.  Besides field crops, farmers derive extra
income from oil palms (oil and wine) in the South, and coffee in the West and
North. They also derive extra income from animals (cattle, sheeps and goats,
hogs and poultry). In the densely populated areas where the crop production
is marginal for family needs, additional income is secured by employment of
family members in the cities and the trading activities of the women. Farm-
ers in the coastal zone derive a good portion of their income from fishing
in the lagoons.
13.       Cropping Patterns.  Bush fallowing has long disappeared in the
depleted area, and has largely disappeared in recent years in the coastal
plateau belt, except for the northeastern tip, but still extends for 5 to 10
years in the more sparsely populated zones of the North. Throughout the proj-
ect area, maize represents over 80%, and cassava 10% of the cropped area. Of
the areas under mixed cropping maize interplanted with cassava represents 80%.
The traditional cropping patterns would not be significantly changed by the
project, except for the expansion of cotton in the North, of groundnuts and
cowpeas throughout the region, and of lowland rice and some vegetables in the
valleys.
14.       Farm operations are spread over the two rainy seasons.  Soil prepa-
ration is carried out in February-March after the soil has been softened by
the first rains. Depending on the rain, maize seeding occurs between early
March and early May. Cassava interplanting follows two-three weeks after
maize seeding. The heaviest demand on farm labor occurs in July-August, when
the harvest of maize and other crops coincides with soil preparation and
seeding of crops for the short rainy season. The project would stress long-
season over short-season crops to avoid an increased demand in labor during
the peak period, and would promote minimum tillage if its efficiency can be
confirmed under local conditions.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
15.       Land Tenure.  South Togo has a complex land tenure system as a
result of interactions between different traditional system, the adminis-
trative changes effected by the colonial regime, and the effect of popu-
lation pressure in the South. There is a gradual switch from community
to individual ownership, especially in the South. Tenant farming is im-
portant in the overpopulated area of the South (40% of the areas in the
Lome and Aneho districts), but not in the North (Tabligbo district). A
reform of the tenant-owner arrangments is under study by the government;
it would promote agricultural development by giving more security to tenant
farmers. Overall land tenure is not expected to present a constraint to
the project.
ProsDects for Agricultural Development
16.       Filling the food gap.  The region is a net importer of food.  Accord-
ing to a 1973-74 survey by the Ministry of Rural Economy, the Maritime region
has an annual net deficit of some 25,000 tons of maize, 25,000 tons of yam and
1,500 tons of cowpeas. Although these figures are only indicative, they sug-
gest that the demand for the main food crops (except cassava) should provide
an adequate incentive for farmers to increase food production, through a better
utilization of available resources.
17.       Rehabilitation of depleted soils.  It is unlikely that the popula-
tion pressure in the South can be significantly eased through resettlement
(para 18 below). Measures can be taken to ease the situation by promoting
known improved practices. Simultaneously an experimental program is urgently
needed to develop the technology needed to break the vicious circle of soil
depletion and increasing population pressure. Such a program would be car-
ried out under the proposed project. Parallel to this effort, action is
required in the productive coastal plateau area to prevent depletion which
could occur as the result of population pressure and the disappearance of
bush fallowing.
18.       Resettlement.  The sparsely populated areas of the savannah have soil
resources that offer some scope for resettlement. Some spontaneous settlement
is taking place along newly opened tracks. Spontaneous migration to the North
and West is taking place from the overpopulated Aneho-Vogan areas, but in the
savannah area most of the settlers come from the northern regions of Togo.
The major constraints to settlement in the North are: (a) the lack of roads;
(b) the absence of reliable groundwater resources in the savannah, and the
absence of wells in the coastal sediment zone, and (c) the occurrence of
riverblindness in certain areas. Details on the infrastructure situation and
the infrastructure component of the project are at Annex 10.
19.       Valley Development.  The valleys have a good potential for rainfed
rice. they are subject to two monsoon rains with a total aveaging 1,000 mean
yearly. This would be developed by the project (Annex 4). While large
areas of valley soil are suitable for irrigated agriculture, there is a
limited supply of water (para. 8). The total irrigation potential for double
cropping of rice in the Zio valley is about 600 ha with direct pumping without



ANNEX 3
Page 6
storage. The feasibility of a dam has been identified for the Zio, to irri-
gate 7,000 ha. For the Mono river, feasibility studies have been carried out
for a double-purpose dam providing both power and irrigation. The dam would
enable Togo to irrigate some 12,000 ha on its side of-the Mono river valley.
Without the dam the irrigation potential for double cropping is about 300 ha
on the Togo side. The possibility exists for gravity irrigation in the valleys
for single cropping during the flood season. The project would carry out an
engineering study for the development of such a scheme over 1,000 ha in the
lower Zio valley (Details at Annex 11). The proposed project would also
promote small scattered irrigation schemes along the valleys for vegetable
production, using hand irrigation methods.



ANNEX 4
Page 1
TOGO
MARITIME REGION RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FARM AND CROP DEVELOPMENT
1.        Technical data on agricultural production in the Maritime region
have been developed through the field experience of the SORAD Maritime, the
work of the research stations, the FAO fertilizer program, and the rehabili-
tation program for depleted soils ("operation regeneration des terres de
barre degradees"). The existing information has already been put to use by
SORAD in programs of technical improvements, but further research would be
needed to further improve production techniques, and research is crucial to
develop effective production techniques in the depleted coastal plateau. This
annex deals with the main crops of the project area, current practices, and
the proposed technological improvements under the project (coconut is treated
separately in Annex 9).
Maize
2.        Background.  Maize occupies more than three quarters of the
cropped area in the region. While it is grown mostly as a single crop in
the North, it is intercropped with cassava in the coastal plateau. Inter-
cropping does not interfere with maize growth, for cassava is planted some
three weeks after maize seeding, and does not compete with maize. Some
intercropping with groundnuts or cowpeas is also practiced.
3.        Traditional Practices.  Traditionally farmers prepare the soil by
weeding with a hand hoe (daba) and burning the weeds; in the depleted area,
however, the practice of burning has largely disappeared. The seeds are
planted in hills with each hill planted with several seeds, up to a dozen.
Because the hills are so widely spaced, and because wishing to minimize the
risks of crop failure, farmers are extremely reluctant to thin out their
stands; the result is that the plants fail to develop optimally because of
competition, while the overall plant population remains well below optimum.
4.        Varieties.  Niaouli 7, a strain developed in Dahomey, has
been replacing the local varieties. A hybrid (Niaouli 7 X ATC) with a
cycle of 100-110 days has been released by the research station and seed
is produced and distributed by SORAD. According to IRAT the hybrid yields
15-30% more than the local populations for Fl, and 15-20% more for F2.
Consequently F2 seed is distributed to farmers. It has been well ac-
cepted by farmers, especially in the South, because of its productivity
and taste. The combination of a modest yield increase and ready accept-
ance by the population makes this hybrid attractive, keeping in mind
that highly productive hybrids have been rarely accepted in West Africa
because of taste. It is susceptible to blight and rust, but there is
no data on the effect of these pests on production. The IRAT trials
suggest that NH2 and a hybrid (NH1 X Mexico 18 with a 116-day cycle)
show better disease resistance and give higher yields. Subject to



ANNEX 4
Page 2
confirmation by ongoing trials by IRAT, their production would be promoted
under the project. In the more humid North, a variety maturing in 120-121
days would need to be developed.
5.        Recommended Improvements.  The package of improved practices al-
ready successfully extended by SORAD would be promoted on a larger scale
under the project. They consist of:
(a)  refraining from burning vegetation in the North when the
land is prepared;
(b) using F2 hybrid seed of ATCx Niaouli;
(c) treating the seed with an insecticide/fungicide mixture
(25% TMD and 25% heptachlor) at the rate of 2 kg per
ton of seed;
(d) seeding early, with an adequate plant population: 40,000
per ha (80 x 30 cm spacing, which requires 20 kg of seed)
in pure stands, 33,000 per ha (100 x 30) intercropped with
cassava or cowpeas, 16,500 (200 x 30) intercropped with
groundnuts;
(e) in the absence of fallow, or fertilized cotton in the rota-
tion fertilizing the long-season crop at the rate of 30-30-30
(kg/ha) in the form of urea, rock phosphate, and potassium
chloride, with N and K sidedressed after successful emergence
of the crop;
(f) two to three careful weedings, beginning two weeks after emer-
gence;
(g) where justified by the level of production, treating the crop
with 2% Bromophos at the rate of 1 kg per ton of crop in the
husk, to avoid storage losses.
6.        In the Savannah, where there are reasonable chances for a favor-
able short season, the improved techniques would be promoted for both sea-
sons. However, there would be no mixed cropping and no fertilization for
the short season. In the depleted coastal plateau, improvements would be
limited to maize grown during the long season which is more favorable; ef-
fective soil management techniques remain to be tested.
7.        Yields.  Current yields with traditional management range from
200 to 800 (kg/ha of shelled grain). Under intercropping with cassava or
cowpeas, yields average 80% of those under pure cropping. Maize inter-
cropped with groundnuts give half the yields achieved under pure cropping.
In research plots, yields reach over 4,000 kg/ha in the North, and 2,000
ha in the depleted area. Yields achieved by farmers under the FAO fer-
tilizer program have reached over 3,000 kg in the North, and 1,500 kg in
the South. Under the project the best farmers can be expected to produce



ANNEX 4
Page 3
2,000 kg per ha in the North. A realistic objective for the average proj-
ect farmer would be 600 to 1,600 kg/ha depending on the area and season
(detailed breakdown in Table 1).
Cassava
8.        Background.  Cassava occupies one-third to two-fifths of the
cropped area of the region, with its importance in the cropping pattern
and the diet increasing from North to South. Cassava is also grown in the
Aneho-Vogan area for the starch plant at Ganave. The crop is usually inter-
cropped with maize and occupies the soil for about one year. The two main
varieties tested by IRAT at the Davie station near Tsevie are Goula (12
months) and Kataouli (18 months). Both have a high starch content; in this
respect Kataouli has a slight edge over Goula, but Goula gives slightly higher
yields of tuber because of the longer cycle. Both have limited resistance to
mosaic and are susceptible to bacterial blight. Growers plant cassava cut-
tings between the rows of maize, mainly during the long season a few weeks
after emergency of this crop. The crop is weeded three or four times, and
harvesting begins 10 months after planting.
9.        Recommended Improvements.  Under the project cassava planting
would be linked to the main rainy season. The research station is testing
a new clone labeled 312-524, which yields 50% more than the traditional var-
ieties, covers the soil for 12-14 months, and has better mosaic resistance.
This clone would be introduced to farmers as the planting material becomes
available. Other high yielding, disease resistant clones are being devel-
oped by IITA in Nigeria. The main improvement promoted by the project would
be an adequate plant population (10,000 per ha). While the FAO fertilizer
program has shown that fertilization was not profitable on cassava, the crop
under the project would benefit from the residual and side effects of fertil-
izer applied to maize and other crops in the rotation.
10.       Yields.  The slight improvements just described would enable proj-
ect farmers to achieve modest yield increases from the present averages of
5-6 ton/ha to 6-8 ton/ha. With the introduction of new clones now under
testing and of new soil management techniques to be tested by the project,
yields could reach an average of 9 tons.
Groundnuts
11.       Background.  While groundnuts play a minor role in the cropping
pattern of the project area (some 1,800 ha), the crop has a good potential
for expansion, because of its adaptation to the local environment, its poten-
tial for soil improvement, and its prospects as a source of cash and high
protein food. Groundnut can be used as a pure crop, or intercropped with
maize. It can be grown during the long season throughout the region, and
during the short season in the northern areas. To avoid failure during the
short season, the crop must be sown as soon as the rain begins, so that it
can be harvested before the soil hardens at the end of the season.



ANNEX 4
Page 4
12.       Varieties.  The local varieties are low yielding, a characteristic
which may account for the lack of popularity of this crop. Variety trials
have shown that the short-cycle (100 days) Spanish-type variety labeled 55-
437 is well adapted to the rainfall regimes of the area. It is nondormant,
and susceptible to rosette (but the incidence of the disease is limited in
the area); because of its good resistance to Aspergillus flavus, the danger
of aflatoxin contamination is minimal. This variety has beeen shown in
research plots to yield 1,500 kg/ha with 300 mm of rain, and 1,000 kg with
200 mm. According to recent results, another variety, 61-24, may have a
slight edge over 55-437 with respect to yields.
13.       Recommended Improvements.  The project would promote the extension
of groundnuts intercropped with maize or as a pure crop. The package of im-
proved practices would include: (a) introducing 55-437, and later 61-24 if
its superiority is confirmed; (b) treating the seed with an insecticide-
fungicide mixture; (c) seeding in rows 40 cm apart, with spacing of 15 cm
in the row to give a plant population of 160,000 per ha (or four rows 40 cm
apart alternating with a row of maize giving 128,000 plants per ha in mixed
cropping); (d) fertilization for the long season with 100 kg of ground rock
phosphate, and under intensive cropping, 30 kg of urea.
14.       Yields.  Present yields of unshelled nuts are 400-650 kg/ha (pure
crop basis). Experience shows that yields levels can be raised by the proj-
ect to 600-1,000 kg/ha (Table 1). For groundnut intercropped with maize,
yields would average 80% of those of pure stands.
Cowpeas
15.       Background.  Cowpeas occupy 2,000-3,000 ha in the Maritime region,
or about 4% of the cultivated area. The crop can grow during the short as
well as the long season (except in the drier South where the short season is
risky); it is traditionally associated with other crops and grown on limited
areas. Cowpeas have a potential similar to that of groundnut in the project
area, for similar reasons: adaptation to drought, soil improvement, high
protein content, assured market and favorable prices. In 1975 SORAD intro-
duced cowpea as a relay crop for rainfed lowland rice: the crop is seeded
immediately following the harvest of rice, without soil preparation, and it
grows on the residual soil moisture. This newly introduced practice looks
highly promising.
16.       Varieties.  The local varieties are of the spreading type; a num-
ber of types are grown, each with well-defined culinary characteristics and
taste. IRAT has released two cultivars of the erect type, which is higher
yielding than the traditional, spreading type: 83-36 with white seed and
a 64-day cycle, and Amouchou 2, with brown seed and a 62-day cycle. IITA
has released two cultivars: Vita-1, a high yielding, early maturing (70
to 90 day), semi-erect, moderately resistant to leafhoppers, and thrips,
highly resistant to anthracnose, cercorpora leaf spots, bacterial pustule,
rust, and several types of mosaic virus; and Vita 2 S, erect to semi-erect,
early maturing, with a high degree of disease resistance. Vita-2 S has
been released for breeding purposes only.



ANNEX 4
Page 5
17.       Recommended Improvements.  The project would promote the expansion
of cowpeas in the cropping pattern (intercropping with maize and relay crop-
ping with lowland rice). Because of lack of firm data, the expansion would
be carried out on a limited scale and progressively. The improved package
would include: (a) the use of improved varieties developed by IRAT and
eventually by IITA; (b) seed treatment with an insecticide-fungicide mixture
(25% TMD and Heptachlor) at the rate of 2 g/kilo; (c) fertilization with 30 kg
of urea and 100 kg of rock phosphate per hectare on depleted soils; (d) a
minimum of two weedings; (e) two applications of insecticide, if needed, for
the control of pod borers (Maruca testularis and Laspyresia ptychora), to be
sprayed in the evening if possible; which is vastly more effective; and (f)
storage of the seed in sealed bags of heavy (1 mil) polyethylene, or in
ordinary plastic bags with fumigation with carbon tetrachloride. The pest
control measures would be introduced progressively among the best growers.
18.       Yields.  There is a lack of data on the performance of cowpeas
under the traditional system, and the effect of improved practices on yield at
the farm level. For this reason, the yields resulting from improved practices
in the intercropping system have been conservatively estimated to increase
from the traditional levels of 250-250 kg/ha shelled beans to 500-600 kg/ha.
It is hoped that this level can also be achieved in the depleted zone with the
expected improvement to be brought about by the techniques developed by the
research program.
Pigeon Peas
19.       Pigeon pea is a minor crop in the project area.  It is grown to
a limited extent in the depleted soils of the Southeast. This crop has an
excellent potential, with advantages such as: (a) a broad range of adapt-
ability, especially to a semi-arid environment; (b) a wide range of uses both
as a perennial and an annual crop; (c) lower incidence of pests and diseases
than with cowpeas; (d) excellent nutritive quality of the fresh and dried
beans; and (e) a genetic potential encompassing a very broad range of genetic
diversity and comparatively high outcrossing. This crop could be valuable in
the depleted soil area because of its good performance under marginal rain-
fall, its positive role in soil conservation and improvement, its high protein
content and its cash value (it sells for about 2/3 the price of cowpeas).
Because of its limited role in the diet, and lack of knowledge of the market
potential, only a modest expansion of this crop is envisaged during the
project life.
20.       Pigeon peas would be introduced on a limited scale in the rotation
in the depleted coastal sediments. They would be intercropped with maize.
Besides using local varieties, the project would introduce to farmers, on
a trial basis, the lines developed by IITA which are relatively short cycle
(100-140 days), semi-dwarf (120-150 cm), and relatively disease resistant.
The crop would not require fertilization or pest control.



ANNEX 4
Page 6
Cotton
21.       Background.  Cotton has been introduced in the North of the project
area, where it is presently grown on some 1,500 ha, especially in the Savannah
zone. Cotton usually follows maize and is grown during the short season, to
ensure dry weather at picking time. The average cotton farmers grows 0.8 ha
of the crop. The Mono type of cotton (Gossypium barbadense) has been grown
traditionally in the North, with yields averaging at best 200 kg/ha of seed
cotton. Starting in 1966, modern cotton production was introduced in the
country in the form of a full package of practices including an improved
variety, improved crop husbandry, and close supervision and support services
(extension, input supply, marketing) provided by a cotton development agency.
The improved system has largely replaced the traditional system. The project
would pursue and expand the program carried out by SOTOCO, the cotton develop-
ment agency in the project area.
22.       Variety.  The present variety, Allen 333 (G. Hirsutum), matures
in 120-130 days, and yields 38-40% lint of 1 to 1-1/16 inch staple. SOTOCO
is presently testing Bou, a new variety with a higher ginning yield (41%).
Bou may give better seed cotton yields, and it has a lower gossypol content.
23.       Recommended Improvements.  The land is earthed up in ridges 80
cm apart. The seed is supplied by SOTOCO after dressing with an insecticide-
fungicide mixture.  It is planted in June-July on top of the ridges, in
hills 25 to 40 cm apart, 3-4 cm deep. Fertilizer (150 kg/ha of 14-21-21
including sulfur and boron) should be sidedressed right after emergence,
according to recommendation, but this fertilizer recommendation is followed
only by a minority of growers. The stand is thinned to two plants per hill,
two to three weeks after emergence, and is weeded at the same time. Two or
three additional weedings are needed.
24.       Cotton is attacked by a number of insects; aphids, jassids,
Sylepta (leaf roller), and Earias during the vegetative stage; boll pests
include Earias, Heliotis (American bollworm), Argyroploce, Diparopsis (red
bollworm) and Dysdercus (stainer). The SOTOCO program calls for six treat-
ments with lindane, or preprothion.
25.       Yields.  In the Maritime region, seed cotton yields average 650
kg/ha. With fertilizer and adequate pest control, yields can reach 800-1,000
kg. It is expected that growers participating in the project would average
900 kg/ha starting with their third year of involvement.
Rainfed Rice
26.       Background.  The valley bottoms of the project area, especially in
the Northwest with more favorable rainfall, offer a flat topography, and
soils with good depth, fine texture and adequate fertility that are favorable
to rainfed rice. The topography is such that soils are flooded during most
of the rainy season, providing near-optimum moisture supply for rice. Contour
bunding is advisable under certain situations. The SORAD Maritime has ini-
tiated a rainfed rice development program which has been readily adopted by



ANNEX 4
Page 7
farmers in the Ave region (around Assahoun). SORAD has been selecting suit-
able idle land, assisting with the formation of grower associations, and
opening up the land by tractor on a reimbursable basis after brushing by
growers. With this modest investment and simple techniques, good results
have been achieved (2-3.7 ton/ha in 1975) and farmers have readily adopted
the new crop.
27.       Varieties.  The variety Ainachen 14, early maturing (90 days) and
coming from mainland China, is presently replacing R66 which was grown suc-
cessfully during the early stages of rainfed rice development and IR 442
which has been used more recently. SORAD is testing the performance of other
varieties: OS 6, IR 5, IR 269-26-3-3, and TOX 7-13-15-7-2.
28.       Land Preparation and Seeding.  After the initial plowing by SORAD's
tractor, subsequent soil preparation was to be done by hand. With 0.5 ha
assigned to each farm family enlisted in the rice program, there is suffi-
cient family labor available for soil preparation by hand during the five
to six week span between the first rains and the optimum time to seed rice.
This method of land preparation, which is labor intensive and makes no
demand on foreign exchange, deserves to be encouraged to the fullest.
Another desirable method of land preparation would be plowing with oxen.
Farmers in the area, however, have no tradition of cattle raising, and
would have no direct access to a trypano-tolerant breed that could be used
for traction; besides, there appears to be a social stigma attached to
cattle raising in certain zones of the project area. SORAD would attempt
to introduce animal traction by introducing a suitable cattle breed, and
training farmers to the use of animal-drawn implements on a pilot scale
in the lower Mono valley, where a field agent has been assigned for this
purpose. This would be closely monitored.
29.       Departing from the initial idea of limiting the use of tractor
to the first year, SORAD has been plowing and seeding rice fields on contract
during the second year, and wishes to continue this practice in subsequent
years by acquiring the needed fleet of tractors. This practice is difficult
to justify because of its cost and its demand on foreign exchange. Moreover,
there is no serious labor constraint at the time of land preparation, and
seeding and soil preparation by hand has already been practiced. Plowing with
a light disc plow costs CFAF 18,000/ha, while land preparation by hand costs
CFAF 2,000-4,000/ha when labor has to be hired. Thus the tractors which would
be operated by SORAD would be used essentially to open up new bottomland to
rice production. No additional tractor would be purchased by the project for
any other purpose.
30.       For those growers who would grow more than the average 0.50 ha of
rice, land preparation may become a bottleneck. The use of power tillers
by grower associations offers a possible solution, since these have been
successfully tested in the irrigated scheme operating with Chinese assistance
in the Zio valley. In spite of costing more than hand labor as shown in the
indicative farm budget, the use of power tillers might be attractive, and it
would be tested by enabling individual growers or grower associations to
purchase power tillers on credit. There are several prerequisites to the



ANNEX 4
Page 8
introduction of this equipment among farmers: (1) the proper type of equip-
ment needs to be selected; (ii) the type of ownership (individual or coopera-
tive) should be tested; (iii) the type of operation (hired operator, contrac-
ting) should be tested; (iv) the logistics of operation in the field should
be worked out; (v) a stock of spare parts should be available; (vi) provision
for maintenance and repair should be made; and (vii) operators and farmers
should be trained in the operation and maintenance of the equipment. Pro-
vision would be made in the credit for the purchase of 10 tillers to be
sold to farmers on an experimental basis. This test would be closely moni-
tored and, if successful, the introduction of power tillers could be carried
out on a large scale, involving up to 1,000 ha (and 100 tillers) by PY 3.
31.       Recommended Practices.  The crop receives an application of 80
kg of ground rock phosphate before land preparation. Urea would be applied
at the rate of 100 kg/ha split in two sidedressings, the first two weeks
after emergence, the second some eight weeks thereafter. The seed is planted
in rows, 30 cm apart, after the first rains have sufficiently soaked the soil.
The rate of seeding is 50 kg/ha (100 kg with Ainachen, a low tillering type).
The seed is previously treated with an insecticide-fungicide mixture (25%
of TMD, 25% heptachlor) at the rate of 20 grams per kilo.  After several
years of cropping, weeds are likely to become a problem. At least two careful
weedings will be necessary. The crop is harvested with a sickle. After
drying the crop is threshed with a a pedal thresher, and winnowed with a hand
winnower. This equipment, together with small rice mills (1 ton of paddy per
day), would be made available on credit to grower associations by the project.
32.       Yields.  In 1975, growers achieved average yields of 3.7 tons/ha
of paddy on 22 ha with Ainachen, and 2.5 ton/ha on 100 ha with IR 442.
Taking into account the large-scale expansion expected for lowland rice, and
the possibility of dry years, it is anticipated that project farmers would
achieve average yields of 2.5 ton/ha by PY 3.
Vegetables
33.       Background.  African vegetables are grown rainfed in homestead
gardens, or intercropped with field crops.  They include Gboma (Solanum
Aethiopicum), tomatoes, peppers, okra, eggplants. Their importance in
rural diets should not be overlooked. Some farmers grow vegetables as a
cash crop on bottomland where the moisture supply is favorable. Farmers
also grow vegetables as a flood recession crop in the flood plains; for
instance vegetables planted in December, after the flood recedes, are ready
for production in February to April, when the supply is limited and the
market prices are high. These traditional types of vegetable production
have not yet received the benefit of extension and supply services that
could help improve production through the introduction of simple packages.
Irrigated, European-type vegetables are grown on coastal sands near Lome for
the affluent city market. Because of the city's expansion, SORAD has dev-
elooed an irrigated vegetable scheme at Agoueve, some 15 km north of Lome,



ANNEX 4
Page 9
with heavy support services. Under this system, project growers manage some
0.2 ha of vegetable crops each with an average cropping intensity of 150%.
The most favorable season is May-November, while the period of December-April
is affected by drought and hot winds (harmattan).
34.       Site selection.  The progressive elimination of vegetable opera-
tions near Lome by urbanization raises the problem of proper site selection
for new vegetable ventures. The Zio valley close to the Lome markets has
extensive areas of suitable alluvial soil, with favorable texture and fer-
tility, not subject to flooding but with the water table close to the surface,
so that they can be irrigated at low cost by hand or by small pumps. Sites
can be found for schemes involving groups of growers. Sites also exist in the
Zio and other valleys for small plots of vegetables that can be cropped by
local farmers to supplement their incomes. Some extension of vegetable growing
on the coastal sands near Lome is also possible, thanks to an abundant water
table close to the surface, but the future of such operations is not certain
because of continuing urbanization and land speculation.
35.       Irrigation.  The irrigatio  needs for this type of vegetable opera-
tion are estimated at about 12,000 m /ha for 10 months (excludin§ the wet
months of May and June), with peak requirements of about 1,400 m /ha in
November and December. The project would promote hand-lifting of water from
hand-dug holes or wells and supply credit for the construction of small
concrete water tanks. As their borrowing capacity improves, growers could
envisage the purchase of small motor pumps. The rehabilitation of pumps for
the Agoueve Scheme is described in Annex 8.
36.       Soil Management and Fertilization.  Current plans for the use of
town refuse, carted to points outside Lome, or the large-scale preparation
of composed cannot be justified on economic grounds. Moreover, the use of
town refuse raises the problem of possible toxidity from heavy metals (lead,
mercury, cadmium, zinc). Properly selected soils have a good structure
and do not require elaborate improvement measures as is the case of the
Agoueve scheme. Proper soil management can be promoted by the inclusion of
legumes such as Crotalaria which can be used as forage, and by mulching as
practiced in the Zio valley with Chinese assistance. Interplanting with
Leucoena glauca could supply nitrogen to the vegetables, as well as support
for climbing crops such as pole beans. Soil fertility would also be main-
tained by liberal applications of NPK fertilizer (130-700-130 per cycle
under intensive management).
37.       Pest Control.  While vegetables such as Gboma are not subject to
insect and disease infectations, others such as tomatoes require heavy treat-
ments. It is estimated that one hectare/cycle of vegetables would require an
average 4 liters of a commercial phosdrin formulation for insect control, and
4 kg of maneb formulation for fungus control.



ANNEX 4
Page 10
38.       Development.  Under the project,  the services of SORAD, currently
restricted to the Agoueve scheme, would be expanded to vegetable growers
throughout the project area. SORAD would promote the use of improved var-
ieties, fertilization and pest control, and organize their supply. In order
to provide adequate technical support, SORAD would establish two technical
support centers, each covering 0.2 ha, one near Lome, the other in the Zio
valley. The centers would be used for variety testing and other field trials
(see Annex 5), as demonstration points and as training centers for extension
workers.
Soil Conservation and Tree Plantings
39.       The high intensity rains that occur in the project are can cause
serious erosion and account in part for the depletion of coastal plateau
soils in the Aneho-Vogan area.  No soil conservation program as such can
be recommended at this stage. The minimum tillage and mulching system that
would be tested in the depleted coastal soil area should provide data with
which to design soil conservation practices in the project area.
40.       Overpopulation in the depleted area and the demand for fuelwood
by the population of Lome have caused large-scale deforestation, which
accentuates the danger of erosion, and the demand on the remaining scarce
fuelwood resources. A full-scale tree-planting program would require careful
preparation and cannot be envisaged at this time. SORAD would however en-
courage tree plantings as part of its extension activities. Three types of
plantings are envisaged. (a) Fruit tree plantings in the farmers' compounds
especially in the depleted coastal plateau: mangoes, citrus, cashew, nuts,
papaya, sapote; seedlings would be purchased by farmers from Togofruit nurs-
eries. (b) Fuelwood for areas where the natural forest has disappeared, and
where the domestic fuel supply has become a problem, especially around Lome
and in the overpopulated Aneho-Vogan area; among the species to be considered
for planting in villages and around fields are: legumes such as black wattle
(Acacia mollissima), neem (Azadrichta indica), Leucoena glauca, Albizzia
lebbek; other adapted trees such as Gmelina arborea (similar to teak), Melia
azadarichta (Japanese lilac), and, in the case of salt affected soils near
the coast, Melaleuca leucadendron. (c) Teak and eucalyptus woodlots would be
promoted by SORAD in cooperation with ODEF on suitable sites; in the depleted
area it is possible that these woodlots could bring returns comparable or
superior to those achieved with field crops; SORAD would therefore encourage
owners of plots of depleted land to convert some fields into woodlots; the
production and economics of these woodlots would be monitored by the monitor-
ing unit in cooperation with ODEF. In all cases seedlings would be purchased
from nurseries of the forest service (ODEF) and distributed to farmers at
cost.
Grower Associations
41.       In recent years, SORAD has been promoting the creation of grower
associations. These groups are made up of an average of 12 members (7 to
15), who usually belong to the same extended family, and live and farm in



ANNEX 4
Page 11
the same area. Initially the field extension workers take the lead in
organizing and managing the associations. For about a year, the groups
function as "pre-associations" (pre-groupements). The groups elect a
leader from among those members who can read and write. When a group has
given evidence of viability, it is incorporated into a full-fledged grower
association, which has legal status. The members contribute CFAF 1,000
each to the capital of the group.
42.       When several active groups function in a given village, they
form a village committee, which is made up of 4 to 5 members who elect
their president. Village committees represent the nuclei of future coop-
eratives.
43.       By the end of 1974, 179 full fledged groups were active in the
region, encompassing 2,218 farmers and with an aggregate capital of CFAF 2.3
million. The movement has been most successful inthe Tabligbo district,
where 83 stable groups are operational, and 36 pre-groups have been formed.
In that district some 50% of the associations' capital was formed from the
sale of crops grown on collective fields managed by the members. This data
shows that a sound basis exists for the expansion of grower association in
the project area.



ANNEX 4
Table 1
TOGO
MARITIME REGION RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FARM AND CROP DEVELOPMENT
Crop Yield Development
Traditional                  Improved
Year of involvement in program          Y O     Y 1       Y,2      Y 3      Y 4     Y 5 and
following
- ton per ha - net basis  --------------------
Maize (shelled grain)
Coastal Plateau + Savannah L  1/         .8     1.4       1.5      1.6      1.6      1.6
le. l          *         S2/          .4      .4        .5       .6       .6        .6
Depleted Coastal Plateau   L             .4       .5       .5        .55     .65  3/  .75  3/
e                   l   S             .2      -         -        -        -        -
Groundnut (unshelled)
Coastal Plateau + Savannah L             .65     .9       1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0
i,     *.           *    S            .4      .5        .6       .6       .6       .6
Depleted Coastal Plateau   L             .4      .5        .6        .6      .7  3/   .7  3/
Cowpeas (shelled)
Coastal Plateau             S            .35     .4        .5        .6      .6        .6
Depleted Coastal Plateau   L             .25     .4        .5        .5      .6  3/   .6  3/
Rice fields                 S            -       .6        .6        .6      .6        .6
Pigeon Peas
Depleted Coastal Plateau   L             -       -         -         .5      .6        .8
Cassava
Coastal Plateau + Savannah              6       8         8        8        8        8
Depleted Coastal Plateau                5       6         6        6        7   3/   9   3/
Yam
Savannah                                6       6         6        8        8        8
Cotton (seed cotton)
Savannah                                 .65     .8        .85       .9      .9        .9
Rice (paddy)                             -      1.8       2.2      2.5      2.5      2.5
I/     L = long season
21     S = short season
31     Yield increases for Y 4 and Y 5 would be these achieved with the use of an
improved package tested by the applied research program.



ANNEX 5
Page 1
TOGO
MARITIME REGION RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FARM MODELS AND BUDGETS
1.        Indicative farm models developed for the main ecological zones of
the project area and for specialized operations (rainfed rice, vegetables,
coconuts) are described in Tables 1 to 9. It should be kept in mind that the
data on which the models are built is limited, and the information presented
in the tables represents only rough averages. The farm plans in Tables 1, 3
and 5 include intercropping patterns. For intercropping situations, the
tables indicate the net area devoted to each crop, together with gross area
intercropped (in parenthesis). The net areas are used in the computation of
inputs and output. The gross intercropped area should be counted only once
in the computation of the total farm area. In the case of cassava, the same
value has been ascribed to gross and net areas, because this crop is always
grown in association with maize; yields would not be increased in pure
cropping, as cassava is not affected by association.
2.        Farm Budget Indicators.  From these farm budgets, to assess farmer
incentives to adopting improved technology, and the attending risks, several
indicators have been calculated. The investment incentive, defined as the
net cash income at full development as a multiple of the net cash income be-
fore development, is an index of the economic return to a subproject at the
farm level. The income incentive, defined as the incremental cash income as
a multiple incremental production costs, represents the yearly incremental
value/cost ratio and is an index of the incentive for farmers to pursue
improvements. In West Africa, it is considered that, because of the risk
factor, this ratio should be in the vicinity of two to provide adequate
incentives. The risk index, defined as production cost as a multiple gross
income (net of family consumption), is an index of the likelihood that far-
mers will secure a reasonable return from their outlays for purchased in-
puts. Because of liquidity problens, farmers are reluctant to risk debt
levels that are out of proportion with potential incomes. The risk factor
therefore represents a meaningful measure of farmers' readiness to adopt
improved practices that result in significant debt servicing.
3.        On the depleted coastal plateau (Table 4), the farm budget
indicates a negative family income under the traditional system. This
negative figure is confirmed by the fact that farm families derive addi-
tional income from small animals, oil palm, and the trading activities of
the women. The low level of production makes it relatively costly and
risky to adopt improved techniques. It is assumed that by PY 4 new tech-
nology will have been developed that would enable farmers to improve pro-
duction and incomes with low levels of additional inputs. The high risk
indicated for PY 2 and PY 3 will in fact be reduced because of the high
fertilizer subsidy which is not indicated in the budget.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
4.        In the coastal plateau and savannah areas, the potential is high
for a positive impact of improved practices, and fertilizer subsidies would
reduce risks below the levels indicated in Tables 2 and 6.
5.        The budgets for the rice growers (Table 7) indicate favorable in-
comes and adequate incentives. The comparison between soil preparation by
hand and by power tiller for PY 4 (full development) shows a significantly
higher risk and lower net income from the use of power tillers. Yet the
level of income might be sufficient to incite rice growers to mechanize
soil preparation. The budget does not take into account the upland crops
that may be grown by the farmers, at least initially. Farm labor has been
included in the production cost for rice farms.
6.        The vegetable budgets (Table 8) also includes labor costs in the
production costs. It shows that high cash incomes can be achieved on 0.1
ha, and that growers are fully capable of repaying water charges including
the depreciation of investments in irrigation facilities.
7.        The coconut budgets (Table 9) indicate the logn-term profitability
of renovating the groves. Coconut growers, however, have to rely on medium-
term credit and on a grace period for repayments.



TOGO
MARITIME REGION RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FARM BUDGET - COASTAL PLATEAU
DEVELOPMENT OF A 1.60 HA FARM 1/
Year 0            Year 1          Year 2          Year 3
Before Project                                     and following
----------------------------Hectares  2 ---------------------
A. TRADITIONAL
Long season
Maize                           0.75               0.55            0.25
i Maize (with cassava)            0.40               0.25            0.08
Cassava (with maize)            0.50 j(O.50)       0.30  (0.30)   0.10  (0.10)
Short season
Maize                           0.60               0.20            -
t Maize (with cassava)            0.20  (0.25        0-20 l(O.25    0.08   0.10
Cassava (with maize)            0.25    *          0.25 g}  * )   0:10  ( *o)
B. IMPROVED
Long season
Maize                           -                  0.20            0.60            0.85
{ Maize (with cassava)            -                  0.16 1         0.32',          0.40 1
Cassava (with maize)            -                  0.20 J0-)   0 40 J(040)   0.50 J(05)
'Maize(with groundnuts)          -                  0 05            0 05           0.051
Groundnuts (with maize)         -                  0}08            008|.)   0 0.08(o
Groundnuts                      -                  -               -              0.15
Short season
Maize                           -                  -               -               0.25
IMaize (with cowpeas)             -                  008 b         0 16            0:24 1
Cowpeas (with maize)            -                  0.10      0) 20                0 30
Not including oil palm, smell animals and vegetablps.                                                      ' U
3/ I Net area, pure crop basis (gross area, intercropped>, see note page 1.



ANNEX 5
Table 2
TOGO
MARITIME REGION  RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FARM BUDGET - COASTAL PLATEAU
CASH FLOW - 1.60 HA FARM
Y. 0        Y 1         Y 2        Y 3
before project                     and following
-- ---------------- CFAF ---------------------
A.  Gross Income  1/
Maize                               30,780       37,960     49,330      64,090
Cassava                             13,500       14,700     13,200      12,000
Groundnuts                            -           2,450      2,800       8,050
Cowpeas                               -           2,800      7,000     12,600
Total                               44,280       57,910     72,330      96,740
B. Production Costs
Seeds  2/                            1,200        1,990      2,600       3,960
Pesticides  3/                        -             230        390         730
Fertilizers  4/                       -           3,800      8,350     11,660
Bags and tools                       1,500        1,500      3,400       4,000
Maize shelling                        -             560        560         560
Total                                2,700        8,080     15,300      20,910
C.  Net Income                           5/41,580       49,830     57,030      75,830
D.  Cash income after family consumption- 20,340        28,590     35,790      54,590
E.  Man-day Requirements                      201          218        213         245
F.  Net Cash Income per Man-Day               101          131        168         223
G.  Investment Incentive  6/                 -            -           -          2.68
H.  Income Incentive  7/                      -           1.53       0.99        3.35
I.  Risk Factor  8/                          0.12         0.22       0.30        0.38
1/    Value of crops (CFAF/kg): maize 27; cassava 3; groundnut  35; cowpeas 70
2/    Seed cost (CFAF/kg): maize 30 (traditional) or 50 (improved); groundnut 45;
cowpeas 85
3/    Pesticide cost (CFAF/kg): maize insecticides 1,500; seed treatment 850;
4/    Fertilizer cost (CFAF/kg): urea 60; rock phosphate 23; KCl 33
5/    Family consumption estimated at 680 kg of maize and 960 kg of cassava
6/    Cash income at full development as a multiple of net cash income before
development.
7/    Incremental cash income as a multiple of incremental production cost.
8/    Production cost as a factor of gro8s income net of family consumption.



TOGO
MARITIME REGION RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FARM BUDGET - DEPLETED COASTAL PLATEAU
DEVELOPMENT OF A 1.20 HA FARM 1/
Year 0            Year 1         Year 2          Year 3
Before Project        __and following
--    ---- ------ ------ ------Hectares  2/   --_--_________________
A. TRADITIONAL
Long season
Maize                          0.70               0.50           0.40
Maize (with cassava)           0.32    040        0.16 }         -
Cassava (with maize)           0.40 J             0.20    (0.20)
Groundnut                      0.10               -              -
Short season
Maize                          0.40               0.40           0.40            0.40
B. IMPROVED
Long season
Maize (with cassava)           -                  0.16 |         0.24 |          0.24     0
Cassava (with maize)           -                  0:20   (0.20) 0.30 , (0.30) O.30 J  (0.30)
Maize (with groundnuts)        -                  0.05 i         0.15    03   0.20         04
Groundnut (with maize)         -                  0.08 f (0.10) 0.24 f (0.30) 0.32,  (.040)
Maize (with cowpeas)           -                  0.16  I        0.16 '          0.32
Cowpeas (with maize)           -                  0.20 J (0.20) 0.20 J (0.20) 0.40    (0.40)
Maize (with pigeon peas)       -                                 0.08 1          0.08 OB
Pigeon peas (with maize)       -                                 0.10 j( * ) 0.10   (0.10)
1/     Not including oil palm, small animals and vegetables.
2/     Net area, pure crop basis (gross area, intercropped), see note page 1.



ANNEX 5
Table 4
TOGO
MARITIME REGION RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FARM BUDGET - DEPLETED COASTAL PLATEAU
CASE FLOW - 1.20 HA FARM
Y O       Y 1        Y 2       Y 3        Y 4  /         5
before project                                        and following
-------------------- CFAF -----                ________________
A.  Groas Income  1/
Maize                      13,230    14,310    15,120    14,580    17,010    19,170
Cassava                     6,000      6,600     5,400      5,400      6,300     8,100
Groundnuts                  1,400      1,400     5,040      6,720      7,840     7,840
Cowpeas                      -         5,600      7,000    16,800    16,800    16,800
Pigeon peas                  -          -         2,000     2,400      3,200     3,200
Total                      20,630    27,910    34,560    45,900    51,150    55,110
B. Production Costs
Seeds  2/                   1,460      1,580     2,630      3,130      3,130     3,130
Pesticides  3/               -           630        690     2,220      2,370     2,370
Fertilizers  4/              -         2,250     5,640      7,990      7,990     7,990
Bags and tools              1,500      1,500     1,500      1,900      3,500     3,500
Total                       2,960      5,960    10,460    15,240    16,990    16,990
C.  Net Income                     17,670    21,950    24,100    30,660    34,160    38,120
D.  Cash Income after
Family Consumption  5/    (3,570) 9/   700        2,860     9,420    12,920    16,880
E.  Man-day Requirements              127       142        154        184       184        184
F.  Cash Income per Man-Day          -             5        19         51        70         92
G.  Investment Incentive   6/        -         -          -          -         -         high
H.  Income incentive   7/            -         1.42       0.48       1.37      2.00     high
I.  Risk factor  8/                  low       0.89       0.79       0.62      0.57       0.50
1/    Value of crops (CFAF/kg): maize 27; cassava 3; groundnut 35; cowpeas 70; pigeon peas: 40.
2/    Seed cost (CFAF/kg): maize 30 (traditional) or 50 (imptoved); groundnut 45; cowpeas 85;
pigeon peas: 50.
3/    Pesticide cost (CFAF/kg): maize insecticides 1,500; seed treatment 850; cowpea
insecticides: 1,500.
4/    Fertilizer cost (CFAF/kg): urea 60; rock phosphate 23; KC1 33
5/    Family consumption estimated at 680 kg of maize and 960 kg of cassava
6/    Cash income at full development as a multiple of net cash income before development.
7/    Incremental cash income as a multiple of incremental production cost.
81    Production cost as a factor of gross income net of family consunption.
9/    Balance made up by income from oil palm, small animals and commercial activities of women.
10/    Budget at Y 4 incorporates input and output corresponding to-new technology to be
developed by field tests. If the project fails to develop this technology, farm budgets
would remain at the Y 3 level.



TOGO
MARITIME REGION RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FARM BUDGET - SAVANNAH
DEVELOPMENT OF A 1.50 HA FA2RM
Y 0             Year 1          Year 2          Year 3
Before Project                                   and following
-------------------------- Hectares 1/  ----------------------
A. TRADITIONAL
Long season
Maize                           .75                .25
Maize (with cassava)            .20   25           .20   (.25
Cassava (with maize)            .25  (.)           .25J (.  )
Yam                             .25                .25             .25
Groundnut                       .25                .25             -
Short season
Maize                           .20                .20             -
Groundnut                       .20                --
B. IMPROVED
Long season
Maize                           -                  .50             *75             *75
Maize (with cassava)            -                  -               .20   (.25)    *20   (.25)
Cassava (with maize)            -                  -               .25  (25} (.25)
Yam                                                -               -               .25                    E
Groundnut                                          -               .25             .25
'-n u
Short season
Maize                                              -               .20             .10
Cotton                                             .25             .50             .75
1/     Net area, pure crop basis (gross area, intercropped)



T-GO                        Table 6
MARITIME REGION RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FARM BUDGET - SAVANNAH
CASH FLOW - 1.50 HA FARM
YO          Yi          Y 2         Y 3
before project                      and following
--------- CFAF '000_________________
A. Gross Income 1/
Maize                               22,680       30,780     41,580      42,660
Cassava                              4,500        4,500      6,000       6,000
Yam                                 22,500       22,500     22,500      30,000
Groundnut                            8,400        5,600      8,750       8,750
Cotton                                -           9,200     19,320      31,280
Total                               58,080       72,580     98,150    118,690
B. Production Costs
Seeds  2/                           10,850       10,190     10,790      11,340
Pesticides  3/                        -           2,580       5,200      7,780
Fertilizers  4/                       -           4,270      7,020       8,810
Bags and Tools                       1,500        2,000      4,000       5,000
Cotton Spraying and
Maize Shelling                     -             600      1,160       1,160
Total                               12,350       19,640     28,170      34,090
C.  Net Income                             45,730       52,940      69,980      84,600
D.  Cash Income after Family
Consumption  5/                     18,730       25,940     42,980      57,600
E.  Man-Day Requirements                      186          227         260         292
F.  Cash Income per Man-day                   101          114         165         197
G.  Investment Incentive  6/                 -            -           -           3.08
H.  Income Incentive  7/                     -            0.99        2.00        2.47
I.  Risk Factor  8/                          0.40         0.43        0.40        0.37
_/    Value of crops (CFAF/kg): maize 27; cassava 3; groundnut 35; cotton 46; yam 15.
21    Seed cost (CFAF/kg): maize 30 (traditional) or 50 (improved); groundnut 45;
cotton 45; yam sets 25
3/    Pesticide cost (CFAF/kg): maize insecticide  1,500; seed treatment 850;
cotton insecticide: 850.
4/    Fertilizer cost (CFAF/kg): urea 60; rock phosphate 23; KC1 33; cotton fertilizer
(14-25-14): 59
5/    Family consumption estimated at 680 kg of maize, 480 kg of cassava, and
480 kg of yam.
6/    Cash income at full development as a multiple of net cash income before
development.
7/    Incremental cash income as a multiple of incremental production cost.
8/    Production cost as a factor of gross income net of family consumption.



ANNEX 5
TOGO                             Table 7
MARITIME REGION RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FARM BUDGET - RAINFED RICE FARM
CASH FLOW - 0.50 HA FARM
Y 1     Y 2     Y 3          Y 4                 Y 4
and following       and following
------ (with hand labor) ----      ---   (with power tiller)
--------------------------- CFAF  -------------
A. Gross Income _/
Rice                     27,000   33,000   37,500      37,500             37,500
Cowpeas                   5,600    8,400    8,400       8,400              8,400
Total                    32,600   41,400   45,900      45,900             45,900
S. Production Costs 2/
Seed                      1,300    1,300    1,300       1,300              1,300
Pesticides                  650      650       650        650                650
Fertilizers               3,920    3,920    3,920       3,920              3,920
Bags + Tools              1,600    1,600    1,600       1,600              1,600
Initial Plowing          10,000     -         -          -
Threshing, winnowing 3/   600        600       600        600                600
Hand Labor                6,790    5,850    5,850       5,850              4,790
Power tilling 3/           -        -         -          -                 8,250
Total                    23,920   13,920   13,920      13,920             21,110
C.  Net Income                   8,680   24,480   31,980      31,980             24,790
D.  Risk Factor  4/               0.73     0.33    0.30         0.30               0.46
1/    Value of crops (CFAF/kg): rice 30; cowpeas 70
2/    Input costs (CFAF/kg): maize seed 45; cowpea seed 85; seed treatment 850;
cowpea insecticide 1,500; initial plowing by Project; labor 100 per day.
3/    Cost corresDonding to share of repayment of association member for equipment,
or to charge for custom work.
4/    Production cost as a factor of gross income.



ANNEX 5
Table 8
TOGO
MARITIME REGION RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FARM BUDGET - VEGETABLES
CASH FLOW - 0.1 HA FARM
Y 1        Y 2         Y 3
and following
---------- CFAF ---------
A. Gross Returns  1/                         75,600    105,000      134,000
B. Production Costs 2/
Seed                                  1,800       1,800       1,800
Fertilizer                            9,450       9,450       9,450
Pesticide                             2,750       2,750       2,750
Tools                                 4,000       4,000       4,000
Irrigation basin                      1,250       1,250       1,250
Irrigation water                     11,200      11,200      11,200
Pesticide spraying                      250         250         250
Labor                                25,000      25,000      25,000
Total                                55,700      55,700      55,700
C.  Net Income                              20,800      49,300      78,300
D.  Risk Factor  3/                            0.74       0.53        0.42
1/    Production consists of a mixture made up mostly of eggplants, carrots,
beets, cucumbers, gboma, okra, green beans, lettuce, pepper, tomatoes,
sold for an average price of CFAF 42/kg.
2/    Input costs (CFAF/kg): seeds 4,500 (average); urea 60; triple
superphosphate 57; KCl 33; pesticide viniphos 1,000; organil 4,500;
labor 100/man-day.
3/    Production cost as a factor of gross income.



TOGO
MARITIME REGION RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FARM BUDGETS COCONUTS (0.5 HA)
Y 1      Y 2       y_        Y 4      Y 5       Y 6      Y 7      y8         Y 9         Y 10        Y 1i       Y 12        Y 13      Y 14-30
= ------- ~~~~---------------              ---        -   CA-=-------------------CFF------------------------------------------ --------___________
A.  Gross Income  1/           -        -         -         -        -         -       1,580   4,730       9,450      15,750      22,050     26,780      29,930      31,500
B.  Production Costs  2/
Seedlings + Seed          4,450    4,450    4,450    4,450    4,450        -        -        -          -           -          -           -                       -
Fertilizer                  320      900    1,750    2,830    3,750    4,360    4,710   4,770          4,660      4,660       4,660       4,660       4,660       4,660
Insecticide                250       500       650      650       650       400      150    -           -          -           -           -           -           -
Irrigation facilities   5,000                                                       _        _         _
Tools                    2,000    2,000    2,000    2,000    2,000    2,000    1,000   1,000           1,000       1,000      1,000       1,000       1,000       1,000
Total              12,020    7,850    8,850    9,930   10,850    6,760    5,860   5,710          5,660       5,660       5,660       5,660       5,660       5,660
C.  Net Income              (12,020) ( 7,850) ( 8,850) ( 9,930) (10,850)  (6,760)  (4,280)   (980)    3,790           10,090      16,390     21,120      24,270      25,840
D.  Labor (man-daVs)             57       112      115       118      121        70        23      29         35          41          44          45          45          45
1/    Value.of crop: (CFAF/kg): coprah 35 equivalent tD CFAF 7 per nut.
2/    Input costs (CFAF/kg): coconut seedlings 300 piece; pueraria seed 300; urea 60; rock phosphate 23; potassium chloride 33; magnesium sulfate (kieserite) 50.
'o 'J



TOGO
MARITIME REGION RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT PHASING AND PRODUCTION - PROJECT FARMERS
PY 1          PY 2          PY 3           PY 4           PY 5
----------------  Number of farm families  ------------------
Coastal Plateau
Incremental                         650         1,900          2,550         1,900          1,000
Cumulative                          650         2,550          5,100         7,000          8,000
Depleted Coastal Plateau
Incremental                       1,000           -              -
Cumulative                        1,000         1,000          1,000         1,000          1,000
Savannah
Incremental                         600           600            600           600            600
Cumulative                          600         1,200          1,800         2,400          3,000
Lowland Rice
Incremental                         300         1,100         1,600          2,000          1,000
Cumulative                          300         1,400          3,000         5,000          6,000
Coconuts
Incremental                         200           500           500            500            500
Cumulative                          500           700         1,200          1,700         2,200
Vegetables
Incremental                          50            50             50            50             50
Cumulative                           50           100            1 0           200            250
Total Incremental                    2,800         4,150          5,300         5,050          3,150
Total Cumulative                     2,800         6,950         12,250        17,300         20,450



ANNEX 6
Table 2
TOGO
MARITIMF RE(GION RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT PHASING - CROPS AND PRODUCTION
Y 1     Y2       Y 3       Y 4      Y 5
Hectarage under Improved Technology
(Pure crop basis)
Maize                                     971   3,247    7,033   11,655   15,820
Groundnuts                                132     647    1,337    2,147    2,932
Cowpeas                                   326     802    1,831    2,866    3,906
Pigeon Peas                               -       100       100      100       100
Rainfed Rice                              150     700    1,500    2,500    3,000
Cotton                                    150     450       900    1,350    1,800
Coconuts  ( cumulative )                   20      90      210       380      hOf
Total ha                          1,749  5,936    12,911  20,998   28,158
Incremental Production, ton
Maize                                     424   1,503    3,514    6,270    8,960
Groundnuts                                 90     345       803    1,476    2,187
Cowpeas                                   135     390       923    1,513    1,941
Pigeon Peas                               -        50        55       60        65
Rainfed Rice                              270   1,320    3,025    5,260    7,070
Cotton                                    120     372       780    1,188    1,596



ANNEX 7
Page 1
TOGO
MARITIME REGION RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FIELD TRIALS, SEED MULTIPLICATION, PROJECT MONITORING AND EVALUATION
A. Field Trials
Research Priorities in the Project Area
1.        Agronomic research in the project area is carried out primarily
by the French Institute for Food Crop Research (IRAT), which operates a
station at Davie near Tsevie, and conducts trials in the depleted zone.
To build up its research capability the Togolese Government has opened a
research center (Institut Polyvalent) at Cacavelli, near the capital, and
has a core of researchers undergoing training abroad. The IRAT program has
been focusing on the development of maize hybrids, the development or adop-
tion of improved groundnut and cowpea varieties, and the determination of
fertilizer requirements. The program has made it possible to extend to
farmers packages of improved practices for growing maize, groundnuts,
cassava, cowpeas (Annex 4). A package has also been developed by the
fiber-crop research institute (IRCT) for cotton.
2.        IRAT is presently working on the development of a higher yield-
ing, blight- and rust-resistant hybrid maize; disease-resistant cassava
clones; and optimum intercropping patterns. These programs would benefit
from close liaison with the work of the International Institute of Tropical
Agriculture (IITA - Ibadan, Nigeria). Under the project such coordination
would be encouraged as a by-product of the field trials on the utilization
of depleted soils in the coastal plateau.
3.        A major unresolved problem is that of the management of the
depleted coastal plateau soils. Experience shows that the package devel-
oped to date by IRAT does not allow farmers to significantly improve their
incomes. The reason is that no practical way has yet been found to restore
the productive capacity of these soils. The rehabilitation program ("opera-
tion regeneration des terres de barres") carried out by SORAD over the last
five years, consisting essentially of mechanical land preparation for timely
seeding and the incorporation of green manure, has failed to develop an eco-
nomic, long-term formula to that end. The vicious circle resulting from
the heavy population pressure and the progressive depletion of the soils
requires that the problem of soil rehabilitation in the depleted area be
given high priority in any development program for the Maritime Region.
Soil Management Trials - Depleted Coastal Plain Soils
4.        The available evidence suggests that the depleted soils of the
coastal sediment zone have lost much of their nitrogen, potassium and or-
ganic matter reserves through intensive cropping without fallow or fertil-
ization. The soils have also been subject to erosion and leaching resulting



ANNEX 7
Page 2
in loss of the clay fraction. "Operation regeneration", which constituted
the core of the program carried out thus far by SORAD on the depleted soils
of the coastal plateau, based on plowing in crop residues, has probably
accentuated erosion and leaching.
5.        Recent work at IITA has shown the benefits of minimum tillage
and mulching in the management of humid tropical soils. These practices
have been found to improve the soil moisture regime and the organic matter
level, minimize erosion, reduce soil temperature (high temperatures may
depress the germination of maize), and eventually minimize the weed prob-
lems. While yield levels may not be increased initially, there is evidence
that these practices, as part of an improved package, will improve soil pro-
ductivity and farm income in the long run. At the same time they signifi-
cantly reduce labor requirements, for labor is a major bottleneck at soil
preparation time, and they can be adopted with minor investment (essentially
herbicide). A field trial program designed to test these techniques on the
depleted coastal sediment soils is urgently needed and would be organized
under the Project.
6.        The program would involve the following field tests:
(a) Comparison of: minimum tillage (with the use of herbicide) and
mulching; traditional hand tillage; and the incorporation of crop
residues by plowing. Each trial would be under the responsibility
of a field assistant; and would be replicated on depleted, moderately
depleted, and non-depleted soils. Similar trials are to be carried
out in other tropical countries of West Africa and other continents
as part of the international network of soil and water conservation
research in the tropics, spearheaded by IITA. The program can
therefore benefit from regional and international linkages.
(b) Cover crops including pueraria, pigeon peas, stylosanthes;
(c) Sorghum ratooning, which has shown promise; and
(d) Comparison of dates and depths of planting of maize (with a
view to securing maximum utilization of the available moisture).
The trial would be directed by the projects' research specialist.
7.        Regional Cooperation.  The Togolese research program has ben-
efited from a certain degree of regional cooperation promoted by IRAT
and IRCT, which operate in a number of tropical countries. A recent
development in the field of research in tropical agriculture has been
the creation of a network of internatinal institutes. The level of
financing, the availability of sophisticated laboratory equipment,
and staffing with scientists of top caliber, enable thse instutes to
carry out fundamental research which a country of the size of Togo can-
not afford to pursue individually. Togolese research, however, could
derive substantial benefits from obtaining scientific support for its



ANNEX 7
Page 3
activities from international institutes, especially IITA which is rela-
tively close. Togolese research could foeus on adaptive work, building
on basic data developed by IITA, and deriving full benefits from regional
cooperation. Togolese research can also be strengthened by the technical
support and training facilities offered by IITA. The program outlined in
para 6 was designed with the help of IITA, which would participate in the
preparation of the detailed trial plans, would make periodic visits to
to the project area for consultations, and would provide support services
(analytical, statistical> as needed. It is anticipated that in carrying
out this program IITA scientists would visit the project area twice a year.
8.        Training.  While developing the information needed to rehabilitate
the depleted coastal plateau soils, the research component of the project
would also strengthen the Togolese agricultural research effort through
training Togolese staff.  Provision would be made for financing training
Togolese staff at IITA and other institutions. IITA is equipped to carry
out training programs in production research on maize, rice and cassava,
the main crops grown in the project. Training sessions are conducted for
periods of some six months, enough to cover a cropping cycle. It is anti-
cipated that six Togolese engaged in the experimental program would undergo
each a six-month training session at IITA.
Coconut Trials
9.        The coconut research program is described in Annex 9. The work
would be carried out by the coconut specialist, with support by a coconut
consultant, supplied by IRHO, and assistance by the research specialist for
the design and implantation of the trial.
Vegetable Trials
10.       SORAD would establish two 0.2 ha technical support centers (Annex
4) for vegetables, one near Lome, the other in the Zio valley. The centers
would have for their main objective the comparative testing of improved
varieties brought in from various parts of the world. Another objective
would be the testing of soil management techniques designed to reduce the
reliance on town refuse, which can be costly and poses the danger of heavy
metal contamination. The trial program would therefore include tests on
mulching and the introduction of legumes for soil improvement. The vege-
table trial program would be under the responsibility of a vegetable spe-
cialist who is already assigned to SORAD with support from the research
specialist (para 6) on the soil management aspects. The vegetable trials
program would be prepared within three months of credit effectiveness and
submitted to the Association for comments.
B. Seed Multiplication
11.       The success of the technological packages to be extended to
farmers by the project depends in good part on the use of quality seed
of improved varieties of rice, groundnut, cowpea, and hybrid maize.



ANNEX 7
Page 4
12.       Seed production calls for careful quality control and enforcement
of standards and a high level of technical knowhow. The present facilities
and staffing are inadequate to meet the expanding seed requirements of the
project, shown in Table 1. The project would therefore reinforce the seed
production program for the Maritime region. The program could serve as
model on which a national seed multiplication service could be built.
13.       SORAD presently operates two seed multiplication centers:  Dagbati
covering 16 ha and devoted primarily to hybrid maize seed production; Agbatope
covering 2 ha, essentially for rice seed production.  Production and quality
control are handled by extension workers but there is no machinery for the
enforcement of quality standards. SORAD has also been purchasing rice seed
from farmers, by offering a premium of CFAF 5 per kilo over the market price.
The IRAT station at Davie produces breeder seed of maize and cowpeas, and has
been increasing the seed stock of cowpeas (bred by the station) and groundnuts
(imported) on a limited scale. In the case of cotton, the seed supply is
assured by IRCT through SOTOCO. The seed production aspects for coconuts
are covered in Annex 9.
14.       The Dagbati farm has been producing FI and F2 maize seed, with a
total capacity of some 32 ton. Because of the increasing demand for hybrid
seed, Dagbati will have to focus on the production of FI from parents sup-
plied by IRAT, while the production of F2 seed will have to be contracted out
to progressive farmers who would receive a premium of CFAF 5 per kilo over
the market price. SORAD estimates the cost of collecting, treating, storing
and distributing the seed at CFAF 10 per kilo. At full development the F2
seed requirement would be close to 400 ton, equivalent to 2 ton of Fl.
15.       The Dagbati farm would also produce registered seed of groundnuts
and cowpeas from foundation seed supplied by IRAT. At full development the
requirements for registered groundnut seed produced under contract by prog-
ressive farmers would be 170 ton, corresponding to some 17 ton of registered
seed to -be produced by the Dagbati farm. This production will tie up over
10 ha out of the available 16 ha. SORAD should therefore consider acquiring
additional land, which presents no obstacle. The seed multiplication farm
would also be used in the field trial program. The project would provide
for the construction of a store, and would provide equipment (Table 2) for
the Dagbati farm. The present part-time seed production officer would be
appointed full time to manage the farm and administer the contracts with
seed outgrowers. Arrangements would be made for his training on seed pro-
duction at IITA, which is prepared and equipped to do so. The requirements
for certified rice seed would reach 100 ton per year at full development,
requiring some 4 ton of registered seed to be produced by SORAD at Agbatope,
under the supervision of the seed production officer.
16.       In line with its ongoing arrangements with SORAD, the IRAT
station at Davie would continue to produce breeder and foundation seed, and
would be responsible for quality control of the seed produced by outgrowers
through field inspections and seed testing.  To conduct this expanded program
IRAT has requested the appointment of a seed specialist; such specialist



ANNEX 7
Page 5
would be financed by the project and would undergo training at IITA. The
project would build and equip a seed testing laboratory at Davie (Table 2).
C. Project Monitoring and Evaluation
17.       At the farm level, the monitoring and evaluation unit would
be responsible for collecting the following basic data:
-    total population; number of actives, distributions by age and sex;
-    farm inputs, equipment;
-    pattern of land-use (crops, yields, production);
-    use of credit; and
-    marketing details.
Most of the data would be available from the questionnaires of the credit
applications, and from information supplied by the extension services.
A major function of the monitoring unit would be to analyze the data provided
by other services, and collect additional information when the data provided
by other services is insufficient. Another major function of the monitoring
unit would be to investigate farmers' opinions vis-a-vis the innovations
promoted by the project. It would concentrate in areas where important
innovations are to be introduced (depleted coastal plateau, coconuts).
18.       At the project level, using data from farm survey, monitoring and
evaluation, procedures would be designed for the statistical analysis of:
-    annual production and revenues, both for project participants
and outsiders, plus a comparison with appraisal estimates;
-    actual costs, compared with those appraised;
-    farmers' response to the project's technical packages, i.e.
land improvement, cropping patterns and use of inputs;
-    farmers' response to the project and grower associations;
-    response to new programs:  rice, vegetables, coconuts;
-    effectiveness of the credit scheme;
-    technical, economic and social constraints; and
-    impact of the project on income distribution.



ANNEX 7
TOGO                             Table 1
MARITIME REGION RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Certified Seedi Requirements
(ton)
Y1         Y2         Y3         Y4         Y5
Maize F2 hybrid            21         74        167         279        383
Groundnuts  1/             19         79        123         149        172
Cowpeas  i/                 4          8          13         15         17
Rice  1/ 2/                15         55         80         100        100
1/    Based on rate of renewal every 3 years.
21    Based on rate of seeding of 100 kg/ha (Ainachen)



-          ANNEX 7
Table 2
TOGO
MARITIME REGION RURAI, DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Seed Multiplication
Investment Costs
Investnents                                          CFAF '000
A.  Dagbati Seed Farm
Store ( 80  m2)                                  1,500
Tractor 60 HIP                                   3,000
Groundnut sheller                                  710
Seed cleaner                                       360
Maize sheller                                      710
Groundnut seed grader                              710
Cereal cleaner (hand)                              540
Bag closer                                         120
Seed dressing equipment                            240
Planter                                            330
Disc plow                                          710
Disc harrow-                                       480
Row cultivator                                     240
Time cultivaçor                                    480
Harrow                                             190
Fertilizer spreader                                120
Drying floor                                       200
B.  Davie Research Farm
Seed testing laboratory building                   500
Seed testing laboratory equipment                  200
Store                                              500
Total                                     11ff840



ANNEX 8
Page 1
TOGO
MARITIME REGION RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IRRIGATION
AGOUEVE VEGETABLE REHABILITATION
Proposed Rehabilitation and Justification
1.        The Agoueve Vegetable scheme, covering 20 ha with 80 growers, is a
high cost investment because of: (a) choice of marginal soil (depleted
coastal plateau soil); (b) an intricate capital-intensive irrigation network
including hose sprinkling; and (c) uneconomic upgrading of the soil through
the use of town refuse, which is carted from Lome over 15 km. Other problems
have been (a) a high absentee rate of growers, most of whom live in Lome;
(b) SORAD's failure to recover the depreciation and operating costs through
water changes; and (c) a marginal water supply from the branch of the Zio
that feeds the pumps (see para 8). In spite of these shortcomings the scheme
has been a technical success, with production reaching adequate and profit-
able levels.
2.        The scheme is served by two four-year-old diesel pumps which have
a low operating efficiency. The.pumps have deteriorated rapidly due mainly
to lack of spare parts (the pumps were purchased as discontinued models).
After only four years of operation, the efficiency is estimated to have
decreased from 70% at the time of purchase to some 30% at present. As a
result, a gradual shortage of irrigation water is occurring, and the situa-
tion would worsen progressively in the absence of rehabilitation. The current
operating cost of the diesel pumps is estimated at about CFAF 120,000/ha
(US$530/ha) nearly half of which is direct--fuel and labor--and the rest capi-
tal recovery costs (Table 1).
3.        Failure to replace the pumps would result in the progressive aban-
donment of vegetable production presently worth some US$20,000 a year, and a
severe loss of income and employment for the 80 participating growers. Be-
cause of sunk costs, the rehabilitation program is economically sound, as it
would be limited to the replacement of pumping facilities, namely:
(1)  replacing the two existing pumps with new electrical
driven pumpî each of 50 HP capable of discharging
about 140 m /hour under the dynamic hydraulic pressure
of about 60 m. One of these new pumps would serve as
stand-by; and
(ii) improving the existing pump house and intake.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
Water Requirements and Pump Capacity
4.        Since little is known about the scheme's use of water drawn by the
existing diesel pumps, the irrigation water requirements are estimated based
on the Blaney and Criddle formula (Table 2). The estimate takes into account
the following field data:
(i) average crop coefficients (kc) for year-round cultivation;
(ii) effective rainfall expectation at about 70% of the observed
average monthly rainfall;
(iii) overall irrigation efficiency at 70% (water delivered
through the existing pipe system); and
(iv) 80% of the scheme area cropped.
5.        On these assumptions, an average of about 240,000 m3 of water needs
to be pumped annually to serve the 20 ha of vegetables. The peak demand is
about 30,000 m3 per month in November, December and March.  On the basis of
eight hours per day pumping for 26 days in the peak months, the pumps would have
to be capable of discharging about 140 m 3/hr.  To lift this water and deliver
it through the existing pipe system, the pump would have to operate against a
hydraulic pressure of about 60 m.  Under these conditions, the proposed two
new pumps of 50 HP each would be adequate - one to be reserved for stand-by
(Table 3).
6.        The pumping station is fed year-round by back-up water overflowing
from the Zio River system in its lower flood plain.  The water is adequate
except in drought years (once in the last four years) for a period of about
a month during February - March when the water withdraws to a level too
low for pump operation. An allowance for this has been included in the
rate of return analysis (Annex 18).
Electrical Versus Diesel Pumps
7.        As shown in Tables 4 and 5, the installation of electric pumps
would result in higher investment costs over diesel (CFAF 10.5 million,
including 5 million for power connection, as against 8.6 million for diesel),
but it would result in a cost saving for operation and maintenance of about
CFAF 600,000 yearly (about CFAF 2.4 million as against CFAF 3.0 million with
diesel), taking into account the repayment of the power line at 8% interest
for a period of 30 years. Electric motors are also easier to operate and
maintain than diesels. Thus, the electric alternative is clearly superior--
both economically and technically--to the diesel. A power connection would be
required for the installation of an electric pumping system. The connection
would be made by CEET (Compagnie Energie Electrique du Togo) to be charged to
the project, according to discussions with CEET at appraisal.



ANNEX 8
Page 3
Implementation and Cost Estimates
8.        The Engineering Unit of SORAD would be responsible for the pre-
paration of the final and detailed specifications, purchase and installa-
tion of the new pumps. The principal specifications of the new pumps are
given in Table 8.
9.        SORAD would organize the power connection for the pumping station
through CEET. The power connection work, however, is not included in the
project; it would be a complemental task that SORAD and CEET would jointly
undertake. The charge to SORAD (CFAF 5 million) has been included in the
economic analysis.
10.       The total project rehabilitation cost would be about CFAF 5.5
million (US$24,400) including 15% physical contingencies. The annual oper-
ating cost of the pumping station is estimated at CFAF 2.4 million or about
CFAF 120,000/ha (US$530/ha), 60% of which is the direct cost and the re-
mainder capital recovery of the pumps and connected power line based on 8%
interest (Table 4). This is about what SORAD is now paying (para 2).



ANNEX 8
Table 1
TOGO
MARITIlOE REG ION RURAL DEVÉLOPMENT PROJECT
AGOUEVE VECETABLE IRE ICATION REIIABILIAlTION
PRESENT IRRIGATION COSTS
ER.timated Present Annual Cost af the Diesel Pump Operation
Direct Cash Costs                    CFAU'
.1J
Î)  Fuel Oil at about 13,000.lit/yr
at CFAF 48/lit                           624,000            2,770
_i) Lubrication at about 1,000 lit/yr at
CFAF 220/lit                             220,000              978
lii) Grease at 20 kg/yr at CFAF 650/kg        1U,000                  8
jv) Attendant (CFAF 18,000/mo x 12)          216,000               960
1,073,000            4,766
Per.ha cost (20 ha)                       53,650              238
Capital Recovery
.-     *            ~~     ~     ~~2/   -
1.   Recovery cost of 2 Pumps
CFAF  L,hOO,000 for 4 years at 8%
4A100,000 x 0.3                     1320,000             5,866
Per ha cost (20 ha)                     66,000              290
Total Cost                           2,393,000           10,632
Total per.ha cost                      119,650              532
1/  8 lit/hour for 1..670 hr (a'Urox.) for the existing pumps
(estimated at some 30HP)
2/ Estimated tc cost 2,200,000 each, h years ago. (Cost incdex 3h4)



TOGO
MARITIME REGION RURAL DEVELOP1B1T PROJECT
AGOUEVE VEGETABLE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION
IRRIGATION WATER REQUIREMENTS
JAN       FEB       MAR        APR       MAY        JUN       JUL        AUG       SEP        OCT       NOV        DEC      ANN
t 2Temperature          0C      27.8      27.8       28.3      28.0       27.5      26.3      25.2       24.0       25.7      26.5       27.2      27.2
F      82.0      82.0       83.0      82.4       81.5      79.3      77.4       75.2      78.3       79.7      81.0       81.0
p   Daylight %                   8.2       7.5        8.5       8.4        8.7       8.5        8.8       8.7        8.3       8.4        8.0       8.2
tp             %  °F         6.72      6.15       7.06      6.92      7.09       6.74      6.80       6.54      6.50       6.69      6.48       6.64
kt                           1.11      1.11       1.12      1.12       1.10      1.05      1.03       0.98      1.04       1.07       1.09      1.09
0.76      1.03      0.84       0.44      0.76       1.03      0.84       0.44      0.76       1.03      0.84       0.44
Max. Kc (Tomatoes)        ( 0.44       0.76       1.03      0.84       0.44      0.76       1.03      0.84       0.44      0.76       1.03      0.84
0.84      0.44       0.76      1.03      0.84       0.44      0.76       1.03      0.84       0.44      0.76       1.03
Av. Max Kc                   0.67      0.74       0.88      0.77       0.67      0.74       0.88      0.77       0.67      0.74       0.88      0.77
K = Kc. Kt                   0.74      0.82       0.98      0.86       0.74      0.78      0.91       0.75       0.70      0.79       0.96      0.84
Consumptive Use    In.       4.97      5.04       6.92      5.95       5.25      5.26      6.19       4.90      4.55       5.28       6.22      5.58
mm.    126.00    128.00    176.00    151.00    133.00    134.00    157.00    124.00    115.00    134.00    158.00    142.00   1,678
Effective Rainfall mm.      11.00     28.00      53.00     97.00    139.00    202.00      62.00      17.00      39.00     90.00      23.00     11.00      772
1/  Net Irrig. Req.    mm.    115.00    100.00    123.00       54.00      33.00     33.00      95.00    107.00      76.00     44.00    135.00    131.00   1,046
Irrig. Reqt. at Pump mm.  164.00    143.00    176.00       77.00     47.00      47.00    136.00    153.00    108.00       63.00    193.00    187.00   1,494
(at 70% efficiency)
3
For 20 ha vegetables m3   32,800    28,600    35,200    15,400        9,400     9,400    27,200    30,600    21,600    12,600    38,600    37,400 298,800
807% cropped         m3   26,240    22,880    28,160    12,320        7,520     7,520    21,760    24,480    17,280    10,080    30,880    29,920 239,040
1/  If the effective rainfall = or >-consumptive use, the estimated irrigation is provided at 25%7
of the consumptive use to cover the requirements expectçd during a short drought.



ANNEX 8
Table 3
TOGO
MARITINE REGION RURAL Di,tE:vLOI'UN'IT PROJEl.cT
ACOUEVF. VEC.ETABLE I RRICATION REIABILI'ATION
PUMIP CAPACITY MAD ENERGY CONSUMPTION
i.     Peak Demand per Month                                   30,000 m
ii.    On the basis of 26 dhys per month and 8 hour per day
pumping, the pump.would have to discharge                  Il.i* m3/hr
or        634 US gai/min
iii.   Estimate of Friction Hleads in Distribution System:
a. Main pipe 6,1   o 400 m;with 631h gai/min               20.0 m
b.  Secondary 6" e 350 m with 631i gal/min                 17.5 m
g.  Secondary 6" e 350 m with 315 gal/min                   5.5 m
d.  Delivery 6" p 350m with 250 gal/min                    3-5_
e,  Eibow losses 15%               -o                        6.5
1.  Lifting head ( vith suctioz of about  ..0m)       
7.0
Total head on punp                                    60.5
iv.    H.P. required     DischarZ (l/mn) x eead (
( at Pump shaft)   3,960 x puz ip efficiency
-  634 x 60.5 x 3.28
. 3,960 s 0.60
50
H. P. required at 1gotor = 60 BIP or 45 kw ( from Manufacturer's Chart)
v.    Annual fotal Water Requirement                               239,000 mr
vi.   Pwnping Hours per Year,                                        1,660 hrs.
vii.   Annual Energy Consumzed    455 kw x 1,660                    T5,ooo0 kwhr



ANNEX 8
TOGO                              Table 4
MARITIME REGION RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJF.CT
AGOUEVE VEGETABLE IRRIGATION REIIABILITATION
COST ESTIMATES (ELECTRICAI. PIUMFS)
Investment
i. Pumping Station
Foreign
Ouantity  Unit frlot         Total            Drchange
CFAF   U       CFAF       US$        US$p
Puwps & Motors             2       2,000,000   4,000,000  17,800    17,800
Spares 5%                            L/S          200,000     900        900
Pipe and Valve Outfits               L/S          225,000   1,000      1,000
Installation & Mobilization         L/S          112,500      500        -
Pwnp House & Intake Improvement    L/S           225,000   1,000         -
14,762,500  21,200    19,700
Engineering (aÏready included in Project
Unit (SORAD))                       -          -          -
Contingencies 15%                                714i,000   3,200      3,000
Total                                          5,476,500  24,400    22,700
ii. Power Connection
CkST would cnarge SORAD at CFAr 5.0 million
Annual Operation Costs                                      F(CFA)
i.   Direct Costs
a.  Energy 75,000 kwhr/yr at CFAF 18.5/kwhr         1,387 500
b.  Orense 10kg/1500 hr at CFAF 650/kg                 1 1,200-
c.  AttendantCFPY lO,000/month  -                      120,000v
d.  Minor spare parts                                   20,000'
1,534,7oo
Direct per ha cost (20 ha)               76,700
11.  ~Capita1 Recoveries (8% Interest)
a.  Punps & Motors CFAF 4.0 million - 20 years       400,000
b.  Power Line      CFAF 5.0 million - 30 years       44o,ooo
Per ha recoverv cost       % 888
! cif Lome w/o taxes and duties



TOCO                            ANNEX 8
-          . Table 5
MARITIME IUECION RIURAL DEVELOrPE.NT PROJECT
ACOUEVE VECETABLE IRPIGATION REl.lABILITATTON
COST ESTIMATES (DIEISE1l PUM'PS)
Investnent
Pumpinç  Station                    Quantiy      Unit Cost         Total
CFAF            CFAF
Pum>s and Diesels                      2        3>,0006,000      6,000,000
Spare 15%                                          L/S             900O,00
Pipe and Valves Outfits                            L/S             225,000
Installation & Mobilization                        L/S             112,500
Pump House & Intake Improvement                                    225,000
7,462,500
Contingencies 15%                                               1,119,000
Total                                     8,o81,500
Annual Operation Costs
i. Direct Costs
a.' Fuel Oil ( 12 lit/hr for 1,660 hr/yr    20,000 lit)        960,000
*  CFA? h8/lit
b.  Lubrication 1,20Y'lit/iear                                 264,000
c.  Grefise 30 kg/year G CFAF 650/kg                            20,000
d.  Attendant  CFAF 18,000/month                               216,000
e.  Minor Spare Parts  10%                                     6oo,ooo
2,o60,o00
Direct Per ha cost                           103,000
li. Capital R coveries (8Xf Tnterest)
a. Pumps & Diesel CFAF 6.0 million - 10 years                  894,0o0
Per ha recovery cost                          44,700



ANNEX 8
Table 6
TOGO
MARITIME REGION RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AGOUEVE VEGETABLE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION
PUMP SPECIFICATIONS
The two new pumps proposed to be purchased to replace the existing
diesel pumps at the Agoueve Vegetable Irrigation Scheme would each
meet the following specifications:
i.    The pump would be driven by an electric mbtor, and equipped with
necessary outfits - foot valve, check valveland sluice valve.
ii.   Capacity at the maximum design head:  144 m /hr
(634 Us Gallôn/nin)
iii. The maximum design head -
(total dynamic head):                   60 m
iv.   Suction head:                           up to 6 m
v.    Operating Speed:                        1400 - 1500 RPM
vi.  Liquid:                                  Clear water
vii.  Casing:                                 Axial Split
viii.  Impeller:                              Double Suction
ix.   Stuffing box:                           Conventional Packing
x.    Electric Motor Output                   45 kw or 60 HP



ANNEX 9
Page 1
TOGO
MARITIME REGION RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
RENOVATION OF COCONUT PLANTINGS
Constraints to Coconut Production
1.        Coconuts in Togo chiefly cover the coastal sands, 1 to 4 km wide,
that stretch East-West over 50 km between the sea shore and the lagoons.
Coconut groves are also scattered throughout the coastal plateau, especially
on sandy inland valleys. While coconut plantings make the best use of the
coastal sands, the economic production of this crop suffers from three major
constraints: marginal rainfall, the Kaincope (Cape St. Paul Wilt) disease,
and poor management.
2.        Rainfall.  Rainfall in the coastal belt averages 750-800 mm in
a bimodal pattern, while coconuts need a minimum of 1,500 mm of well-distri-
buted rainfall for optimal production. In neighboring countries with favor-
able rainfall (West Ghana, Ivory Coast), traditionally maintained coconut
groves of the West African Tall variety yield an average of 700-800 kg/ha
of copra per year. In Togo, average production of healthy plantings is about
500 kg/ha. For this reason Togo probably cannot hope to compete on the world
market for coconut products. The performance of hybrid coconuts under Togo
conditions has yet to be tested on a commercial scale. Smallholder production
for the local market, however, clearly is justified, particularly in the case
of coastal sands where there is virtually no alternative cash crop.
3.        Kaincope Disease.  The disease appeared in Togo in 1932.  The
causal agent has not been identified but seems to be associated with the
presence of mycoplasms and to be related to lethal yellowing disease in
Jamaica and Florida and the Kribi disease in Cameroon. The diseased trees
are characterized by a dropping of the nuts, and a progressive yellowing
followed by drying out of the foliage, starting with the external leaves.
The trees eventually die and the disease spreads to neighboring trees in
"oil-slick" fashion. Out of some 5,000 ha, the disease has wiped out over
4,000 ha. Copra exports which averaged 4,000 to 5,000 per year and reached
a peak of 7,400 ton in 1957 have now ceased.
Disease Resistance
4.        The only known way to cope with the Kaincope disease is to plant
disease-resistant varieties. The diseased trees in Togo are of the West
African Tall type which exhibits no resistance. Dwarf types have been shown
in Jamaica to be resistant to lethal yellowing, a similarly devastating
disease although not identical to Kaincope. For this reason a total of 8,500
dwarf palms were planted from 1962 to 1967 on about 50 ha. About 8 percent
of the palms are natural hybrids between Tall and Drarf. Observations made by
IRHO in 1974 on twelve-year old palms showed that, out of 8,500 trees only two
had died, possibly but not definitely from Kaincope.  Dwarfs and hybrids thus



ANNEX 9
Page 2
appear to have a reasonable degree of resistance to the disease. Impor-
tantly the natural hybrids have additional valuable qualities including (a)
a measure of drought resistance; (b) early bearing, starting to yield 5-7
years after planting; (c) high yielding, 2 ton/ha of copra per year; (d)
copra unlike the dwarfs which produce copra with some undesirable quality
features.
6.        The performance of the hybrids in Togo, while not sufficient to
justify a large-scale industrial type program of replanting, does justify
a limited, low-risk program of renovation of smallholder plantations. Such
a program would be carried out under the project and be complemented by a
comparative field trials of hybrids.
Proposed Renovation Program
7.        The project would involve the progressive renovation of 600 ha
of coconut groves and would involve 2,000 smallholders, each replanting a,
total of 1/10 ha (15 trees) per years, up to a maximum of 1/2 ha over 5
years. The program would require the deployment of 20 extension workers
(1 per 100 growers) to supervise planting and management of the groves,
and to ensure the supply of planting material and inputs.
8.        Technical package.  Seedlings, produced by the project, would be
supplied in polyethylene bags and would be planted on the triangle, 8.5 m.
apart (160 trees per ha) at the beginning of the main rainy season. The
size of planting holes would be 1 x 1 x 1 m. and several layers of husks
would be placed at the bottom of the hole, together with 100 grams each
of ground rock phosphate, urea and kieserite, and 200 grams of potassium
chloride. The young plantation would be planted with pueraria as a cover
crop at the rate of 15 kg/ha of seed. The young trees would be watered as
necessary in the first two dry seasons. The following fertilizer program
would be carried out after planting:



ANNEX 9
Page 3
Age of Planting
Fertilizer              1            2         3           4           5 and
(kg/tree)                                                            following
Urea                   0.1         0.2       0.3         0.4
Rock Phosphate         0.1         0.2       0.3          -             -
Potassium Chloride    0.2          0.3       0.4         0.7           1.0
Kieserite              0.1         0.2       0.3         0.4           0.5
Expected average yields are as follows:
Y 10 and
Y 7       Y 8         Y 9         following
ton/ha copra                       .45       .90        1.30           1.80
'000 of nuts/ha                   2.25      4.50        6.50           9.00
9.        Seed Production.  For the first year of the program, the project
would have to rely on lmports for the supply of germinated hybrid seed nuts.
The most likely source is the seed garden of Seme-Podji in Benin. Meanwhile,
the Project would select 4 ha of dwarf mother trees among the groves planted
on the coastal sands (consultants have determined that the grove established
and managed by SORAD at Agoueve is not suitable for seed production), and an
additional 2 ha of land would be set aside for a nursery. The seed orchards
would be either owned by Government or leased from growers. A coconut seed
production officer would be appointed by the project after training for 3
months at the-Port Bouet station in Ivory Coast. Irrigation would be provided
by shallow wells. Artificial pollination would be carried out with imported
'Tall" pollen secured from Ivory Coast for which arrangements would be made
through IRHO. After germination the seeds would be transplanted in plastic
bags in the nursery, in a triangular pattern 60 cm apart (33,000 seeds per ha)
and watered regularly by hand. The seedlings would be ready for delivery to
growers after some six months, when about 80 cm tall.
10.       Seed Production Costs.  The following costs are based on a 4 ha seed
garden and a 2 ha nursery to produce 46,000 plants per year:



ANNEX 9
Page 4
CFAF '000
Depreciation of irrigation works
(investment of CFAF 2 M over 10 years)                 300
Operation of irrigation system                             60
Personnel:  seed production specialist /1                 800
laborers (3)                              5,256
consultant support (8 man-weeks
& travel)                              2,000
Equipment                                                  60
Fertilizers and Insecticide                                60
Pollination Bags                                          180
Polyethylene bags (nursery)                               132
Refrigerator                                               50
Total                                             8,898
Production cost per hybrid seed: CFAF 195
/1   Not including a 3 month training session at Port Bouet, Ivory
Coast under arrangements with IRHO.
Observations of Dwarf and Hybrid Groves
11.       The performance of existing groves of dwarfs and hybrids (para
4) would be monitored by SORAD at the following locations: Brenner plantation,
Agbodankope cooperative Atati Agbodan, and the Baguida plantation. Observ-
ations at Baguida would concern tall Malaysia trees. The program would
be carried out over five years.
12.       The observations would consist of (a) recording the number of
trees (living, dead, replacements) according to origin, (b) record the inter-
cropping system with food crops, (c) assigning a letter to each row working
from Wiest to East, (d) assigning a number to each tree in each line from South
to North; (e) harvesting each month and record the number of nuts per tree;
(f) noting the development of disease at each harvest, and (g) determining the
copra content twice a year. This work would require the assignment of a field
assistant to each of the plantations. The consultant in charge of the super-
vision of seed production would also supervise the program of observations.
Comparative Hybrid Trial
13.       In order to definitely  ascertain the performance of hybrids and
their resistance to the Kaincope disease, the Project would conduct a compara-
tive trial. The following 8 hybrids with yellow or Cameroon red dwarf (YD or
RD) would be compared: YD x West African Tall; YD x Polynesian Tall; YD
x Malaysia Tall; YD x Rennell Tall; RD x West African Tall; RD x Polynesia
Tall; RDx Malaysia Tall; and RD x Rennell Tall. The seedlings would be
purchased from Benin or Ivory Coast through IRHO.



ANNEX 9
Page 5
14.       According to the design prepared by IRHO during project prepara-
tion, and detailed in the feasibility study, the trial would be carried
out in a randomized block with 8 replications, with individual plots
planted to 25 trees each. With a density of 160 trees/ha, the trial would
cover 8 ha. The seedlings would be irrigated during the dry season for the
first two years. Annual records would be made of growth, foliar analysis,
and yields at the bearing stage. A technician selected by the coconut spe-
cialist of SORAD would be assigned to the trial. He would receive technical
support by the IRHO consultant. The trial would be conducted in liaison with
similar trials in neighboring countries (Ghana, Cameroon) carried out with
IRHO assistance.



ANNEX 9
Appendix 1
Page 1
TOGO
MARITIME REGION RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
RENOVATION OF COCONUT PLANTINGS
Varietal Resistance of Coconuts to Kaincope 1/
1.        In Togo, 42 coconut trees of the "Malaysia Tall" type, planted in
1959 at Baguida, are free from the disease, while the "West Africa Tall"
coconuts are dying in the same area.  Similarly in Togo, dwarfs planted
between 1961 and 1963 (Malaysia Yellow Dwarfs, Cameroon Red Dwarfs, Brazil
Green Dwarfs) in areas devastated by the disease show only two cases of
death after 12 years, which seem to demonstrate a better resistance of
these types.
2.        A trial with dwarf coconuts vas carried out near Cape Saint Paul
in Ghana, including Malaysia Dwarfs in 1957, and Malaysia Dwarfs and Cameroon
Dwarfs imported from Ivory Coast and from Jamaica in 1966-67.  Nearly all
have died and their death was said to have resulted from the disease. Their
death however could be attributed to the unfavorable environnent in the Cape
St. Paul area (poor soil, inadequate rainfall, some 850 mm which means a
deficit of 800-1,000 mm); these conditions are detrimental to the development
of Dwarf coconut, which is more sensitive to drought than Tall. Under such
conditions, and keeping in mind the limited number of trees (8 to 14 in the
1966-67 trial), it is difficult to assess the resistance to the disease from
these results. In Cameroon an outbreak of the disease was observed in 1975
on Red Dwarfs, about 10 years old, at Ebome. In Jamaica, the Malaysia Dwarf
is resistant to the disease (4% mortality), in contrast to Jamaica Tall (85%
mortality). Malaysia, Thailand, and Cambodia Talls are less resistant (20
to 30% mortality), and the Ceylon and Panama Dwarfs are susceptible. The
hybrid Panama Tall x Malaysia Dwarf is tolerant (13%) and the Malaysia Dwarf x
Jamaica Tall is somewhat less tolerant (22%). These results were obtained
in an environment that is very favorable to the disease and where the Jamaica
Tall "factor" (high susceptibility) is a determining cause of the high
susceptibility.
3.        The tolerance of the last two hybrids, for whlich one of the parents
is susceptible to the disease, shows that it is possible to develop a tolerant
hybrid from susceptible types crossed with resistant types. Even though no
systematic trial has been conducted in Togo on the Yellow Dwarf x West African
Tall hybrid, there is reason to speculate that this hybrid is tolerant to the
Kaincope disease.
1/   From a note prepared following a meeting of representatives of the
World Bank, SODEPALM and IRHO on January 9, 1976 in Ivory Coast.



ANNEX 10
Page 1
TOGO
MARITIME REGION RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
INFRASTRUCTURE
A. Roads
1.        The project area has a primary network of 245 Km of asphalt roads
linking the principal towns to Lome. In the western part, the asphalt road
to Palime runs through Keve connecting it with Lome. In the central part,
an asphalt road runs north-south across the entire project area connecting
Tsevie with Lome. Another asphalt road goes from Tsevie via Tabligbo, Vogan,
Aneho to Lome (Map 11,885). The remaining network within the project area
consists of 520 Km of secondary roads and 1,500 Km of feeder roads.
2.        Not all existing roads in the project area are adequate.  While
the primary roads are by and large adequate, the secondary and feeder roads
connecting villages and farms with these main roads are not. These links
are dirt roads and tracks which are frequently impassable in the rainy sea-
son, and often alsc in the dry season due to lack of maintenance. Even with
maintenance, many of them are inadequate. Many areas where rice production
would be developed and settlement encouraged remained inaccessible.
3.        The project road program would be carried out over PY 2-4 and
would encompass 300 km, namely: upgrading 90 km of feeder to secondary
roads, constructing 90 Km of new feeder roads, and rehabilitating 120 km
of existing feeder roads. SORAD would also be equipped to maintain this
network, as well as existing roads.
4.        Physical features of the area are favorable to road building.
The Maritime region occupies a broad rolling terrain which slopes gently
(0.2-0.3%) toward the coast. Generally, soils vary from loamy sand near
the coast to sandy loam and sandy clay in the valley bottomlands and to
lateritic on the uplands. Except in the bottomlands, the type of soil
could reduce topsoil stripping requirements.
5.        Streams are small and sparsely distributed.  Surface drainage
is not a serious problem, except in the valleys. In the sandy coastal
area, the problem is even less since the terrain is flat and percolation
is high. Under these conditions requirements for drainage structures such
as bridges and culverts would be moderate.
6.        Secondary roads would be 5 m wide, with an a verage 30 cm embank-
ment and capped by 15 cm of laterite; on average, there would be one culvert
per km. Feeder roads would be 3 m wide, with 10 cm of laterite, also with
one culvert per km.



ANNEX 10
Page 2
7.        In accordance with prevailing arrangements in the country, SORAD's
Rural Engineering Unit (REU) would in addition to annual maintenance, be
responsible for the construction or improvement of feeder roads; while up-
grading feeder to secondary roads would be done by private contractor.
Responsibility of the Public Works Department is restricted to main roads.
SORAD which has experience with feeder roads, but lacks equipment, would
identify priorities, prepare a plan of operation, and supervise construc-
tion. In order to carry out its task, the REU would be strengthened.
An engineer would be recruited to head the unit, while the associate en-
gineer--a relatively junior officer--currently in charge would remain as
deputy. Design staff would also be increased and maintenance/construction
equipment would be provided (details at Table 1).
8.        Construction costs for new roads are estimated at about CFAF 1.0
million per km of feeder on force account and at about CFAF 4.5 million per
km of new secondary road by contract (Table 2). The cost of rehabilitating
or upgrading existing roads is estimated at 60% of the cost of new construc-
tion, while direct annual maintenance costs (for materials, supplies, and
labor) is estimated 2% of construction cost. Detailed cost estimates are at
Table 2.
B. Village Water Supplies
9.        As the water table beyond the coastal sands is deep, the digging
of traditional wells is difficult. This lack of reliable water supply is a
major concern throughout the project area. The Government has supported the
construction of deep tubewells, equipped with pumps, each to serve several
villages, with operating costs being borne by the local administrative dis-
tricts (circonscriptions). However, the problem remains particularly acute
in certain parts of the project area--the savannah zone and the northern part
of the coastal plateau--where it presents a major obstacle to the expansion
of agricultural activity. In these areas, the water table is not only deep
but irregular. Villagers are beginning to install raîn water catchments via
metal roofs, gutters and cisterns, but this solution does not always meet
water needs during the long dry season (November to March). Where the
topography is suitable, substantial benefits could be obtained through
the construction of small retention dams which would catch the natural
runoff and serve as simple reservoirs.
10.       Provisions have been made under the project for the construction
and equipping of 20 wells and two retention dams; however, the mix may shift,
following the detailed examination of sites to be served and the possibili-
ties for each type of construction. Also where appropriate, dispensaries
and markets (paras 15 and 18) would be equipped with cisterns. Operation
and maintenance of the wells would be the responsibility of the "circon-
scriptions" who would therefore, have to agree on their construction, and
on their operation and maintenance thereafter.



ANNEX 10
Page 3
ll.       Tubewells would have an average depth of 65 m and would be equipped
with submersible electqic pumps powered by diesel generators. They would
discharge into a 300 m capacity concrete water tank which would have faucets
for delivering water to villagers.  Dams are expected to be 6-10 ! high, de-
en in§ o   ooraphK  with a stora  a                  aba            m    Water
tould re delerei tnt_oug  a ppe-an- a ce  stystem locutea oeaoou  I50 m
downstream from the dam. Based on average per capita consumption of 20
gallons per day, each well or dam is expected to serve a population of
2,000 people. Further technical details are at Appendices 1 (for wells)
and 2 (dams).
12.       Construction of the tubewells would be carried out by the Ministry
of Public Works' well brigade, which is adequately equipped. SORAD would
prepare a plan of operation, in consultation with the Office of Geology
and Mines of the Ministry of Public Works (which is responsible for the
hydrogeologic aspects of the well program), which would specify the prior-
ity location of the wells, taking into account the adequacy of the aquifer,
spacing of wells, and the population to be served. Dams would be constructed
on force account by the SORAD's Rural Engineering Unit after detailed surveys
and design by the Rural Engineering Department of MER. Both engineering
design and construction program for wells and dams would be submitted to
IDA for approval.
13.       Construction and equipment costs are estimated at about CFAF 16
million per well (CFAF 8,000 or US$36 per capita of population expected to
be served) and CFAF 10 million per retention dam. Annual operating and
maintenance costs are estimated at about CFAF 650,000 per well and at
about CFAF 200,000 per dam. Details are at Tables 3 and 4. Once con-
structed, the facilities would be taken over by the local administration
in line with prevailing arrangements in the project area for responsibility
for village water supply. Under these arrangements there is no water charge,
and operating costs are financed out of the local budget.
C. Dispensaries
14.       Like most of West Africa, the Maritime Region of Togo suffers high
rates of morbidity and mortality from diseases against which relatively simple
health measures can be extremely effective. Government's strategy of health
care involves the integration of major hospitals with primary health centers
and dispensaries. The dispensaries are designed to serve a population of
10,000 people or a radius of 7 km. This relatively broad coverage justifies
the level of staffing which consists of a nurse, an auxiliary midwife, and one
or more health assistants who ensure regular coverage of the surrounding vil-
lages, giving simple care and referring more serious cases to the health center.
15.       Health coverage of the southern Maritime Region is generally ade-
quate, but falls off sharply towards the north. The project would provide
for the construction, under SORAD supervision of 15 dispensaries. Each dis-
pensary would consist of a delivery room, recovery room, treatment rooms and



ANNEX 10
Page 4
2
two offices, covering a total of about 225 m , and would be equipped with
cisterns, sanitary facilities, refrigerator, and stove, plus an initial
stock of medicine and supplies. Costs, including equipment and supplies,
are estimated at CFAF 4 million per dispensary.
16.       Nurses would receive three years training at the Paramedical
School in Lome, while auxiliary midwives would receive one year of training
at the school at SOKODE. Health assistants would also receive one year of
training, primary on the job. Phasing of dispensary construction would be
coordinated with the availability of trained personnel. The Public Health
Service of the Ministry of Health would be responsible for the operation and
maintenance of the dispensaries once completed.
D. Markets
17.       Primary marketing, especially of food crops, is generally carried
out at weekly village markets, where buyers and sellers can meet. In order
to ensure competition between traders, and help stabilize the marketing of
primary commodities, the local authorities have begun to encourage an increase
in the number of villages able to hold regular markets through the provision
of sheltered areas. The project would assist this program by providing for
the construction of about 20 new markets. Ten sites have already been selec-
ted and the remainder would be determined in PY 3 after review of the results
of the program and the needs generated by increased production.
18.       The basic plan for covered rural markets has been developed by
Togo's Center for Construction and Housing and employs a modular system
using prefabricated materials. Each module, consisting of foundation, con-
crete drains and support posts, and aPuminium roof, contains eight market
stalls covering a total of about 95 m . Each markEt would contain four
shelters, with a total covered area of about 380 m , at an estimated cost
of CFAF 1.8 million per market.
19.       Construction would be carried out by contractors under SORAD super-
vision. Operation and maintenance of the markets would be the responsibility
of the district administration.



ANNEX 10
Appendix 1
Page 1
TOGO
MARITIME REGION RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
INFRASTRUCTURE
DETAILS OF DESIGN AND FEATURES OF TUBEWELLS
Geology and Hydrology
1.        Geologically, the Maritime Region is underlain by an impervious
basement complex of metamorphic rock (socle cristallin) extending from the
north (40-50 km inland). In the north, where most of the groundwater re-
charge comes from, the complex is shallow and exposed to the ground surface.
It gradually becomes deeper towards the south, reaching a depth of more
than 300 m near the coast. On top of this complex lie the aquifers in patchy
formations with depths varying from an average of 30 m for the uppS r aqui-
fers io more than 100 m for the lower ones, and yielding from 50 m /day up to
500 m /day depending on the extent and geologic formation Sf the aquifers. In
the vicinity of Lome the aquifer could yield up to 1,000 m /day.
Water-Demand Assumptions
2.        The maximum area served by a well is estimated to be with'n a ra-
dius of 1.5 km around the well.  Thus the area would be about 10 km , with
about 2,000 people expected to be the maximum population.
3.        Based on the peak consumption rate of 20 gallons per day per 3capita,
and 30% lossen, the total peak demand at the well would be about 200 m /day
or about 30 m /hr.
Water Tank Capacity
4.        The water tank of about 300 m  in capacity would be enough to meet
the demand in case the well requires minor repair for 1 to 2 days.
Pump Head and HP Required
5.        Based on the conservative specific capacity of the well of about
1 lit/sec/m, the well draw-down would be about 8 m. The average depth of the
aquifer is about 30 m; thus the total hydraulic head on the well pump includ-
ing losses would be about 41 m.



ANNEX 10
Appendix 1
Page 2
6.        Under the above conditions, the pump needs 10 HP to lift the water.
Main Features
7.        The average main features of the well would be:
(i)  Total depth                                   65 m
(ii)  Diameter                                      10"
(iii)  Discharge                                     30 m /hr
(iv)  Electrical Submersible Pump                   10 HP
(v)  Diesel Generator Set                          10 KW
(vi)  Concrete Water Tank with Cover               300 m3
(vii) Delivering Facilities with control
valves and 30 units of faucets
attached to the water tank



ANNEX 10
Appendix 2
Page 1
TOGO
MARITIME REGION RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
INFRASTRUCTURE
DETAILED FEATURES OF A SMALL DAM
Topography and Hydrology
1.        The rolling terrain, the stream pattern, and earth materials in
the project area, particularly in the north, indicate a potential for small
reservoir development2  The annual rainfall, on average, of 1,000 mm over
a catchment of 3-5 km  could produce enough surface runof  for the proposed
reservoir, which would have a capacity of about 100,000 m    Allowing for
sedimentition and evaporation, the reservoir is expected to supply up to
70,000 m per year. On the basis of the peak demand of up to 20 gallons per
day per capita and 30% losses, the reservoir would be capable of serving
about 2,000 people.
Features of Dam and Reservoir
(i)  Types of dam       -       earth fill
(il)  Height             -       6-10 m
(iii)  Free board         -       1.5 m    3
(iv)  Total Capacity    -        100,000
(v)  Sediment Space    -        20,000 m
(vi)  Spillway - free overSlow with concrete gurfacing capable
of disch4rging 1.5 m per second per km of catchment.
For 4 km  of catchment, the spillwa   would be 20 m wide
with 0.30 afflux, discharging 6.0 m /sec.
(vii) The dam embankment would be earth-fill with clay core, if
necessary, having 4 m top width and 1:2 to 1:3 side slope with
rip-rap on the upstream face containing about 8,500 m of
fill.
(viii)  The foundation would be treated to the impervious zone.
Core wall would be sunk to an impervious foundation.
(ix)  The outlet work would consist of the outlet pipe of 6
inches in diameter covered with concrete, equipped with
a strainer on upstream side, and a gate valve on the
downstream.



ANNEX 10
Appendix 2
Page 2
(x)  The dam design would depend on the soil tests at the
proposed site.
Distribution System
(xi)  Main gravity pipeline - PVC pipe 6 inches in diameter - would
be laid at 1:300 slope for a distance of about 150 m from the
outlet gate valve. The branch pipeline - PVC pipe 4 inches
in diameter - would convey water from the main pipe to two
separate delivery points at a distance of about 25 m from the
main for villagers.
(xi!) The village water points would be installed with an adequate
concrete platform and faucets for villagers' consumption.



ANNEX 10
TOGO                        Table 1
MARITIME REGION RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
INFRASTRUCTURE
LIST OF ROAD OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE EQUIPMENT
(CFAF '000)
Unit price      Total cost       Total net of taxes
1 Bulldozer (140 HP)                    22,125          22,125                17,895
2 Motor Graders (120 HP)                19,935          39,870               32,080
1 Loader (80 HP)                        11,720          11,720                 9,575
1 Road Roller                           12,150          12,150                 9,780
1 Water Truck                            3,400           3,400                 2,760
1 Cement Mixer                           1,490           1,490                 1,100
3
4 Dump Trucks (4 m )                     3,960          15,840                12,840
2 Trucks (3.5 ton) *                     2,360           4,720                 3,780
2 Pick up trucks *                       1,380           2,760                 2,210
Total                                             114,075               92,020
* Included in vehicles for Rural Engineering Unit in Annex  14  Table  3



AMNEX 10
Table 2
TOGO
MARITIME REGION RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DETAILS OF ROAD CONSTRUCTION COSTS
A. Secondary Roads (by contractor)
Construction Costs/km - New Road 1/                            CFAF
1.   Clearing 20.00m width @ 20,000/ha                       40,000
2.-  ToPsoil Stripping 10.00 m width                        225,000
3.   Earthwork 5.50x0.30x1,OOOxl.20 = 1,98Cân3    600/m3 1,188,000
4.   Surfacing 5.OOxO.15xl,000xl.20 = 900m3 @ 2000/m3  1,800,000
5.   Drainage 15%                                           488,000
6.    Engineerin  5%                                        187,000
7.   Profit 15%                                             590,000
Total                   4,518,000
Contingencies 15%         678,000
B.  Feeder Roads (by force account) 2/
Construction Costs/lkn - New Road 3/
1.   Clearing 10.00 m width @ 20,000/ha                      20,000
2.   Topsoil Stripping 6.00 m width @ 160,OOOxO.75         120,000
3.   Earthwork 3.50x0.l0xl,000xl.20 = 420m3@ 600x0.75/m3 189,000
h.   surfacing 3.OOxO.10xl,000xl.20= 360m3@ 20,000
x 0.75/m3    540,000
5.   Drainage 10% (of full cost - with depreciation)       115,000
6.   Engineering and overhead 5%                             50,000
Total                   1,034,000
Contingencies 15%         155,000
1/  The cost of upgrading feeder roads to secondary standards is
estimated to be 60% the cost of new road construction, or
CFAF 2,711,000/km.
2/  The cost net of depreciation charges for equipment (25% of
unit cost is estimated for the depreciation).
3/  The cost of improving feeder roads is estimated to be 60%
the cost of new construction, or CFAF 620,000/km.



ANNEX 10
Table 3
Page 1
TOGO
MARITIME REGION RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
INFRASTRUCTURE
DETAILS OF COSTS OF A TUBEWELL
CFAF Million
Details of Cost Estimates/Well
Well
i.  Pilot Drilling                            1.422
il.  Well Drilling & Labor & Material
& Supply & Mobilization                2.700
iii.   Casing and Sereens                       it.,320
iv.   Well Performance Test                    0.225
v.   Failure 10% of i & ii                    O.1O0S
vi.  Miscellaneous 10%                         0.900
vii.   Engineering 15%                          1.h85
11.h57
Power
i.   Diesel Generating Set 10 kw              o.675
Ji.   Submersible Punp 10 HP                   0.675
iii.   Spare n5% o4' i                          0.169
iv.   Installation and Engineering 15%          .225
Water Tank (300 m3)
i.   Foundation Treatment 225 m2              0.068
ii.   Concrete Foundation 25m3 at $ih4/m3      0.247
iii.   Reinforced Concrete 54m3 at $l00/m3      1.21"
iv.   Roofl Materials 250 ra                   0.675
v.   Roof Structure (vooden)                  0.045
vi.   Labors for iv and v                      o .p68
vii.   Engineering 5%                           0.112
2.V3-0
Delivering Facilities
i.   2' $ x 75 z galvarnized pipe at $5/m     o,084
ii.   Valves 15 units 2"1 g at $30             0.101
iii.   Fauicet 30 units 1" ,  at $10            0.068
iv.   Plat Form 10 m3 concrete at $4./m3       0.099
v.   Installation and Ehgineering 20%         0.068
0. b20
Total aBasic Cost      16.o>S
Physical Conti ngencies 15%       2.h07



ANNEX 10
Table 3
Page 2
TOGO
MARITIME REGION RURAL DEVELOP%ENT PROJECT
ANNUAL OPERATING AND
MAINTWNANCF 0MTS OF A
TUBEwRELL
Direct Cash Costs                                            CFAF Million
i.    Fuel Oil (Diesel) 5,500                         264i,0Oo
Lit a CFAF 48/lit
hi.   Lubrication                                      25,520
116 lit @  CFAF 220
iii.  Grease 5 kg. u CFAF 650                           3,250
iv.  Spare 20% of Generating Set                     134,000
v. Attendant CFAF 18,000fmonth                      216,000
vl. Spare for Faucets and others                      10,000
652,770



TOGO
MARITIME REGION RURAL DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
INFRASTRUCTURE
Small Ba Cost Estliate6
Cost/Dam                                                 Unit Cost       Total Cost
Preparation Works                Unit         Quantity      CFAF             CFAF
Res. & Site Plan Survey        km              3       50, 00          150,000  )
Land Acquisition               ha              5       40,000          200,000  )
Reservoir Clearing             ha              3.5    10,000            35,000  )  465,000
Site Clearing                  ha              1.5    20,000            30,000  )
Approach Road 1/               km              3         -                -     )
Camp and Buildrngs             L/S                                      50,000  )
Dam & Reservoir
Foundation Treatment           L/S                                     533,000  )
Earthwork                      m3            8,500        600       5,100,000  )
Rip rap                        m3              150      4,000          600,000  )
Placing sod                    m2              600          7            4,200  )7,512,200
Outlet & Intake                L/S                                     300,000  )
Spillway                       L/S                                     750,000  )
Fence                          km              1.5   150,000           225,000  )
Distribution System
pvc. 6"e x 150 m @             m               150      2,200          330,000  )
4"d x 50 m @              m                50     1,600           80,000  )  490,000
3"d x 40 m @              m                40     1,100           44,000  )
lle x 80 m @              m               120       300           36,000  )
Conc. for water point          m3               20    15,000           300,000  )
Faucet                         unit             40      2,250           90,000  )  525,000
Valves l)6"0S 2)4"»            unit              3    45,000 Av.       135,000  )
Installation 10%                                                                   100,000
9,092,000
Engineering 10%                                                                    900 000
9,992,000           mâ
Contingencies 20%                                                                2,000,000
CD
1/ To be included in feeder road constr. work
Annual Operation and Maintenance
Attendant                     annual            12    9°,0oo            90,000
Others                        L/S                                      120,000
210,000



ANNEX 11
Page 1
TOGO
MARITIME REGION RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IRRIGATION ENGINEERING STUDY
Background
1.        In the lower Zio, Haho and Mono valleys, the rivers develop many
overflow channels in their broad flood plains. Development of irrigated
agriculture on these flood plains (about 15,000 ha) is hydrologically and
physically feasible. The potential for irrigation by pumping for double
cropping is limited by the low minimum flow of the dry season; and large-
scale irrigation by gravity for double cropping requires the construction
of important storage works (Annex 3); in either case heavy investments are
required per unit area of irrigated land. Such major investments are anti-
cipated for the Zio and Mono valleys, but not before the 1980s. Meanwhile,
there is scope for the low cost development of gravity irrigation for single
cropping during the flood season.
2.        From a study of the available hydrological, soil and topographic
(1:50,000 scale) data, and field visits, the appraisal mission identified a
promising such scheme in the lower Zio valley between Djagble and Devego,
about 15 km northeast of Lome (map 11866). The topography is such (map
12155) that a main canal could be built at minimum expense, and the require-
ments for a flood protection level would be minimal. Moreover, the scheme
would not interfere with the possible expansion of the irrigation developed
upstream with Chinese assistance, and with the presence of oil palm or coco-
nut plantations as can be found upstream. The area is free from salinity,
and land tenure does not appear to present a serious obstacle. With the aid
of a 1:10,000-scale map which covers only part of the area, it has been
estimated that about 1,000 ha (net) could be served by the scheme, and that
the scheme (civil works) would cost in the neighborhood of CFAF 350.0 million
(US$1.5 million). Rice and vegetables could be expected to be grown with
120% cropping intensity.
Proposed Engineering Study
3.        Because of the reconnaissance nature of its identification, the
study would be carried out in two stages - feasibility and final design. The
basic data would first be developed. If the feasibility is confirmed, then
the planning and design phase would be carried out.
4.        The feasibility study would include the following surveys:
(a) Water Resources
i.   Installing staff gauges in the Zio River at two different
locations - Djagble and Devego (see map), making sure that



ANNEX 11
Page 2
each gauge would measure the lowest water level during
the dry season and the highest flood stage during the
flood season.
ii.   Observing daily water levels at these two locations by
reading the water level once a day at the installed
staff gauges. The governnent responsible agency must
send its officer to inspect and collect the water level
records from the gauge readers every Friday during the
period from June to October, and on the lst of each month
during November to May. The original of the records would
be kept at the Lome office ready for review.
(b) Topography
iii.   Preparing 1:10,000 scale topographic maps of the proposed
project area, which is located on the eastern bank of the
Zio river between Djagble and Devego (see map) showing
contour lines at 1.00 m intervals and intermediate concour
lines at 0.50 m intervals wherever land features are ir-
regular.
iv.   Making cross-sections of the Zio river between Djagble and
Devego at every 500 m interval along the river.
(c) Reference Datum
v.   To relate the gauges, cross-sections and contour lines to
the same datum, a permanent benchmark would be installed
at the Djagble for reference.
(d)  Soil Survey
vi.   Preparing a detailed soil survey and, if possible, land
classification (U.S. Bureau of Reclamation Standard) of
the project soil on the 1:10,000 scale maps.
(e) Water Quality
vii.   Sampling the Zio river water at Djagble for determining
salinity, sodium hazard and pH (preferably following the
U.S. Department of Agriculture Standard). Samples should
be taken in June, August, October and February.
(f)  Land Tenure
viii.   Surveying a land tenure of the project area showing the
size distribution of the holding, preparing a land con-
solidation plan and drawing up a settlement program to be
ready for review before the final stage of the project
feasibility study preparation.



ANNEX 11
Page 3
The data would be analyzed and reported, together with the conclusions and
recommendations of the feasibility study, in a report to be submitted to
Government and IDA.
5.        The engineering design of the gravity irrigation system would be
carried out if the conclusions of the feasibility study are favorable and
Government decides to proceed with the irrigation scheme. The work would
consist of (a) the design of project structures (diversion weirs, outlet
works, checks, canals, dikes and drains); (b) an evaluation of required
inputs and costs; (c) the.preparation of bidding documents, tendering and
bid evaluation; (d) needs for infrastructure; and (e) an economic analysis
of the irrigation projects in liaison with the agricultural development
study.
6.        The agricultural development study would be conducted concurrently
with the engineering design study. It would include (a) evaluation of the
agronomic potential of the soils of the project area; (b) selection of a
suitable cropping pattern, crop varieties, rotations, input and labor re-
quirements; (c) possibilities for vegetable development, second cropping
after irrigated rice; (d) estimates of yields and returns; (e) determina-
tion of farm size; (f) estimates of required support services, their orga-
nization and management; (g) preparation of a settlement scheme, including
land tenure aspects; (h) estimates of costs and returns, and (i) preparation
of a request for financing.
7.        Implementation.  The study would be under the responsibility of
SORAD, with consultant support. SORAD would coordinate the work with all
other agencies. A major role would be played by the Technical Division of
Rural Engineering Department (Genie Rural) of the Ministry of Rural Equip-
ment. The Division has six engineers, 10 technicians and five draftsmen.
An important role of the consultants would be to train the personnel of
the Rural Engineering Department. The consultants would have access to
other agencies, which would provide some basic information and facilities.
The principal of them are: (a) the Public Works Department; (b) the Mete-
orological Services; (c) the Hydrological Services (ORSTOM) which would
carry out the water resource and quality studies; (d) the soil survey ser-
vice of MDR which would carry out the detailed soil survey; (e) the topo-
graphic service which would carry out the topographic survey and be respon-
sible for the installation of a benchmark; (f) SORAD which would be respon-
sible for the coordination of the engineering study, the preparation of the
agricultural development phase, and the request for financing; (g) the rural
engineering department of MDR which would be responsible for the design work;
and (h) RMWA personnel which would assist with the preparation of the irriga-
tion project.
8.        Consultants.  An experienced irrigation engineer would be engaged
for a total of about one year. If within the first 6 months his conclusions
are positive and acceptable to Government and to IDA, he would be retained
for another period of about 6 months for carrying on the design phase with
the help of a design engineer who would be engaged six months. Qualifica-
tions of the consultants are given in Appendix 1.



ANNEX il
Page 4
9.        Costs.  Estimated total expenditures for the engineering study
would be about CFAF 18.0 million (US$80,000) - about 5% of the project civil
work cost - about 70% of which - CFAF 12.4 million (US$55,000) - would be
the foreign exchange component, which includes all technical assistance
costs (Table 1).



ANNEX 11
Appendix 1
Page 1
TOGO
MARITIME REGION RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IRRIGATION ENGINEERING STUDY
TERMS OF REFERENCE OF CONSULTANTS
1.        Irrigation Engineer.  SORAD would engage an irrigation engineer for
an initial period of 6 months to be extended for another 6 months if the design
phase is carried out. The engineer would assist in the preparation of the en-
gineering study of the irrigation project in the Lower Zio Deltaic Plain. He
would report to the Project Manager.  His responsibilities would be:
i.   Reviewing the existing basic data, staffing requirements and
facilities for the purposes of administering and executing the
project feasibility study, and coordinating with participating
agencies.
ii. Preparing the study work program to include that for additional
investigations and data procurement deemed necessary for both
technical and economic analyses, and advising on staffing and
facilities.
iii.   Implementing the work programs which would include the additional
investigations and data procurement, advising on the specifica-
tions and methods in carrying out these investigations and
procurement.
iv.   Interpreting the data obtained from the investigations and
procurement as above and preparing an interim report to
include recommendations and steps required for the completion
of final feasibility study preparation, should the data indi-
cate the project viability.
v.   Preparing the feasibility study work program, and arrangements
for staffing and facilities as necessary for implementing the
program.
vi.   Directing detailed field surveys of the diversion heading,
main canals, dikes and drains to the extent adequate for
costing.
vii.   Planning and designing of the irrigation and drainage structures.
viii.   Advising and assisting in planning agricultural development and
in analyzing the project economic aspect.



ANNEX 11
Appendix 1
Page 2
ix.   Advising on the organization matters in respect of the
project implementation, operation and maintenance.
x.   Advising and assisting in training of staff as well as
on the research matters relevant to the project prepara-
tion and implementation.
xi.   Preparing the project feasibility study reports.
xii.   Preparing tender documents.
The irrigation Engineer should have good background in hydrology. It is
required that he has at least 5 years experience in planning surface water
development, particularly for the river-run diversion irrigation scheme,
flood protection and drainage.  He should personally have conducted field
investigations, project planning and design and must have good organiza-
tional and training abilities. In particular, he should be familiar with
on-farm irrigation and with project economic evaluation.
2.        Assistant Design Engineer.  He would be a hydraulic structural
design engineer with at least 3 years practical experience in designing
small diversion weirs, outlet works, checks, canals, dikes and drains.
He would assist the Irrigation Engineer in designing the project struc-
tures and therefrom quantify the project civil work costs, the materials
supplied and labor needed. He would also participate in training the local
staff.



ANNEX 11
Table 1
TOGO
MARITIME REGION RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IRRIGATION ENGINEERING STUDY
1/
COST ESTIMATES
2
i. Topographic Map Preparation at 1:10,000 Scale for 15 km
Two Surveying Parties:
Foreign
Period              Total             Exchange
US$          US$
2 Surveyors @  CFAF  100,000/month           3 months      600,000
2 Technicians   "      60,000/month               "        360,000
10 Staff Men    "      10,000/month               "        300,000
10 Laborers for clearing @ CFAF   450/day  90 days         405,000
1,665,000     7,400
iM. Office Work:
2 Surveyors @  CFAF  100,000/month           2 months      400,000
2 Technicians  "       60,000/month             "          240,000
2 Draftsmen    "       35,000/month             "          140,000
Materials                                                100,000
880,000     3,900
2
Total for 15 km  = CFAF 2,545,000  2
Fer km2 dost about CFAF 170,000/km
iii. Soil Survey:
10 km2 @ CFAF 200,000/km                                 2,000,000      8,900
iv. River Gauging Work
2 Gauge Installations                                       30,000
2 Gauge Readers for one year                                60,000
90,000       400
v. Economic Survey
1 Officer @ CFAF 100,000 for 3 months                      300,000      1,400
vi.  Consulting Services for 1.5 man-year                    33.750.000   150.000       150.000
Subtotal                                                38,685,000   172,000      150,000
vii.  Contingencies 10%                                        3,869,000    17,200        15,000
42,554,000   189,200      165,000
1/  Administration costs, which would include necessary transportation facilities, are included
in the Project Unit Administration Expenses.  The Project Unit would be set up in SORAD.



ANNEX 12
TOGO
MARITIME REGION RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
1.        The lack of a firm agricultural data base in the project area, and
the fact that the project, which involves rural development, includes several
elements whose final impact cannot be completely predicted, make it necessary
to firm up the data base, and to carefully measure the performance of the
project. To this end, the project authority and the evaluation unit will
keep comprehensive yearly records on performance and measure accomplishments
against appraisal estimates.
2.        To provide an effective tool to ensure a comprehensive recording
of project progress on all important aspects at the end of each cropping
year, a set of detailed tables (1 to 13) have been prepared and would be
discussed with to the Project Manager during the first supervision mission.
For each item the tables include appraisal estimates, the actual data
in absolute terms, and the actual data in relation to appraisal estimates.
4.        In addition to the yearly report, the Project would submit quarterly
reports on expenditures, disbursement, program of work, and implementation.
The format of these reports would be prepared and discussed with the project
authority during the first supervision mission.



TOGO
MARITIME REGION RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
r  u   Pr                                              %t  ..t          O  t- W.nraJoT                  ..-.ress--Re
PY 1                  PY 2                  pY 3                   PY 4                   PY 5
Nuib r of Prolect Farmers                     A       E      %      A               %E  _ %  A     E       %      A       E              A A     E
Cumulative    .                                                                                                . -                          _ -   _  _ -
An-nal 
Impr ved areas (ha)
C astal Sediments               C
AN
D  leted Coastal Sediments    C          .
S vannah                       CAN                                                       i
R4ce Farms (rainfed)             N
V getable Farms                 C
C conuts                        C
AN 
Impr ved Crop Areas (ha)
Mize                            C
.ANj
C  sava                         C
AN
G4oundnut                      CAN
eas        ~~AN
eon Peas                    AN
AN
AN
R     fe                        C                                                    bI
AN                                                                          
Veetables                                                                                                                                                  Il
C    heuteRenovation E
A  - Achievements;  E     Estimates;  C    Cumulative;  AN    Annual; 7.   A  X 100



TOGO
MARITIME REGION RURAL DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
~~~~~~~~~~~~- ~~~                          ~'       ~ 'EE -ÀeA^.«  _    .  >____ V>ç_.._-_ <-z
lpY    1                PY 2                     PY 3                     PY 4                                       Y 5
A         E     %    ,A          E      __    E                   %        A        E               A       E
Yiel s (pure crop, long seaso ) kg/ha
Maize        Coastal Sediment
Depleted Coasta Sediment
Savannah
C 3sava      Depleted Soils
Others
G7zundnut  Coastal Sediment
Depleted Coastal Sediment
Savannah
Co peas    Depleted Soil
Other Upland                                             .
Lowland (rice fa ms)
Co ton       (short season)
Ri e                                   l,11   li1|wl-iw1w«1t-
I                      I                         I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
A  Achievements   E 'atimates               A       0                                                                                 I      -
A  =  Achievemerats  E  =  Estimates   %. = A  x 100
E



TOGO
MARITIME REGION RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
REPORTING REQUIRB.ENTS
I                                             pY 1                   PY 2                  PY 3                  PY 4
Af   E        %       A       E              A      E       %       A       E   | X       A       E      %
Maize    grain
ICassava
Groundnut unshelled
Cowpea    shelled                                                                                                                              f
Pigeon pea shelled
Yam..
Cotton seed cotton
seed
lint
Rice - Paddy
Certi ied Seed Production
Hybrid Maize, ton
Groundnut, ton 8helled
Cowpea, ton shelled
|Rice,  ton paddy
|Cotton, ton delinted see
,Hybrid coconut (numbers)|                    '       l     l       ti                     ]       i     |       i§                     ' 
!                                                                           I      5                               ;FII 1
1                                        E             ~~            ~ ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~I                                                    w 1-.t,15   >
~~~~~~~~~~~~~i                                                            . .  -   _    
A = Achievements  E = Estimates  % = A  X 100
Eî



TOGO
MARITIME REGION RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
REPORTING REQUIREMBNTS
Progress Report - Input Use
_Y 1                   PY 2                   PY  3                 PY 4                      pl  P
E   %   A                              A   E           % A                 1%         A
Ferti: izers (ton)              A                A                                                                                          E
Ro k Phosphate                                -       -
Ura
Po assium chloride
Tr ple superphosphate
Co ton fertilizer
Ma  esium sulfate
Impro d seed (ton)
Ry  id maize
Gr ndnut
Coi pea
R 4e
Cotton 
Pesticide  DDT Maize                                       .
Fuz gicide..                                                                                                                       .;
Se,d Treatment                                         :
Co ton insecticide
Co onut insecticide
Spaer 
hE llers
Thz eEhers
Wi novers
Rice Muisl
t- <0  , L L  i i10~-    - 
A = Achievements  E = Estimates  % = A  X 100
E



TOGO
MARITIME REGION RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
Pro ress Report  - Adoption Rates
§                            PY 1                 ~~~~ ~       ~ ~~~~~           ~    ~ ~~~~PY 2    PY 3    PY4       PYS1
A      E              A      E; A                  E               A      E              A       E     %-
Numb r of farmers adopting
improved practices                                                                                                              
Coastal Plateau             AN
C
Depleted Coastal Plateat   AN        .
Savannah                    AN
c
! Rice farms               AAN
Vegetables                  AN                                                  I
Total                  AN                                                               *
A   Achievements   E = Estimates   % = A  X 100  C  =  Cumulative   AN - Annual
E



TOGO
MARITIME REGION RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
Progress Report - Output Prices  CFAF/kg
IY 1                 PY 2                 PY 3                 PY 4                  PY 5
__«_       ,.                             ,,,,d,,,,,                                                                                   lE_ z^1~^»sQD.     ___p=_7~«    i, S=!->"~   »"7^u-    
Aver ge Farmgate Price  1/                  A      E     %     _ A      E              A.                   A      E                           -A  E  7
mraize shelled
Cassava
Groundnut unshelled
Cowpea shelled
Pigeon pea shelled
Cotton (seed cotton)
Yam
Rice (paddy)
Vegetables (weight and verage)
Impo t Substitution Price 2/
Maize
|GroundnutII                              I       II                   I             I      I      III                                       !
Rice
JCotton
Expor t Substitution Price
Rock phosphate                              '
i .   §Ia. *1|                                                                I |
Based on inflation rate                             A = Achievements  E = Estimates  % = A  X 10
Based on rate of exchange of $ 1 = CFAF 225                                               E



TOGO
MARITIME REGION RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
Progress Report - Input Prices. 1/
! I                                          PY 1                 PY 2                  PY 3                  PY 4                   pY 5
AVE  GECOST TO GROWERCFAE/                   A      E      %      A        -E             A      -             A      E       -      A      E |
a.   ertilizer                                                                                                      .
Rock phosphate
Urea
Potassium chloride
Magnesium sulfate
Triple superphosphate
Cotton fertilizer
b. ~esticides
Maize DDT
Seed insecticide
Seed fungicide                                                .       .
Cotton insecticide
Coconut insecticide                                        .                .
c.  :mproved Seed                 .
Hybrid maize
Grôundnut
Cowpea
Rice
Cotton
Hybrid coconut seedling
(per unit)
1/    Appraisal estimates inflated by                          A = Achievements  E =Estimates%= A  X 100
Ei



TOGO
MARITIME REGION RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
,  __  __»,, __ __ __ __ __ _o-                    ILyput  Price #<«_SX<<«at-s»r ">c¨_er_
i ____________                            pY 1                PY 2                PY 3                 PY 4                  py 5
__X.__ s_ _aU _f-___ _ _ _ _ ____w_=  ___:_  t'  i   - ade S  S                   ,t^--wF
A      E     %                            A     E      %      Ai   E               A      E
d. E uipment (per unit)
Sprayer
Thresher
Winnower
Sheller
Rice Mill
SUBS DlES (CFAF/kg)
Rock Phosphate
Urea
Potassium Chloride
Triple super
Magnesium sulfate
Cotton fertilizer
Pesticides
TOTA  INPUT COSTS INCLUDING S BSIDY
a. F rtilizers
Rock Phosphate
U7rea
Potassium Chloride
Magnesium sulfate
Cotton fertilizer
b.    ed
Maize
i Cotton
Coconut              -                                                                                    -
1/   Appraisal estimates inflated by                       A = Achievements  E = Estimates  % = A  X 100
E



TOGO
MARITIME REGION RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
REPORTING REQUIREMRNTS
-   -___________________________            Pr o_res sPReport  In-ut  Prices       P         r J
i                                         rPY 1__    PY 2                        PY 3          e       Y 4                 PY 5
c  A  |PE       %              -A  E        A            %      A       E| %  eA            E
c. Eqiipment.                                                               .                                . 
ISprayers
Threshers
Winnowers
Shellers
Rice mills
DDT
Seed insecticide
Seed fungicide
Cotton insecticide
Coconut insecticide
INFLA ION RATES
,Buildings
Equipment                                     
JCivil .orksi
1/   Appraisal estimates inflated by                      A =AchiTements  E= Estimates  %= A  X 100
E



TOGO
MARITIME REGION RURAL DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
BEPORTING REQUIREMZNTS
Propres_Re'urt Labor
rY 1                 PY 2                 PY 3                 PY 4                   Y
-          _~       .   * _n                                                                            _- -17  1:- u efm  _'-_k»Wmm.
A      E     %      A       E      %       A     E       %      A      EA %           A      E     %
AVERA ,E LABOR COSTS CFAF/DAY..
Soil Preparation                             -
Weeding
Harvesting
OFFIC AL MINIMUM WAGE
AVE   E LABOR REQUIREMENT
(Man-days/ha, improved s stem)
Maize....
Groundnut                              .       ...                               ..       
Vegetables X\         
A A v t = t eAX
A   Achievements  E   Estimates    = A  X 100
E



TOGO
MARITIME REGION RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
ProZrssReiot    vem£C.t - Benf    _ 2
pY 1                  PY2                    PY3                     PY 4                    PY 5
~Is!__  _ _ _.____________________                      ~.                         ~    we                ds;za a -avr__tA t'.,  o                  ~-~~ .aws_
Aver  es for traditional (T)   and              A       E              A       E               A      E               A       E              A        E
Impr  ed (I) practices - CFAF  er ha
Coast 1 Plateau
Maize                           T
.                  ~~~~~~~I
Cassava                         T
I
Groundnut                       IT
Deple ed Coastal Plateau
MCassava                        T
I
Groundnut                      TI
I
Cowpea                          T
SavannahI
Maize                              TI
I
Cassava                         T
I
Yam                             T
I
Ricè arms
Rice                            T
_          __t l el
A  =  Achievements  E  -  Estimates  %  = A  X 100
Ei



TOGO
MARITIME REGION RUR&L DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
Progresa Report - Farm Budgets
PY    1                 PY 2                     PY3                      PY 4                      Py 5
_ __ _r                                           _         s   07 w    r                               k.
CF  pera   farm    /                             A        E      %. h     A       E E                      E        7.      A        E               A        E
(ai erage)                                      -        -       -        -       -       -     
Co,  tal Plateau
T.     Gros  income  2/
Prod. cost
Net
r .jtI  -XXg 1
DeNjleted Coastal Plateau
T
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
V    tables
I/Not corrected   for inflation  2/    Excluding family consumption or fainily labor  A   Achievemente  E= Estimates  A.=       X 100
EF



TOGO
MARITIME REGION RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
Progress Report - Total Return to Economy
PY 1                 PY 2                  PY 3                   PY 4                    'Y 5
_                                                             A1/    A                      E       r%     A    %E _   %
Maize                      R _                                     -             -                             -
c
Groundnut                  R
c                                                 I
Cassava                    R
ci
Cowpea                     R
c
Cotton                     R
c
Yam                        R
c
Rice                       R
c
Vegetables                 R
c
1/  R   Revenue  C   Cost                      A   Achievements  E   Estimates  ,= A  X 100



TOGO
MARITIME REGION RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
pYl                  PY2 PYY 3                                  PY 4                  PY 5
A      E             A      E              A      E              A      E             A       E
PROJECT ADMINISTRATION
Tecbnical Manager
Deputy Technical Manager
Vegetable Specialist
Assistant Rice Special  t
Chief Research Service
Deputy Research Servic
Assistant Research Se  Lce
Seed Multiplication Spe ialist
Administrative & Financ al
Manager
Deputy Administrative &
Financial Manager
Chief Personnel Service
Clerks
Chief Accountant
Accountants                               .
Chîef Inputs Supply Se riice
AccouBtants                                                                                                                                   i
Accounting Clerk
Chief Warehouseman.. 
Varehousemen
SecretariesI
TRAINING
Chief Training
Deputy
Designer (Dessinateur)  odeliste
Secretary
Driver
i   '            E               I            I       I      g                    g                     !                    l~~I 
A   Achievements  E   Estimates  Z  A  X 100
E



TOGO
MARITIME REGION RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
-p--- _   Rje1?o   eLPct Staff                                         r     t,_
PY 1                 py 2                  PY 3                  PY 4                   PY 5
Af    E        .     A        E       7      A    E         %     AI    E                A 7l' E
RURAL ENGINEERING SERVIC e
Engineer...
Deputy
Topographers
Mechanic
Assistant
Heavy Equipment Operator
Drivers
Foremen
FIELD STAFF
Extension workers
Upland crope
Upland crops, depleted s ils
IRice
Vegetables
Coconuts
Subsector chiefs
CREDIT AGENCY (TSEVIE)
Director
Deputy
Credit Assistant
Accountant
Accounting Clerk
Cashier
Mssenger 
Drver
jGuards
ITypist-Secretary                                                                       *                        - 
A - Achievements  E e Estimates  S - A  X 100
E



TOGO
MARITIME REGION RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
py                     PY 2                   PY 3                   PY 4                     py 5
A                       A      E               A        E     %    q  A        E      % 
I.     ON FARM COSTS
Seeds
Pesticides
Fertilizers
EHand tools + baga
II.    CREDIT TO FARMER GROUPS
Light Farm Equipment
Rie Mille
Power Tillers
ICooperative Storage                                                .       ..
II. SORAD,...
A. Administration, Techn cal
and Extension Servicei
-Buildings. 
Vehicles and Equipmen:
- Personnel and Extensi n Staff                                                                                                               .
Other                                                                                                                      1
Other Operationg Cost5
B. Input Supply Unit                                                                 I                                                         .
Vehicles and Equipmen
PersonnelI
Other Operating Costs
i     E                I                      I  #                                                  l                      5»~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~19~I  - ~
t   _   .   .   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                               - -
A - Achievements;   E - Estimates;    % - A  X 100
E



TOGO
MARITIME REGION RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
RPORTING REQUIREMENTS
Progresa Re ort -
Y 1 y                PY 2                  PY 3                  rY 4                   PY 5
A      E      7.  r  AIE                    A     E       Z  !A          E      %       A      E      Z 
C. Training                           -       -                                                                 -
Buildings
V-hîcLles and Equipment 
Personnel
Other Operating Cost              *
D. Rural Engineering Un t
;   Vehicles and Equipue t
Personnel
Other Operating Conte
IV.    CNCA PROJECT CREDIT AGENCY
Buildings
Equipment and Vehicles
Personnel
Other Operating Costs
V.     INFRASTRUCTURE
Roads                                        .
IVlllage Water Systeus
IMarkets
IDispensaries
VI.    STUDIES AND CONSULTANT S] VICES          _
Irrigation Study
Pvoject Evaluation
Coconuts
IPhysical Contingencies
IExpected Price Increases
~~~~-                                        -~      .^  -  _  -           -      __ -                        -              .            --



ANNEX 13
Page 1
TOGO
MARITIME REGION RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR INTERNATIONALLY RECRUITED STAFF AND COUNTERPARTS
Detailed Terms of Reference will be issued by the Project Manager,
Technical Director
1.        The Technical Director would report to the Project Manager.  He
would be responsible in particular for:
(a) planning the project's program of work and of its budget
in liaison with the Financial and Administrative Manager;
(b) reviewing and establishing all technical recommendations
for project activities;
(c) coordinating all technical activities, including the
implementation of the infrastructure program;
(d) coordinating day-to-day activities with other Government
agencies operating in the project area;
(e) supervising all technical personnel, specially at the
senior level;
(f) preparing quarterly reports of activities;
(g) preparing tenders and contracts with the help of the
Financial and Administrative Manager; and
(h) training a successor.
He would be appointed for a five-year term.  He would have a degree in agri-
culture or equivalent scientific qualification and have experience in agri-
culture, preferably for five years in a senior supervisory position in a
Government extension service or equivalent, in West Africa, or under con-
ditions similar to those of West Africa.
Training Division Chief
2.        The Training Division Chief would report to the Technical Director,
He would be responsible for:



ANNEX 13
Page 2
(a) assisting with the evaluation and selection of candi-
dates to project posts;
(b)  organizing courses for new project staff at all levels
and refresher courses for project personnel (crop pro-
duction, extension techniques);
(c) training his counterpart;
(d)   supervising in-service training;
(e) coordinating training activities with the Ministry
of Rural Development and linking with IITA;
(f) supervising preparation of extension pamphlets,
brochures and posters; and
(g) training leaders and accountants of grower asso-
ciations.
It is expected that an internationally recruited specialist will
be needed for a period not exceeding three years. He would have an appro-
priate basic degree preferably with an additional qualification in education.
He should have experience in agriculture, preferably including a supervisory
position in a training school in West Africa or under conditions similar to
those of West Africa. His Togolese counterpart should have a similar degree
from a Togolese or foreign institution, and must be able to take over as
Training Division Chief within three years.
Financial and Administrative Manager
3.        The Financial and Administrative Manager would report to the Proj-
ect Manager.  He would be responsible for:
A.   Finances
(a) supervising all project financial administration;
(b) preparing annual budgets, in liaison with the Tech-
nical Directors;
(c)  preparing bi-yearly cash flow projections;
(d)  participating in the preparation of quarterly
reports;
(e) checking accounts and preparing final accounts; and
(f) preparing reimbursement claims relative to the IDA
Credit.



ANNEX 13
Page 3
B.   Procurement
(a) controlling the Project's supply activities, especially the
lists of input needs, and the coordination of orders and
deliveries; and
(b) participation in the preparation of tenders and contracts.
C.   Credit
Controlling inventory accountancy.
D.   Personnel
Administering personnel files under the control of the Project
Manager.
It is expected that an internationally recruited specialist would
have to be recruited; he would be appointed for not more than four years.
He would have an appropriate qualification in administration and finances
and would preferably have five years experience in a senior supervisory
position in West Africa or under conditions similar to those of West Africa.
His Togolese counterpart would have similar qualifications in accounting and
finances, and should be in a position to take up full responsibility as
Financial and Administrative Manager within four years.
Research Specialist
4.        The Research Specialist would report to the Technical Director for
administrative matters and work in close liaison with the Director of IRAT-
Togo. He would be responsible for:
(a) designing and carrying out a program of field experiments
according to the general outline prepared jointly by the
Director of IRAT-Togo and the Technical Director and linked
with the IITA regional program;
(b) training research assistants, and his counterpart;
(c) ensuring the coordination with the other research activities
in the Project area, and with regional programs in West
Africa in liaison with IITA;
(d) preparing technical recommendations that are acceptable and
profitable to farmers, and participate in the extension
program;



ANNEX 13
Page 4
(e)  supervising the installation of the coconut trials; and
(f) providing technical support to the vegetable testing program.
It is expected that an expatriate would be needed and would be
appointed for a maximum of three years. He would have a degree in agronomy
and have experience in the design and implementation of field research,
preferably in countries with conditions simiLar to those of West Africa.
A background in soil management and/or maize management would be desirable.
He should be able to:
(a) work with Togolese counterparts and train them;
(b) communicate both with French and English speaking research
workers; and
(c) translate research data into locally feasible and economically
viable packages of improved practices.
His Togolese counterpart would have,a degree in agronomy from a
Togolese or foreign institution, and should show a potential for assuming
research responsibilities after three years or less of involvement in the
program.
Director of CNCA Project Credit Agency (PCA)
5.        The project Credit Unit Director would be a senior agricultural
Credit specialist, fully conversant with accounting procedures and with
administrative, technical and financial organization of rural credit insti-
tutions. Long experience in responsible positions in smallholder rural
credit and administration in developing countries with conditions similar
to those of Western Africa would be required. Qualifications as agricul-
turalist, experience in the formation of farmers' credit groups or societies,
and working with these organizations or cooperatives would be advantages.
Fluent French is essential. His prime responsibilities would be the control
of project-farmers' group credit operations which would involve initially
the disbursement of loans in kind and their recovery when due.
His responsibilities would include:
(a) PCA administrative, technical and financial organization;
(b) establishing an efficient accounting and recording system
so as to be in permanent control of borrowers' position in
principal and interest, by category of loans, due date and
farm location;
(c)  organizing the procedure for receiving, registering, filing
farmers' credit applications;



ANNEX 13
Page 5
(d)  in consultation with the Project field extension officers
as regards the Project Technical criteria, establishing the
procedure for loan evaluation, loan supervision and loan
collection;
(e) establishing draft documents covering all aspects of credit
and accounting procedures and administration;
(f) in liaison with the Project Supply Ùnit and Project field
extension officers requisitioning of inputs and farm equipment
for timely delivery to farmers;
(g)  preparation of a credit manual to be used by Project field
Officers and PCA credit assistants;
(h) training of credit staff;
(i) in service training of his deputy on all technical and
financial aspects of credit operations, so as to enable him
to take over efficiently the management of the Credit Agencies
the soonest possible.
The PCA Director would be administratively responsible to CNCA.
Chief - Monitoring Unit
6.        The chief of the Project Monitoring Unit would vork in close
liaison with the Technical Director and the Head of the Credit Agency.
He would assist vith:
(a)  designing a detailed program of project monitoring both at the
farm and at the project level, including sampling procedures,
yield determination, design of checklists and questionnaires,
and data processing methods;
(b)  training the office and field personnel of the monitoring unit
in sampling, farm surveying and data processing methods;
(c) gathering and analyzing data available from other project
activities, securing additional data if needed, and monitoring
farmers' attitudes towards innovation introduced by the project;
(d) reporting on the progress of the project to Government authorities
and to IDA; and
(e) advising on possible re-orientation of certain aspects of the
project.



ANNEX 13
Page 6
The chief of the Project Monitoring Unit would be an individual capable of
giving independent judgement. He would be an agricultural economist with
experience in farm surveys and statistics in the tropics.



TOGO
ANNEX 14
MARITIME REGION RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJEC0                                                     Table 1
PROJECT COSTS 1/
SU14ARY
(084F' 000)
Foreign
j977z      1977          1978         1979          1980         1981       Total         I        Total  _            Total
I. ON PARM COSTS
Seeds                                              2 107        8,026        13,005       17,029        17,714       57,881        -                   7         4,052
Peaticides                                         2,845        6,553        12,441       10,611        10,003       42,453        2          849     85        36,085
Fertilisera                                        7,899       15,480        25,553       28,853        24,569      102,354        2        2,047     67        68,577
Mand tools and baga                                1,449        6,094        11,523       16,012        12.325       47.403       10        4,740     60        28,442
Subtotal                                    14,300        36,153       62,522        72,505       64,611       250,091       3         7,636     55      137,156
Il. CREDIT TO PARMER GROUPS
Light Fan Equipment                                3,669        9,400        12,726       14,000         9,603       49,398       15        7,409     80        39,518
Ri.e Mille                                         1,596        5,586         7,980        9,975         4,788       29,925       15        4,489      75       22,444
Pover Tillers                                      4,200         -           12,600       12,600        16,800       46,200       15        6,930     75        34,650
Cooperative Storage                                2.362        2.362         2.362        2.362         2.362       11.810       10        1.181     75         8.857
Subtotal                                    11,827        17,348       35,668        38,937       33,553       137,333      15        20,009     77       105,469
III. SORAD
A. Administration, Technical and
Extension Services
Buildings                              5,345      16,535          290          -            -             -          22,170       10        2,217     40         8,867
Vehices and Equipeent  2/             23,347      24,553        1,008         1,791       10,794          -          61,493       19       11,684      68       41,815
Personnel - Increeental Staff         58,850      79,642       74,949        68,250       67,546        31,981      381,218       10       38,486     41       155,400
Other Operating Costs                  2.768       5.391        6.327         6.405        6.531         3.265       30.687       21        6.444      32        9.820
Subtotal                         90,310    126,121        82,574       76,446        84,871        35,246      495,568       12       58,831     44       215,902
B. ITPut Supply Unit
Vahicles and Equipment                14,800       4,956         -             -           8,794          -          28,550       23        6,483      64       18,353
Personnel                              3,001       8,458        8,458         8,458        8,458         4,229       41,062        5        2,053       -         -
Other Operating Costa                  2.752       7.482        7.482         7.482        7.482         3.741       36.421       28       10.198      36       13,243
Subtotal                         20,553     20,896        15,940       15,940        24,734        7,970       106,033       18       18,734     30        31,601
C. Training
Buildings                              2,675       2,675         -             -            -             -           5,350       10          535      40        2,140
Vehieles and Equipeent                 3,091        -            -             -            -             -           3,091       19          587      68        2,102
Personnel                             13,408      13,723       13,723         1,124        1,124           562       43,664       14        5,963      69       30,240
Other Operating Costas                   567       1.092        1.092         1,092        1.092           546        5.481       16          877      28        1.535
Subtotal                         19,741     17,490        14,815        2,216         2,216         1,108       57,586      14         7,962     63        36,016
D. Rural Engineering Unit 3/
Vehicles and Equiprest               128,772      10,773       11,035         6,226        7,345          -         164,151       19       31,189      74      121,471
Personnel                              9,739      22,522       22,522        22,522       22,522        11,261      111,088       10       10,840      38       42,000
Other Operating Coste                  2.522       6.834       13.437        18.769       21.146         9.860       72.568       19       13.788      35       253399
Subtotal                        141,033     40,129        46,994       47,517        51,013        21,121      347,807       16       55,817     54       188,870
Subtotal Buildings                     8,020      19,210          290          -            -             -          27,520       10        2,752      40       11,007
Subtotal Vehioles and Equipnent      170,010      40,282       12,043         8,017       26,933          -         257,285       19       49,943      71      183,741
Subtotal Personnel                    84,998    124,345       119,652       100,354       99,650        48,033      577,032       10       57,342      39      227,640
Subtotal Other Opereting Costs         8.609      20.799       28.338        33.748       36.251        17.412      145.157       22       31.307      34       49,997
TOTAL 80RAD                          271,637    204,636       160,323       142,119      162,834        65,445    1,006,994       14      141,344      47      472,389
IV. CNCA PROJECT CREDIT AGEMCY
Buildings                              2,086       6,259         -             -             -            -           8,345       10          835      40        3,338
Equipnent and Vehicles                 6,266         632        1,549          -           5,239          -          13,686       22        3,011      63        8,622
Personnel                              8,358      18,133       22,648        22,648       22,648         4,709       99,144       il       10,417      44       43,680
Other Operating Costs                  3.755       4.129        4.807         4.807        4.801         2,403       24,702       16        3.952      28        6.916
Subtotal                         20,465      29,153       29,004        27,455       32,688         7,112      145,877       12       18,215     43        62,556
V. INIPASTRUCTURE
Roads                                   -        137,160      137,160       137,160         -             -         411,480       14       57,607      70      288,036
Village Water Supplies                   -        85,255       85,255        85,255       85,255          -          341,020      10       34,102      70      238,714
Markets                                  -         9,630        9,630         9,630         9,630         -           38,520      10         3,852     40       15,408
Dispensaries                            -         12,840       12.840        12.840       12,840        12.840       64,200       10        6,420      60       38.520
Subtota1                                   244,885       244,885       244,885      107,725        12,840      855,220       12      101,982      68      580,898
VI.  STUDIES AND C08NULTANTS SERVICES
Onchocerciasis Arsas                    -         33,750       33,750          -            -             -          67,500        -         -        100       67,500
Irrigation Study                      22,375      18,244         -             -            -             -          40,619        5        2,031     70        28,433
Project Evaluation                    10,500      11,025       21,O00        21,000       21,000        10,500       95,025        5        4,751      75       71,269
Coconuts                               2.100       2.100        2.100         2.100        2.100          -          10508        -         -        100       10.500
Subtotal                         34,975     63,119        56,950        23,100       23,100        10,500      213,644        3        6,782     83       177,702
Total Base Costa                     327,077    569,920       544,563       535,749      437,789       194,061    2,609,159       il      295,968      59    1,535,970
Physical Contingencies  4/            14,889      46,389       43,085        47,174       27,303        11,742      190,582       il       21,883      68      127,148
Expected Price Increases  5/          13.911      753374      133.999       211.454      201.168        95.893      731.799       il       83.080      59      434.707
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                  355.877    691.683       721.647       794.377      666.260       301.696    3.531.540       il      400.931      59    2.097.825
j/    Base estinlates as of April, 1976, updated frm  detailed tables (October, 1975 prices) by applying 7% to buildings and infrastructure and 5% to ail other costs.
2/    Includes equipuent for Agoueve and for Seed Mvltiplication and research.
3/    Includes Road Maintenance and land prgparation.
4/    10% of equipment (exoluding vehioles), on fara casts, and credit to farner groups; 15% of buildings and infrastructure.
5/    For conatruction: 137. in 1976, 12% in 1977-79, 107, thereafter; all other itene: 97. in 1976, 87. in 1977-79, 7% thereaftar.



TOGO                                                         ANNEX t4
Table 
MARITIME RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
0N-FARM COSTS - YEARLY INCREMENIAL
CFAF ' 000
Y 1             Y 2             Y 3             Y 4             Y 5             Total
COASTAL PLATEAU                   Seeds                             517           1,905           4,052            5,639           5,367           17,480
Pesticides                        151             542           2,440           1,491           1,387            6,011
Fertilizers                     1,813           6,724          13,660          16,778          13,870           52,845
Bags and Tools                    -             1,244           4,014           5,950           5,138           16,346
Implements  1/                  1,200           3.490           4.630           3.490           1.700           14.510
Total                           3,681          13,905          28.796          33,348          27.462          107.192
DEPLeTED COASTAL PLATEAU          Seeds                              120           1,050             500            -               -               1,670
Pesticides                        630              60           1,530             150            -               2,370
Fertilizers                     2,237           1,803           1,555            -                -               5,595
Bags + Tools                      -               -               400           1.600            -                2.000
Total                           2,987           2.913           3,985           1.750            -               11,635
SAVANNAH                          Seeds                             -                 54             324             324             324            1,02S
Pesticides                      1,546           4,561           6,196           6,197           6,197           24,697
Fertilizers                     2,07S           3,139           3,950           4,016           4,033           17,214
Bage + Tools                      300           1,500           2,100           2,100           2,100            8,100
Implements  2/                    966             966             966           1.566           1,566            6,030
Total                           4,888          10,220          13,536          14,203          14,220           57,067
RICE AREAS                        Seeds                              390           1,430           2,080           2,600           1,300            7,800
Pesticides                        195             715           1,040           1,300             650            3,900
Fertilizers                       914           2,411           4,087           4,748           2,450           14,610
Naga + Tools                      480           1,760           2,560           3,200           1,600            9,600
Implements  3/                  1.140           4.120           5.960           7.450           4.865           23.535
Total                           3,119          10,436          15.727          19,298          10.865           59.445
VEGETABLES                        Seeds                               90              90              90              90              90              450
Pesticides                        138             138             138             138              138              690
Fertilizers                       431             396             401             401             408            2,037
Tools                             200             200             200             200             200            1,000
Irrigation tanks  4/               63             126             189             252             315              945
Implements  5/                     75              75              75             150             150              525
Total                             997           1.025           1.093           1,231           1.301            5.647
COCONUTS  7/                      Seeds + Seedlings                 890           3,115           5,340            7,565          9,790           26,700
PeBticides                         50             225             505             830           1,155            2,765
Fertilizers                        52             270             683           1,536           2,638            5,179
Tools                             400           1,100           1,700           2,200           2,700            8,1DO
Irrigation facilities  6/          50             175             300             425             550            1,500
Total                           1,442           4,885           8,528          12,556          16,833           44,244
TOTALS                            Seeds                           2,007           7,644          12,386           16,218          16,871           55,126
Pesticides                      2,710           6,241          11,849          10,106           9,527           40,433
Fertilizers                     7,523          14,743          24,336          27,479          23,399           97,480
Bags + Tools                    1,380           5,804          10,974          15,250          11,73S           45,146
Equipment                       3,494           8,952          12,120          13,333           9,146           47,045
1/    Maize shellers, each shared by 30 farmers, costing CFAF 55,000, renewed every 5 yeara.
2/    Insecticide sprayers, each shared by 5 farmers, costing CFAF 15,000, renewed every 3 years.
3/    Threshers, each shared by 20 farmers, costing CFAF 52,000, renewed every 4 years; and winnowers, each shared by 40 farmers, costing
CFAF 45,000, renewed every 4 years.
4/    Individual irrigation vater tanks built of concrete, costing CFAF 3,000 in material, renewed every 4 years.
5/    Insecticide aprayers, same as 2/, except that they are shared by 10 growers.
6/    Material for a shallow well and water tank, either to be shared by neighbors, or the cost of which can be charged partially to domestic
water supply. Cost charged to coconut averages CFAF 18,000 per grower over the 6 years during which irrigation is required.
7/    Input costs for coconuts are cumulative.



TOGO                                              ANNEX 14
Table 3
MARITIME REGION RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COSTS
Vehicles and Equipment
(CFAF'000)
No.     Unit cost      1976   1977  1978  1979    1980         1981     Total    Taxes    Foreign Exchange
%    total   %        Total
A. Vehicle Requirements
i. Sedans
Technical Services    1          1550          1550                          1550               3100   23    713    62         1922
Training                1                      1550                                             1550          357               961
Finance and Adminis-
tration          1                       1550                         1550                3100          713             1922
ii. Station wagons
Research               1         1475          1475    -       -       -    1475                .950   23    679    62        1829
Input Supply           1                       1475    -      -        -    i475                2950          679             1829
Rural Engineering      1                       1475    -       -       -    1475                2950"         679              1829
Credit                 1                                -    1475      -       -                1475          339               915
iii. Small Sedans
Credic                  5         998          4990                          4990               9980   23   2295    62        6188
iv. Pickups
Technical Services    2          1380          2760                          2760               5520   23   1270    62         3422
Seed Multiplication   1                        1380                          1380               2760          635             1711
Input Supply            5                      6900                          6900              13800         3174             8556
Rural Engineering       5                      5520          1380            5520              12420         2857              7700
v. 4WD vehicle
Technical Services    1          2700                  2700                                     2700   23    621    62         1674
vi. Trucks (3.5T)
Input Supply            4        2360          4720   4720   -         -      -            -    9440   23   2171    62         5853
Rural Engineering       2                       4720     -    -        -      -            -    4720    "   1086       "       2926
vii. Bicycles              202           17           510    493   510    986    935           -      3434   15    515    70        2404
viii. Mobylettes             28           90           360    360   450    720    630           -      2520   15    378    70        1764
Sub total vehicles                            40935   8273  3815   1706  30640            -    85369   22  1917    63         53405
B. Land Preparation
Tractors                   5         3580          3580   7160  3580   3580                       17900   19   3401    75        13425
Plows                      5          750           750   1500   750    750                         3750   15    563    80        3000
Discharrows                5        1600                  1600  4800   1600                        8000   15   1200    80         6400
Sub total                                         >4330  10260  9130   5930                  -    29650   17   5         77      22825
C. Road Maintenance (See Annex1O)                   106595    -      -       -      -           -   106595   19  20253    75        79946
D. Agoueve Irrigation (See Annex 3                          11023   -       -       _           _    11023   18   1955    68        7501
E. Office eauipment and furniture
Administration and technical services              9250   2068                                    11318
Input supply                         -            1000                                             1000
Training                              -            1394                                            1394
Rural Engineering                     -             420                                              420
Credit                                -             978    602   _       _       _                 1580
Sub total                                        1302   2670   -         -                        15712   15  2357       70   10999
F. Seed Multiplication and Research (See Annex  ) 3400   6740                                        10140   18   1777    77        7792
TOTAL Vehicles and Equipment                     168302  38966  12945  7636   30640              258489   20  50673    70   182&68



TOGO                                                               ANN4Ex 14
Table 4
MARITIME REGION RURAL DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
PROJECT COSTS
PROJECT STAFF REOUIREMEII8S
UNIT                          ANNUAL COST (CFAF '000)
NUJMBER                 COST                                                                          FIVE YEAR
PRO0CT ADMINISTRATION       LOCAL     EXPATRIATE    (CFAF '000)         1976        1977      1978      1979     1980      1981           COST
Technical Director                         1              14000         14000      14000     14000    14000    14000       7000          77000
Deputy  "   "                 1                            1700           850       1700       1700     1700     1700       850            8500
Vegetable Specialist                       1              12000         12000      12000         -        -        -         -            24000
Assistant Rice Specialist    1                       1000/1200            500       1000       1200     1200      1200      600            5700
Research Specialist                        1              12000         12000      12000       12000     -          -                     36000
Deputy  "       "            1                       1000/1500           1000       1000        1000    1500      1500      750            6750
Assistant  "    "           il                              600          3000       4800       6600    6600      6600      3300           300
Seed Technician              1                              800           400        800        800      800      800         0           4
Administrative & Financial
Director                            1             12000           6000      12000      12000   12000      6000        -           48000
Deputy "    "       "        1                       1000/1500            500       1000        1000    1000     1500       750            5750
Chie f Personnel Service     1                              800           400        800        800      800      800       400            4000
Clerks                       2                              350           350        700        700      700      700       350            3500
Chief Accountant             1                             1000           500       1000        1000    1000     1000       500            5000
Accountants                  3                              500           500       1500        1500    1500     1500       750            7250
Chief Supply Unit            1                             1200           600       1200       1200    1200      1200       600            6000
Accountants                  5                              500           750       2500        2500    2500     2500      1250           12000
Accounting Clerk             2                              350            175       700         700     700       700      350            3325
Chief Warehouseman           1                              600           300        600         600     600       600      300            3000
Warehousemen                 5                              350           525       1750        1750    1750      1750      875            8400
Secretaries                  4                              250           250       1000       1000    1000      1000       500            4750
Drivers                     17                              220          1650       3740       3740    3740      3740      1870           18480
Sub Total                                                 56250      75790       65790   54290    4E790    21395           322305
TRAINING
fraining Specialist                        1             12000          12^00      12000      12000      -        -                      36000
Deputy                                                      -             -          -            -      -         -
Designer (Dessinateur
modeliste)         1                             600            300       600         600     600       600      300            3000
Secretary                    1                              250           250        250        250      250      250       125            1375
Driver                       1                              220           220        220         220     220       220      110            1210
Sub Total                                                     12770     13070       13070    1070      1070      535           41585
ENGINEERING UNIT
ChFre                        1                            1300            750       1500       1500    1500      1500       750           7500
Deputy                       1                             1000           500       1000        1000    1000      1000      500            5000
Topographers                 2                              600           600       1200        1200    1200     1200       600            6000
Mechanic                                   1              10000          5000      10000       10000   10000    10000      5000           50000
Assistants                   5                              600           900       3000       3000    3000      3000      1500           14400
leavy Equipment Operator    5                               300            450      1500        1500    1500      1500      750            7200
Drivers                     10                              220           550       2200        2200    2200     2200      1100           10450
Foremen                      3                              350           525       1050       1050    1050      1050       525           5250
Sub Total                                                    9275     21450       21450   21450    21450    10725           105800
FIELD STAFF
Extension vorkers
Upland crops                53                              145            725      2175        3625    5365      6815     3915           22620
Upland crops, depleted soils7                                              218       580         870    1015      1015      508            4206
Rice                        57                               '            820       2610       4205    5510      7250      4133          24528
Vegetables                   6                                             145       435         725     870      870       435           3480
Coconuts                    20                                            218        725        1305    2030    2610       1450           8338
Subsector chiefs            20                              265           530       1590       2915    3975      5035      2650          16695
Sub Total                                                     2656      8115       13645   18765    23595    13091            79867
CREDIT AGENCY (TSEVIE)
Director                                   1              13000          4300       8700      13000   13000    13000         -           52000
Deputy                       1                             1100           550       1100        1100    1100     1100       750           ç700
Credit Assistant             4                              700          1400       2800        2300    2800     2800      1400          14000
Accountant                   1                              700           350        700         700     700       700      350           3500
Accounting Clerk             4                              450           450       1800        1800    1800     1800       900           8550
Cashier                      1                              600           300        600         600     60C      600       300           3000
Typist-Secretary             2                              350            175       700         700     700      700       350           3325
Messenger                    1                              300            150       300         300     300       300      150            1500
Driver                       1                              300            150       300         300     300      300       150            1500
Guards                       1                              270           135        270         270     270      270       135           1350
Sub Total                                                   7960     17270       21570  21570    21570       4485          94425
Total Expatriate                                                        61000      85000       73000   49000    43000    12330          323000
Total Local                                                             27911      50695       62525   68145    73475    38231          320982
Total Personnel                                                         88911    135695      135525  117145   116475    50231           643982



TOGO
MARITIME REGION RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COSTS
OPERATING COSTS
(CFAF' OOO)
Foreign
1976      1977       1978       1979      1980       1981       Total      Taxes      Exchange
%   Total  %    Total
A. Vehicle Operation and maintenance
Administration and technical
services        1868       3348       3348        3348     3348        1674      16934   33   5588  40   6774
Input supply                        2129      2838       2838        2838      5838       2919      28400    "   9372   "  11360
Training                             388        388       388         388       388        194       2134    "    704   "    854
Rural Engineering                   1115       2230      2678        2678      2678       1339      12718    "t  4197   "   5087
Credit                               881      1742       1888        1888     1888         944       9231    "   3Q0)A   "   3692
Sub total                  6381       35I6      14140 40   1>4140    14140        7070      69417   33  22907  >40  27767
B.  Road Maintenance                        -          -         3610       7220    10830         5415      27075   17   4603  35   9476
C.  Land Preparation                        907       3519       5329       6797      5451        2047      24050   17   4089  35   8418
D. Other Operating Costs
Admin. Technical services            768       1786      2678        2752      2872       1436      12292    5    615  20   2458
Input supply                         492      1288       1288        1288     1288         644       6288    "    314  Il  1258
Training                             152        652       652         652       652         326      3086    "    154   "    617
Rural Engineering                    380        760      1180        1180      1180         590      5270    v    264   "   1054    a X
Credit                              2695      2190       2690        2690      2690       1345      14300    "    715   "   2860  
Sub total                  >4>487     6676                   8562     8682        4341    >41236    5   2062  20   8247
TOTAL OPERATING COSTS                     11775      23741      31567      36719    39103        .8873    161778   21  33661  33  53908



TOGO
MARITIME REGION RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COSTS
Project Buildings
Area        Unit Cost
m2         CFAF'000/m2       1976         1977        1978         TOTAL
I. SORAD                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~---------------- CFAF '000 -----------------
I.  SORADCA'0
Headquarters Lome              420             45            4,995       13,805                   18,900
Seed Storage, Dagbati           80             18             -           1,440                   1,440
Seed Testing Laboratory +  )    52             18                           940                      940
Storage, Davie                2
Vegetable Centers (2)           30             18             -             270        270           540
Training Center, Tsevie        130             30            1,950        1,950                    3,900
Total SORAD                                                                                 25,720
II. CNCA
Agency Office, Tsevie           112            30              840        2,520                    3,360
Housing                         100            30              750        2,250                    3,000
Field Offices (4)               60             24              360        1,080                    1,440
Total CNCA                                                                                    7,800
I {   >
ao H



ANNEX 15
Table 1
TOGO
MARITIME REGION RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ECONOMIC PRICES
PRICE STRUCTURE FOR MAIZE
(in 1975 terms)
1976            1980
-115---US$----
Reference Price     per ton                           105               96
Freight                 "                               60              60
Insurance               "                               4                4
CIF Lome                "                             169              160
--------------CFAF-------------
CIF Lome                                           38,025           36,000
Port Charges                                        1,066            1,066
Transport and handling                                475              475
Value Lome                                         39,566           37,541
Transport from project area                           980              980
Economic farmgate value                            38,586           36,561
1/    FOB Gulf Ports - World Bank Commodity Price Forecast



TOGO
ANNEX 15
MARITIME REGION RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT           Table 2
ECONOMIC PRICES
PRICE STRUCTURE FOR RICE
(in 1975 terms)
1976             1980
-----------  US$-
Reference price 1/, per ton                             304              223
Freight                                                  78               78
Insurance                                                 8                6
CIF Lome                                               390               307
--------------CFAF-------------
CIF Lome                                            87,750            69,075
Port Charges                                         1,066             1,066
Transport & handling                                   475               475
Value Lome                                          89,291            70,616
Transport from project area                            980               980
Value ex-mill                                       88,691            70,016
Paddy equivalent  2/                                57,649            45,510
Milling charges                                      2,575             2,575
Economic farmgate value                             55,074            42,935
1/    FOB Bangkok, 25-35% broken
2/    Milling yield of 65%.
3/    Excluding amortization, but including CFAF 1,200 to cover bagging and
marketing costs.



TOGO
MARITIME REGION RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ECONOMIC PRICES
PRICE STRUCTURE FOR COTTON
(in 1975 terms)
1976                                     1980
Total                                   Total
Lint       Seed        Seed Cotton       Lint        Seed      Seed Cotton
--------------------------------- US$ -------------------------------
1/
Reference Price-per ton                        1,300         212            -           1,279         181
--------------------------------- CFAF --------------------------------
Reference Price per ton                      292,500      47,700            -         287,775      40,725
Less quality                                  17,000        -               -          17,000        -              -
Net Reference Price                          275,500      47,700            -         270,775      40,725           -
Freight, Insurance, Handling                  25,000      17,800            -          25,000      17,800           -
FOB Lome                                     250,500      29,900            -         245,775      22,925           -
Port Charges                                   1,560         700            -           1,560         700           -
Transport and Handling                         5,035       6,000            -           5,035       6,000           -
Insurance                                      3,300         500            -           3,300         500           _
Value ex-factory                             240,605      22,700            -         235,880      15,725           -
Ginning Cost                                  20,000        -               -          20,000        -              -
Pre-ginning value                            220,605        -               -         215,880        -              -
Yield                                         36.8%         60%             -          36.8%         54%            -
Equivalent value seed cotton                  81,183      13,620          94,803       79,444       8,492         87,936
Buying and Transport                                                       8,049                                   8,049
Economic Farmgate Value                                                   86,754                                  79,887
Producer Price                                                            46,000                                  46,000
Commissions                                                                1,200                                   1,200
Taxes                                                                      5,800                                   5,800        < >
OPAT surplus                                                              33,754                                  26,887
1/   Mexican  SM 1-1/6" CIF N. Europe - World Bank Commodity Price Forecast.



TOGO
Annex 15
MARITIME REGION RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT       Table 4
ECONOMIC PRICES
PRICE STRUCTURE FOR GROUNDNUTS
(in 1975 terms)
1976          1980          1985
-Us-------- US $ -------------
Reference Price Per Ton 1/                    459            327           405
---------------CFAF -------------
Reference Price Per Ton                   103,275        73,575         91,125
Freight                                7,550         7,550          7,550
Insurance                              5,618         4,002          4,958
FOB Lome                              90,107        62,023         78,617
Port Charges                             965           965            965
Transport and Handling                 1,797         1,797          1,797
Insurance                              1,459         1,459          1,459
Value Lome                            85,886        57,802         74,396
Buying and Transport                   7,619         7,619          7,619
Economic Farm Gate Value              78,267        50,183         66,777
Producer Price (OPAT)                 45,ooo        45,000         45,000
1/    Nigerian, CIF Europe - World Bank Commodity Price Forecast



ANNEX 15
Table 5
TOGO
MARITIME REGION RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ECONOMIC PRICES
PRICE STRUCTURE FOR COPRA
(in 1975 terns)
1976          1980           1985
-- --------- Us$-
Reference Price 1/ per ton                     330           318            391
-_________--- CFAF ----------
Reference Price per ton                    74,250         71,550         87,975
Freight                                      7,741         7,741          7,741
Insurance                                   6,025          5,834          6,989
FOB Lome                                   60,484         57,975         73,245
Port Charges                                1,498          1,498          1,498
Transport and Handling                      8,543          8,543          8,543
Marketing Costs                              2,236         2,236          2,236
Economic Farmgate Value                    48,207         45,698         60,968
Producer Price (OPAT)                      42,000         42,000         42,000
_/    Phillipines, CIF Europe - World Bank Commodity Forecast.



TOGO
MARITIME REGION RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ECONOMIC PRICES OF INPUTS AND OUTPUTS
PRICE STRUCTURE FOR FERTILIZERS
(in 1975 terms)
Urea             Triple           Potassium           Cotton
Superphosphate       Chloride         Fertilizer
1977     1980     1977     1980     1977      1980     1977     1980
_-----__-----_------__--_--_____ USe --------------------------- ---
1/       1/       2/      2/       3/        3/        4/       4/
Reference Price per ton                         170      138      144      130f      67        62      170      158
Freight and Insurance                            38       38       60       60       60        60       40       40
Total CIF                                      208       176      204      190      127       122      210      198
------------------------------- CFAF --      ----------------
Total CIF                                   46,800   39,600   45,900   42,750   28,575   27,450   47,250   44,550
Port Charges                                  1,066    1,066    1,066    1,066       698      675    1,087    1,031
Taxes                                        1,085       918    1,059    1,993    1,066    1,066    1,066    1,066
Supply Cost to Project                      48,951   41,584   48,025   44,809   30,339   29,191   49,403   46,647
Project Distribution Costs                    8,500    8,500    8,500    8,500    8,500    8,500    8,500    8,500
Financial Farmgate Price                    57,451   50,084   56,525   53,309   38,839   37,691   57,903   55,147
1/    Bagged, f.o.b. N.W. Europe - World Bank Commodity Price Forecast
2/   Bulk, f.o.b. Florida        -    "    "      "        "
3/    Bulk, f.o.b. Vancouver     -    "    "      "        "
4/    Appraisal mission estimate, based on price projections for ingredients of a 14-21-21 compound
fertilizer.



ANNEX 15
Table 7
TOGO
MARITIME REGION RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ECONOMIC PRICES OF INPUTS AND OUTPUTS
PRICE STRUCTURE FOR ROCK PHOSPHATE
(in 1975 terms)
1977                 1980
US$
Reference Price per ton 1/                        47                   39
Processing                                        20                   20
Total                                             70                   59
CFAF
Total                                         15,075               13,275
Less Port Charges                                740                  740
Ex factory                                    14,335               12,535
Distribution Costs                             8,500                8,500
Farmgate Price                                22,835               21,035
1/    Price of 75% BPL rock, f.a.s Casablanca.



TOGO
ANNEX 16
MARITIME REGION RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                Table 1
PROJECT FINANCING
Annual Consnitments (CFAF Millions)
1/
1976        1977          1978          1979          1980          1981         Total
IDA COOMITMENTS
I.  ON FARM COSTS                                            -           7.0          15.2          22.8          23.6          20.7          89.3
Il.  CREDIT TO FARMER GROUPS                                  -           7.1          10.4          21.4          23.4          20.1          82.4
III.  SORAD
Buildings                                           4.8         11.5            0.2           -             -              -          16.5
Vehicles and Equipment                            102.0         24.2            7.2          4.8           16.2            -         154.4
Incremental Personnel                              40.5         90.6          84.4          67.8          66.1          31.3         380.7
Other Operating Costs                                5.2        12.5           17.0         20.2           21.8          10.4          87.1
Subtotal                                     152.5        138.8         108.8          92.8         104.1          41.7         638.7
TV.  CNCA
Buildings                                            1.3          3.7            -            -              -             -           5.0
Vehicles and Equipment                               3.8          0.4           0.9            -            3.1            -            8.2
Incremental Personnel                               5.8         12.7          16.4          16.3          16.4           2.8          70.4
Other Operating Costs                                2.2         2.5           2.9            2.9          2.9           1.4          14.8
Subtotal                                      13.1         19.3          20.2          19.2          22.4           4.2          98.4
V.  INFRASTRUCTURE                                           -         146.9         147.0         146.9          64.6           7.7         513.1
VI.  STUDIES AND CONSULTANT SERVICES
Onchocerciasis Areas                                  -         33.8           33.7           -              -             -          67.5
Other                                              28.0         25.0          18.5          18.5          18.5            8.4        116.9
Subtotal                                      28.0         58.8          52.2          18.5          18.5           8.4         184.4
VII.  CONTINGENCIES                                          16.7         75.1         109.4         144.2         130.6          55.2         531.2
TOTAL                                        210.3        453.0         463.2         465.8         387.2         158.0       2.137.5
FAC COMMITMENTS
1.  ON FARM COSTS                                            -           1.7           3.8           5.7           5.9           5.2          22.3
II.  CREDIT TO PARIER GROUPS                                  -           1.8           2.6           5.4           5.8           5.0          20.6
III.  SORAD
Buildings                                           1.2           2.8          0.1            -             -             -            4.1
Vehicles and Equipment                              25.5         6.1            1.8           1.2          4.0            -           38.6
Personnel                                          38.2         22.6          21.2          16.9          16.5            7.8        123.2
Other Operating Costs                                1.3          3.1          4.3            5.1          5.4            2.6         21.8
Subtotal                                      66.2         34.6          27.4          23.2          25.9          10.4         187.7
IV. CNCA
Buildings                                           0.3          1.0            -             -             -             -            1.3
Vehicles and Equipment                               0.9         0.1           0.2             -           0.8             -           2.0
Personnel                                           1.5          3.2            4.0          4.1           4.1           0.7          17.6
Other Operating Costs                               0.6          0.6           0.7            0.7          0.7           0.4           3.7
Subtotal                                       3.3          4.9           4.9           4.8           5.6           1.1          24.6
V.  INFRASTRUCTURE                                           -          26.9          26.9          26.9          11.9           1.5          94.1
VI.  STUDIES AND CONSULTANT SERVICES                         5.2          4.7           3.5           3.5           3.5           1.5          21.9
VII.  CONTINGENCIES                                           7.2         18.3          25.8          36.2          32.9          14.3         134.7
TOTAL                                         81.9         92.9          94.9         105.7          91.5          39.0         505.9
GOVERNMENT COEMITMENTS
I.  ON FARM COSTS                                            -           3.5           8.7          16.0          18.5          17.5          64.2
Il. CREDIT TO FAR11ER GROUPS                                  -           3.0           4.3           8.9           9.7           8.4          34.3
III.  SORAD
Buildings                                            2.0         4.8           0.1             -             -            -            6.9
Vehicles and Equipment                             42.5          10.1           3.0           2.0           6.7            -          64.3
Incremental Personnel                               6.3         11.1          14.1          15.7          17.0           8.9          73.1
Other Operating Costs                                2.1          5.2          7.1            8.4          9.1           4.4          36.3
Subtotal                                      52.9         31.2          24.3          26.1          32.8          13.3         180.6
IV.  CNCA
Buildings                                           0.5          1.6             -             -             -            -            2.1
Vehieles and Equipment                               1.6          0.2          0.4             -            1.3            -           3.5
Incremental Personnel                               1.0           2.2          2.3            2.2          2.2           1.2          11.1
Other Operating Costs                                1.0          1.0          1.2            1.2           1.2          0.6           6.2
Subtotal                                       4.1          5.0           3.9           3.4           4.7           1.8          22.9
V.  INFRASTRUCTURE                                           -          71.1          71.0          71.1          31.2           3.6         248 0
VI.  STUDIES AND CONSULTANT SERVICES                         1.8          1.6           1.1           1.1           1.1           0.6           7.3
VII.  CONTINGENCIES                                           4.9         28.0          39.3          70.8          52.6          25.7         221.3
TOTAL                                         63.7        143.4         152.6         197.4         150.6          70.9         778.6
1/    Through June 30



TOGO
MARITDME REGION RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT FINANCING
SEMI-ANNUAL DISBURSEMENTS OF IDA CREDIT
US$ 000
IBRD FY                              CUMULATIVE DISBURSEMENTS                   UNDISBURSED BALANCE
FY 77
December 31                                      400                                     9,100
June 30                                        1,000                                     8,500
FY 78
December 31                                    2,000                                     7,500
June 30                                        3,000                                     6,500
FY 79
December 31                                    4,000                                     5,500
June 30                                        5-o000                                    4,500
FY 80
December 31                                    6,100                                     3,400
June 30                                        7,100                                     2,400
FY 81
December 31                                    8,000                                     1,500
June 30                                        8,800                                       700
FY 82
December 31                                    9,500



TOGO
MARITIME REGION RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
GOVERNHENT CASH FLOW 1/
1976      1977       1978       1979       1980       1981       1982       1983       1984       1985       1986       1987       1988        1989       1990       1991
A. RESOURCES
Export Duties and OPAT Surplus
Cotton                               -            5         15         35         57         80         86         92         98        105        113        121        129        138        148        158
Groundnuts                           -            -          2          6         il         17         18         19         20         22         23         25         27         29         31         33
Coprah                               -            -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -          1          3          6          8         12         14         15
Taxea and Duties on Project              39         76         79         87         73         41         22         24         25         24         29         31         33          36         38         41
Indirect Taxes                          -            2          9         25         61         75         96        120        128        137        147        158        171        185        199         213
Subtotal                            39         83        105        153        202        213        222        255       271         289        315        341        368        400        430        460
Repayment of CNCA Loan                  -            -          2          4          7         il         13         13         38         38         38         38         38          38         38         38
Water Charges                           -            2          2          2          2          3          3          3          3          3          4          4           4          5          5          5
Land Preparation Charges                -            3         15         24         32         17          -          -          -          -          -          -          -           -          -          -
IDA Credit                              21t        453        463        466        387        158
FAC Grant                                52         93         95        106         92         39          -          -          -          -          -           -          -          -          -          -
TOTAL RESOURCES                    331        634        682        755        722        441        238        271        312        330        357        383        410        443        473        503
B. APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
Advance to SORAD                         70          -          -          -          -          -        (70)         -          -          -          -           -          -          -          -          -
Grant to CNCA                            22         33         34         35         45         21          -
Grant to Revolving Fund                  30         13         29         54         60         56          -          -          -          -          -           _          -          _          _
Loan to CNCA                              -         15         27         58         71         70          -          -          -
Input Supply Unit  2/                    21         23         19         20         34         21         27         29         23          -          -          -           -          -          -
Other Project Costs                     313        605        601        601        420        177        149        160        171        183        196        209        224         240        257        274
Subsidy Payments  2/                      -          4         16         20         31         61         21          1          -          -          -          -           -          -          -          -
Debt Service on IDA Credit                -          3          7         10         13         15         16         16         16         16         37         37          37         37         37         36
TOTAL APPLICATION                  456        696        733        798        674        421        142        206        210        199        233        246        261        277        294         310
C.  SURPLUS (DEFICIT)
Annual                                  (125)      (62)       (51)       (43)       (48)        20         96         65        102        131        124        137        149         166        179        193
Cumulative                              (125)     (187)      (238)      (281)      (329)      (309)      (213)      (148)       (46)        85        209        346        495         661        840      1,033
1/    Current prices using price indices outlined in footnote 4 of Annex 14, Table 1.
2/    Subsidy calculated assuming farmers pay 50  of input costs, including distribution, in 1977, and that this share increases by 10% per year until the subsidy disappeare.                                           - -



ANNEX 18
Page I
TOGO
MARITIME REGION RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
1.        Economic costs and benefits are shown in Table 1 for each component
of the project. Benefits have been calculated using the prices detailed in
Annex 15. All costs include physical contingencies, but are net of taxes
and price contingencies. On farm costs include land preparation and mills
for the rice component, improvements to the station at Agoueve for vegetables,
and equipment for all components. Incremental family labor is costed at the
going agricultural wage rate of CFAF 100 per man-day, except for that required
to water young coconut trees during the dry season (when no other agricultural
opportunities are present) which is evaluated at CFAF 50 per man-day. Field
staff costs include the salaries and equipment (bicycles or motorcycles) for
extension workers and subsector chiefs.
2.        All other administrative costs (including those of the Credit Agency
and Input Supply Unit) have been grouped under general administration. These
costs have been apportioned to the various project components on the basis of
their relative shares of total field staff costs.
3.        Infrastructure costs include road maintenance (equipment, salaries,
and operating costs of the Rural Engineering Unit), construction and improve-
ment of feeder roads, village stores, and markets. These costs have been
apportioned to various components on the basis of the number of farmers, i.e.
among the coastal plateau, depleted coastal plateau, savannah, and rice com-
ponents. No infrastructure improvement is planned in the coconut zone and
the vegetable farmers would only be incidental beneficiaries of developments
justified on the basis of the larger components. Secondary roads, whose
enefits would not be fully captured by the project, have not been included
in the calculation. No attempt has been made to quantify the benefits of
dispensaries and village water supplies, and their costs have been omitted
from the calculations.
4.        The rate of return of the coconut component was calculated over a
project life of 30 years, the expected life of trees. Project life for all
other components has been estimated at 15 years, on the assumption that bene-
fits could be maintained at the level obtained in PY 5 for an additional
10 years.
5.        On the basis of the above, the overall rate of return of the pro-
ject is 37%. The rates for the major component range from 13% for coconuts
to 52% for vegetables. Results of a sensitivity analysis are given in
Table 2. This shows that most project actions could stand substantial
adverse developments, such as increases in costs or lower expected benefits
and remain economic. The exception would be activities on the depleted
coastal plateau, the viability of which would be seriously threatened by
a decrease in benefits.



ANNEX 18
Page 2
6.        In the case of maize, rice and cotton, the economic prices calcu-
lated for input substitution or export value differ substantially from the
average domestic market prices used for the farm budgets. To illustrate the
importance of economic pricing, the benefits of the coastal plateau, depleted
coastal plateau, savannah, and rice components were re-estimated using the
domestic market prices for these commodities. The major change would be to
reduce the savannah component to 5%.
7.        The coconut component has an expected return of 13% on the assump-
tion of a 30-year life. Because the resistance of the hybrids to Kaincope
disease has not been certified through scientific tests, it could be argued
the average life of the trees to be planted should be reduced to the current
age of existing hybrids (planted in early sixties) which as yet show no signs
of infection. On this basis, project life would be 18 years, yielding a rate
of return of 6%. However, this is an extremely conservative assumption and,
given the fact that there currently is no productive alternative for the
coconut zone, the risk is acceptable.
8.        Reducing the project life of all other components from 15 years to
10 years would yield an overall rate of return of 32%.
9.        While the secondary roads are excluded from the above calculations,
they are expected to have a satisfactory economic justification. Based on a
separate study conducted for such roads throughout Togo, the secondary roads
would have rates of return between 18 and 25%.



TOGO
MARITIME RECION RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
(CFAF millionY
---------------------------------- ---------------------- EP     CT YC AR  -A----------------------------------   ------  ---------------------------    ----------------------------------
1            2            3            4             5            6            7             e             9           10                          12          13           14             15-30
BENEFITS
Co2stal Plateau                                10.9        55.0        153.3          2: . 0       409.5        409.5        409.5         409.5        409.5        409.6         409.5        409.5        409.5           409.5
Depleted CoAstal Pl2teas                        7.7         15.2        26.8           33 3         37.4         37.4         37.4           37.4        37.4         37.4           37.4        37.4         37.4            37.4
Savannh                                        11.6        37.1         76 9          116.3        155.4        155.4        155.4          155.4       155.4        155.4         155.4        155.4        1SS.4           155.4
Ri..                                          12 5         6.14        141.7         24' .8        321 6        344 4        350.4          350.4       350.4        350.4         350.4        350.4        350.4          350.4
Vegetables                                     9.0        197.5          31.8          43.9         50.6         53.5         54.9           54.9        54.9         54.9         554.9         54.9         54.9            54.9
Coconuts                                        -             -            -             - .          -            -            -      .       -             4         2.5            6.7        14.8          50.8           50.8
Total Benefits                 .           51.7       188.4         450.s         7150.2       974.4       1,,000.2     1.0076        1.O07.6    1,008.o      1.010.1        1.014.4    1.022.4       1,048.4         1,058.4
COSTS
Coast.1 Plateau                    1.1         9.1         393.9        78.9         127.9         166.2        159.6        159.6          159.6      159.6         159.6         159.6       159.6         159.6           159.6
Depleted Coastal Plateau            .3         5.2          9.8         1,9           1 .5          18.S         18.5         18.5           18.5        17.5         17.5           17.5        17.5         17.5            17.5
Savannah                           1.0        10.9         20.9          37.3          54.9         70.9         67.3         67.2          67.2         67.2         67.2          67.2         67.2         67.2           67.2
Rice                              6.3         27.0         46.4         81.7         102.7         110.0         93.1         93.1          93.1         93.1         93.1          93.1         93.1         93.1            93.1
Vegetables                         0,2         2.8          5.3          7.7            9.9         12.0         11.1         11.1           11.1        11.1         11.1          11.1         11.1         11.1            11.1
Cocon.ts                            .3         3.0          9.3         17.0          25.0          32.9         17.5          8.8           8.7         8.7          1O.3          11.8         12.7         12.9              -
Infractructure                  102.4         87.5         92.0         97.0          41.7          38.s         36.8         36.8          36.8        36.8          36.8          36.8         36.8         36.8           36.8
General Admi.istration           ts5.6       133.4        101.4          80.1          92.5         58.9_        14.0         18.1            8.8         8.8          8.8           8.8          8.8          8.8             8.8
Total Costs                  217.3        279.0        319.0        413.6         473,0        507.4        417.9         413.1         402.7       402.7        404.3          40s.8       406.7        406.9           406.9        ' 4
NET eENEFITS                         (237.3)      (227-3)      (130.6)        16.9         257.2        467.o        582.3        594.5          604.9       605.3        605.8          608.6       615.7        641.5           651.5         X
ECONOIC RATE OF RETURN 37~



ANNBEX 18
Table 2
TOGO
MARITIME REGION RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
SF.NSITIVITY ANALYSIS
(Rate of Return in %)
Economic Prices                              Market Pr ces
Base           15% Cost      25% Benefi      Base        15% Cost 25% Benefit
Estimate       Increase      Decrease        Estimate   Increase  Decrease
Total Project                37               29            21            24           1Z          10
Coastal plateau              37               29            21            25            -         -
Depleted coastal
plateau   1/       20               12             3            17            _          _
Savannah                     36               27            18             5
Rainfed Rice                 42               35            28
Vegetables                   52               41            31
Coconuts                    13                il            12
1/    This component has a minor impact on the overall rate of return.






S;z2l Ha>tIVY                      |
o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
z~~~~~~~~~~~~
rn         cn~~~~~~~~~~~n
Y~~~~~~~r           rn
r~~~~~~r
G)            o c
-~~~~~~~~~ ~             ~~~~~~ CL  D 
- - - D C -' =s-- -  i ', 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~t.>  i    (  .*< i(
B~ ~ ~~~-                                     111Ar        1z  \ 
X   .<   o4<s°                             \ 
\&<vo/\fz        *C.ô  >/a`u'o
,  9  \   ;t     X0               Db $-m
V   D "  o    <   X <b
S8~~~LI.C OH                     .- 






IBRD 11886
MARCH 1976
il00,                                                         1' 30~
P 1 A   T E AU  p E  G    0 NTOGO
PL                  AU    R E G / O N   z                                 (  MARITIME REGION RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
-__ _ _,                                           oz                /    E::0; ::04  A                            ECOLOGICAL  ZONES
-  \  > g   É_ Savannah Zone
Coastal Ploteau (Terres de barre)    45
604                                      \                                                                                                                Depleted Coastal Plateau
(Terres de barre degradées)
Lama Depression (Bado)
n. [    ---1Coastal Sands
R     Lowland Rice Development
V      Vegetables
I     Irrigated Rice Development
*9 00-  Isohyets in mmn
-  .Tlb°-    Regional Boundaries
-.,;? -  X' International Boundaries
\z  v: 1;:    "   -1i   /   t      /  <             `    '           /2i<-              9       o             ~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~MILES 0  510  15
6'30'
KILOMETERS 0         10         20          30
Tsevie~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
G   H A N     A                           è /0|
1'00'            ,i-'                              D                              W'd|',# efiI






0  \ is0    DI   LE,p-i:::   
-ODJA        F <  ':   -    .                      .    :     .TOGO
MARITIME REGION RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IRRIGATION ENGINEERING STUDY
PROPOSED SCHEME
~""~~' /777/ 07/    \/~X/$$$~~'   -                              X                                 - -        Project Boundary
- ' s " ~   v //  > / / g+< ; ; / / 7 7 7 7 7/ "/ 7 7 7f 7/" - '  ,-                                               P r o p o s e d   I r r i g a t e d   A r e a     1 , 0 0 0   h a   n e t )
7  7;$;;;;;;;$~~~~~~~~;;77  ~ ~     ~          ~         *> ~    Proposed Staff Gauging Station
7//////77.$Ç   ~~~~~~  ///77~~~///7/7/       X~~~~~0                            Main Canai
7777/7/77/7/  7/77/   /7/77/7//7777//7                                         ~~~~~~~~~Off- Take Canal Head Work
;~*7/7//7//7/      /77//77//77///7//,                         tFlood Protection Dyke
23 $%e 7^~~çy'~;)  -High Land
7~~~~~~~$~~~~/  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~               f ~~~~Low Land
7/                          t~~~~~ Main Road
~~   7 7 /  ~~~77~~ 777//7//7/~~~~~                      -   --  ~~Village Road
KILOMETERS
/9 t                            _, / UPPER VOLTA j° v 
0~~~~~~~~~1
o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1                                                                                                     2        ' X  BENINA
J    /                                                                       uxar   vo i a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NIGERIA
>GHANA          °
I                                                  .. -                                                                 
g . . 0 -        BAG                         UIDA <   g A è The houndanes shown on this map do flot  LOME  Project Area
_o __:::To imply endorsement or acceptance by the
BAGUIDA Q/                                               WolBnadsafilts0                                                            a1.
7o Lomé-                                                            W____Rak_an_it_af_iats____u



