Document of
FILE COPY                        The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
E     JL'TU  TR I                  Report No.P-1823-TO
REPORTS DS
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
FOR A
MARITIM3 REGION RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Miay 24, 1976
This document has a restnicted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its couteulls may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorzation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
11
Currency Unit = CFA franc (CFAF)
Present Rate
US$ 1.00  =  CFAF 225
CFAF 100   = us$ o. 444
Fiscal Year = January 1 through December 31
1/ The CFA franc is tied to the French franc in a ratio of 50 CFA francs
to 1 French franc. The French franc is currently floating.
ABBREVIATIONS
BCEAO      =    Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest
CIMAO      =    Ciments de l'Afrique de l'Ouest
CNCA       =    Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole
FAC        =    Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (France)
FED        =    Fonds Europe'en de D6veloppement
MDR        =    Ministere du D6veloppement Rural
M4ER       =    Ministere de 1'Equipement Rural
OPAT       =    Office des Produits Agricoles Togolais
RMWA       =    Resident Mission West Africa (World Bank)
SONAPH     =    Soci6t6 Nationale du Palmier a Huile
SORAD      =    Societe' R6gionale d'Am6nagement et de D6veloppement
SOTOCO     =    Societe Togolaise du Coton
SRCC            Socie6te pour la Renovation du Caf'e et du Cacao



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECIUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF TOGO
FOR A MARITIME REGION RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit for I:he Republic of Togo for the equivalent of US$9.5 mil-
lion on standard IDA terms to help finance an integrated rural development
project in the Maritime Region in the south of Togo. The Fonds d'Aide et de
Cooperation (FAC) of France is expected to provide co-financing for the
project in the form of a grant of an amount equivalent to US$2.2 million.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The most recent economic report on Togo, Report No. 458a-TO "Current
Economic Situation and ]'rospects of Togo" was issued on December 30, 1974. A
basic economic mission visited Togo in March/April 1976. Its main findings
are incorporated below. Annex I contains basic country data.
3.        Togo's long-term annual average growth of GNP per capita has been
one of the highest in Africa - more than 4 percent during 1960-73. From 1966
to 1970, GDP growth in real terms was steady, averaging 6 percent, yearly.
The sustained expansion of Togo's economy was due, in great part, to a
vigorous expansion of external commerce which, in turn, was spurred on by
favorable market conditions for two of the country's principal exports,
cocoa and coffee. With its low-tariff structure - a legacy from trusteeship
days - Togo developed into an important regional commercial entrepot and,
with fast commercial growth, accumulated substantial foreign reserves.
Between 1965 and 1970, 'Cogolese exports increased by 22 percent a year in
current prices. During this same period, imports - particularly of consumer
goods of which a high percentage were subsequently re-exported - also rose
sharply.
4.        In the early 1970's economic growth slowed down.    Adverse weather
conditions affected agr-icultural production, particularly during the years
1971-73; a sizable reduction in border trade, coupled with unfavorable
market conditions for Togo's main exports led to a deterioration of the
balance of payments. In 1974, however, there was a marked improvement of
Togo's financial and economic position. The 1974 trade balance showed a
sizable surplus for the first time since 1969 due to substantially higher
world market prices for the country's principal export commodities, especially
phosphate; in fact, frorn 1971 to 1975, the country's economic development was
mainly sustained by the expansion of the industrial and mining sector and to a
lesser extent the service sector. Togo's 1975 per capita GNP is tentatively
estimated at $250.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



5.        The Togolese Government has generally followed prudent financial
policies which have led to substantial budgetary savings during periods
of high export growth. For instance, budgetary revenues rose from about
13 percent of GDP during 1966-72 to nearly 19 percent in 1974/75, and
budgetary savings increased from an average of 2.2 percent (1966-72) to
3.7 percent of GDP in 1974/75. Selected tax increases as well as public
savings generated through the Office des Produits Agricoles Togolais
(OPAT) as a result of favorable world market prices for coffee and cocoa,
have helped improve domestic resource mobilization.    However, average export
prices and volume both fell in late 1975 and early 1976 and, due to slacken-
ing world demand, phosphate sales, in particular, dropped significantly.
Foreign exchange reserves which rose to record highs of seven months of
imports during 1974 decreased to the equivalent of less than three months'
import requirements in November 1975. Togo's market-oriented economy
has historically shown the capacity to adjust rapidly to swings in agricul-
ture and trade, but the magnitude of the recent fluctuation in phosphate
earnings was unprecedented. The Government has had to review expenditure
plans which were based on expectations of high phosphate revenues, and is
taking steps to restrain expenditures including decisions to freeze new
hirings during the current fiscal year and to postpone or slow down public
investment. Moreover, it has the capacity to adjust further, if necessary,
through use of short-term credit and financing facilities to which recourse
is generally unconditional from BCEAO, the IMF, and the European Community's
Stabex arrangement.
6.        The lot of city dwellers employed in commerce, industry, construc-
tion and the Government -- particularly in Lome -- has improved considerably
in recent years, but much of Togo's rural population has remained untouched
by the modern sector's economic expansion. To improve conditions in the
countryside the Government is accelerating lhe promotion of food crops and
important cash crops like cocoa, coffee and cotton, especially in less
developed regions of the country. The Government's growing concern with
social equity is shown by its policy to distribute more widely the benefits
of economic growth. For instance it raised producer prices and selectively
increased minimum wages and salary levels -- especially for lower-paid staff
-- and abolished the regressive head tax.
7.        Togo's longer-term development outlook is favorable with prospects
for GDI' growth during the next decade of about 6 percent per year and further
improvement in income distribution and employment.    The new long-term
Development Plan, which is now being finalized, assesses the physical and
institutional bottlenecks to future growth with considerable realism,
although financial targets have had to be revised in the light of recent
price movements. Its strategy is designed to further diversify the
economy and exploit natural resources, to rehabilitate and expand both food
and cash crop production, to further improve the country's infrastructure



- 3 -
in order to lay the ground for new, directly productive investments, and
to promote internationaL regional cooperation. The Government's longer-
term development policy gives emphasis to equity and employment, includ-
ing a basic education reform, rural development programs and extension
of the feeder road network, promotion of small- and medium-scale indige-
nous enterprises and the search for more labor-intensive techniques.
Nevertheless, some realLocation of current and capital expenditures towards
the rural sector may alSo be needed to achieve the Government's objectives
in this sector.
8.        In the early seventies, total aid inflow averaged $20 million per
year, with France (FAC), the European Community (FED) and Germany providing
the bulk of external assistance, primarily for infrastructure projects.
New commitments on a nunber of projects have already been secured and, on
the basis of known plans of aid donors, we expect an increase of the inflow
of foreign assistance, at least in nominal terms, during the next few years.
The Bank Group will become a major donor in the near future, particularly
as a result of the planned financing of the CIMAO project. As in the past,
average foreign assistance is tentatively estimated to finance about 70 per-
cent of public investment. Given the expected higher level of public in-
vestment, such a financing pattern will require continued efforts by the
Togolese Government to mobilize increasing amounts of domestic resources
in line with the expected expansion of the country's economic base. Tradi-
tional donors are likely to provide relatively large amounts for public
investments, but Togo has already begun to diversify its sources of assis-
tance by approaching OPEC and other Western and Eastern countries.
9.        In the past, aid to Togo has been provided on relatively soft
terms with grants accounting for about 75 percent of foreign assistance.
As of December 31, 1975, the country's external public debt including
undisbursed amounted to US$121 million (excluding a line of credit from
the People's Republic of China of about US$54 million) most of which was
incurred at low interest rates and with repayment periods of more than
10 years. More recently, the share of suppliers' credits and commercial
borrowing has increased. Average debt service payments amounted to about
6 percent of exports from 1971 to 1975 but this ratio will go up in 1976
due to increased borrowing in recent years. However, given Togo's good
longer-term economic prospects, the Government should be able to keep debt
service within manageable limits and sustain a moderate amount of foreign
borrowing on conventional terms. Still, in view of the country's low per
capita income, the growing need for external funding of priority projects in
an expanding economy, and Togo's exposure to widely fluctuating world market
conditions, the major part of foreign financing necessary to sustain economic
growth should continue to be provided on concessionary terms. Because Togo is
expected to be able to finance about 30 percent of its public investment
programs, foreign donors should continue to provide on average 70 percent of
total project costs including -- in appropriate cases -- some financing of
local costs.



- 4 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TOGO
10.       To date the Bank Group has extended three credits to Togo totallng
US$18.4 million. Two of these were for road projects: the first for highway
maintenance and the second for highway construction. The third credit was for
an agricultural project. Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA Credits
to Togo as of April 30, 1976 as well as notes on the execution of the three
projects.
11.       The Highway Maintenance Project, the Bank Group's first lending
operation in Togo, was satisfactorily completed in June 1975. The Second
Highway Project evolved from preinvestment studies financed under the first
project and provides for the construction or upgrading of three highways and
the continuation of the maintenance program. This project is progressing
satisfactorily although due to inflation the scope of the road construction
component had to be reduced.
12.       The agricultural project for which a credit was approved in 1974,
covers part of a long-range program for the development of the Plateau
region's coffee and cocoa potential. This project, which includes planting
and maintenance of 4,400 ha of cocoa and 4,000 ha of coffee, is also pro-
ceeding well with planting a year ahead of forecasts.
13.       Most of the Bank Group's future operations activities would
involve agriculture or rural-development oriented transportation projects.
A third highway project, concentrating on secondary road construction in
the coffee and cocoa planting areas, was appraised earlier this year. A
cotton areas development project is under preparation. A follow-up to the
first (coffee and cocoa) agricultural project is also being considered. A
first education project was recently identified by UNESCO.
14.       Togo will be the host country for one of the largest industrial
ventures so far in West Africa, a US$285 million CIMAO clinker project, which
would be financed by the Bank and seven other official aid agencies. This
project, which is jointly sponsored by the Togolese, Ivorian and Ghanaian
Governments, is expected to be presented to the Executive Directors before the
end of the current fiscal year.
PART III - The AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
15.       Agriculture is vital to the Togolese economy.    It employs some 80
percent of the active population and provides over one third of the country's
total export earnings.



16.       Togo's approximately 300,000 farm families work holdings that
average 2-5 ha. Cultivation is usually by traditional techniques and yields
are low. The main export crops are cocoa and coffee - which together account
for 75 percent of agricultural exports - cotton, groundnuts and copra. Despite
the importance of cocoa and coffee, staples such as yams, maize, rice and
sorghum account for over 80 percent of agricultural output, the bulk of which
is for subsistence.
17.       Responsibilit:y for the agricultural sector is now shared by two
ministries:   the Ministry of Rural Development (MDR), which Is essentially
concerned with policy formulation and program coordination; and the Ministry
of Rural Equipment (MER), which Is concerned primarlly with major Infrastruc-
ture development, such as irrigation works and rural roads.
18.       The executioni of development projects is entrusted to autonomous
public corporations whJch are regionally or product oriented.    The SORADS
(Societes Reglonales d'Amenagement et de Developpement), which were set up
In 1966-1967, are responsible for all development activities and provide
extension services and agricultural inputs to farmers in Togo's five adminis-
trative regions. They also act as intermediaries between growers' associations
and credit institutions. The SORADS' effectiveness has been undercut by the
lack of clearly defined programs, shortage of trained manpower, inadequate
management and limited financing. A number of responsibilities have recently
been taken over by specialized corporations: SRCC for coffee and cocoa, SONAPH
for oilpalm, TOGOFRUIT for fruits, SOTOCO for cotton, TOGOGRAIN for foodgrains.
The responsibilities of these entities range from the supply of inputs and
the provision of extension services to primary marketing and processing. This
has led to some duplication between the role of the specialized corporations and
the SORADS. The Government is now considering the regrouping of all extension
activities under a uniEied service, attached to the MDR, but decentralized at
the regional level. Technical support, training, marketing and processing for
specific crops would still be supplied by the specialized corporations (already
reporting to the MDR). THE SORADS, which have been assigned to the MER, would
ultimately concentrate on rural engineering and infrastructure activities.
The objectives of this reorganization are sound but there Is no timetable as
yet for its implementation.
19.       Agricultural credit is extended by the Calsse Nationale du Credit
Agricole (CNCA), which was set up in 1967. Most of CNCA's loans to farmers
have been channeled through the product-oriented corporations or the SORADS.
Inadequate credit policy and weak management resulted in a high percentage
of defaults and arrears, but a new management installed in 1974 should
improve operations considerably.
20.       Prominent among Togolese agricultural Institutions Is the Office
des Prodults Agricoles du Togo (OPAT), which has broad marketing and price
stabilization functions for export crops. On its recommendation, the Govern-
ment sets farmgate prices to be paid for these crops. OPAT purchases the
crops from farmers through a network of licensed buying agents. OPAT has,



-6 -
over the years, generated sizable public savings which are used to finance
development in general, while direct contributions to agricultural invest-
ments were modest.
21.       Growth in the agricultural sector has lagged behind the rest of
the economy. While GDP growth in real terms averaged 6 percent from 1966 to
1970 agricultural production inicreased only at about 3.5 percent per year.
In the early seventies growth of agricultural output probably declined
further. Difficult agro-climatic conditions in many parts of the country have
been partially responsible for the sector's slow development. In the coastal
plateau of the southeast, for example, rainfall is only half what it is in the
coastal areas of most other West African states. This climatological quirk
has limnited the range of crops which can be economically cultivated in the
region and has held down yields for those crops which are grown. Besides,
high population density and overcropping have caused severe depletion and
erosion of soils, further limiting agricultural potential. Kaincope disease,
by attacking coconut plantations, has partially destroyed the coastal zone
main export crop. In Togo's northern savannah and Lama Kara regions, agricul-
tural growth has been limited by the prolonged Sahelian drought, the presence
of onchocerciasis in otherwise agriculturally promising river valleys and the
exhaustion of soils in the densely settled Lama Kara hill country.
22.       Lack of investment and limited absorptive capacity in the agricul-
tural sector during the 1960's hindered the country's rural development.
In recent years, however, the Government has become increasingly aware of
the priority of the agriculture sector for the country's socio-economic
development. The third Development Plan (1976-80) now in the final stages
of preparation, calls for substantial improvements in agricultural perfor-
muance both in industrial and food crops. For industrial crops, the Govern-
ment's objectives are to restore traditional exports, and to diversify into
new products. A major program [or coffee and cocoa rehabilitation began in
1974 with IDA assistance (Credit 503-TO), and should begin yielding results by
the end of the decade. A five-year cotton program to increase production from
12,000 to 42,000 tons per annum has been submitted to the Bank Group for con-
sideration. There is scope for rehabilitation of traditional copra production,
and possibilities for developmenit of other products, such as sugarcane, tobacco
and cashew nuts, are being examined. For food crops, the Government hopes to
slow down imports and to reach self-sufficiency in the eighties. Recent in-
creases in official farmgate prices for export crops, higher producer prices
resulting from increased urban dlemand for foodcrops, improved credit and sup-
port facilities for organized farmers, and easier access to markets would
help- achiieve these objectives. The Government is also providing additional
incentives by subsidizing farm i-nputs, principally fertilizer, for which the
farmers are currently charged about 50 percent of actual cost. The Govern-
ment considers these subsidies as necessary to encourage the use of improved
technologies, but it has agreed to consult annually with IDA on prices for
fertilizers and pesticides, for the purpose of following a price policy
aiming at progressively reflecting the full cost of these inputs in the
prices charged to farmers (section 4.04 of the Credit Agreement).



-7 -
23.       The basis of agricultural growth should be both improvement of
yields and expansion of cropped areas. Area increases can partially be
achieved through double-cropping, intercropping or decreasing fallow.
But substantial efforts will have to be made to bring new land into produc-
tion. Some of this land will be found in areas to be freed of onchocerciasis
under the ongoing regional program; studies on the preparation of projects for
the development of these areas would be included in this project. It is also
envisaged that additional output would come from water resource development.
Water for human and animal consumption - crucial to opening up areas in the
Central Region and the northern part of the Maritime Region - would be devel-
oped under the proposed project through construction of wells and small
water-retention dams. The Government also envisages relatively ambitious
irrigation schemes on the Zio-Haho, Mono, and Oti rivers, but there is scope
for simpler, less expensive approaches, including the development of lowland
areas for rainfed rice and other crops, and low cost gravity irrigation for
which good potential exists. The proposed project would test these simpler
approaches to the deveLopment of the Maritime Region.
24.       The Maritime Region lies along the coast of the Bight of Benin.    It
includes the capital city Lome. The area is divided into several ecological
zones ranging from the agriculturally poor coastal sands in the south, where
rainfall is marginal, to the more bountiful savannah area in the north, where
rainfall is highest. The region supports 37 percent of the country's popula-
tion while covering onLy 10 percent of the total area. The main problems
encountered in the Maritime Region are over-population, low incomes, soil
depletion, the Kaincope disease which has ravaged coconut production, poor
farmer support serviceS and inadequate infrastructure.
PART IV: THE PROJECT
25.       The proposed project is described in detail in the report entitled
"Appraisal of Togo MarLtime Region Rural Development Project" dated May 24,
1976 which is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors. Annex
III contains a credit and project summary. The project was identified by an
RMWA mission in July 1973. Studies, financed by UNDP (for feasibility) and
FAC (for soil maps), were carried out by consultants in May-June 1974. The
project was appraised in October 1975. Negotiations of the Credit took place
in Washington in early May. The Togolese delegation was headed by Mr. Dogo,
Minister of Planning, and included representatives of the principal project
executing entities (SOEAD Maritime and CNCA), and the FAC.
26.       The proposed project would be the first phase (1976-81) of an
integrated rural development program for the Maritime Region. It would
comprise four main components. The first - farm development and farmer
support services - would include the provision of extension services and other
inputs for onfarm development geared to the potential of the different ecolo-
gical zones in the regjion. The second would comprise the strengthening of
the SORAD Maritime's capacity through provision for additional staff, train-
ing and physical facilities, and of CNCA through the creation of an agency
in the proj ect area to handle the credit facilities to be made available to
farmers. The third element would be the construction or improvement of



- 8 -
supporting infrastructure, most notably the construction of 300 km of feeder
and secondary roads, sundry wells, dams, markets, dispensaries and stores.
Finally, the project would include studies for the development of a gravity
irrigation scheme and for the formulation of investment proposals for the
areas in the north of the country to be cleared of onchocerciasis under the
ongoing international program, and field trials for restoring depleted soils
and testing the resistance of coconut hybrids to Kaincope disease.
27.       The project would encourage the adoption of improved farming tech-
niques including the use of improved varieties, fertilizers, pest control
and improved crop husbandry. Emphasis would be placed on crop diversi-
fication to include cotton production in rotation with maize and legumes in
the upland areas while in the lowlands some 3,000 ha would be opened up for
rice cultivation. An interesting feature of the project would be the assis-
tance given to the formation of grower associations through which credit and
inputs would be channeled. These associations would later form cooperatives
which would eventually assume responsibility for procurement and distribution
of project-financed goods and services.
Project Implementation
28.       The project would be carried out by SORAD Maritime excluding the
credit component which would be implemented by CNCA, and the well component and
onchocerciasis studies which would be implemented by the Ministries of Public
Works and Plan respectively. SORAD has agreed with SOTOCO on the transfer to
the SORAD of the support services to cotton growers in the north of the region
normally handled by SOTOCO. The Government intends to unify all extension
services under the MDR at some future date. In such an event IDA's concern
would be to safeguard the management of the project by maintaining the cohesion
of the project implementation team. Thus the Government has agreed to consult
with IDA prior to any reorganization of extension services which may affect the
project (Section 4.05 of the Credit Agreement). Project-related operations
would form the bulk of SORAD's activities during the implementation period. To
ensure efficient execution of the Project, the Government has given assurances
that during the implementation period SORAD would not undertake any additional
activities beyond the scope of the Project except with IDA's prior agreement
(Section 3.09 of the Credit Agreement).
29.       The present Director of the SORAD would be the project manager.    To
assist him, the project would provide for the appointment of an administrative
and financial director, a technical director, and a chief of the engineering
unit responsible for infrastructure development. The Government has agreed
to appoint Togolese counterparts to the expatriate experts who would fill the
first two of these positions, with a view to replacing them eventually (Section
3.04(b) of the Credit Agreement). A training specialist would be appointed and
required to draw up a comprehensive training program for discussion with
IDA before the end of 1976 (Section 3.05 of the Credit Agreement).
30.       To ensure effective input supply to farmers, a special unit would be
staffed and equipped under the project within the SORAD. By the fourth year
of the project there would be a review of the activities of this unit in order
to appraise the prospects for operating the unit on a commercial 1)asis for the



- 9 -
benefit of farmers' cooperatives (Section 3.07 (b) of the Credit Agreement).
A monitoring unit, equipped and staffed under the project, would serve as an
"early warning" system to detect problems which may develop with any of the
project's components and thus allow either corrective action or changes in
relative emphasis (Section 3.08(b) of the Credit Agreement). The project
would provide for consultant support to help design the monitoring program
and evaluate project progress.
31.       Credit to farmers would be provided through their respective grower
associations by CNCA. CNCA is not adequately equipped and staffed at present
and therefore a credit agency would be established under the project as a
branch of CNCA in the Maritime Region. To head this agency, the Government
would appoint an experienced credit specialist. Although administratively
responsible to CNCA, the head of the agency would work closely with SORAD's
management (Section 3.11 of the Credit Agreement).
32.       The project would provide for consultants to assist in c:arrying out
coconut field trials, and conducting studies for irrigation and for the develop-
ment of areas to be freed of onchocerciasis. The Government has agreed that
the consultants' qualifications, experience and the terms of employment would
be acceptable to the Association (Section 3.08 of the Credit Agreement).
Cost Estimates and Financing Arrangements
33.       The estimated total cost of the project is US$15.7 million, includ-
ing taxes of US$1.8 million. The foreign exchange component would be about
US$9.3 million, or about 67 percent of costs net of taxes. The proposed IDA
credit of US$9.5 million would finance about 68 percent of project costs net
of taxes and duties. FAC co-financing of US$2.2 million would cover 16 percent
of net project costs.   Thus, while the amount of the IDA credit would be about
equivalent to the projec:'s foreign exchange costs, IDA and FAC together would
finance the foreign exchange costs and about half of local costs. The Govern-
ment and participating farmers would finance 12 percent (US$1.6 million) and 4
percent (US$0.5 million) respectively, of net project costs.
34.       Project funds (proceeds of the IDA credit, FAC grant and Government
contribution) amounting t:o US$8.6 million would be channeled to SORAD to cover
construction costs for buildings, roads and water supply infrastructure etc.;
and to cover the cost of vehicles and equipment, costs of personnel and other
operating expenses, and t:he costs of irrigation studies and consulting services
for coconut development and for project monitoring and evaluation. To assure
availability of financing for SORAD expenditures prior to credit disbursements,
a special project account. would be established for SORAD. The Government would
make an initial deposit cf US$0.3 million in this account to cover initial
operating expenditures. Reimbursements from IDA and FAC, and such other funds
as would be requested quarterly by SORAD as advances for project expenditures,
would replenish this fund (Section 3.02 (b) of the Credit Agreement). Except
for the costs of rice land preparation and irrigation water for vegetable
growing which would be fully charged to beneficiaries (but which would represent
a minor portion of project costs), costs incurred by SORAD would be for services
and investments which are normally financed out of the general budget and
are thus not directly recoverable from users.



- 10 -
35.       The Government would make available US$1.3 million to CNCA as
equity, of which US$0.7 million would finance the construction of a building
and operating costs for the new credit branch necessary to serve the expanding
credit requirements of the project area. The remainder (US$0.6 million) would
feed a revolving fund for the purchase of seasonal inputs. To enable the
beginning of operations, the Government would deposit US$0.13 million in the
fund, which would be replenished through payments from the IDA Credit and the
FAC grant for the costs of incremental project input requirements, payments by
farmers for inputs, and Government subsidies for the difference between the
delivered cost of farm inputs and the price paid by farmers. CNCA would
further receive US$0.6 million (including US$0.4 million on-lent from the
proceeds of the Credit) as a 15-year loan at 5.5 percent (the Central Bank
rediscount rate for agricultural credit).
36.       CNCA, with the assistance of SORAD, would provide credit, in kind,
to the farmers through the grower associations. Seasonal inputs would be made
available on credit to be repaid at harvest time. Credit for group-owned
equipment and material for village stores would be for a four-year term; and
credit for coconut development would be for 12 years including a 7-year grace
period. The rate of interest for all credit would be 8 percent per annum plus
a one-time commission of 3 percent of the principal to build up a special
reserve for bad debts. This would result in an effective lending rate over
the life of sub-loans of about 11 percent for seasonal and medium-term credit
and about 9 percent for long-term credit.
37.       The US$0.3 million of project funds allocated for studies in the
areas to be freed of onchocerciasis, would be financed from the proposed credit
US$0.4 million of project funds would be used to cover the costs of project
monitoring and evaluation. The balance of about US$3.9 million would be ear-
marked as a contingency reserve.
Procurement
38.       Contracts for the supply of goods other than rock phosphate, which
are estimated to cost US$50,000 or more each, would be awarded on the basis
of international competitive bidding in accordance with IDA guidelines (total
cost about US$3.4 million). Domestically manufactured goods would be allowed
a preference of 15 percent, or the level of applicable duty, whichever is less,
when comparing domestic bids with those of foreign manufacturers. Supply
contracts valued at less than US$50,000 (the number of which would be mini-
mized by bulking procurement and which would total about US$200,000) would be
let after competitive bidding in accordance with local procedures as would
contracts for the construction of 90 km of secondary roads (total cost about
US$1.7 million) and of various project buildings, dispensaries and rural
markets which would be individually small and widely dispersed (total cost
about US$0.9 million). IDA staff have reviewed the local procedures, which
are acceptable; there would be adequate competition. Rock phosphate, costing
about US$0.1 million, would be procured at reasonable prices from Government
mines. Small items costing less than US$10,000 and which would total about
US$100,000 could be awarded after solicitation of quotations from at least
three suppliers. Inputs purchased directly by farmers and which would total



- 11 -
about US$0.5 million would be obtained through local shopping. SORAD,
which would be adequately equipped under the project, would construct or
improve about 210 km cf feeder roads and build two earth dams on force
account for an estimated total cost of US$1.7 million. The project well
component (costing about US$1.8 million spread over flve years), would be
carried out on force account by the well brigade of the Ministry of Public
Works which is competent and sufficiently equipped.
Disbursements
39.       The proceeds of the Credit would be disbursed against costs in-
curred in the five-year period between signing and mid-1981. The FAC grant
would also cover five years, but would include start-up costs, primarily
the salaries of key personnel beginning earlier in 1976. From the date of
credit signature the IDA Credit and FAC grant would be disbursed pari passu
and generally cover all items at the same ratio of 4:1 except for studies and
consultant services, and for Infrastructure, where FAC participation would be
15 percent and 11 percent, respectively. The onchocerciasis study would be
financed by IDA only. The IDA credit would be disbursed to cover:
(a) 80 percent of foreign expenditures or 60 percent of
total expenditures for Incremental fertilizer, pesti-
cides and imported seeds, and equipment for farmer
groups (US$0.77 million);
(b) 80 percent of forelgn expenditures or 60 percent
of total expenditures for building construction, the
procurement of equipment, vehicles and office fur-
nishings; in,-remental staff salaries and training
grants and other incremental costs of SORAD Maritime
and CNCA (US$3.28 million);
(c) 60 percent of total expenditures for infrastructure
construction (US$2.25 million);
(d) 100 percent of total expenditures of consultant services
for the planning of development for areas to be freed
from onchoceirciasis (USO.3 million);
(e) 80 percent o:E total costs of consultants' services
for other studies, and project monitoring and eval-
uation (US$0.52 million); and
(f) US$2.38 would be held as a contingency reserve.



- 12 -
Disbursements would be against contracts and certified statements of expend-
iture prepared by the SORAD Maritime and CNCA. The following conditions of
disbursements would apply:
(a) for power tillers in addition to the initial ten, that
the Association has agreed to the purchase of such
additional tillers;
(b) for pumps under Part A.3 of the Project, that the Borrower
has given satisfactory assurances to the Association that
water charges are collected; and
(c) for fertilizers and pesticides, that the Borrower has made
the required payments to the Revolving Fund as described
in para. 22 (Paragraph 4 of Schedule 1 to the Credit Agree-
ment).
Economic Return
40.       The economic rate of return of the project would be 37 percent
over 15 years (30 years for coconut plantings). Sensitivity analysis shows
that a 25-percent decrease in benefits would reduce the economic rate of
return to 21 percent while cost increases of 15 percent would reduce it to 29
percent. Separate rates of return calculated for the six production components
range from 13 percent for coconuts to 52 percent for vegetables.
41.       The project's direct benefits would be an increase in foodcrop
production which should, in turn, result in higher incomes for some 20,000
farm families expected to participate in the project. Overall, the net
farm income of participant families would approximately double from about
US$80 to US$170 in the poorest areas and from about US$190 to US$350 for
the majority of families. Inc:reases in cotton and groundnut exports and
savings in foodgrain imports would improve the foreign exchange position.
The project would also raise the general level of economic activity in
the area by increasing the spending power of beneficiaries and thus their
contribution to public revenue through indirect taxes. The project would
have other important non-quantifiable social, institutional and ecological
benefits. Improved health services would benefit about 150,000 people and
about 44,000 people would benefit from water supply. The project would pro-
vide increased seasonal employment of family and hired labor. By strength-
ening SORAD's and CNCA's management, the project would contribute to the
capacity of these agencies to plan and carry out other rural development
projects. The project's attempt to rehabilitate depleted land would be of
great importance for the over-populated coastal plateau.
Risks
42.       The project would represent the first major Bank Group involvement
in upland annual crop production in a two-season rainfall area of West Africa.
Throughout most of the region the principal crops in such areas are tree
crops, and agricultural research has concentrated on these primarily export



- 13 -
crops. Even where technology packages for food crops have been developed
(as in Togo), the period and scale of testing at the farmer level has been
limited. Further, greater total rainfall and longer duration of the combined
rainy seasons than is found in areas further north where a single peak rain-
fall occurs, give an apparent advantage in the growing of food crops. But
this may not be significant as the second rainy season is often too short
to guarantee profitable crops. Given these circumstances, the assumptions
concerning yield increments at the farm level, and farmer response to the
proposed innovations, are less firm than for other annual crop projects in
West Africa; hence the risks involved must be considered substantial. None-
theless, these risks are worth taking because there are no alternatives for
developing agricultural production and raising rural incomes in this most
densely populated area of the country.
PART V: LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
43.       The draft Development Credit Agreement (Maritime Region Rural
Development Project) between the Republic of Togo and the Association, the
Report of the Committee provided for in Article V Section l(d) of the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and the text of a draft resolution
approving the proposed Development Credit, are being distributed separately
to the Executive Directors.
44.       The special features of the Credit Agreement are referred to in
paragraphs 22, and 28 through 36 of this Report. The following are addi-
tional conditions of efifectiveness:
(a) notification of signature of an agreement between Govern-
ment and FAC;
(b) signature of a subsidiary loan agreement acceptable to
IDA between Government and CNCA;
(c) appointment cf the technical director, administrative and
financial director, and head of the credit agency;
(d) establishment. of a revolving fund for CNCA with an
initial deposit by Government of CFAF 30 million; and
(e) establishment, of a project account for SORAD with
an initial deposit by the Government of CFAF 70 million.



- 14 -
47.        I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI: RECOMMENDATIONS
48.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by J. Burke Knapp
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 24,1976



ANNEX I
Page I of 4 Dages
TABLE ]A
TOGO               - 8OCIA. INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (TNOU KIl2)              ….…................-                           e__.............
...-----------                                 TOGO                               REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL        57.0                                    MOST RECENT
AGRIC.        ..                      t960      19rO   ESTIMATE          MADAGASCAR    GHANA         IVORY COAST*O
_._..._.*_......... _._. ..........  _..  -------_----  ..... . . . *-----------
GNP PER CAPITA CUSS)                     70.0      160.0      180.0              140 0      250.0      3ZO.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
.... ..... .. . ... .... I.....
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILLION)            1.5        2.0        2.1                7.6        8.6         5-4
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                       25.0       36.0       38.0               13.0       36.0        16.0
PER SO. RN. AGRICULTURAL LAND          ..         ..
VITAL STATISTIOS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE PER THOUSAND        50.9       51.0        50.6              49.7        49.8       46.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE PER THOUSAND        31.0       26.6       23.3               24.2       24.4       23.3
INfANT MORTALITY RATE (/7MOU)       127.0                                    IZ2OL.
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)       33-5       38.5       41.0               4°.S      I4t.         41.0
GROSS REPPODUCTION RATE                ..        3.3         3.3               1.2        3.2         3.1
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (2)
TOTAL                                 2.8        2.7        2.7                2.6        t.6         3
URBAN                                 7.0        6.0         9.0               5.4        5.0         7.5Zw
URBAN POPULATION (t OF TOTAL)          11.0       13.0        15.0              13.1        29.0       28.0
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                       *7.0       65.0        45.6              46.1'      46.9       42.4
15 TO 64 YEARS                       49.0       52.0        51.8              50.2       49.5       54.9
65 YEARS AND OVER                     4.0        3.0         2.6               3.7        3.6         2.7
AGE OEPENDENCY RATIO                    1.0        0.9         0.9 b             1.0        1.0         0.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               I. 1       1 .3/       ..                t.1.b       1.4        o.9 /
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THD)            .. .L.                ..                 ..       10.9
USERS (2 OF MARRIED WOMEN)             ..         ..          ..                ..        2.0
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)          630.0 /b   720.0         ..             3000.0     3300.0     2600.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (X)           ..       70.0         ..               83.0       54.0        76.0
UNEMPLOYEO CZ OF LABOR FORCE:            ..         ..         ..                 ..         5.0        9.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
_. _ ....._.....
X OF PRIVATE INCOME PECD BY-
HIGHEST  SI OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..         ..         ..                 ..         ..        28.4 a
HIGHEST 201 OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..         ..         ..                 ..         ..        58.514
LOWEST  20t OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..         ..          ..                ..         ..         3.9 c
LOWEST  40X OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..         ..         ..                 ..         ..        10.6
OtSTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
X ODNED BY TOP 1Oz OF OWNERS             ..         ..         ..                 ..
2 OWNED BY SMALLEST IOX OWNEFIS          ..         ..          ..                ..
HEALTH ANO NUTRITION
. F...-... _ _..., ....._ ..
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            34000.00   28 140.0    Z3240.0           11390.0/c  129,0.0/b   12140.0
POPULATION PER NURSENG PERSONq       52D00.0    4 *20.0     2700.0            3760.0     1O70.       24800.Q
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED           5BS.O:!.,d  2c.b01b    680.0             400.D      760.0       68a.IVX
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (X OF REQUIREMENT:i)        89.0       94.0       101.0             104.0       96.0       108. 0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)              48.0       51.0        56.0              53.0        46.0       60.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULiE           I. 19.0L               *-              17.0       IO.G1      9I.t
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4              ..         ..          ..              33.0*L*
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                       44.0       76.0        83.0              84.0       58 0        76.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                      2.0/6      8.0/4      9. 0 /a           lI.o        9 0        It.cG
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)             13.0       13.0        13.0              13.0       15.0        13.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(X OF SECONDARY)                     10.0/f     10.0         9.0               9.0       23.0         7.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (X)                IO.OZi          .        ..              39.0       25.0        20.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (AVERAGE)               ..         ..          ..                ..
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (T)                        ..         ..         ..                 ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICIlY
(1 OF ALL DWELLINGS)                   ..         ..         ..                5.0
RIJRAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (X)                     ..         ..         ..
CONSUMPTION
...........
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)          4.0       22.0        24.0              80.0        78.0       17.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)           2.0/h      4.0         5.0               6.0         4.0       11.0
ELECTRICITY t(WH/YR PER CAP)             ..       33.0        56.o0             36.0      338.0       120.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                ..         0.:1        ..               0.04       0. 4        02
.-- _-_--.--- _ _ _,-. _-_ .-.....--.. _ . _ _ -.--.--_-_ . _ .-.... _ - j , *-_-. _ _-_-_-_-_-
SE- NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON eEVERSE



Page 2 of 1. paLges
Unleas otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any Yea" between 1959 end 1961, for 19,70 between 1968 and 1970, and for Moat Recent lutist. between
1971 and 1973.
as lvoay Coast boag been selected asee objective country because of its geogrephie proximty end its mr. advanced stale of oeconmlc developoent.
TOOD  U§O      g~Ratio of population under 15 end 65 eMd over to total labor force,       lb focluding apprenticesoad unemployed;    Ic 1962;
Oovesant hospital eutabiiaheents uc2ly           12-18 yeare of age;    Lf  Teacher trelinio  at second level is Included with
general edusation;    &   Prior to 1965;   a:- 1961..
1970        H Ratio of population under 15 end 65 and over to total labor force;    &   Oovermment hospital establish-onts;     /c  196&-66;
Ld  12-18 yeer. of age;    /a  1965.
NGT MXCDI =ISTI    S s    /a  12-18 Years of age;    /b 1975;   La   197h.
ML.DG0SCA.R 1970         19661   &   Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and omer to total labor force;      La  Including assistant sedical officers;
12-18 years of age.
G168        1970     La  Registered only;   lb Registered, not all practicing in the country;      La 1966-68;     Ld  6-15 and 16-21 yea.   of age
reapectisely.
IVORY OmAST 1970     /a  19,65-70;  A   RAtio of population under 15 end 65 end over to total labor force;      /   Inomas  recipient;   Ld  Government
only;   LA  19&6i-6     a   12-18 years of age;    &   Duae to iaeigration, the growth rate is higher then the rate of natural
increame.
RS. key 21., 1976
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Land Area (thou kos2)                                                            Population nor nursing person - P.pulacioc divided by ounber of praticig
Total   Total surface area cnprioing toed areo end iniand waer,                     nt  and female groduate nuroes, "trained" or 'certified" nurses, ard
Agaric. -Most recent outimace of agricultural area uosed teoperarily or            owniliory personnel with troioing or euparimoce
permanently for craps. panturn, market h bitcuhn gardens or to Itie            Pop.letion per hospital bed - Population divided by nuober of bospital beds
fallow.                                                                           -viluble to public and pri-ote general aod upeciL.loed hoopitol and
r-babititation centera, en    dnoureing bones and nutabliohc..nta for
iMP nor capita (US1) - ONP per capita estimates at narkot prices,    lclo-        runcodia1 and pr-votiv- core.
lated by sane   --neuion method as World Bank Atlas (i972-74 basio).           Per c.pit. supply of calories (7. of regair.oonta) - Cosputed iron energy
equivalent of net food supplies available in country per capita per doy,
P.oslaciun and vital staistics                                                     aeilablo aupplies conprise doostic production, inporco toss coporr,
P.pulac-e (mid-yr. million) - As of duty firsc      if sot avattbte,               and changes in u-ok; net supplies    e lo- de animal fond, scads, quasi-
average of two end-year euieo.tie.uswad in food Pronesuing and losses in distribution                                                        . rquiremnts
were estisoted bly FAt basod us physiological needs for normal activity
Populat-o density - per Sqasre he - mid-year population per square kilo-           and health cona idcring epvirosntnal teonperatare, body weights, age and
macor (100 boctares) of total area,                                              se. distributions of population, and alliowig 10% for waste at howuehold
Pacutacian dons ity -per usnro lye of a    c  land - Computed as above far         land.
agriculutaca  land only.                                                       Par capita seely of pooteic igras Nov d,y) - Protein contet of per
capita net supply of food per day, net supply of food is defined as
Vital scaciutica                                                                   above, requirements for ail coutries established by VitA Ecaoni
Ctrade birth rate par thousand - AnnualI live births per cho...and of old-         Research incomes proide for a niniou      ai11wasco of 60 grons of total
yoac population; cnn-year arithmetic averages cending in 1960 assd 1970,         protein par day, and 20 grama of animal and pulse protein, of which
and floe-year ae-ag.eandinsg in 1975 fcr east recent estimate.                   10 gram  sbonld hr animal proteis, these standards ace lowe     than chose
Crude drach race par thousand - Annual deaths per thousand af cid-year             of 75 grow   of coial protein and 23 gran   of aninat protein as an
population, ten-year arithoetic av    gera   ending in 1960 and 1970, and        average for the World, proposed bly PAO in the Third World Food Survey.
fine-year averag   ending ia 1975 for msot recent esati.mate.                  Per capita protein supply ir- animal ansd pulse - Protein supply of food
Iofant -trcaity rate (/thoul - AnnualI deaths of infants under one pear of         donned iron animals and pulses. is gran    per day.
age per thousand lIve hirth..                                                  Death rar  C/chow) ages 1-4 - AnnualI deaths per thausand in age group
Loin ..ecntancy at birth ly-s) - Average s=bor of years of life remaining           -   ears, to children in chic age group, soggested as an indictotr of
at birth; usually five-year averauns ending in 1960, 1970 and 197) for           malntrition.
developing countries.
Gross reproduction rate - ov-raie nober of lIve daughters a wos- will            Educa.rion
boar in her norma   reprad-ati-e period if she eoperie..ce. present age-       Adjustd enrollment ratio - pri- ry school - Enroilecnt of ult agr      a
specific fertility rtes., usually fiv-yea     avrages ending in 1960,            percentage of prlosary uchool-oge population, i-luden children aged
1970 and 1975 far devetopiog countries.                                          6-ti years but adjus ted far dIff-eret lengths of primary educa.tion,
Poulton trwh rate (%) - total - Conposd annual1 growth rates of mid-         for coutries with oni-r-aI education, enra11-et toy noneed 100%
year populatIon for 1950-60, 1960-70, and 1970 tc most r-eet year.              siocs soo   pupils are below ar above the official school age.
Population orowth rdte (%l - urban - Conpuced like growth rate af tata1          Adjusted enroIllent ratio - --ccdary school - Cosputed an above,
populatin   different defisitions of urban areas may affect -opara-              secnda'y educa.tion requires at least four yours of approved prusary
iity ofdt      aogcnre.                                                         imatruction; provides general, voational or teacher training
Urban Papulation (7. of total; - Ratio of urban to total populat-o,                isstrsscions for pupils of 12 to 17 years of age, c-r-eponde...e
different definitions of urban ares. may affect conparahiliry of data            courses are generally e-luded.
amog  outries.                                                             Years of ecohocina provided (first and secand leunts) - Total years af
Age strucur   (percen.t) - Children (0-li years), -oocing-ago (15-64 years),       scoln;ascndrle               l,v    atnlinruInmyhep-
erd retired (65 years and ave) au pteretages of mid-year population.            tialty or amopletely enoluded.
Age dependency ratio  - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 .md over to           oaimlcrlmn.7              fscnay        -  .acatisaul incticutions
chase of ages 15 through 64.                                                     include ce.nhical, industrial or other programs which operate
Econowic dapandency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over           independently or en dep-er   .t.ofc secondary institutions.
to the labor force in age gronp of 15-64. years.                               Adult literacy rote (7.) - Literte adulce (able ta tnad and write) au
family clasp ing - aceptern (casttlve. thns) - Cunctatio      nonbr of              percentage of total adolt populetion aged 15 yearsoad suer.
accptors of birth-cotrl      evic   under auspi es of maccanal foully
ples.ing prgron sInce ince ption.                                              H-aing
Family plannisi -'neS   (7 of married woe.) - Percentages oi m.srried            Persons per coo   (average) - Average nonber of persons percosm
ameen of child-bearing age (15 -44 years) who use birth-control d-vices          oc-upid conventional dwellings is urbanana.        dwellings encluds
to all caried wonen in sane a9.geroup.                                           non d-perm neo structure  and un--rpted pa-ce.
Occupied dwelling withont piped weter (7.) - Occupied conveticina
Mnplay-ent                                                                         dwellings in arban and rural arna   without inside or outside piped
Total labor forc  (thousand) - Econ-ically active persons, including               water faoilktieo as percentage of all tocpied dwellings.
armed forces and unemployed but ..cluding houseives, students, etc.;.           cest     tocct        7  faldelno             Conv-ettana1 dwellings
defntin      isarou     cauncries are not comparable,                            with electricity is living qusrters as percen.t of total dwellings in
La.bor farce ini'agriult.rar  (7.) - Agr icultural labor force (in farming,        urban and rural areas.
forestry, hunting end fishing) as percentage of tmod    labor farce.           Rural dwellings connected to electricity (7.   - Conputed as above for
Uneoplayed (7 of Iabur farce) - linMploynd are usualty defined -s Persons            -rura  dwellings only.
who are able and willing to take a Job, out of a Job ono a gi-an day,
rnatnend out of a Job, sod seeking work for a specified    inimon period       Consmpastion
not a          "eai  n  week  mafyZnt be comparable btwss  -owtriss due tv     Radio rece.ivers (per thou poo) - All types of rece.ivers for radio broad-
differentdde.finticon  of ueployed and source of data, e.g., employ-             casts tc general1 public per thousand of papalation; e..cluden
eest offi e statistics, sasple surveys, conpulnory nsmploymest insurance,        unlicensed receivers in contcies and is years when rogiurratian of
radio ants was in afec, data for recet years may nor ho rmparale
Incowe distribution  - Percentage of Private incone (both in cash and kind)        sic   motcunre        abolished lIf....icg.
received by richest 5%, richeut 20%., poorest 20%, and poorest 40% of          Passe nger cars (per thou pop) - Passen ger cars comprise motor cars
household.... seaing less than eight persons, en-ludes                                                                        nbulascos, hearses and
military vehicles.
Distribution of land swsership - Peroestsgeu of land ownd by wealthiest          Electricity (bob/yr per cap) - Annual cansonption at isduatrial, cn
107. and poorest 10% of lamd oweseca,publir and private electricity is bil-tat hoots per capita,
gemeraIly based on production data, withont alloanc far loases in
Health and Nutrition                                                               grids but allowing far imparts and enportt of r1irtrritiy.
Popalatims per pi   'Sian - Papalatono divided by number of practiniog           Newprint 1kg/yr per cap) - Per capita. ...sa. cons=ption is kilograns
physicians qual     J iron a medical school at university level,                 estimated iron domestic production plus net impacts of nowuprint.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1975                                    ANNUAL RATE OF GROWrH (s% constant prices)
US$ KMn.      _t                      1966 -70           1970-73
1NP at Market Prices         560.4       100.0                       6.7              2.2
Gross Domestic Investment    114.8        20.2                       4.0             11.()
Gross National Saving         70.8        12.5
Current Account Balance      -44.0         7.7
Exports of Goods, NFS        134.6        23.7                       6.6            -1.8
Imports of Goods, MlS        190.6        33.5                       7.5              7.5
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1975
Vralue Added                Labor Force-/                V. A. Per Worker
Thds       %                  MA g     
Agriculture                  168.2       29.0               550      77.5                 306        37.5
Industry                     174U.5      30.1                                           )
Services                     236,9       40.9             ) 160      22.5               ) 2571      315.1
Unallocated
Total/Average
579.6      100.0               7                             816       100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                           Central Government
7FAF IlLn.)       % of GDP                   (CFAF Mln.)       % of Op
1971,/7<  197ft/7<  1967294/7                        1974s/7     1966-2
Current Receipts                  24.6         18.9       12.6                  23.6      18.2          12.2
Current Expenditure               19.Z         15.2       1l.4                  18.8      145           10.0
Current Surplus                    4.9         3.7         2.2                   4.8       3.7           2.2
Capital Expenditures               6.6          5.1        2.3                   6.5        5.0          2.3
External Assistance (net)
Nov.
MDNEY. CREDIT and PRICES                1966        19          1971                                        NOV971
(B.llion CFAF outstanding end period)
Honey and Quasi Honey                    5.9        12.7         14.1        13.9        15.9       29.2    28.6
Bank cresit to Public Sector           -2.0         -4U7         -3.6        -2.3       -1.9        -2.4     1.2
Bank Credit to Private Sector            3.7         8.4          9.4        10.2        13.3       16.3    22.1
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP       11.1         17.3        17.8        16.2        17.3        23.4
General Price Index (1963 - 100) -/    103.5       112.5        119.6       128.8       133.5       150.7  176.3
Annual percentage changes in2          ..          2.1          6.3         7.7         3.6        12.9
Bank credit to Public Sector            13.6        24.0        -23.0       -37.8       -18.3        34.1
Bank credit to Private Sector           17.1        23.0         12.7         8.0        30.9       21.9
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
/ Preliminary.
/ Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.
/ African Consumer Price Index.
J 1966-70 average annual growth rate.
/ Jan.-Sept. 1975.
not available
not applicable                                                                          May 13, 1976



ANNEX I
Page 4 of4  pages
TRADE PAIDiNTS AND CAPITAL FWWh
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                  MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1972.74)
1973     1974      1975                                                US $Mln     %
(Millions US $)
Exports of Goods, NFS            92      212       137              Phosphate                           63.7   63.6
Imports of Goods, NFS           118      134       184              Cocoa Beans                         17.7   17.7
Resource Gap (deficit = -)               77        757              Coffee                               8.9    8.9
All other commodities                 9.8    9.8
Interest Payments (net)           3        4                          Total                            lOO.l  lOO.O
Workers' Remittances            - 5      - 2
Other Factor Payments (net)     -11      - 4        40
Net Transfers 2/                 32        39                        All other commodities               9.8    9.8
Balance on Current Account      - 7      115                              Total                        10.1   100.0
Direct Foreign Investment         2      -21                       EXTERNAL DEBT. DECEMBER 31. 1975
Net MLT Borrowing                 5         3
Disbursements                (lO)     (12)                                                                 US $ Mln
Amortization                 (5)       (9 
Subtotal                       7      -         -17               Public Debt, incl. guaranteed             58
Capital Grants 2/                                                    Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Capital (net)             -2         5                         Total outstanding & Disbursed
Other items n.e.i               - 6      - 8                                                   1/
Increase in Reserves (+)        -         B        -27             DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1975
Gross Reserves (end year)        47      lO9        57.7 3 /
Net Reserves    (end year)       28        87       25.5 S/          Public Debt, incl. guaranteed             6.6
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Fuel and Related Materials                                            Total outstanding & Disbursed
Imports                        5       11       13
of which: Petroleum
Exports                        -        -         -
of which: Petroleum                                     IBRD/IDA LENDING. Apr. 30, i976   (Million US $):
IBRD         IDA
RATE OF EXCHANGE
The CFAF floats against all other currencies.                     Outstanding & Disbursed                -        8.5
The following rates have been used (1 US$ equals CFAF):           Undisbursed                                   10.9
1975  -  223                                                 Outstanding incl. Undisbursed                  19.0 /
1974  -  240
1973  -  230
1972  -  256
1971  -  278
1970  -  278
1969  -  258
Ratio of debt service to exports of goods and non-factor services.
2   Capital Grants are included under transfer.
3   End November 1975.
i   Preliminary estimates.                                                                    May 13, 1976



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TOGO
A.   Statement of IDA Credits (as of April 30, 1976)
Credit                                                         US$ Million
Number   Year    Borrower                                 Credit   Undisbursed
131    1968     Togo      Road Maintenance                3.7         .3
450    1973     Togo      Road Reconstruction             8.7        5.0
503    1974     Togo      Cocoa/Coffee Development        6.0        5.2
TOTAL                        18.4       10.5
of which has been repaid      -
Total now outstanding          18.4
Total now held by IDA          18.4
Total undisbursed              10.5
1/
B.   Projects in Execution
Credit No. 131-TO      Highway Maintenance Project; US$3.7 million
Credit of October 10, 1968
Effectiveness Date: January 14, 1969
Closing Date: December 31, 1974
Execution of this project was satisfactorily completed in June [975. Plan-
ning and control of the DPW's highway maintenance operations - initiated
under this Credit - could be improved still further, however, and the Sec-
ond Highway Project's maintenance component will focus on strengthening
this aspect of the DPW's activities.
Credit No. 450-TO      Second Highway Project; US$8.7 million
Credit of December 28, 1973
Effectiveness Date: April 19, 1974
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Cost overruns of about US$4 million were incurred in the execution of this
project. Construction of the Blitta-Sokode-Kambole road was approved by
the Association and started in March 1975. Construction of the Agou-
Nuatja road was deferred for possible inclusion in the Third Highway
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
Project which is under preparation. The engineering studies are nearly
completed while the training component of the maintenance program which
has been encountering some difficulties because of staff constraints is
expected to improve this year with the appointment of consultant counter-
parts by the Government.
Credit No. 503-TO      Cocoa/Coffee Development Project:   US$6 million
Credit of August 6, 1974
Effectlveness Date: March 12, 1976
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project's executing agency SRCC and the Project Credit Unit have com-
pleted their staffing and infrastructure satisfactorily and operations are
proceeding well. Planting has started one year ahead of project forecasts
and it is conceivable that the planting program could be completed in five
instead of six years. Project costs are under control in spite of price
increases and the present state of currency fluctuations.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 4
TOGO - MARITIME REGION RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                     Republic of Togo
Beneficiaries:                The Societe Regionale d'Amenagement et de Developpe-
ment de la Region Maritime (SORAD Maritime) and the
Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole.
Amount:                       US$9.5 million
Relending Terms:              US$0.4 million would be onlent to CNCA at an
interest rate of 5.5 percent for a term of 15
years including a 7-year grace period. CNCA
would provide credit in kind to farmers, through
grower associations, at an interest rate of 8
percent plus a one-time fee of 3 percent for a
term of 4 years for medium-term credit and 12
years including a 7-year grace period for long-
term credit.
Project Description:          The project would be carried out over the period
1976-81 and consists of:
(a) improving and diversifying the production of
the principal upland crops on some 18,500 ha
and developing (i) about 3,000 ha of low land
for rainfed rice cultivation and providing
credit for the purchase of 110 power tillers
and 75 small rice mills; (ii) 25 ha of
vegetable production and (iii) 600 ha of
smallholder coconut;
(b) infrastructure development through the
construction of about 300 km of secondary and
feeder roads; 20 tube wells and 2 earth
dams; 15 dispensaries; 150 village stores;
and 20 village markets;
(c) studies to prepare: (i) a gravity irrigation
scheme for 1,000 ha for rice cultivation and
to make investment proposals for areas
to be freed of onchocerciasis; and (ii) field
trials to test techniques to restore the
productivity of depleted soils and test the
resistance of coconut hybrids to Kaincope
disease; and
(d) strengthening of SORAD Maritime and CNCA, the
project's executing agencies.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 4
Co-financing:                  The Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC)
(France) would provide a grant for the
equivalent of US$2.2 million.
Costs and Financing:           The proposed financing of the project is shown
below:
IDA   FAC   Government   Farmers   Total
------------ US$ Million ------------
On-farm Costs                          0.40   0.10    0.28        0.33     1.11
Medium-term Credits                    0.37   0.09    0.15          -      0.61
SORAD                                  2.84  0.83      .81          -      4.48
CNCA                                   0.44  0.11     0.10          -      0.65
Infrastructure                         2.25  0.42     1.13          -      3.80
Studies and Consultant Services
A.   Onchocerciasis Areas         0.30    -       -                  0.30
B.   Other                        0.52  0.10     0.03          -     0.65
Contingencies                          2.38   0.60    0.96        0.16     4.10
TOTAL                             9.50  2.25     3.46        0.49   15.70
Total net of taxes                9.50  2.25     1.63        0.49   13.92
Percentage of
net of taxes costs               68    16       12          4      100
Estimated Disbursements:       The following is the estimated disbursement
schedule.
Cumulative                 Yearly
Year                      Disbursements             Disbursements
------------ US$ Thousand -----------
June 30          1977                       1,000                     1,000
"1   "1978                                3,000                     2,000
If   "1979                                5,000                     2,000
of   "1980                                7,100                     2,100
to   "1981                                8,800                     1,700
December 31     1982                        9,500                       700



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 4
Procurement:         Contracts for the supply of goods other than rock phosphate,
which are estimated to cost US$50,000 or more each, woulcd
be awarded on the basis of international competitive
bidding in accordance with IDA guidelines (total cost
about US$3.4 million). Domestically manufactured goods
would be allowed a preference of 15 percent or the leve;
of applicable duty, whichever is less,urlacn comfaring
domestic bids with those of foreign manufEcturers,
Supply contracts valued at less than US'$U50,000 (tier nua1;;'
of which would be minimized by bulkin-g procuremenet and
which would total about US$200,000) would be let after-
competitive bidding in accordance witha local piccidures as
would contracts for the construction of 90 km. of seccndary
roads (total cost about US$1.7 million) and of vFarluus
project buildings, dispensaries and rura3.. markctc which
would be individually small and w1dely dispi:secd 'total
ccst about US$0.9 million).  IDA staff have rce iewed the
local procedures, which are acceptable; there would be
adequate competition.  Rock phosphate, costing about
US$0.1 million, would be procured ac: reasonable prices
from Governmient mines.  Small iten.s costing less tnan
US$10,000 and which would total about US$100,000 couli be
awarded after solicitation of quotations from at least
three suppliers.  Inputs purchased directly b,; farmers and
which would total about US$0.5 million would be obtained
through local shopping.  SORAD, which would be adequateclY
equipped under the project, would construct or improve
about 210 km of feeder roads and build two earth dams on
force account for an estimated total cost of US1Lc7
million. The project well component (costing abc.ut US$1 .8.
million spread over five years), would be carr'ed out on
fcrce account by the well brigade of the Minlstry of
Public Works which is competent and sufficiently ec,uipped,
Consultants:         Consultant services would be provided (1) to carry out ar
Irrigation study for the development of 1,000 ha in the
lower Zio valley for rainfed rice cultivation (18 man-
months); (il) to prepare investment proposals fcr the
development of onchocerciasis free areas (42 man-mcnths'
and conduct coconut field trials (10 man-months); and
(iii) to help design a monitoring and evaluating unit (36
man-months). Furthermore, to strengthen the project
executing agencies, the Project would provide for a
Technical Director (60 man-months), a Financial and
Administrative Director (48 man-morths), a Training
Specialist (36 man-months), a Research Specialist (48
man-months), a Vegetable Specialist (24 man-months), a



ANNEX III
Page 4 of 4
Mechanic (60 man-months) and Credit Specialists (48
man-months). Consultant costs would average US$6,000,
and expatriate personnel costs $5,000, per month. In both
cases some 70 percent of the amount would be for salaries,
allowances, overhead and technical support; and 30 percent
for logistics.
Rate of Return:      The project's economic rate of return is estimated to
be 37 percent.
Appraisal
Report No.:        llOOa-TO



P L A T E A UR E G I 0 N                               I AIIE ~G*  RUFAL EVI I~
' 0    -.   -                                 S.~~~~~~~~~c.r,dar,  RW~~~~~~0  
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
H A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                     ~~L
I~~~~~~   6              NEHO
(~~~~~~ ~~~~~-~~~~~~r~~~~~-- ~ ~ ~ F
C)                OME~~~~~~~~~ATATCOCA                       /// kE 
0)  0                                             ?o  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rLon'   fd.ght of Bern~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ihto  Bn.' 






LBRD  11886
DO I'30                                                                              MARCH 1976
IA  T 3AM           6/0         N z     (   MARITIME REGION RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ECOLOGICAL ZONES
V              \                            *  /  / t7 |  Savannah Zone
" L \ \> / / ( \\\              .... '* '\'\ -  ......... Coastal Plateau (Terres de barre)  A I'-
614)5'                              N        \                                           Depleted Coastal Plateau
O   \   ,,,   g   M)  -  (Terres de barre degradees)
Lama Depression (Bado)
/  /   )   ~ <   _<~ j   ~~ .itt  t  ~ I Coastal Sands
/\<  J           ->        -         - < -- '' ' " iO  R  Lowland Rice Development
)00      /          +oO1 <<V Vegetables
<9       I  ~~~~~Irrigated Rice Development
K~~~"~~~\  ~~~~    6'0c      -900-  Isohyets in mm
~~ T~~~I ~~~~  1' ~~-   -  Regional Boundaries
/ -st_ / \ -  I  ~          -'- -< z International Boundaries
moov  <       X            X                  <               a to~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MILERS o 5o 20 1
!       )  _  i  '-  'l ! ,, _ \/ r _ v , * v2-\Io
KILOMETERS  0  10  20    30
10'~~~~~~0
GHN ;
°°qOO ttf4"  Rf  /  3     4        fsJ r I                             z
6'151                                                                       *         k  V               o
Aneho                         (Lt
0   C   E   A   N          P r o j e ct~~~~)  E O I N  
V                 TM ifAN                             A.,  roo~r
0              ~~~~~~~~~~A  T LA  7Th b- d.- rh-,eo 'hi., -ep dr,  AreaTI
1 0I olL            OC M E        1* 130                                                  A'IBhe  iefSee  '2  Bgt~  e/ 






A\~~~~~~~~~h \t                                                            TOG'Oa
\ DJAGBLE                                  -      I
\s,s 8 t , ~~~~~~~~~~~~~TOGO
(3'\b i                 -    - j X MARITIME REGION RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
~~    ~         IRRIGATION ENGINEERING STUDY
PROPOSED SCHEME
--Project Boundary
/ ///z  7ooo/7o/7/ //zoZzooo/Z                              ' S / \  * | ll IllRll lQll_ ll   oo//   Proposed Irrigated Area 1,000 ha net)
7/777/ /  77/7//,',','7 7/777/7777'             ~~~~~~~~Proposed Staff Gauging Station
7</7/  7/7  7/777/7/7.;,'  \                 a              -    Main Canal
"~~L~~~~'  ~~  ~~  ""~~~":'*:;'.?'j. ~~~~~A               Off -Take Canal Head Work
4  ~ ~ ~   ~~/777/         777*                                                  ..Flood Protection Dyke
7/7/77777,74,7  //7,',,,,..,                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~High La'nd
77/'777 /ows////Sowo/7r/7f/777  ,,Low Land
-   Main Road
7777777////o 7/7  77////7/7/)*     ,               -- --   Village Road
/7/7/7/7oowowoooow/7> 7/7/  /.-Rivers
\  vzoooX  _ /81  2       3
\ ___X   /              (   3   ,                            K ILOMETERS
UPPER VOLTA.X9
Ž0    /NIGERIA
GHAN      01
Lake Vola
The boundaries shown on this map do not  E PjetAa 
BAGUI ' A                   ~~~~~~~~~~imply enidorsement or acceptance by the  GUFOGUNtL
World Dank and its affiliates.      00  U  FGJE 



