CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 638 TO
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
(Maritime Region Rural Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 16, 1976


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 16, 1976, between the REPUBLIC OF TOGO
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
and
(B) the Borrower intends to contract from the Fonds d'Aide
et de Cooperation of the French Republic a grant (hereinafter
called the French Grant) in an amount of ten million French Francs
(FF10,000,000) to assist in financing part of the Project on the
terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter called
the Convention de Financement) to be entered into between the Bor-
rower and the Republic of France; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following ad-
ditional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "SORAD Maritime" means the Societe R4gionale d'Amenage-
ment et de Developpement for the Borrower's Maritime Region, an
autonomous public corporation of the Borrower established pur-
suant to Law No. 65-30 dated December 22, 1965, or any successor
thereto;
(b) "CNCA" means Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole, a credit
institution of the Borrower established in 1967 to provide credit
for the agricultural sector, or any successor thereto;
(c) "CNCA Branch" means the credit branch established at
Tsevie by CNCA;


﻿-3-
(d) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and CNCA pursuant to Section
3.02 (a) of this Agreement;
(e) "Project Account" means the account referred to in Sec-
tion 3.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(f) "Revolving Fund" means the fund referred to in Section
3.03 of this Agreement;
(g) "Input Supply Unit" means the unit to be established by
SORAD Maritime with responsibilities as set forth in Section 3.07
of this Agreement;
(h) "Farmer Groups" means precooperative groups of eight to
fifteen farmers each, organized through SORAD Maritime; and
(i) "CFA Francs" and "CFAF" mean the currency of the Borrower.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to nine million five hundred thousand dollars ($9,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to be fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in ac-
cordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1981 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.


﻿-5-
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each June 1
and December 1 commencing December 1, 1986, and ending June 1, 2026,
each installment to and including the installment payable on June 1,
1996, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and one-half per
cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Condi-
tions.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project, or
cause the Project to be carried out through SORAD Maritime and
CNCA, with due diligence and efficiency, under competent manage-
ment and in conformity with appropriate administrative, agricul-
tural, engineering and financial practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the staff, funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. Pursuant to Section 3.01 above, the Borrower
shall:
(a) make the proceeds of the Credit allocated to the sever-
al parts of the Project available to SORAD Maritime, CNCA or the
Borrower's agencies, as the case may be, on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association; provided that the amount of
such proceeds allocated for the purchase of equipment and coconut
seedlings under Part A.2 of the Project shall be relent to CNCA
for 15 years including 7 years' grace with interest at 5.5% per
annum under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation; and
(b) establish in the name of SORAD Maritime in the Borrower's
Treasury on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association,
and maintain until the completion of the Project, a Project Account


﻿-7-
for the purpose of prefinancing the carrying out of those Parts
of the Project which are the responsibility of SORAD Maritime. In
addition to the initial deposit into such account to be made by
the Borrower pursuant to Section 6.01 (e) of this Agreement, the
Project Account shall be replenished every three months by the Bor-
rower by deposits in amounts certified by the Project Manager as
necessary to carry out such Parts of the Project during the follow-
ing three months.
Section 3.03. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, for the purpose of
procuring fertilizers and pesticides to be furnished to farmers
under the Project, unless the Association shall otherwise agree
and unless the Borrower shall evidence the establishment of a
structure at the national level acceptable to the Association,
the Borrower shall:
(a) establish and maintain a Revolving Fund at CNCA;
(b) deposit in such Fund an initial amount equivalent to
thirty million CFAF (CFAF30,000,000);
(c) reimburse such Fund annually for the amount of govern-
mental subsidy included in the total costs of fertilizers and
pesticides including procurement and distribution thereof, as
recorded by the Input Supply Unit in coordination with CNCA Branch;
and
(d) replenish such Fund annually, out of the proceeds of
the Credit, for the incremental costs of fertilizers and pesticides
as projected for the following year by the Input Supply Unit
pursuant to Section 3.07 (a) hereof.


﻿-8-
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause SORAD Maritime: (a)
to employ at all times a Project Manager with qualifications,
powers and responsibilities satisfactory to the Association, who
shall be assisted inter alia by an administrative and financial
director, a chief of the engineering unit and a technical director
assisted himself inter alia by a training specialist, a research
specialist and a full-time seed production officer, to be appointed
not later than December 31, 1976 or such other date as the parties
to this Agreement shall agree and whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
the Association; and (b) to promptly appoint qualified nationals
to serve as deputies to management staff referred to above when
internationally recruited.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, not later than December 31,
1976 or such other date as the parties to this Agreement shall
agree, cause SORAD Maritime to exchange views with the Association
on a comprehensive training program to be prepared by the training
specialist referred to in Section 3.04 of this Agreement.
Section 3.06. Unless the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agee:
(a) With respect to Part D.2 (a) of the Project, the Borrower
shall (i) cause the research specialist referred to in Section 3.04
of this Agreement to design a detailed field trial program in coor-
dination with the Institut de Recherches Agronomiques Tropicales et
Cultures Vivrieres and the International Institute of Tropical Agri-
culture in Nigeria and, (ii) promptly enter into arrangements satis-
factory to the Association with such institutions to carry out such
program.


﻿-9-
(b) Not later than December 31, 1976 the Borrower shall enter
into an agreement satisfactory to the Association with Institut
de Recherches sur les Huiles et Oleagineux, setting forth the details
and budget of the coconut trial program included into Part D.2 (b)
of the Project.
Section 3.07. Unless the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, in carrying out Part A.1 of the Project, the Bor-
rower shall cause SORAD Maritime:
(a) to establish within three months from the date of this
Agreement an Input Supply Unit which (i) shall be responsible for
determining farm input and equipment needs on the basis of esti-
mates collected by SORAD Maritime extension services, for procuring
said farm inputs and equipment and organizing their distribution;
and (ii) shall maintain records adequate to identify the total
costs of said farm inputs and equipment, including procurement,
handling and distribution costs, and the amount of governmental
subsidy included therein, if any; and
(b) to review by June 30, 1980, the operations and activities
of the Input Supply Unit in consultation with the Association in
order to appraise its prospects for operating on a commercial basis
for the benefit of farmers' cooperatives.
Section 3.08. Unless the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree:
(a) In order to assist SORAD Maritime in carrying out the
study referred to in Part D.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall


﻿- 10 -
cause SORAD Maritime to employ, not later than December 31, 1976,
engineering and design consultants whose qualifications, experience
and terms and. conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
the Association.
(b) For the purpose of monitoring and evaluating the Project,
the Borrower shall, not later than November 30, 1976, establish
a Project Monitoring and Evaluation Unit, employ therefor con-
sultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association and shall
require said consultants, not later than three months following
such employment, to submit a program to the Borrower to be reviewed
by the Association.
(c) In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part D.3
of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose quali-
fications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall
be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.09. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
until the completion of the Project, the Borrower shall cause SORAD
Maritime: (a) not to undertake any additional activities beyond the
scope of the Project, except with the prior consent of the Borrower
and the Association; and (b) to make a comprehensive review of
all its activities, the resul's of which shall be discussed with
the Association not later than June 30, 1977.
Section 3.10. For the carrying out of Part A.2 of the Project,
the Borrower shall cause SORAD Maritime to: (a) initially purchase
ten power tillers to be made available to farmers under appropriate


﻿- 11 -
terms; (b) report to the Association on the performance of these
tillers; (c) subsequently agree with the Association on the pur-
chase of additional tillers; and (d) at all times, maintain an
appropriate stock of spare parts for purchased tillers.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall cause CNCA:
(a) to maintain the CNCA Branch, responsible for processing
credits to farmers and Farmer Groups in coordination with SORAD
Maritime, as set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
(b) to appoint: (i) a qualified and experienced senior credit
specialist to serve as head of the CNCA Branch, with powers and re-
sponsibilities satisfactory to the Association; and (ii) four
qualified and experienced credit assistants with appropriate geo-
graphic responsibilities, who shall serve under the supervision of
the head of the CNCA Branch.
Section 3.12. Prior to initiating the construction of feeder
and secondary roads and tubewells and dams inclvded in Part C of
the Project, the Borrower shall present to the Association for its
approval on the basis of annual work plans: (a) a detailed con-
struction and improvement program of feeder and secondary roads,
setting forth timing and supervision of construction, design stan-
dards and maintenance of these roads; and (b) an engineering design
and construction program of tubewells and dams for which operating
and maintenance expenses shall be met under appropriate arrange-
ments.


﻿- 12 -
Section 3.13. The Borrower shall: (a) cause SORAD Maritime
to carry out the construction and equipment of the dispensaries
included in Part C of the Project at sites selected in agreement
with the Association; and (b) thereafter, through its Ministry of
Health, take over the facilities and ensure that these dispensaries
are appropriately staffed, maintained and supplied.
Section 3.14. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards in-
cident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to
the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any in-
demnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Bor-
rower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, all
gocds and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be used exclusively for the Project until its completion.
Section 3.15. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be
furnished to the Association, promptly upon their preparation, the
-Ilans, specifications, reports, contract documents and construction,
work and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain or cause SORAD Maritime,
CNCA and any ministries, departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof, to
maintain records adequate to record the progress of the Project


﻿-13 -
(including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the
use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's
accredited representatives to visit the facilities and construction
sites included in the Project and to examine the goods financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and
documents; and (iii) shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the
Association all such information as the Association shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
Section 3.16. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all
such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all
such land and rights in respect of land as shall be required for
the construction and operation of the facilities included in the
Project.


﻿- 1J4
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained sound accounting practices the operations, re-
sources and expenditures - in respect of the Project - of the minis-
tries, departments or agencies of the Borrower, including SORAD
Maritime and CNCA, responsible for carrying out the Project or any
part thereof.
(b) Without limitation or restriction upon the foregoing
paragraph, the Borrower shall cause SORAD Maritime and CNCA to
maintain separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Input Supply Unit,
the Revolving Fund and the Project Account.
(c) The Borrower shall cause SORAD Maritime and CNCA to:
(i) have their accounts and financial statements (balance sheets,
statements of income and expenses and related statements) for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after the end of each
such year, (A) certified copies of their financial statements for
such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audits by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association


﻿I
-15 -
shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Associa-
tion such other information concerning the accounts and financial
statements of SORAD Maritime and CNCA and the audits thereof as
the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause SORAD Maritime and
CNCA to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or to
make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, in-
surance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be con-
sistent with appropriate practice.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall (a) maintain or cause SORAD
Maritime and CCA to adequately maintain the buildings, equipment,
vehicles, roads and other facilities included in the Project and
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and make all necessary
repairs and renewals thereof; and (b) provide promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
Section 4.04. For the purpose of following a price policy
aiming at progressively reflecting the full cost of farm inputs
such as fertilizers and pesticides in the prices charged to farm-
ers for said inputs, the Borrower shall not less than once a year,
exchange views with the Association on prices applicable.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall afford the Association a
reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower on any
proposed reorganization of extension and other farmers' support
services as may concern the Project.


﻿- 16 -
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) the Borrower or any authority having jurisdiction shall
have taken any action for the dissolution or transformation of
SORAD Maritime or for the suspension of its operations, unless the
Borrower shall have taken such steps as shall be necessary to
ensure the due carrying out of all obligations under this Agree-
ment;
(b) the Borrower or any authority having jurisdiction shall
have taken any action for the dissolution or transformation of CNCA
or for the suspension of its operations, including CNCA Branch,
unless the Borrower shall have taken such steps as shall be neces-
sary to ensure the due carrying out of all obligations under this
Agreement;
(c) a default shall have occurred in the performance of any
covenant, agreement or obligation on the part of the Borrower or
CNCA under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(d) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph,
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
of the French Grant made to the Borrower for the
financing of the Project shall have been suspended,


﻿17 -1-
cancelled or terminated in whole or in part,
pursuant to the terms of the Convention de
Financement therefor.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if the Borrower establishes to the sat-
isfaction of the Association that: (A) such
suspension, cancellation or termination is not
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform
any of its obligations under the Convention de
Financement, and (B) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other
sources on terms and conditions consistent with
the obligations of the Borrower under this
Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (c) or (d) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower.


﻿- 18 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a) The Association has been notified by the Fonds d'Aide
et de Cooperation that all conditions precedent to the initial
disbursement under the Convention de Financement, if any, save
only the effectiveness of this Agreement, have been fulfilled;
(b) The Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been entered into by
the Borrower and CNCA;
(c) The administrative and financial director and the tech-
nical director referred to in Section 3.04 of this Agreement, and
the head of the CNCA Branch referred to in Section 3.11 (b) (i)
of this Agreement, have been appointed;
(d) The Revolving Fund has been established and the initial
deposit required by Section 3.03 (b) of this Agreement has been
made; and
(e) The Project Account has been established with an initial
deposit of CFAF 70 million.


﻿- 19 -
Section 6.02. The date September 14, 1976 is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Article IV
of this Agreement and the provisions of Section 5.02 of this Agree-
ment shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development
Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date fifteen years after
the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.


﻿- 20 -
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Ministre des Finances et de l'Economie of
the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere des Finances
et de l'Economie
Lome
Togo
Cable address:                Telex:
MINIFINANCES                  9865286
Lom6
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INDEVAS                       440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA) or
64145 (wUI)


﻿- 21 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
By Is/ Messanvi Kokou Kekeh
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Roger Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amount of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of ex-
penditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) (a) Fertilizers and          400,000     )
pesticides (in-                    )
cremental costs)                   )
under Part A.1                     )    80% of foreign       .
of the Project                     )    expenditures or
60% of total ex-
(b) Materials and           370,000     )   penditures
equipment un-                      )
der Part A.2                       )
(2) SORAD Maritime for:
(a) Building con-            70,000     )
struction
(b) Vehicles,               690,000     )
equipment and                      )    80% of foreign
office furnish-                    )    expenditures or
ings                               )    60% of total ex-
penditures
(c) Incremental           1,690,000     )
staff salaries                     )
and training                       )
grants
(d) Other incre-            390,000     )
mental opera-                      )
ting costs                         )


﻿23 -                     5-12-76
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(3) CNCA for:
(a) Building con-            20,000     )
struction
(b) Vehicles,                40,000     )
equipment and                      )
office furnish-                    )
ings
(c) Staff salaries          310,000     )   80% of foreign
and training                       )    expenditures or
grants                             )    60% of total ex-
penditures
(d) Other opera-             70,000     )
ting costs                         )
(4) Civil Works under          2,250,000         60%
Part C
(5) Consultants' ser-
vices for:
(a) Part D.3                300,000         100%
(b) Other Parts of          520,000          80%
the Project
(6) Unallocated                2,380,000
TOTAL      9,500,000


﻿- 24
2.. For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Borrower; provided, how-
ever, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another
country from the territory of which goods or services are supplied,
expenditures in such currency for such goods or services shall be
deemed to be "foreign expenditures".
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in re-
spect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no with-
drawals shall be made: (a) in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement; (b) expenditures included
in Category (1) (b) for additional power tillers unless the Asso-
ciation shall have given its agreement pursuant to Section 3.10 (c)
of this Agreement, and in Category (2) (b) for pumps required for
the carrying out of Part A.3 of the Project unless SORAD Maritime
has furnished evidence satisfactory to the Association that water
charges are collected; and (c) expenditures included in Category


﻿-25 -
(1) (a) for fertilizers and pesticides unless the Borrower has made
the reimbursements to the Revolving Fund pursuant to Section 3.03
(c) of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the amount
of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) real-
locate to such Category, to tlic extent required to meet the esti-
mated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated
to another Category and which in the opinion of the Association
are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such real-
location cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in
order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under
the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, can-
cel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of
the Credit.


﻿- 26 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project comprises a five-year phase (1976-1981) of an in-
tegrated rural development program in the Borrower's Maritime Re-
gion. It will improve and diversify production on about 18,500
ha of upland crops (maize, cassava, groundnuts, cowpeas, and cot-
ton); develop about 3000 ha of lowland rainfed rice and 25 ha of
vegetables; rehabilitate irrigation facilities for about 20 ha of
existing vegetable production; renovate about 600 ha of small-
holder coconut plantings; and provide the necessary support ser-
vices and infrastructure for about 20,000 farm families. The
Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Farm Inputs; Equipment
1.   ProCurement and distribution by SORAD Maritime of sea-
sonal inputs such as fertilizers and pesticides.
2.   Procurement by SORAD Maritime for Farmer Groups of coco-
nut seedlings and equipment such as winnowers and threshers, maize
mills, about 75 village rice mills, about 110 power tillers for
rice land preparation, and materials for the construction of stor-
age facilities for Farmer Groups.
3.   Replacement by SORAD Maritime of irrigation equipment
at Agoueve.


﻿-27 -
Part B:   Support Services
1.   Strengthening the organization and facilities of SORAD
Maritime through: (a) reinforcement of management staff and em-
ployment and training of additional agricultural extension workers;
(b) expansion of seed maltiplication services; (c) construction and
equipment of administrative and training facilities; and (d) pro-
curement of vehicles and office equipment and furnishings.
2.   Construction and equipment of a building at Tsevie for
the CNCA Branch; procurement of vehicles and office equipment and
furnishings therefor.
3.   The provision of agricultural credits by the CNCA Branch
as described in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, to finance farmers'
acquisition of inputs, materials and equipment under Part A.1 and
A.2 above.
Part C:   Infrastructure
Construction and improvement of about 300 km of feeder
and secondary roads, village water-supply facilities, including
about 20 tubevells equipped with pumps and 2 small retention
dams and about 20 village markets and construction and equipment
of about 15 dispensaries.
Part D:   Studies and Field Trials
1.   An engineering study for the gravity irrigation of about
1,000 ha of the lower Zio Valley for rice production.


﻿- 28 -
2.   Field trials on techniques: (a) to restore the produc-
tivity of depleted soils in the coastal plateau of the Borrower's
Maritime Region; and (b) to test the resistance of coconut hybrids
to Kaincope disease.
3.   Formulation of investment proposals for areas in the
Borrover's territory to be cleared of onchocerciasis.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1981.


﻿-29 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the pur-
chase of goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or
more shall be procured in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Part A of the "Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
August 1975 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding.
2.   Contracts for goods shall be bulked to the maximum extent
practicable.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Competitive Bidding. Contracts listed hereunder shall be
procured on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally
and in accordance with local procedures acceptable to the Asso-
ciation:
(a) except as provided in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Part B
hereof, contracts for the purchase of goods estimated
to cost less than the equivalent of $50,000, provided
that the total cost of such goods so procured shall
not exceed the equivalent of $200,000; and


﻿- 30 -
(b) civil works for the construction of Project facilities,
secondary roads, village markets and dispensaries.
2.   Contracts for the purchase of goods estimated to cost less
than the equivalent of $10,000 may be awarded after solicitation
of quotations from at least three manufacturers or suppliers,
provided that the total cost of goods so procured shall not exceed
the equivalent of $100,000 in the aggregate and provided that all
terms and conditions thereof are satisfactory to the Association.
3.   Rock phosphate estimated to cost the equivalent of about
$100,000 may be procured from the Borrower's mines through
negotiated purchases acceptable to the Association.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods, except those to be procured in accordance with
local procedures: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the
ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured goods; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and sim-
ilar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and
(iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expen-
ditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of their
use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Togo may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:


﻿-31-
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be fol-
lowed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Togo
if the bidder shall have established to the satis-
faction of the Borrower and the Association that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in Togo equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Togo.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evalu-
ated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.


﻿- 32 -
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this fur-
ther comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of cus-
toms duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Procurement Without Contracting
1.   The construction and maintenance of feeder roads and reten-
tion dams shall be carried out by SORAD Maritime on force account.
2.   The construction of tubewells shall be carried out by the well
brigade (Arrondissement Hydraulique et Electricite) of the Borrower's
Ministry of Public Works on force account.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:


﻿Adak                          -33-
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equivalent
of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably re-
quest. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in suf-
ficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, together with the recommenda-
tions for award and such other information as the Association shall
reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked.


﻿- 34-
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Association of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations
for award and such other information as the Association shall rea-
sonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.


﻿-35 -
SCHEDULE 4
Lending and Operating Policies
and Procedures of CNCA in
respect of Part B.3 of the Project
The CNCA Branch shall follow the policies and procedures set
forth in this Schedule in carrying out Part B.3 of the Project.
A.   Purpose
The CNCA Branch shall make seasonal, medium, and long-term
credits to eligible farmers for the purpose of assisting the
financing of expenditures required for the carrying out of Parts
A.1 and A.2 of the Project.
B.   Eligibility
In order to be eligible to receive a credit, a farmer shall
(1) be a member of a Farmer Group; and (2) meet all such criteria
as shall be reasonably established from time to time by CNCA and
by SORAD Maritime, respectively.
C.   Terms and Conditions
1.   All credits shall bear: (a) an interest at the rate of eight
per cent (8%) per annum on the principal amount of the credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time; and (b) on the total
amount of the credit (i) a commission of one per cent (1%) to cover


﻿- 36 -
the statutory guarantee requirements of CNCA, (ii) a commission
of one per cent (1%) for a guarantee fund to be established in
respect of Project credit activities, and (iii) a commission of
one per cent (1%) for a guarantee fund to be established to cover
guarantee requirements for Farmer Groups as set forth in paragraph
5 hereunder.
2.   Seasonal credits for the purchase of fertilizers, pesticides
and seeds shall normally be repaid in a period of ten months.
3.   Medium-term credits for the purchase of equipment shared by
individual farmers such as rice mills, power tillers and of storage
facilities for Farmer Groups shall be repaid in equal installments
over a period of four years.
4.   Long-term credits for inputs and equipment to smallholders of
coconut plantings shall be repaid over a period of twelve years
including a grace period of seven years during which period the
interest on such credits shall be capitalized. Unless the Asso-
ciation shall otherwise agree, the amount of such credits to an
individual farmer shall not exceed about CFAF9,800 for each 1/10
ha up to a maximum of CFAF49,000 for 0.50 ha.
5.   Farmer Groups shall collectively guarantee the repayment of
credits granted to their individual members. Normally, the granting
of subsequent credits shall be subject to the full repayment of
any prior seasonal credit.


﻿1-37-
D.   Procedures
1.   Individual applications for seasonal credit will be combined
at the Farmer Group level; applications for group-owned equipment
will originate at the Farmer Group level. The credit assistants
referred to in Section 3.11 (b) (ii) of this Agreement shall review
each credit application, including the individual applicants'
farming plans and budgets, financing requirements, repayment
ability, debts and family living needs, and the technical recom-
mendations of SORAD Maritime and the Input Supply Unit. The combined
group applications, with comments and recommendations on the basis
of such review, would be submitted to CNCA's loan committee to be
approved within two weeks.
2.   Upon approval of the joint credit application, a written
agreement shall be signed by all the members of the Farmer Group
as joint obligors and CNCA Branch setting forth terms and condi-
tions of the credit, including repayment schedules (principal and
interest) in case of medium and long-term credits.
3.   Whenever any farm inputs and equipment, to be financed out
of the proceeds of any credit and delivered in kind to the farmers
through a Farmer Group, are procured or paid for by CNCA Branch,
or through SORAD Maritime and its Input Supply Unit, CNCA Branch
shall promptly inform the farmers through their Farmer Group of
the amounts charged to their respective credit accounts on account
of such farm inputs and equipment so procured or paid, such infor-
mation to be supported with copies of the receipt signed by the
leader of the Farmer Group for such farm inputs and equipment in
the amounts so charged.


﻿I
-38 -
4.   CNCA Branch shall furnish to the Farmer Group, annual state-
ments for medium and long-term credits showing the amounts drawn
on each farmer's account, including interest, payments made and
the outstanding balance of the respective credit. For seasonal
credits, such statements shall be furnished one month before harvest
time.
E.   Supervision
1.   SORAD Maritime's extension workers shall regularly visit credit
beneficiaries to ensure that farmers andFarmer Groups are effec-
tively carrying out farm and crop development and complying with
the technical provisions of their respective credit agreements
with CNCA Branch.
2.   CNCA Branch's credit assistants shall be responsible for collec-
tion of repayments from the individual farmers through the Farmer
Groups.


