Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB5836 
Operation Name 
Haiti - Emergency  Development Policy Operation 
Region 
Latin America and the Caribbean 
Sector 
General Public Administration Sector (80%); General Energy 
Sector (20%) 
Project ID 
P118239 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF HAITI 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
Port-au-Prince - Haiti 
Date PID Prepared 
May 21, 2010 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
June 22, 2010 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
August 5, 2010 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
On January 12, 2010, Haiti was hit by a 7.0 magnitude earthquake which caused widespread 
damage and massive loss of life. 
Over 200,000 lives were lost and an estimated further 300,000 are 
injured, out of a total population of roughly 10 million. The economic cost of the earthquake has been 
estimated at over 115 percent of GDP. The Post Disaster Needs Assessment (PDNA) estimates the 
damage to physical assets at around US$4.3 billion and to economic flows (lost production, fall in 
turnover, job and salary losses, increased production costs, etc.) at US$3.6 billion. GDP is expected to 
contract by 8.5 percent in FY2009/10. 
 
The capacity of the Haitian State has been seriously affected as a result of the earthquake 
following the loss of critical staff in various ministries, and by the partial or total collapse of 
primary official buildings. 
According to the Government of Haiti, up to one third of the country’s 
60,000 civil servants perished. Many government buildings were destroyed or badly damaged, notably 
the National Palace, the Supreme Court, the Law Courts, the Parliament, and police facilities, and all but 
one line ministry. Major economic, financial and governance activities and functions were disrupted, 
representing a major setback for the country following sustained progress in macro-economic stability, 
growth and reform in economic governance.  
 
The proposed operation is part of the Bank responses to help meet urgent financing needs arising 
from a significant revenue shortfall and reconstruction needs following the earthquake. 
As a result 
of the destruction of the Tax Directorate offices and the impact of the earthquake on economic activities, 
tax revenue is projected to represent  80 percent of the pre quake projections for 2010. With most donor 
financing and debt relief initiatives following the earthquake, the Grant provides resources to finance 
essential outlays in the last quarter of 2010, which are adding to the benefits of the HIPC relief and 
MDRI achieved in 2009. 
 
Proceeds of the proposed Grant will help create the legal and regulatory frameworks and systems 
to help lay the foundation for accountability and transparency in the management of public 
expenditures in the context of reconstruction.
 
Such frameworks are critical in the context of the 
forthcoming significant aid inflows, and complement the overall package of IDA aimed at 
supporting governance reforms and institution building. 
Overall, the proposed operation supports 
Page  2
the implementation of legal institutional frameworks and focused on a number of priority areas 
including fiscal transparency in the electricity sector, anti-corruption, budget controls, and public 
procurement. Reforms in these areas started under the series thereof Economic Governance Reform 
Operation (EGROs) approved in 2005, 2007, and 2009 respectively. The proposed Grant also 
complements efforts undertaken by the government under various technical assistance governance 
programs, namely (i) the EGTAG series providing, among other areas, capacity-building and technical 
assistance to enhance governance and economic management systems; (ii) the economic and governance 
components of the Infrastructure and Institution Emergency Operation approved in March 2010 to 
reinstate economic and financial functions of the government; (iii) and the PREPSEL project in the 
electricity sector aimed at strengthening management capacity of the state-owned company (EDH).  
The proposed operation contributes to the CAS objectives by sustaining support to the 
Government’s institutional strengthening agenda
,
the main expected outcome of which is an 
improvement in the effectiveness, transparency and accountability of public sector institutions. This 
involves activities to consolidate economic governance reforms and strengthen core institutions. 
The proposed operation supports the implementation of the country’s strategic development 
programs. 
First
,
the operation supports the implementation of the Government Action Plan presented to 
the international community in March 2010 aiming to “build back better” through decentralization, 
economic stimulation, social reform and the strengthening of institutions
,
following the devastating 
earthquake that shook the country on January 12. 
Second
,
and in particular, it supports the government 
governance program that lays the foundation for the short- and medium-term plans for enhancing 
transparency and accountability mechanisms, especially in view of the massive aid inflows pledged by 
donors to support the reconstruction process. 
Lastly
,
it supports the country’s PRSP/DSNCRP which 
describes the Government’s comprehensive strategy for accelerating economic growth and reducing 
poverty for 2008-2010.  In particular, the proposed Grant supports one of the PRSP’s cross-cutting 
policy priorities which is to build state capacity and sound management of public resources 
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The proposed operation directly supports the Government Action Plan for Reconstruction and the 
governance program presented by the Government at the pledge conference in New York in 
March 2010
.
These draw on the Post Disaster Needs Assessment document (PDNA) carried out by the 
Government with donors’ support in February 2010 after the earthquake. The main pillars of these 
programs are in line with those of the Government’s poverty reduction strategy, the DSNCRP, namely 
building state capacity and improving management of public resources. The objective of the proposed 
operation is to revamp the legal and regulatory frameworks and systems to create the conditions for 
accountability and transparency in the management of public resources in the context of the 
reconstruction.
 
3. Preliminary description 
 
The proposed operation focuses on areas that require urgent strengthening in order to ensure that 
effective checks and balance mechanisms are in place following the impact of the earthquake on 
key governance and oversight institutions, while aiming to consolidate the gains achieved in 
governance over the past years
.
In particular, it aims to beef up the government capacity to manage 
public resources efficiently and transparently through measures aimed at (i) strengthening transparency 
in the transfers to the electricity sector; (ii) reinstating budget controls and the external and internal audit 
processes; (iii) improving observance of anti-corruption measures through better enforcement of the 
Page  3
declaration of assets Law, and  reinstating public procurement regulation and enhancing transparency in 
procurement practices.  
 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
The Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF) would be responsible for the overall coordination of 
the operation. 
As in the predecessor operations, the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF) would be 
the unit responsible for coordination and implementation of the activities and reforms under the 
proposed operation, and will be in charge of reporting progress. In parallel, collaborative monitoring 
would take place among donors with the Government’s support through the joint donor matrix for 
budget support. 
 
5.  Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
The actions supported by this operation are likely to have positive poverty and social effects
.
The 
actions supported under the proposed operation would contribute to an overall improvement in 
governance: (i) the proposed measures in the electricity aim to increase transparency in public resource 
use to minimize capture and fungibility, (ii) the anti-corruption measures have as objective to enhance 
accountability, and (iii) procurement reforms are expected to contribute to a reduction in the 
opportunities for fraud in public contracting, while protecting the private sector’s interests. These 
measures will ultimately make it easier to scrutinize the extent to which voted budget allocations and 
actual public expenditures are in line with the poverty reduction objectives, and benefit the entire 
population, including the poor.  
 
The specific policies supported by the proposed operation are not likely to have a significant effect 
on the environment, forests or other natural resources. 
The proposed grant focuses primarily on 
institutional reforms, expected to lead to strengthened enforcement of legislation in the procurement, 
anti-corruption, and public expenditure management. 
 
6. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
International Development Association (IDA) 
30.0 
Haitian Reconstruction Fund[MP2] 
15 
Total 
 
45 
7. Contact point 
Contact: Luc Razafimandimby 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: (202) 458-9539 
Fax:(202) 422-3134 
Email: lrazafimandimby@worldbank.org
 
