                                        CONFORMED COPY



                                GRANT NUMBER H609-0-HT




  Financing Agreement
   (Emergency Development Policy Operation)


                   between


            REPUBLIC OF HAITI


                     and


INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




            Dated August 10, 2010
                              FINANCING AGREEMENT

Agreement dated August 10, 2010, entered into between REPUBLIC OF HAITI
(“Recipient?)     and      INTERNATIONAL              DEVELOPMENT            ASSOCIATION
(“Association?) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as
defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Association has decided to provide this
financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (a) the actions which the Recipient has already taken
under the Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and (b) the Recipient’s maintenance of an appropriate macroeconomic policy framework.
The Recipient and the Association therefore hereby agree as follows:

             ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01.   The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
        constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

1.02.   Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
        Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
        the Appendix to this Agreement.

                             ARTICLE II — FINANCING

2.01.   The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions
        set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to
        twenty million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR
        20,300,000) (“Financing?).

2.02.   The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the
        Program in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

2.03.   The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the
        Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per
        annum.

2.04.   The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year.

2.05.   The Payment Currency is Dollars.

                              ARTICLE III — PROGRAM

3.01.   The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.
        To this end:
                                           -2-


        (a)     the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request
                of either party, exchange views on the Recipient’s macroeconomic policy
                framework and the progress achieved in carrying out the Program;

        (b)     prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the
                Association for its review and comment a report on the progress
                achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association
                shall reasonably request; and

        (c)     without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
                Section, the Recipient shall promptly inform the Association of any
                situation that would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives
                of the Program or any action taken under the Program including any
                action specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

              ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION

4.01.   The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that a
        situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a
        significant part of it, will be carried out.

               ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

5.01.   The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that
        the Association is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Recipient in
        carrying out the Program and with the adequacy of the Recipient’s
        macroeconomic policy framework.

5.02.   Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness
        Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no
        case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the
        Financing which expire on February 6, 2012.

               ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

6.01.   The Recipient’s Representative is its Minister of Economy and Finance.

6.02.   The Recipient’s Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the Standard Conditions
        is:

        Ministère de l’Economie et des Finances
        5, Avenue Charles Sumner
        Port-au-Prince
        Republic of Haiti
                                          -3-


6.03.   The Association’s Address is:

        International Development Association
        1818 H Street, N.W.
        Washington, D.C. 20433
        United States of America

        Cable address:          Telex:                  Facsimile:

        INDEVAS                 248423(MCI)             1-202-477-6391
        Washington, D.C.




AGREED at Port-au-Prince Haiti, as of the day and year first above written.


                         REPUBLIC OF HAITI


                         By /s/ Ronald Baudin
                                                            Authorized Representative



                         INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION


                         By /s/ Alexandre Abrantes
                                                            Authorized Representative
                                          -4-


                                    SCHEDULE 1

                Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds

Section I.      Actions under the Program

A.      Actions Taken Under the Program. The actions taken by the Recipient under
the Program include the following:

Transparency in Transfer Management:

(a)     The Recipient has strengthened the monitoring of payments from the Recipient to
        the electricity sector, as evidenced by the issuance of a joint memorandum from
        the MEF and the MTPTC (under whose authority EDH is) describing: (i) the
        procedures to be followed by the MEF and EDH for payments of IPPs pursuant
        to the IPPs’ respective contracts currently under implementation, and (ii) MEF
        and EDH’s respective obligations under this procedure.

(b)     The MEF has published on its website the monitoring table–consolidated by
        MTPTC-for the period from October 2009 through March 2010, which includes
        updated monthly data on: (i) payments made by the Recipient to each IPP; as
        well as transfers to EDH to cover fuel costs; (ii) payments made by EDH to each
        IPP; (iii) energy produced by each IPP; and (iv) amounts billed by each IPP
        during the period mentioned herein.

Public Finance Management:

(a)     The Court of Accounts has communicated to the MEF the results of its external
        audit of the government accounts covering the period from October 2007 to
        September 2008.

(b)     The MEF has submitted the 2008-09 central government accounts to the Court of
        Accounts.

(c)     The MEF has adopted a revised action plan for 2010-14 and a manual of internal
        control procedures for the IGF inspectors.

Public Sector Governance:

(a)     The Anti-corruption unit has submitted a progress report on compliance with
        civil servants’ and officials’ obligation to declare assets pursuant to the Asset
        Declaration Law, including specific recommendations for action, to the MEF, the
        Senate and the Court of Accounts.
                                                -5-


     (b)         The CNMP has restored its website containing information on procurement
                 bids and contracts awarded.

     (c)         The recruitment of the new members of the CNMP has been advertised in
                 local newspapers.

     (d)         The Recipient’s Prime Minister has issued an official notice to ministries and
                 other public contracting authorities clarifying that the use of the accelerated
                 procurement procedures under the State Emergency Law must receive prior
                 authorization from the Recipient’s Prime Minister.

Section II.          Availability of Financing Proceeds

A.         General. The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in
           accordance with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as
           the Association may specify by notice to the Recipient.

B.         Allocation of Financing Amounts. The Financing is allocated in a single
           withdrawal tranche, from which the Recipient may make withdrawals of the
           Financing. The allocation of the amounts of the Financing to this end is set out
           in the table below:

                                                      Amount of the Financing Allocated
                  Allocations                               (expressed in SDR)

            Single Withdrawal Tranche                           20,300,000
            TOTAL AMOUNT                                        20,300,000

C.         Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions.

           No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the
           Association is satisfied: (a) with the Program being carried out by the Recipient;
           and (b) with the appropriateness of the Recipient’s macroeconomic policy
           framework.

D.         Deposits of Financing Amounts.

1.         The Recipient shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first request
           for withdrawal from the Financing Account, and thereafter maintain the
           following two deposit accounts (“Deposit Accounts?) on terms and conditions
           satisfactory to the Bank:

           (a)       a deposit account in Dollars (“Foreign Currency Deposit Account?); and

           (b)       a deposit account in Gourdes (“Local Currency Deposit Account?).
                                        -6-


2.   All withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the
     Association into the Foreign Currency Deposit Account. Upon each deposit of
     an amount of the Financing into the Foreign Currency Deposit Account, the
     Recipient shall deposit an equivalent amount into the Local Currency Deposit
     Account. All and any amounts withdrawn from the Local Currency Deposit
     Account shall be used for Recipient’s expenditures except the Excluded
     Expenditures.

E.   Audit. Upon the Association’s request, the Recipient shall:

1.   have the Deposit Accounts audited by independent auditors acceptable to the
     Association, in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards
     acceptable to the Association;

2.   furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than four
     months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certifie d copy
     of the report of such audit, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
     shall reasonably request; and

3.   furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit
     Accounts and their audit as the Association shall reasonably request.

F.   Excluded Expenditures. The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the
     Financing shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association
     determines at any time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a
     payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice
     from the Association, refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to
     the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be
     cancelled.

G.   Closing Date. The Closing Date is September 30, 2011.

H.   Access to Information. The Association may make the Legal Agreements and
     any information related to the Legal Agreements publicly available in accordance
     with its policy on access to information, in effect at the time of such disclosure.
                                            -7-


                                       APPENDIX

Section I. Definitions

1.      “Anticorruption unit? means Unité de Lutte Contre la Corruption, the
        Recipient’s unit responsible to fight corruption in the public administration
        established by and operating under the Recipient’s Decree dated September 8,
        2004.

2.      “Asset Declaration Law? means the Recipient’s law dated February 12, 2008
        setting forth, inter alia, the principles and procedures for the declaration of assets
        of political officials, civil servants and other public agents who meet the criteria
        for filing an asset declaration.

3.      “CNMP? means Commission Nationale des Marchés Publics, the Recipient’s
        procurement regulatory body operating under the Recipient’s Decision (arrêté)
        dated October 26, 2009.

4.      “Court of Accounts? means Cour Suprême des Comptes et du Contentieux
        Administratif, the Recipient’s Superior Court of Audits and Administrative
        Disputes, established by and operating under the Recipient’s Decree dated
        November 23, 2005.

5.      “Deposit Accounts? means both the Foreign Currency Deposit Account and the
        Local Currency Deposit Account, (both as hereinafter defined).

6.      “EDH? means Electricité d’Haïti, the Recipient’s electricity company established
        by and operating under the Recipient’s Decree dated August 20, 1989.

7.      “Excluded Expenditure? means any expenditure:

        (a)     for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
                international financing institution or agency other than the Association or
                the Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or
                the Bank has financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or
                loan;

        (b)     for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
                International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published
                by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3
                (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future
                revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the
                Recipient:
                                -8-


               Group            Sub-group           Description of Item
               112                                  Alcoholic beverages
               121                                  Tobacco, un-manufactured,
                                                    tobacco refuse
               122                                  Tobacco, manufactured
                                                    (whether or not containing
                                                    tobacco substitutes)
               525                                  Radioactive and associated
                                                    materials
               667                                  Pearls, precious and
                                                    semiprecious stones,
                                                    unworked or worked
               718              718.7               Nuclear reactors, and parts
                                                    thereof; fuel elements
                                                    (cartridges), non-irradiated,
                                                    for nuclear reactors
               728              728.43              Tobacco processing
                                                    machinery
               897              897.3               Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                                    platinum group metals
                                                    (except watches and watch
                                                    cases) and goldsmiths’ or
                                                    silversmiths’ wares
                                                    (including set gems)
               971                                  Gold, non-monetary
                                                    (excluding gold ores and
                                                    concentrates)

(c)   for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
      consumption;

(d)   for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of
      which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international
      agreements to which the Recipient is a party;

(e)   on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United
      Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the
      United Nations; and

(f)   with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent,
      collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the
      Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds, without the
      Recipient (or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate
      action satisfactory to the Association to address such practices when they
      occur.
                                        -9-


8.    “Foreign Currency Deposit Account? means the account referred to in Section
      II.D.1 (a) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

9.    “General Conditions? means the “International Development Association
      General Conditions for Credits and Grants?, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended
      through October 15, 2006) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this
      Appendix.

10.   “Gourde? means the Recipient’s lawful currency.

11.   “IGF? means Inspection Générale des Finances, the Recipient’s General Finance
      Inspectorate established by the Recipient’s Decree dated March 17, 2006.

12.   “IPP? means an independent power producer authorized to operate within the
      Recipient’s territory.

13.   “Local Currency Deposit Account? means the account referred to in Section II.D.
      1 (b) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

14.   “MEF? means Ministère de l’Economie et des Finances, the Recipient’s Ministry
      of Economy and Finance.

15.   “MTPTC? means Ministère des Travaux Publics, des Transports et des
      Communications, the Recipient’s ministry of Public Works, Transportation and
      Communications.

16.    “Procurement Law? means the Recipient’s Law on procurement and public
      service concessions dated June 10, 2009.

17.   “Program? means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to
      promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or
      referred to in the letter dated July 1, 2010 from the Recipient to the Association
      declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and
      requesting assistance from the Association in support of the Program during its
      execution.

18.   “Single Withdrawal Tranche? means the amount of the Financing allocated to the
      category entitled “Single Withdrawal Tranche? in the table set forth in Part B of
      Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

19.   “State Emergency Law? means the Recipient’s Law dated September 9, 2008,
      governing, inter alia, the protection of people and assets in case of declared
      emergency restricting fundamental rights and extending exceptional rights to the
      executive power, as amended by Recipient’s Law dated April 8, 2010, with
      respect to emergency in case of actual or imminent natural disaster.
                                         - 10 -


Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions

The modifications to the “International Development Association General Conditions for
Credits and Grants?, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 2006) are as
follows:

1.     The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
       Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety.

2.     Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted
       in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered
       accordingly.

3.     Section 2.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 2 above) is modified to
       read as follows:

               “Section 2.05. Refinancing Preparation Advance

                       If the Financing Agreement provides for the repayment out of
               the proceeds of the Financing of an advance made by the Association or
               the Bank (“Preparation Advance?), the Association shall, on behalf of the
               Recipient, withdraw from the Financing Account on or after the
               Effective Date the amount required to repay the withdrawn and
               outstanding balance of the advance as at the date of such withdrawal
               from the Financing Account and to pay all accrued and unpaid charges, if
               any, on the advance as at such date. The Association shall pay the
               amount so withdrawn to itself or the Bank, as the case may be, and shall
               cancel the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.?

4.     Sections 4.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 4.09 (Financial Management;
       Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining
       Sections in Article IV are renumbered accordingly.

5.     Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 above
       and relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.

6.     Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4
       above) is modified to read as follows:

               “Section 4.06. Plans; Documents; Records

               …       (c)      The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders,
               invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures
               under the Financing until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient
               shall enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.?
                                     - 11 -


7.   Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to
     read as follows:

            “Section 4.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation

            …       (c)     The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and
            furnish to the Association not later than six months after the Closing
            Date, a report of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
            reasonably request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by
            the Recipient and the Association of their respective obligations under
            the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
            Financing.?

8.   The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or
     deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in
     alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered
     accordingly:

     (a)    The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure? is modified to read as
            follows:

             “‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in
            support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded
            pursuant to the Financing Agreement.?

     (b)    The term “Financial Statements? and its definition as set forth in the
            Appendix are deleted in their entirety.

     (c)    The term “Project? is modified to read “Program? and its definition is
            modified to read as follows:

            “‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in
            support of which the Financing is made.? All references to “Project?
            throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be references to
            “Program?.

     (d)    The term “Program Preparation Advance? (renamed as such pursuant to
            subparagraph 8 (c) above) is modified to read “Preparation Advance?
            and its definition is modified to read as follows:

            “‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Financing
            Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.05.?
