Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2277-PE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF PERU
FOR A
WATER SUPPLY AND POWER ENGINEERING PROJECT
October 18, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorition.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Sol (S/.)
Calendar 1977      October 10, 1978
US$1              =         S/.80                179.10
S/. I             -        US$0.0125             0.0056
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
AID             U.S. Agency for International Development
COFIDE          Corporacion Financiera de Desarrollo
(National Development Bank)
ELECTROLIMA     Electricidad de Lima (Lima Power Company)
ELECTROPERU     Electricidad de Peru (National Power Company)
ESAL            Empresa de Saneamiento de Lima
(Lima Water Company)
IDB             Inter-American Development Bank
KfW             Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau
MVC             Ministerio de Vivienda y Construccion
(Housing and Construction Ministry)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PERU
WATER SUPPLY AND POWER ENGINEERING PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Republic of Peru.
Beneficiary:        Empresa de Saneamiento de Lima (ESAL) for the water
supply component (US$4.9 million).
Amount:             US$8.8 million.
Terms:              Repayable in 10 years including 2-1/2 years of grace
with interest at 7.35 percent. Each of the loan's two
components would be refinanced by any future loan for a
project prepared under that component.
Relending
Terms:              The Government would onlend US$4.9 million to ESAL
on the same conditions as the Bank loan. Moreover,
the National Development Bank (COFIDE) -- which would, on
behalf of the Borrower, be a party to the subsidiary loan
agreement -- would receive a commission from ESAL of 0.75
percent per annum for administering the subloan and
supervising a financial rehabilitation program for ESAL.
ESAL would bear the foreign exchange risk.
Prolect
Description:        The project would lay the basis for a long-term solution
to Lima's water supply problems and update studies for a
major hydropower plant. Its elements are:
The ESAL Component
Assessment of water resources and demand in the Lima
Metropolitan area -- including a leak detection, correction
and metering program; development of a water supply and
sewerage master plan; preparation of a future water
supply project; and strengthening of ESAL's organization,
management and finances.
The Mantaro Component
Completion of studies for the Mantaro transfer and Sheque
hydroelectric projects which would expand generating
capacity in Peru's Central Region and assure Lima's
water supply in the long term.
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance I
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discsed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Special             The project faces no special risks although ESAL would
Risks:              have difficulties in providing counterpart funds for the
ESAL component and in servicing its sub-loan if water
rates were allowed to decline in real terms. Special
provisions in the Loan, Project and Subsidiary Loan
Agreements are designed to assure that ESAL's revenues
will remain at adequate levels.
Estimated
Costs:                                                  ------US$ million------
ESAL Component                      Local   Foreign   Total
(a) Leak detection, correction
and metering                   0.41    1.98     2.39
(b) Water and Sewerage Master
Plan                           0.41    1.63     2.04
(c) Organization, management
and financial studies;
project management             0.10    0.40     0.50
0.92    4.01     4.93
Contingencies:  Physical         0.09    0.40     0.49
Price           0.22     0.49     0.71
Subtotal                  1.23    4.90     6.13
Mantaro Component
Studies                              0.80    3.20     4.00
Contingencies:  Physical             0.08    0.32     0.40
Price                0.19    0.38     0.57
Subtotal                  1.07    3.90     4.97
Total Project Cost                   2.30    8.80     11.10
Financing
Plan:               Bank                                    -     8.80     8.80
ESAL                                 1.23       -     1.23
Government                           1.07       -     1.07
Total                              2.30    8.80    11.10
Estimated
Disbursements:                           Bank FY      1979      1980     1981
Annual                            1.20     6.20     1.40
Cumulative                        1.20     7.40     8.80



- iii -
Rate of Return:     Not Applicable
Consultants:        1,100 man/months of technical and supporting personnel,
including a project manager for the ESAL component.
The average cost of consulting services, excluding
contingencies, is estimated at US$7,000 per man/month.
Appraisal Report:   None






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE REPUBLIC OF PERU FOR A WATER SUPPLY
AND POWER ENGINEERING PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Peru for the equivalent of US$8.8 million to help finance
a Water Supply and Power Engineering Project. The loan would have a term of
ten years, including two and a half years of grace, with interest at 7.35 per-
cent per annum. The Government would relend part of the loan to Empresa de
Saneamiento de Lima (ESAL) on the same terms and conditions as the Bank
loan plus a commission of 0.75 percent per annum to the National Development
Bank (COFIDE) for administering the loan. ESAL would bear the foreign exchange
risk. In accordance with the normal procedure for preinvestment loans, the
loan would be refinanced by any subsequent project loans arising out of this
engineering project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Economic Position and Prospects of Peru"
(No. 655-PE) was distributed to the Executive Directors on March 3, 1975.
A basic economic report on Peru is now being completed. The following para-
graphs are based on this report and on the findings of several visits to Peru
during the course of this year. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
3.        Peru, the fourth largest country in Latin America, is divided by
the Andes mountains into three distinct regions. The Costa, about 10 percent
of the country's territory, is a narrow belt of dry plains, intermittently
irrigated valleys and Andean foothills, where 46 percent of the population
lives. Modern economic activity is concentrated in the Costa, particularly
in Lima. The Sierra, with 44 percent of the country's population, encompasses
the highlands above 2,000 meters which occupy about one-fourth of the country.
The remaining two-thirds of the area is occupied by the sparsely populated
Selva, vast tropical lowlands east of the Andes. The rugged topography
limits trade between the three regions.
4.        Peru has abundant natural resources.   These include the large
deposits of varied minerals located mainly in the Sierra and the southern
coast. Another major natural resource asset is the large fishing potential
of the offshore waters, although the magnitude of this potential is subject
to sharp fluctuations. In contrast to mining and fishing, agricultural land
is limited. Most of the soils suitable for intensive agriculture (3.5 million
ha or 3 percent of the country's total area) are already being farmed. The
remaining land with good agricultural potential is concentrated in higher
parts of the Selva, with high costs of access and clearance. It would also
be possible to expand the arable land in the Costa, but this would require
drainage and salinity control or high-cost irrigation schemes. Although



- 2 -
Peru's water resources are abundant, their geographical and seasonal distri-
bution is unbalanced. East of the Andes, an extensive river system carries
an immense water flow into the Amazon basin. West of the Andes, most of the
rivers are seasonal streams that swell in the summer months. Future manage-
ment of water resources will require heavy investments to maximize the use
of westward flowing rivers.
5.        Since the military came into power in 1968, the Government has
followed a development strategy directed toward linking economic growth with
a transformation of society to achieve broader popular participation in the
country's economic, social and political life. This strategy aimed at narrow-
ing the sharp differences in wealth and opportunities between income classes
and geographical regions. The Government has tried to correct these imbalances
by expanding the role of the State in the economy, changing the pattern of
asset ownership, reducing foreign ownership of national resources, orienting
industry and agriculture toward producing essential goods for the domestic
market, stimulating the deconcentration of economic activity out of Lima, and
reforming the educational system to make it more responsive to local economic
and social needs. Through nationalization and creation of new enterprises,
the State has taken direct control of over 150 enterprises in key economic
sectors, and its share in total capital formation has risen from less than
one-fourth in 1968-70 to over one half in 1974-76. Finally, through complex
legislation, the Government has imposed strict controls on the operations of
the non-public sectors.
6.        As a result of these actions, the pattern of asset ownership in the
economy has changed drastically. Through nationalization, the share of assets
owned by foreigners fell sharply. A sweeping land reform redistributed
45 percent of the country's best farmlands to workers' cooperatives benefit-
ting some 25 percent of all rural families. Through other laws, the industrial
workers were given shares in the firms which employed them and those in the
mining sector a share in profits. The Government has also given a strong
autarkic orientation to its agricultural and industrial sector policies and
strenghened the incentives for industries outside of Lima. At the same time,
the groundwork has been laid for an important reform of the educational system.
7.        One of the most significant achievements of the Government was the
promotion of the cultural and political integration of the country. Owing
in great part to the land reform, the rural population has become better
organized to communicate its priorities in a more forceful and articulate way.
8.        While the Government's programs have benefitted large numbers of
Peruvians, they have not reached the poorest half of the population which
continues to live in abject poverty. It is estimated that 70 to 75 percent
of rural families, including the "minifundistas" (those farming less than
2 ha) and the seasonal landless workers, have not been reached by social
programs. The Government imposed controls on prices of a number of domestic-
ally produced goods, and heavily subsidized imported petroleum and foodstuffs.
Most of the subsidized products, however, were not important in the consump-
tion basket of the poorest groups. Moreover, price controls in some cases
hurt the poor as producers.



9.        Through 1977, the Government followed expansionary fiscal and credit
policies. The rapid increase in spending by the public sector was not matched,
however, by a parallel increase in revenues. Pricing, interest rate and
foreign exchange policies encouraged consumption and discouraged savings and
exports. As a result of these policies, aggregate demand considerably exceeded
aggregate supply. This excess demand, in turn, led to widening external gaps
and to strong inflationary pressures, with a resulting loss of international
reserves and a massive build-up of external debt. This imbalance was aggravated
by circumstances beyond the control of the authorities. Anchovies, the fishing
industry's principal catch, disappeared, and copper and sugar export prices
dropped to extremely low levels. Furthermore, petroleum reserves turned out
to be far less than expected and with high access cost, which made the rise in
oil prices militate against and not for the Peruvian economy.
10.       Public sector savings dropped steadily in relation to GDP from 4.6
percent in 1970 to dissavings of 2.8 percent in 1977. A major cause for this
was a massive erosion of the tax base owing to excessive tax holidays, exemp-
tions and weak enforcement. At the same time, there were rises in the budget-
ary cost of subsidies for foodstuffs and petroleum products, and sharp increases
in non-developmental expenditures. Much of public investment, furthermore,
has been increasingly concentrated on capital-intensive projects with long
gestation periods which have so far contributed little to the growth of output
or employment.
11.       Inflation acceierated from 5 percent per year in 1970 to 38 percent
in 1977. Interest rates on domestic banking system loans, however, remained
substantially negative in real terms, discouraging financial savings and
stimulating capital flight. The exchange rate, furthermore, remained prac-
tically constant between 1968 and 1975, thus contributing to the overall dis-
equilibrium. National savings fell dramatically from 16 percent of GNP in
1970 to 8 percent in 1977, financing only about one-half the level of invest-
ment in this last year. These trends inevitably exerted an effect on economic
growth which progressively declined in real terms. Following a period of
rapid expansion in 1968-74 during which GDP grew by more than 6 percent per
year, the growth rate dropped progressively and became negative in 1977.
12.       The growing disequilibrium described above was reflected in the
balance of payments. The cumulative current account deficit averaged US$1.1
billion per year in 1974-77, equivalent to nearly 9 percent of GNP. To finance
this deficit, Peru accumulated a massive external debt. Peru's total private
and public external debt--including short-term debt-as of year-end 1977 was
almost US$8.3 billion, equivalent to two-thirds of GDP and 4 times exports.
Much of this debt was contracted on fairly short maturities. For example,
three-fourths of the public sector long-term debt outstanding as of year-end
1977 was scheduled to be repaid over the 1978-82 period.
13.       Beginning in 1975, successive economic teams made several efforts
to cope with the mounting economic crisis. A major stabilization program
was initiated in June 1976, when the Sol was devalued from St. 45 to S/. 65
per U.S. dollar and fiscal and credit policies were tightened. While this
program was initially successful in reducing the fiscal deficit and the loss



- 4 -
of foreign exchange, it was abandoned later in the year. Further attempts
to stabilize the economy were initiated in March, July and September 1977.
A stand-by arrangement was negotiated with the IMF and approved on November 18,
1977, but its targets were not met. While these successive efforts were not
fully carried through, they succeeded in reducing, somewhat, the gap between
national savings and investment from a peak of 11.5 percent of GNP in 1975 to
8.5 percent in 1976 and 7.4 percent in 1977.
14.       By mid-1978 the economic crisis had reached grave proportions.    The
drop in GDP had intensified, inflation had further accelerated to an annual
rate approaching 60 percent, the private sector was finding it increasingly
difficult to open letters of credit for new imports, the banking system's net
international reserves had dropped to a negative level of US$1.2 billion and
it had become clear that the public sector was fast approaching the point
where it would no longer be able to fully service its external debt.
15.       To deal with this worsening situation, a new economic team was
named in May to manage the crisis. During the past five months the Government
has adopted a number of important measures aimed at strengthening public
finances, stimulating exports and stemming the loss of international reserves.
The exchange rate was moved from S/. 130 to S/. 150 to the U.S. dollar and a
system of frequent small devaluations was instituted. Most subsidies were
eliminated, thus closing an important drain on public savings. As a result
of this action, prices for edible oils were increased by 130 percent, for
dairy and wheat products by 40 to 65 percent, and for petroleum products by
an average of 60 percent. The prices of a wide range of other products and
services sold by the public sector were raised as well. In addition, a number
of tax measures were adopted, including a 10 percent import surcharge on most
goods, an increase of 2.5 percentage points in the tax on traditional exports,
and increases in the value-added and automobile registration taxes. Austerity
measures were adopted to restrain the growth of government expenditures and
interest rates on bank loans were raised from 24 to 36 percent per year.
Peru also reached agreement with foreign commercial banks to reschedule US$185
million of principal payments due in July/December 1978 until January 1979.
Finally, it negotiated a new stand-by arrangement which was approved by the
IMF on September 15.
16.       To lay the basis for future economic recovery, the Government is
in the process of formulating a medium-term development program. This program,
which will complement the stabilization effort already underway, is expected
to (i) further strengthen public finances through tax reform; (ii) redirect
public investment toward projects with high economic yields and short gesta-
tion periods; (iii) stimulate recovery of private savings and investment;
(iv) facilitate the growth of non-traditional exports; and (v) improve resource
allocation and stimulate the growth of output and employment.
17.       As part of the economic recovery program, the Government is seeking
to reschedule or refinance part of its debt service obligations in 1979 and 1980.
As regards the public sector medium- and long-term debt owed to foreign commer-
cial banks, Peru is seeking to refinance 90 percent of the principal payments
due in 1979 and 1980 (equivalent to approximately US$350 million each year)



- 5 -
plus the US$185 million of principal payments originally due in 1978 but
rescheduled for 1979. Altogether, the debt relief sought from commercial
banks amounts to some US$880 million. Peru has also requested a convening
of the Paris Club in early November to consider its request for refinancing
90 percent of the principal payments due on bilateral loans and insured
suppliers' credits in 1979 and 1980. This is equivalent to some US$230 million
each year. Successful completion of these debt relief operations, plus some
refinancing of Peru's short-term debt (estimated at over US$2 billion) would
be essential to the viability of the stabilization program. Finally, Peru
has requested the Bank to support its development program with a program loan.
This request is currently under consideration.
18.       The strong measures adopted since May 1978 have begun to have
beneficial effects on the country's financial situation. If Peru succeeds
in the implementation of the difficult stabilization program, in obtaining
the debt relief it seeks, and in formulating and implementing a sound economic
recovery program, its creditworthiness would gradually be restored.
19.       The proposed loan because of its small amount, would not add
materially to the Bank's exposure in the country or to Peru's external debt
burden.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PERU
Bank Operations
20.       The Bank has made 33 loans in Peru for a total amount of US$552.3
million, net of cancellations; of these, US$308 million, had been disbursed as
of August 31, 1978. About 40 percent of the Bank lending to Peru has been
for transportation (mainly highways and ports), 19 percent for agriculture,
19 percent for electric power, 14 percent for mining and industry, and about 8
percent for an education project and a sites and services project. In the
past, the main problem affecting World Bank projects has been Peru's weak
implementation capacity. Given current fiscal difficulties, lack of counter-
part funds has begun to hamper project execution; the Government is, however,
making a special effort to provide adequate allocations for Bank projects.
The Bank is monitoring this situation closely.   Annex II contains a statement
of Bank loans as of August 31, 1978, and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects.
21        IFC commitments to date have been US$24.0 million (US$15 million to
the Southern Peru Copper Corporation for the Cuajone Copper Mining Project) of
which US$13.0 million is held by the Corporation. A summary statement of IFC
investments as of August 31, 1978 is presented in Annex II.



- 6 -
22.       The main objectives of Bank lending to Peru have been to assist in
(a) the creation of a physical and social infrastructure capable of sustaining
and fostering development; (b) the expansion of productive capacity in crucial
sectors; (c) the consolidation of structural and institutional changes, parti-
cularly land and educational reforms; and (d) the strengthening of agencies to
implement and operate projects effectively. In the past, Bank lending has
concentrated on infrastructure in the transportation and power sectors. More
recently, in the face of mounting economic difficulites, the Bank's emphasis
has shifted to more directly productive fields -- mining, agriculture and
industry -- to aid Peru in surmounting the current balance of payments problem.
23.       In addition to this loan, project preparation is continuing so as to
maintain a pipeline which could be reactivated when economic conditions permit
a resumption of normal lending. Future project lending would give priority to
agriculture to help increase food production, raise the living standard of the
rural poor and strengthen the relatively weak institutions operating in this
field. Rural development and irrigation rehabilitation projects are now being
prepared for this purpose. Bank lending would also be designed to address the
problem of the explosive growth of Peru's cities. In the past, the Bank has
made one loan for slum upgrading and two for power distribution in urban areas;
further urban development projects are planned. In addition to preparing an
expansion of electric generating capacity, the proposed engineering loan will
lay the groundwork for dealing with Lima's long-term water supply problems
which are particularly acute in the slums. Future small scale industries
lending would be designed to provide employment to the urban poor, while a
rural development program in the Andean highlands would aim, inter alia, at
mitigating rural flight to the cities.
24.       Bank loans to Peru constituted about 7.4 percent of total outstand-
ing debt, including undisbursed, at the end of 1977, and absorbed about 3.7
percent of the country's external debt service in 1977. Assuming improved
economic management, a successful debt-relief operation and increased re-
course to long-term bilateral and multilateral aid, by 1985 the Bank's share
in the country's outstanding public foreign debt could reach 12 percent and
its share in debt-service would be around 8 percent.
25.       The other principal aid agencies lending to Peru--IDB, AID and KfW--
are expected to continue giving special attention to agriculture with IDB
emphasizing agricultural credit, AID rural development and KfW irrigation
projects. Total loan commitments to date by the principal agencies are
summarized in the following table:



-7-
IBRD      IDB      AID      KfW /1
--------- (US$ millions) --------
Transport and Telecommunications      219.2     54.0     15.2     14.6
Agriculture                           107.5    112.9    103.0     34.1
Power                                 102.5     46.9      5.8        -
Industry and Tourism                   37.5     76.3      4.3        -
Mining                                 40.0     39.4        -     41.0
Water Supply and Health                   -     75.9        -     16.6
Housing and Urban Development          21.6     36.6     23.2        -
Others                                 24.0     82.9     18.0      6.7
Total                            552.3    524.9    169.5    113.0
/1   Converted to US$ at exchange rate prevailing at time of loan
approval.
PART III - THE WATER SUPPLY AND POWER SECTORS
THE WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
Background
26.       In the past 25 years, Peru's population more than doubled from 7.3
million in 1950 to 15.4 million in 1975. Demographic growth is expected to
slow down somewhat in the future but Peru's population is still expected to
be over 23 million inhabitants by 1990. The problem of rapid population
growth is even more pronounced in the cities, particularly Lima. The urban
population grew from 3.3 million in 1950 to 8.7 million in 1975 and is
projected to reach 15.6 million in 1990. Metropolitan Lima alone nearly
quadrupled its population over the last 25 years to 4.1 million in 1977.
Projected growth rates for Lima's population vary widely but they indicate
that the capital's population will increase to at least 6 million and possibly
as many as 9 million people by the end of the next decade. Supplying water to
this rapidly expanding population has proved difficult in the past and even
more serious problems lie ahead as easily accessible water resources are being
exhausted.
Organization and Service Levels
27.       The Ministry of Housing and Construction (MVC) determines national
policies for the water supply and sewerage sector. Until now, rural water
supply was the responsibility of the Ministry of Health, but its functions
in the sector are being transferred to MVC. The majority of urban water and
sewerage systems are owned and operated directly by MVC. There are also,
however, about 40 independent municipal systems. In the country's three
largest cities--Lima, Arequipa and Trujillo,--semi-autonomous, government-owned
companies provide water and sewerage service. Four of their six board members
and their general managers are appointed by MVC.



- 8 -
28.       In 1975, service levels for the urban areas of Peru were 72 percent
for water supply (56 percent with house connections and the rest with access
to standpipes) and 51 percent for sewerage. Service levels in the rural areas
are considerably lower and are estimated by MVC to be 15 percent for water and
less than 2 percent for sewerage.
29.       Investment in water supply and sewerage systems operated by MVC has
totalled US$112.2 million since 1962. Another US$21 million has been invested
in rural water supply during the same period. Nonetheless, there is a consider-
able backlog of investment requirements and most systems are inadequate and
poorly maintained. The problem is most pressing in the Lima metropolitan area,
which is threatened by serious water shortages.
30.       Sector deficiencies have been primarily due to institutional prob-
lems -- poor planning and operational difficulties -- owing, in great part, to
excessive concentration of sectoral responsibilities in Lima. This has been
exacerbated by inadequate government investment funds and by low tariffs,
which have made it difficult to raise the large capital sums needed for new
works.
Water Supply in Lima
31.       The Empresa de Saneamiento de Lima (ESAL) was created in 1970 and
is the institution responsible for providing water and sewerage in the Greater
Lima Metropolitan area. ESAL, a government agency, is under the aegis of
MVC, which approves its annual budget, tariffs, number of employees, and salary
levels. It has a degree of freedom in its day-to-day operation but little
autonomy otherwise. Its financial management and interdepartmental liaison
need to be strengthened and its staff, 2700, is large in relation to the
number of connections. In addition, tariffs have been too low to allow ESAL
to operate efficiently and maintain its water supply/sewerage network while
meeting its financial obligations. Measures would be taken under the proposed
project to strengthen ESAL, particularly in the area of financial management
(paragraphs 45 and 56).
32.       In 1977, ESAL provided water and sewerage services to about
2.9 million people, or 71 percent of the Greater Lima population, through
295,200 house connections. About 230,000 people in surrounding communities
and the main industrial areas of the city are served by private wells not
incorporated into the ESAL system. An. estimated one million people do not
have access to piped water or sewerage services and depend on water delivered
by trucks or from public standpipes.
33.       Between 1973 and 1976, ESAL invested about US$70 million in its
water supply and sewerage system. At present the water distribution network
is being extended into Lima's slums with the help of a US$12.3 million equiva-
lent credit from KfW and a US$14.5 million component of the Bank's sites and
services loan of October 1976 (1283-PE). Despite these efforts, the water
supply system is not expected to keep pace with population growth and the
number of people without adequate water and sewerage services is likely to
grow by 1980.



-9-
34.       In 1976, Metropolitan Lima was supplied with approximately 20 m /sec
of water. Of this amount, 14.4 m3/sec were supplied by ESAL mainly from the
Rimac river (9.1 m3/sec) and from groundwater (5.3 m3/sec). The rest was
provided by approximately 900 private wells about which little is known and
estimates of supply from this source are subject to a wide margin of error.
Accounted for water consumption is considerably lower than production.
ESAL's sales amounted to only 7.0 m3/sec or 48 percent of its estimated supply;
the rest was lost either through leakage in the distribution system or through
illegal use.
35.       Lima's rapidly expanding population will lead to a vast increase of
water consumption. If, for instance, supply were to grow at the same pace as
population, and if there were no improvements in the efficiency of distribution,
about 40 m3/sec would have to be provided by 1990, and ESAL's supply would
have to approximately double to around 30 m3/sec. Supply from existing sources,
on the other hand, is approaching its limit. The Rimac river's average flow
at Lima during the dry season reaches only 10 m3/sec in years of below average
precipitation, while falling water tables at many wells suggest that groundwater
sources will have to be carefully exploited in future.
36.       To head off a water crisis, the Government has explored a number
of long-term solutions. Storage of surplus flows during the wet season,
diversion of other coastal rivers, reuse of treated sewage, and de-salting of
sea water were considered. But two studies carried out in 1970 and 1976 by
Binnie & Partners, a British consulting firm, with financing by grants from
the British Overseas Development Ministry concluded that transfer of the
waters of the Mantaro river across the continental divide to Lima (see map and
plan following Annex III) would, if combined with a hydroelectric project, be
the most economic way of obtaining large amounts of additional water. In
the shorter term, however, existing resources may well be able to supply the
city's growing needs if they are used optimally. A preliminary groundwater
survey suggests that it is possible to increase production from wells. Wells
have so far been dug where water was needed, without regard to an optimal use
of groundwater, leading to sinking water tables in some industrial and resi-
dential districts. However, the aquifers have not been tapped in many areas
of the Metropolitan region. Another means of obtaining additional water is by
reducing losses in the distribution system. Finally, unified control of water
resources could result in more rational water management and in significant
further savings. Thus, the city could be supplied primarily from surface
water from November to May, the rainy season, when the Rimac carries an
average of over 40 m3/sec, allowing groundwater resources to build up. Wells,
on the other hand, might provide most of the water supply during the dry
months when the Rimac's flow is insufficient to meet Lima's water demand.
THE POWER SECTOR
Organization
37.       The Ministry of Energy and Mines determines national power sector
policies, whereas operations fall under the responsibility of Electricidad
del Peru (ELECTROPERU), the national power company, and several local power



- 10 -
companies owned by ELECTROPERU but operating with varying degrees of independ-
ence. In addition, the large mining companies maintain captive power plants
which are usually independent of the public systems. Peru does not possess
a national power grid but the many isolated systems are beginning to grow
into regional networks. Among these, the Central System--with Lima at its
hub--is by far the most important, accounting for about 65 percent of the
country's generating capacity and 70 percent of consumption. The Lima
Metropolitan area is served by ELECTROLIMA, a large and well-managed public
utility.
Lima Power Supply Situation
38.       Until recently, ELECTROLIMA supplied the capital's power needs from
its own hydropower stations on the Rimac and its tributaries (see Map following
Annex III). During the 1966-76 period, demand in the Lima system grew at an
average of 8.4 percent and new generating plants were built in time to meet
demand. The Bank supported ELECTROLIMA's expansion programs with five loans
totalling US$100.4 million. ELECTROLIMA's largest hydropower plant, built in
the early sixties (financed by Loans 260-PE and 365-PE), already depends
partly on water which is diverted by the Transandean Tunnel across the con-
tinental divide to the Santa Eulalia river, a tributary of the Rimac. With
the creation of ELECTROPERU in 1972, ELECTROLIMA relinquished responsibility
for development of new generating capacity to the national power company.
ELECTROPERU today supplies about one third of ELECTROLIMA's electricity needs
from its 455 MW Mantaro power plant, 200 km to the southeast of Lima.
39.       Additional generating units will raise the capacity of the Mantaro
plant to 800 MW over the next two to three years, assuring Lima's supply until
the early 1980s. A planned 217 MW extension of Mantaro, the Restitucion hydro-
power station, should be completed by 1983. But additional generating capacity
will have to be brought into operation by 1984 or 1985, at the latest, to
ensure continued supply to the central region, which by then will be inter-
connected with the industrial areas along the northern coast. Since construc-
tion of a large hydropower project in the Peruvian Andes requires at least
five to six years, it is likely that some thermal capacity will have to be
installed to meet demand in the interim.
40.       A comprehensive survey of the country's hydro power potential is
currently underway supported by a German Government grant and funds from the
Bank's most recent power loan (1215-PE). This survey's conclusions will be
used in the preparation of a power sector master plan to determine an optimal
sequence for investment in new generating and transmission facilities.
Financing for the master plan is also provided under Loan 1215-PE. The
contract for the plan's preparation was recently signed and its results should
become available in 1980. One project which is being considered in the master
plan is the Sheque hydropower station (600 MW) on the upper reaches of the
Santa Eulalia river (see map and plan following Annex III),-for which feasi-
bility studies, financed by Loan 511-PE, were prepared in the early 1970s.
Sheque would require increased flows through the existing Transandean Tunnel
which would have to be obtained by pumping water from the Mantaro river, a
tributary of the Amazon. If this scheme were selected, the water transfer
from the Mantaro river would also ensure Lima's water supply until at least
the end of the century.



- 11 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
41.       The objective of the proposed project would be to lay the groundwork
for a long-term solution to Lima's water supply problems and for an expansion of
the electric generating capacity in Peru's central region. The project evolved
from preparations for a Lima Water Supply Project which was separated into
an engineering and a construction component after it became clear that project
preparation would be too large a task, in terms of time and cost, to be easily
accommodated in the framework of a single project loan. Since 1976, various
Bank missions have visited Peru in connection with the Lima Water Supply Project;
the engineering loan was prepared by a mission in January 1978. Negotiations
were completed in Washington on September 8, 1978. The Peruvian delegation
was headed by Mr. Ulises Montoya Alberti, Deputy Director of Public Credit and
by Ing. Augusto Bedoya Reyes, President of ESAL and of the Mantaro Commission.
It included representatives of the Government, the National Development Bank
(COFIDE) and ESAL. There is no separate appraisal report for this project.
Annex III contains a supplementary Project Data Sheet.
Project Description
42.       The project would achieve its objective (i) through studies and
programs which would lay the groundwork for a more effective water distribution
and sewerage system for Lima; and (ii) by determining the technical and
economic feasibility of transferring water from the Mantaro river across the
continental divide to Lima. Effective distribution of water resources would
be the objective of the project component which would be the responsibility of
ESAL. How to supply the needed amounts of water -- through optimal use of
existing resources and eventually by opening up new sources of water -- would
be studied under the project's Mantaro component for which the inter-sectoral
Mantaro Commission would assume responsibility.
ESAL Component
43.       The first part of this component would consist of studies which
would assess the volume of water available from all the existing sources in
the Lima Metropolitan Area, including those sources presently under private
control. Since neither production nor use by large consumers is measured at
present, large water meters would be installed to provide this information.
A survey would be made of the distribution network to identify losses of
water from defective pipes or unauthorized connections. ESAL would also
carry out a leak repair program.
44.       A second part would aim at producing a water supply and sewerage
master plan for Lima. Drawing on the results of the water optimization study
(see paragraph 47) the plan would propose a framework for the expansion of
Lima's water distribution and sewerage system. Detailed engineering would
be prepared for priority improvements in Lima's water distribution network,
sewerage system and basic sanitation. These improvements would constitute
the core of a possible future Bank project.



- 12 -
45.       A third part would consist of studies to identify the organiza-
tional and financial measures which are needed to enable ESAL to administer
water resources effectively and to carry out a major expansion program. In
the financial area, where ESAL is particularly weak, consultants would assist
the company in improving its accounting system and financial reporting. In
the process, they would help update ESAL's financial statements and projec-
tions.
46.       A project manager to coordinate the different elements of the ESAL
component would be financed under the proposed loan. A candidate, satisfac-
tory to the Bank, has already been identified for this position and attended
the loan negotiations.
Mantaro Component
47.       The Mantaro Component would address the question of how Lima's long-
term water needs could best be met. An optimization study would explore
possibilities for stretching existing water resources by such means as unified
management of surface and groundwater and reuse of sewage. But it is
expected that the bulk of future needs will have to be met from new sources.
Earlier studies have pointed to the Mantaro Transfer (see paragraph 36)
as the most economical source of large amounts of additional water. The
transfer would entail pumping of up to 32 m3/sec from the Mantaro River
through the existing Transandean Tunnel to the Santa Eulalia river where
it would be used for power generation and to supply water to Lima. Several
studies exist for the transfer and for the Sheque hydroelectric plant but
they will have to be revised and in some cases expanded since they do not yet
provide adequate elements for an investment decision. The question of scale
and timing, for instance, will have to be reviewed based on the results of the
optimization study and of the investment needs in the power sector. Other
issues which will have to be addressed include ecological aspects (particularly
control of the Mantaro's heavy pollution from mine water discharges) and the
impact on existing and proposed power stations downstream on the Mantaro,
Santa Eulalia and Rimac rivers, which together account for the bulk of the
country's hydroelectric capacity. Additional geological investigations at the
project sites and more detailed design of some components should, finally,
allow firmer cost estimates.
48.       Since the Mantaro water transfer would be closely interrelated with
development of the power sector in the Central Region, an investment decision
on the transfer would have to be taken in the context of the power sector's
overall development. The German and Bank-financed power master plan mentioned
in paragraph 40, which would be developed simultaneously with the Mantaro
studies, would help provide this context. So far, work on a hydropower
survey, whose findings would be incorporated in the master plan, is advancing
satisfactorily, but there were delays in engaging consultants who would carry
out surveys of other energy sources, of transmission needs, and of existing
facilities to prepare a complete investment plan for the power sector.
A contract for these studies was, however, recently signed and their results
should be available in 1980.



- 13 -
Prolect Execution
49.       ESAL would execute its component with the assistance of consultants
and under the supervision of COFIDE (Sections 2.04a and 2.03 of the draft
Project Agreement). Satisfactory terms of reference for each of its elements
are being drawn up by ESAL with Bank assistance. To assure sdequate coor-
dination and supervision of the component, ESAL would hire, on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, the project manager referred to in
paragraph 46 (draft Project Agreement, Section 2.05). The proposed loan would
provide funds for this purpose. Hiring of the project manager is a condition
of effectiveness of the Loan Agreement (draft Loan Agreement, Section 6.0ib).
50.       Peruvian legislation entrusts jurisdiction over all groundwater
use to the Ministry of Agriculture, but the Ministry agrees that ESAL should
have control over all non-agricultural use of water in the Lima area. The
Government has, therefore, committed itself to grant, at ESAL's request, to
the water supply company the exclusive right to drill new wells and to revoke
concessions of existing private wells in ESAL's favor whenever the company
wishes to assume management of these (draft Loan and Project Agreements,
Sections 4.04). Control would be transferred gradually district by district
as ESAL builds up its capacity to exercise this new function. In the meantime,
a decree will give ESAL's representatives the right to visit and inspect
existing private wells. This will assure that the studies under the project
can be carried out. Passage of such a decree is a condition of the loan's
effectiveness (draft Loan Agreement, Section 6.01(c)).
51.       The Mantaro transfer studies would be carried out by consultants
under the supervision of the Mantaro Commission which was created within MVC.
The Commission, which is chaired by the President of ESAL and includes the
Presidents of ELECTROPERU and ELECTROLIMA as well as representatives of
various ministries, reflects the project's multisectoral character. Its main
task so far has been to select consultants to carry out the studies. The
selection was recently completed and the British firm which did the original
Mantaro studies, Binnie & Partners, has been selected to carry out the transfer
studies which this loan would finance. Contract negotiations are currently
underway.
52.       Until recently the Mantaro Commission has depended on staff seconded
to it from other public agencies for specific tasks.   As preparation work
is expected to begin soon, however, the Commission is now setting up a project
unit to supervise execution of the studies (Section 3.03 of the draft Loan
Agreement). Its staff would be complemented, as necessary, by personnel from
the two power companies, ELECTROPERU and ELECTROLIMA. Before authorizing
disbursements for the Mantaro component, the Bank would satisfy itself that
the project unit is adequately staffed for supervising the consultants (draft
Loan Agreement, Schedule 1, para. 4b).
53.       Since the two project components are interdependent but are being
executed by different agencies, working groups would be set up to assure
adequate coordination on the studies' different aspects. These working
groups, which would be constituted by January 31, 1979, would include the ESAL
Project Manager and representatives of the Mantaro project unit and of COFIDE
(Section 3.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 14 -
54.       The Government has selected COFIDE to act as financial agent for the
project and to administer the proposed loan on its behalf. Since COFIDE will
likely be involved in financing the projects expected to grow out of the
engineering loan, the Government decided to associate it with this operation
at an early stage. For these reasons, COFIDE would also be a party to
the Project Agreement.
55.       Part of the proposed loan (US$4.9 million) would be on-lent by the
Government to ESAL under a subsidiary loan agreement which would be concluded
between COFIDE, acting on the Government's behalf, and ESAL. The subloan would
carry the same terms as the Bank loan and ESAL would bear the foreign exchange
risk. For its services, COFIDE would receive a fee of 0.75 percent p.a. of
the amount on-lent to ESAL.
56.       As was mentioned in paragraph 31, ESAL's finances require improvement.
In the past the company's revenues have been insufficient to service debt and
properly maintain the existing water/sewerage system. The subloan to ESAL
would, therefore, be tied to a financial rehabilitation program requiring the
company to meet from revenues (i) its normal operating and maintenance expen-
ditures; (ii) debt service payments; and (iii) the counterpart funds needed
for the ESAL component (para. 5(i) of Schedule 2 to the draft Project Agree-
ment). Since the financial studies envisaged under the ESAL component would
also be important for the restructuring needed for ESAL to eventually carry
out the large water supply project to be prepared under this engineering loan,
the hiring of consultants to help ESAL strengthen its financial management
would take place no more than 60 days after the signing of the subsidiary loan
agreement (para. 5(ii) of Schedule 2 to the draft Project Agreement). COFIDE
would supervise the execution of the financial program. To this end, it would
monitor the adequacy of ESAL's financial performance on a quarterly basis
(Section 4.03(i) of the draft Project Agreement) and the Government has
committed itself to approve water tariff increases requested by ESAL if these
quarterly reviews point to any shortfall in revenue (Section 4.03 of the draft
Loan Agreement).
57.       COFIDE is the Government's principal development finance institu-
tion and assists both public and private firms in Peru. It has had wide
experience in raising and channeling external resources to support projects
in diverse sectors. COFIDE received a US$35 million development banking loan
from the Bank in 1977 (Loan 1358-PE). In connection with that loan, COFIDE's
capabilities for resource allocation and supervision were analyzed and found
to be satisfactory (Report 1195-PE of December 6, 1976). Since then, al-
though the Sol has undergone a rapid devaluation and economic conditions have
deteriorated, COFIDE's performance has continued to be satisfactory. At the
end of 1977, its total assets stood at about US$400 million equivalent and
its financial structure was within the 5:1 debt-equity limit agreed with the
Bank when Loan 1358-PE was made. With a qualified professional staff of more
than 150, COFIDE has demonstrated its ability to administer a large and varied
loan portfolio and is considered capable of supervising the financial rehabili-
tation of ESAL.



- 15 -
Cost and Financing
58.       The project's total cost, net of taxes and duties, is estimated
at US$11.1 million. Foreign exchange costs are estimated at US$8.8 million.
The proposed Bank loan would cover the foreign exchange component. The
Government would contribute US$1.07 million through MVC's budget to cover
local costs for the Mantaro component. The balance of the project's local
costs, US$1.23 million, would be provided by ESAL through its internal cash
generation. Price contingencies were based on a disbursement profile of
thirty-four months starting in early 1979. Worldwide inflation was estimated
to reach 8 percent in 1979, 7.5 percent in 1980 and 7 percent in 1981. A
higher price contingency (16, 15 and 14 percent for 1979, 1980 and 1981
respectively) was provided for local costs to provide a margin of safety in
case exchange rate adjustments lag behind domestic inflation.
Procurement and Disbursement
59.       Expenditures for consultants are expected to account for about
US$9.4 million or 85 percent of project costs. ESAL and the Mantaro Commission
would retain an estimated 1,100 man/months of consulting services at an esti-
mated cost of US$7,000 per man/month excluding contingencies. Studies under
the project would be carried out by qualified consultants selected in accord-
ance with Bank guidelines. Foreign firms, possibly associated with local
consultants, are expected to be selected for all major studies.
60.       The remainder of project costs, US$1.7 million, would consist of
equipment purchases (US$1.3 million) and civil works (US$0.4 million) in
connection with the water metering and leak repair programs under the ESAL
component. Equipment and meters would be procured under international com-
petitive bidding, except in cases, such as pipes and fittings for the leak
repair program, where contracts would be too small to make international
bidding practical. When international bidding is used, local manufacturers
would be allowed a margin of preference of either 15% of the CIF price or the
applicable import duty, whichever is lower. Contracts of less than US$50,000
equivalent would be awarded according to ESAL's normal procurement procedures,
which require at least three quotations. Such directly procured items would
be subject to an aggregate maximum of US$500,000. Civil works for leak repair
have to be carried out in close coordination with the leak detection program
and with operation of the water system. Since it would be difficult to use
contractors efficiently under these circumstances, they would be executed by
ESAL's own maintenance crews under force account procedures. These civil
works would not entail foreign exchange expenditures and would not, therefore,
be financed under the Loan.
61.       Disbursements from the loan account -- expected to be spread over
a period running from February 1979 to December 1981 -- would be made against:
(a) the foreign cost of consultant services including the cost of professional
services by Peruvian consultants; (b) the cost of equipment and materials
purchased from abroad; and (c) 63 percent of expenditures for materials and
equipment purchased locally such as pipes and fittings, which corresponds to
their estimated foreign content. The Bank would refinance each of the loan's
components with any future loan for a project arising out of that component.



- 16 -
Project Justification and Risks
62.       The proposed loan would help lay a sound basis for long-term
solutions to Lima's needs in the water supply and power sectors and prepare
two projects -- the expansion of Lima's water supply system and the Mantaro
Transfer -- for possible Bank financing. It would also support organizational
and financial improvements in ESAL which are preconditions for urgently needed
investments if Lima's growing population, particularly in the slums, is to be
adequately supplied with water and sewerage services.
63.       The Mantaro transfer, including its power component, would be both a
technically complex and a large project -- total costs could be in the order
of magnitude of US$800 million -- and the government has indicated that it
intends to look to the Bank for direct financing and for help in assembling its
financial package. Given the number of issues involving various sectors which
have to be considered in reaching an investment decision, preparation is
more complex than is usual for power or water supply projects. Bank involve-
ment at an early stage through the proposed loan would play a useful role in
assisting this preparation effort.
64.       The local cost of the project's first component would be borne by
ESAL whose finances would have to improve for it to fulfill the financial
obligations arising from the project. The success of the financial reform of
ESAL, therefore, constitutes a special risk. The financial conditions in
COFIDE's subsidiary loan agreement with ESAL and in the Loan Agreement, which
are described in paragraph 56, are considered adequate to protect the Bank
from this risk. The execution of a subsidiary loan agreement, satisfactory to
the Bank, by ESAL and COFIDE, acting on the Government's behalf, would be a
condition of effectiveness (draft Loan Agreement, Sec. 6.01a).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
65.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Republic of Peru
and the draft Project Agreement between the Bank, ESAL and COFIDE and the Report
of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles
of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
66.       The draft Loan and Project Agreements do not differ from the usual
pattern and do not impose unusual obligations on the parties. Special condi-
tions of effectiveness of the loan will be the hiring of a project manager
by ESAL (paragraph 49), issuing of a decree granting ESAL's representatives
the right to visit and inspect private wells (paragraph 50) and the execution
of a subsidiary loan agreement between COFIDE, on behalf of the Government,
and ESAL (paragraph 64). In addition, a condition of disbursement for the
Mantaro component is the setting up of an adequately staffed unit to supervise
the Mantaro transfer studies (paragraph 52).
67.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 1 7 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
68.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
October 18, 1978
Washington, D.C.






ANNEX I
TABLE 3A
PERU               - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                           Page 1
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                -----------------------------------_-----____
---------------                  PERU                               REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL     1285.2                                     MOST RECENT
AGRIC.     369.1                      1960      1970   ESTIMATE          CHILE         MEXICO         SPAIN**
__                                   ---------------------- _ _ _ _ _ ------------
GNP PER CAPITA (UsS)                   280.0     500.0     830.0            780.0         660.0     1630.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
_______________________________
POPULATION (MID-YRR MILLION)         10.0      13.4       16.5                9.4       50.4        33.6
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                       9.0      10.0      13.0               12.0       26.0        67.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       33.0      36.0      45.0               58.0       52.0       105.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)        44.5      42.9       41.0              32.9       43.8        21.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)         21 2      14.7       11.9              11.0        10.2        9.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)       93,2/a    6551/a       ,,              79.0       68.s        27.9
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)      48.5      58.0      55.7               60.6       62.4        70.5
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.1/b     3.0       2.9                2.2         3.1        1.4
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                2.1       2.8       2.9                2.4        3.5         1.1
URBAN                                4.7/c     4.7       4.5                3.5        4.B         2.0
URBAN POPULATION (X OF TOTAL)         47.4      52.5      56.5               76.0        58.7       59.1
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                      43.3 al  45s0/a    44.5/a             39.0       46.2        27.8
15 TO 64 YEARS                      52.9/     51 .91T   52.4               56.3       50.1        62.5
65 YEARS AND OVER                    3.8/a     3.177l    3.1 7a             4.7         3.7        9.7
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                   0.9/a     o.9/a      0.9/a             0.8         1.0        0.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.57j     1 5/a     1.6                1.6         2.0        1.1
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)          ,.        ,,      12.Q0             403.5       55.5
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)            ..        ..        ..                 ..
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)        3100.O0a  4300.0/a 4600.0              2900.0    13000.0     11900.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)        41 . a    45.07a    40.0               21.0       45.0        25.0
UNEMPLOYED (x OF LABDR FORCE)          3.0       5.9Ed     8.7 d              4.1/a                  1.ILa
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
X OF PRIVATE INCOME RECOD BY-             I
HIGHEST  SX OF HOUSEHOLDS          6             .      28.8/e             31.0       27.9
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS            -   _       ..     58.67e             55.8        58.3
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS           2- G                 3                  4.9        3.4
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS           8*          ..       9. __             13.0       10.5
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
% OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS          93.0        ..      50.0/f                .        37.1
% OWNED BY SMALLEST 1o% OWNERS         0.1        ..       2.07Y                ..        0.3
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            2200.0/e  1920.0    1760.0/e           2210.0/b   1480.0       740.0/b
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      3620.07e 3200.0      2320.07F,          5830.675    1620.0/a
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED          490.0fF   470.0     500.0              270.0-     960.0       220.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)        97.0      99.0     100.0              101.0      115.0       107.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)             61.0      62.0      61.7               71.0       65.0        91.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        25.0L&    24.0      25.3               32.0       28.0/b      40.0
DEATH RATE (/rHOU) AGES 1-4             ..        ..        6.2               3.9         9.9        0.9
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                     83.0      107.0     111.0              107.0      104.0       123.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                    18.0      37.0      46.0               39.0       22.0        57.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)            12.0      12.0       10.0              12.0       12.0        11.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(X OF SECONDARY)                    2 0 .h    17.0      23.0               33.0       24.0        20.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (X)               61.0/i       ..      72.0              90.0        76.0       94.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)               2.0        ,,         ..               1.3         2.2
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (X)                     85.0_, 62.0/h                          40.0/c     61.0/C
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(X OF ALL DWELLINGS)                26.0        *-      34.9/h               *-       59.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (%)                   4.0        ..        ..                 ..       28.0
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)       101.0     134.0     131.0              143.0      276.0       214.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)          9.0      17.0                          s 18.0    24.0        71,0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)         265.0     415.0     5iL.u              806.0      567.0      1634.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)              1.7       3.7       4.7                5.0         3.2        5.8
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



Page 2
Unl.n otherwjee noted, dots for 1960 refer to any yeer batLeac, 1959 aLnd 1961. for 1970 between 1969 and 1971, and for Moat Recent Eatinete between
93 end 1976.
--  Spain bee bean selectad ee an objective country beocause its econonmic arbi"evanets could care-8 as ngoal for Pane.
PERU       1960    Ia  Excluding Zodiac j ungle population;     fb   1960-65 avecage;     /c  1956-61;     /d 1isreonal monte, within lebor foroce;      /j 1964;
If  1962;     La  1960-61;     lb  Inc.luding evening achoole;     7?i  i7 years and over;    LI   Inside only.
1970    Ia   Excluding main jungle, population;      /b  1961-70;     fl  Ratio of population under 15 end 65 end ovr to tote1 labor force;
Ld Lima ooly.
MOST fXfCiT ESTIMATE:      Ia  Excluding Indian jungle population;      /b  RAtio of population under 15 end 65 and over to total labor force;
fl  1975 only;     Id   1977;    Li 1972;      ji. Atebel land, 1972;     LI   Including midwivee;   /h  percentage
of populatio..
CHILE      1970    /a  iran Seotiago;     fb  Personnel in government servires;       le  lnside only.
?MEICI     1970    /a   eclding Assetanteo  ners;       lb  1964-66;     La  Enaide only.
SPAIN      1970    1.Ipinymoct office estimate;         /b  Riegiacered, not all practicing In tue country.
R7, July 26, 1978
IEPI9IITIOIS OF SOCIA INDICATORS
lard Area jtj,ou k00                                                                      Ponueioan Per nrlgeun-PopuIacion divid,d by nonb.r of pr-rricIn;
rT.C; - intl surfare area coprising S.An area end friend watero.                            nalesd female gaduate nutee, 'trelnod" or         cer1tified" noroe , and
toxc.     toniL rCeet ectiacate of egricolturel area cooed temporarily or pen--              euxiliery Personnel with trointng or eoperier,c-
rootly for cropo, pastrorc, market & kRtchen gardena or to lie Sallow.                  Ponuletion nor hoptal --bed - Populati.n divided by nmaber of hospiutal udo
aveileble in public end prio-ta gene ral and pecialioed hoapitrol nad
CNP ocr cur; ta fUSS) - GNP par capita es tiostes et COrreot market priree,                  rehabilitation -enere ; excludes -uring homee end aecablisir..nt, for
o1-ntoard by one conersion mahod as world Reek Atlec f1975-77 basic);                     nuetodie1 end prevetive rare.
1960. 19f and 1977 data.                                                                htr canite sorely of calorlee ft of reurencnts       - Cnpured fr_o noe-gy
equielent of met food eapte       vilbein coun.try per ..pit., per d,y;
Porulation ned vital statistics                                                              svailabla s uppiRes compriec do nectic productIon , Sporte l.ees rporta, eod
fPorl.,tin n.id-yeac n      ~irn   - As of July first:  Rf not avilblehl, overage           chengea in stock; nor ouppiee exclude canmel feed, oeede, qu...titlian u-d
of run e-d-ye-   estitbvar; 1960, 1970 and 1977 dora.                                      in food Proceesnlg and lessee in dietribetion; reqoiresnente warn rortnotrd
by FA0 booed or, phycisiogicel needs for norma activity and br,elth coauid-
Pocciatior- dencity p-or egere Ia - Mid-yea     populetRon par equare kilometec              ering envirooneentat temperature, body weights, ege ard am   ditrrihtlons of
(0   hecrt-es) nf total area.                                                             population, cad allowing 102 for -are at hou-hoid love.
i?Ol.otIar  ' dIetails -Per evueca kc of curio, land - Computed ae eboram for              Pr  "Prit' 50P0l. nE protein igra     oar doe) - Pratala content of per -epite
liiulv oa ed onip.                                                                 noat sopply of fund per day; net suppiy of food is defined ee abovo, require.
mete for ell countries established by USDA Economic Re...erhSeb lovico
Vftal -ata  -isrco                                                                           provide for a ninianen allowance of 60 gromB of total proteio per day, and
C-ode birch race pear hahusend. average - Annual Live birth, per thousend of                 10 gras of animalI end puLee proteic, of which 10 gran    should ho noinci
Md-y-a population; tee-year erltimsetic averges ending in 1990 and 1970,                  protein; these atndards se     lower than choer of 15 gram   of total protnir
end five-year averag.encding in 1915 for most recent estimate.                             end 23 grase of sofas1 protsin as an everge far the world, propoo-d by FAO
Crude death rate R.ar chouasad. average - Aznnul deetha pot thow    1and of mid-year         in the Third World pond Survey.
popalatir; te-yea r arithntic enerages ending in 1960 end 1970 and five-                 her tapirs Protein aupply frau animal aid ruler - Prortei supply of fond
year average ending In 1975 for moot receat estimate.                                      derivsd from animals ad pulsee in gramsn per day.
Iafaot "onrtelirr rte f/thou) - A .noal deethsoef infants under one, year of ag.            eckh rate f/thou) age, 1-4 - Anuaol dentho per thoueand ta age grop 1-4
per thoceand live birth..                                                                 years, to children In this age group; suggested .c en indioator of
Life -rr-tanry at birth ferol - Average somber of ysers of life remeaiing at                 malnutrition.
birth; --clly five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 end 1975 for develop-
leg countriet.                                                       Elldoae non1-1
G--o reproduction .tar     - Av-rag.enob-r of live deughtere   a wman wil   ea             Aiute enrllment rai         e'oyshol-SrtIlmeot of all agee as Pe-
in iher .-r-I reproductive period if -he aepociancee Present     ge-apa-ifia               cetags of Primoary echool-ag. populattom; inctudee children aged 6-li ya-r
fertility ratee; oauelt., five-year averges ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                  but adjusted for different lengths of primary eduction; for -atorrin      with
f-r d--16ping  marries.                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~universal education, enroiLent may ex.e.d 10O. since soar, Pppli  ore below
FPopulation rnt r ei(1       tt      - Compound annual growth ractn of pld-year              or above ths official schonS age.
pop~Uition for 1950-60, 1960-70 cod 1970-75.                                             Adiunted enrollment rto-scnayaho -t              Computed an above; secon.dary
Pooatn erowth rate (S-urban-Cmue             i    rot    aeo     oa                     education requireseat leant four yearu of approved primary ins-truton;
pepuietier; different definitions of urban    -ara  nay affect comparabIlity of            provides, general, vocational or teacher training inotruntionn   for Pcpils
date among couJntries.                                                                     of 12 to 17 yeara of age; correapondance o-ras     are generally erclrded.
Orbancolcinf.ofcrl             - RatIo of urban to total population; different             Tear of sth-11ia     provided fLrat and aei'd leves       frciL peer. at
ciefioltions of urban .re. may affect ctomparbility of data saomnS cousntriaa.             shoigatensdry level, vocationl               na!  cimmybeprilyo
compietely encludad.
Axe sructue frocent)- Children (0-14 Neare), working-age (il-64 yecre)              Voctoa noletf            o   eodr"-Vctonlieiuin                      eSd
and retired (61 years and over) as parceostagee of old-year popolecion.                    tehie      , induttlal or other-1 prgr    whichtopeate indeptut dencipurde
fcc epenecoyrato - Katie of population under 15 end 65 and ove    to those              departmsents of aecondary ir-titotione.
of aRea 1S through 64.                                                                  A%dult literacy rere (5) - Literate adolta (able to read and write) an pe-
LCoooIc   nnenrrai           - Ratio of perneitioma undar 15 end 65 and ovr to               centage of total adolt oa...lstioa aged 15 y00cc a d over.
ihe Sabor foros In age grocp of il-64 ypeer.
Family planning - ocetr c,         ltv.thonl - Csaclativa, momehe of acce.ptors            houcin
of birc h-control devices under .u.pi.e   nf nati0osi family plsnning progr              Pernama oar room (urban) - Averag   nnbor of per-ns Pot room In occupied
ainm. inception.                                                                           camnenionl dwsellings In orbac er..e; dunilioge     -ocide .   -enoc
FamilyP olnoia- er 1Lo        marriedwomen) -     ercantagec of married woapn of             srctuesand unoccupied peto.
chl-haing age (15-Ac years) who un 4trtb-controi devices to .15 married              Onuiddualing wihot ee            wtr Ml        - Occupied conentinc"    uelig
wiene in anne ae group,                                                                    in urban and rural arnee nithdout i-side or tuide piped wator facilities
aa pe,r.centag.e of ail on-piod dwellinge
inaiovSMat                                                                                 Acstoe      ctricit (7    faldelns              ace,toldclawt
Toallbo focefhouaand) - funomica11y active persona, Includin.g anmed                      electricity in liigqatrsd ecn               o   oa    wlingsin uranan
foce  ed unePloyed hot excluding honeewives, atudenrs, etc.; definitions                 rural arse..             st         .p~.       ftt1delnsi             r.     n
in varie... .oentria. are nat comparable.                                               Rursl dwellingscon     tetolcrityf) - Computed as ab... fur cora
Labo furr Inagriuitue it  -Agcicultutal labor forte (to farming, forstry,           dwellings only,
hooccicc and flnking) As percetage of total labor force.
Smaoulevad(7. f labr fore) - omoployed ar  usually defined as parsons whoO.pto
are  bleend  illng t  iee ajob, nut of a job am a gives day, remained out       RaiAeeiesZetro             oo       l  rYpen of receirer. for radio broadcasts
nf a job, and Seekong work for a specified Ininimu period nor exceeding one                tognrlpbi          e    hcad af population      eccldee unlicensd re-lc-re
week; nay not be comparable between councriea d.s to diffeteat definition,                 in oocntriea and In year. when reitainof redin arts weIaffeir;
af namploynd and source cf data, e.g. , soployment offire tataiatica, sample               data for recent yoara nay nor hr comperble sino      na     :nre    abe1lfhod
ouvye -opulI-ry uneployment inuac.lic..a.log.
111-   dIlib-tio                                                    Z4~~~~~~~~~~~Psenorcoe pr ho nn   - Pnosarsec tarn compriur motor caro eentieg
Seasn d&trloetnc  1f'rtc.tags of private Iacoe  (bnth i. cock and kind)                lees than eight perauna; eacIudoc ambulence, hearnee sod milltery
t...oLv,i by richoar 52, richtest 202, Ponrest 207., and poorst 402 of honses-             vehicies.
holdosRetiir k                                                                                          hv rtcp          Acres1. constuPLIOn of induetrial, caeril
Tbiarlbtic oflan  owersilo  Pecenage  ofIsodownd b welthest102publlr and private electricity In kilosutt hours per capita, gecorlly
ftrt.r.Se.  f loa   owne   by -Ithi,t 10%baesed on production dote, wichouc all1e-ce for losese in itida 1-ut alie.-
sod ponruoc lit of lend owners.                                                            lng for imports aod exports af electricity.
IL-Itl~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~be rnt(gyrnrde                                                    -Per capita annual. cona-pri-c in ktiugram_
lire 4th end Nutrition                                                ca~~~~~~~~etimated from d-setic producticn pIca -er inpurto of mewn print.
pocu;erlc nrocifn - Population dioided by reeker of practicing
phyici-n qu      aliid from a modica1 ahoul or unloreriy level.



COUNTRY DATA -                             ANNEX I
page 3 of 4
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1977                                                          ANNUAL RATE OF GR0iTiH (f , constant prices)
US $ Min.          %                                   1968-72        1972-77        1977
GNP at Market Prices             12,568            100.0                                   6.5            3.5          -1.5
Gross Domestic Investment         1,934             15.4                                   8.1             3.0       - 22.4
Gross National Saving             1,007              8.o                                    7.4            8.5       - 19.3
Currenit Account Balance          - 927            - 7.4
Exports of Goods, NFS              2,012            16.0                                    1.0          - 3.3         13.3
DInports of Goods, NFS            2,519             20.0                                    .7             5.3         -5.6
OUTPUT, EMPLWDYENT AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1976
Value Added                           Labor Force                 V.A. Per Worker
US $ Mln.          X                       &,-*          %              US            x %
Agriculture                 1,768           13.0                       2.1       43.7               842        29.7
Industry                   4,079            30.0                       1.0       20.8             4,079       14.0
Services a/                7 751            57.0                       1.7       35.4             4 559       160.9
Total7Average1 598a lO                                                                                 O    .O : z O.
GOVERNMENT FINANCF
General Government                               Central Government
(S Mill.)-    ____jk of _GDP                     (S Mi.U           % of GDP
1277         1,977         1,977                 1977         1977         1972
Current Receipts               190,120        18.1         19.1                 154,052       14.6          15.5
Current Expenditure            219 729        20.9         17.4                 193 092       )8.3          14.4
Current Surplus               --29bO         -7;           -17                     -         -;7            TT
Capital Expenditures             44,893        4.3          4.9                  40,103        3,8           4.8
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1973         1974         1975          1976         1977         1978 June
(Millions of Soles outstanIng and period7
Money and Quasi-Monley                    87,506      107,012      126,174      151,062      195,967       235,156
Bank Credit to Public Sector              20,811       19,773       43,567       901142      152,354       168,064
Bank Credit to Private Sector             60,361       73,152       95,788      131,449      196,439       289,352
(Percentage or Index Numbers)
Money as % of GDP                         22.4         21.7         21.0         18.0         16.5
General Price Index (1963-100)           273.1        318.5        382.5        513.2        707.8
Annual percentage changes in:
Gerural Price Index                       14.6         16.6         20.0         34.2         37.9
Bank credit to Public Sector              77.0        - 5.0        120.3        106.9         69.0
Bank credit to Private Sector             18.0         21.2         30.9         37.2         49.4
a/ Gross National Product
Not applicable



ANNEX I
paSe 4 of 4
BALANCE OF PADMENTS                                                            MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1975-1977)
1974       1975       1976       1977                                              us $ Mln.        j
(Millions US-$)
Exports of Goods, NFS      1,719      1,536       1,616      2,012             Mining Products                   645            46
Imports of Goods, NFS      2,279      2,824      2,466       2 519             Fish Products                     198            14
Resource Gap (deficit--)    -560     -1,288        -850       -507             Agricultural Products              346           25
Manufactured Products              170           12
Interest (net)              -168       -249       -324       -372              Petroleum and Derivatives          33             2
Other Factor Income (netl   -124       - 50       - 47       -105                   Total (FOB)                1,392           iw
Net Transfers                 45         49         58          57
Balance on Current Account -807      -1,538     -1,163       -927              EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMB4ER 31, 1977
Us $ Nln.
Direct Private Foreign
Investment                144        316        171          54             Public Debt, imi. gwaranteed                4,660
Net N.L.T. Borrowing                                                           Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                 1.480
Disbursements           1,146      1,166        953       1,107             Total outstanding and Disbursed             6,140
Amortization              391        347        381         481
Subtotal                  755        819        572         626             NET DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1977 b/
Other Capital (net)
and capital n.e.i.           190       -174       -448        -103
increase in Reserves (+)     282       -577       -868        -350             Public Debt, incld. guaranteed             38.4
1                                                                             Non-guaranteed Private Debt                4.9
Gross Reserves (end year)    966        468        368         457             Total outstanding and Disbursed
Petroleumn Imparts a/         185        239        261         269
Petroleum Exports P/            3         21         29          48
o   ERD/IDA LENDrNG CAugust 31, 19781  (Million US 4)
RATE OF EXCGANGE (SELLING)
IHED    IDA
Annual Averages              End Period
1976   1977    Januarv-Julv 1978         1                  Outstanding and Disbursed           180       -
US $1.00 -   Soles 5577    1,-9-Y       140,17           162,18                Undisbursed                          244      _
Soles 1.00 - US$ .0179   .0122         .0071           .0062                 Outstanding incl. Undisbursed        424
Crude and derivatives.
/ Debt Service net of interest earned on foreign exchange reserves as a percentage of Expats of Ooods and Non-Factor Services.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PERU
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (as at August 31, 1978)
----US$ million----
Amount
Loan                                                           (less cancellations)
Number Year            Borrower                 Purpose         Bank    Undisbursed
24 loans fully disbursed                                243.2
933    1973   Banco de Fomento Agropecuario    Agriculture      25.0        0.5
949    1973   Republic of Peru                 Education        24.0       19.1
1025    1974   Republic of Peru                Roads             26.0        6.2
1196    1976   Republic of Peru                Transport         76.5       73.9
1215    1976   Republic of Peru                 Power            36.0       26.2
1281    1976   CENTROMIN                       Mining            40.0       37.6
1283    1976   Banco Vivienda                  Urban Dev.        21.6       21.5
1358    1977   COFIDE                           Industry         35.0       34.3
1403    1977   Republic of Peru                Agriculture       25.0       25.0
Total                                                   552.3
of which has been repaid                              128.0
Total now outstanding                                   424.3
Amount sold                              18.3
of which had been repaid               18.3           _
Total now held by Bank 1/                               424.3
Total undisbursed                                                  244.3
Note: No IDA credits have been made to Peru.
1/   Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as at August 31, 1978)
Type of          Amount in US$ million
Year                Obligor                   Business         Loan    Equity   Total
1960        Industrias Reunidas, S.A.        Home Appliances      0.3               0.3
1960        Luren S.A. and
Ladrillos Calcareos, S.A.      Bricks               0.3               0.3
1960        Durisol del Peru, S.A.           Building Materials   0.3               0.3
1960;1962   Fertilizantes Sinteticos, S.A.   Fertilizers          4.1               4.1
1962;1968   Cemento Andino, S.A.             Cement               2.2      0.2      2.4
1964;1967   Cia. de Cemento Pacasmayo        Cement               1.1      0.5      1.6
1975        Southern Peru Copper Corp.       Mining              15.0              15.0
Total gross commitments                              23.3     0.7      24.0
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                             10.6     0.4      11.0
Total commitments now held by IFC                    12.7     0.3      13.0
Total Undisbursed                                      -        -



ANNEX iI
Page 3 of 5
Loan 933-PE:   Agricultural Credit Project; US$25.0 million Loan of
September 12, 1973; Effective Date: December 12, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Although the project had a slow start, progress is now satisfactory.
The small remaining balance is expected to be disbursed by the end of the
year, one year after the original closing date.
Loan 949-PE:   Education Project; US$24.0 million Loan of December 5, 1973;
Effective Date: March 5, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The project is experiencing serious difficulties and is now about
39 months behind schedule. In the first 3-1/2 years after effectiveness,
there was little progress in project execution owing to delays in establish-
ing and staffing the Project Unit, weaknesses in the unit itself, and diffi-
culties in drawing up satisfactory curricula for the project's 16 upper
secondary schools (ESEPs). Some of these obstacles have been overcome, but
project implementation is still being hampered, this time by a shortage of
local counterpart funds, cumbersome implementation procedures and continued
weaknesses in the Project Unit. Because of substantial cost overruns and
the shortage of local counterpart funds, the possibility of reducing the
project scope and increasing the Bank's disbursement percentage is being
explored.
Loan 1025-PE: Sixth Highway Project; US$25.0 million loan of July 1, 1974;
Effective Date:  August 21, 1974; Closing Date:   June 30, 1980.
Loan 1025-PE finances improvement of the Lima-Pucallpa highway
which connects the Amazon basin to the Pacific Coast. In view of the un-
usually difficult terrain and the limited implementation capacity, the project
was divided into two stages which are financed by separate loans, 1025-PE and
1196-PE (see below). Because of initial delays and substantial cost increases,
the scope of the project was reduced in February 1978 (see President's memo-
randum R78-36), and the Closing Date postponed to June 30, 1980. Construction
is now well advanced and should be completed next year.
Loan 1196-PE: Lima-Amazon Transport Corridor Project; US$76.5 million Loan
of May 27, 1976; Effective Date: August 18, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
While the project's river ports component is progressing satisfac-
torily, there have been serious delays in contracting for civil works under
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any pro-
blems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5
the road component because of slow procedures and limited Government imple-
mentation capacity. In the meantime, the Government's financial difficulties
have led to a reduction of funds available for road works which will further
delay the road component to an unacceptable degree. Proposals are now being
discussed with the Government to restructure the project, concentrating on
most urgently needed components, particularly on road maintenance and
eliminating improvement of those road sections which cannot be completed
within a reasonable time.
Loan 1215-PE: Fifth Power Project; US$36.0 million Loan of September 20, 1976;
Effective Date: November 18, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1979.
The slowdown of ELECTROLIMA's power market in the wake of the
current economic difficulties as well as procurement problems have delayed
somewhat the project's power distribution component (Part A) and completion
is expected about a year behind schedule. Despite tariff adjustments in
January and May 1978, accelerating inflation and increases in the cost of
purchased energy are likely to prevent ELECTROLIMA from meeting its covenanted
contribution to expansion this year. More serious delays were experienced in
the technical assistance program of the loan; most consultants have, however,
now been retained, and it is expected that the program will progress normally
in the future.
Loan 1283-PE: Urban Sites and Services Development Project: US$21.6 million
Loan of October 12. 1976; Effective Date: January 10, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Administrative difficulties, particularly the need to reconcile
Peruvian procedures with the Bank Guidelines for Procurement have delayed
the project by about one year. Project execution has now begun; however,
its pace could be slowed by the shortage of local counterpart funds.
Loan 1281-PE: Centromin Mining Project; US$40.0 million Loan of December 6.
1976; Effective Date: May 24, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1980.
Because of the difficult fiscal situation and the project's large
requirements for local counterpart funds, the Government is now determining
whether to proceed with the copper mining component which amounts to about
90 percent of total project cost. A decision is expected before the end of
the year. There is a possibility that the Inter-American Development Bank
may help cover part of the financing shortfall created by the Government's
lack of counterpart funds. Engineering and procurement activities on this
part of the project have meanwhile been suspended. Construction of the mine-
water treatment plant had been delayed but is now advancing satisfactorily.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5
Loan 1358-PE: Industrial Credit Project; US$35.0 million Loan of January 28,
1977; Effective Date: March 30, 1977; Closing Date: June 30,
1981.
Since Peru's economic recession has led to a contraction of invest-
ment and to lower than anticipated demand for the loan, disbursements are
lagging behind schedule. In view of this, the Borrower -- the National
Development Bank (COFIDE) -- has recently agreed to finance projects identi-
fied by commercial banks and other financial institutions, which would also
guarantee these loans and provide some loan servicing. The initial response
has been encouraging, and it is hoped that the credit line will be drawn down
more rapidly in the future.
Loan 1403-PE: Irrigation Rehabilitation Project; US$25.0 million Loan of
May 20, 1977; Effective Date: August 2, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
PLANREHATIC, the executing agency, has completed the design for
civil works in two of the six valleys where irrigation systems are to be
improved and construction has started. The project's implementation is
proceeding on schedule.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF PERU
WATER SUPPLY AND POWER ENGINEERING PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:        Project evolved in late 1977
from earlier discussions
regarding a Lima Water Supply
Project.
(b)  Project prepared by:                  Mantaro Commission and ESAL.
(c) Date of first presentation to
Bank and date of first Bank
mission:                              November 1977.
(d) Date of departure of Appraisal
Mission:                              January 16, 1978
(e) Date of completion of
negotiations:                         September 8, 1978
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:        February 1, 1979
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
1.   Hiring of a project manager acceptable to the Bank by ESAL
(Condition of Effectiveness, para. 49).
2.   Issuing of a decree giving ESAL's representatives the right
to visit and inspect private wells (Condition of Effectiveness,
para. 50).
3.   Conclusion of an acceptable subsidiary loan agreement between
COFIDE, on behalf of the Government, and ESAL (Condition of
Effectiveness, para. 64).
4.   Subloan to ESAL to be conditioned on a financial rehabilitation
program for ESAL (para. 56).



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
5.   Water tariff increases if these become necessary to enable
ESAL to comply with the financial rehabilitation program
(para 56).
6.   Hiring of consultants to help strengthen ESAL's financial
management within 60 days of the signing of the subloan to
ESAL (para. 56).
7.   Establishment of an adequately staffed Droiect unit under
the Mantaro Commission to supervise studies for the project's
Mantaro component (Condition of Disbursement, para. 52).
8.   Establishment, by January 31, 1979 of working groups--including
the ESAL project manager, representatives of the Mantaro project
unit and of COFIDE--to ensure coordination between both project
components (para. 53).






&*a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~f                      E  P  L
.iW-     ;     --' eMANTARO                                                             TRANSFER PROJECT
-.,. i. ' ! -. ,, 1 ,_ _                                  AND ASSOCIATED     HYDROELECTRIC PLANTS
PF F   ''                                                                         Sectional View
h.... .... b, h..
e-  LLLL                  PL; .-_E_ 
n~~~ ,                                                                               . .. .- :. -::- .
0,% ~   .                                                 -      -. 5 . -  --  |-a
X-'..i.  . 1  5-,w'..                                                                                              20EC/ )
*  e- 1.,  . . ,,  , , _ ;                                                    1.   w        >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~56  ~
___ ___ ___ ___ ___ __    ___        ____ _ _ ___  _____;_     __-___-  _   ______"' -I-_   _ _ __ _ _   _ _ _
_  _   _  _  _  _   _           _       _  ___1_1__                                            __           
.f Ftrl.'.  *1l                                                                         IJI- I;ut:wi-re|!3l-^ 
I-  15011 E  LsAHANC r.r  r              OWRT IN 139
KOMETERS                            b
VERTICAL  SCALE         -     __ D0
~*  MOYOPAPA POWER STATION 888.l 
L         E~~~~~3 Mw.r
j30Mw                                                                                   C  _
LA ATARJEA TREATMENT WOR  24m 
I  / C       IEXPANSION)  /                                                                                          ,
E A  IV  L I M A             KILOMETERS         c:.   tn
220 C X0  _5    90'  1E0   170   160   150   140   130   120   110   100   9O   E0   70   60   50   4,0   30   2E   10   0 :C
220  210   20I10      O8  170   100  150  140  130   120  110  100   90   80   I'0  60         40   310  25         -C0






/                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I B R D 13511
COLOMBIA                             7 60             750               70          MA 1A97
ECUADO                                         A CA  A N-U 790C
PER  E,f  3000  /   usus'<W52                                        0 R E T 0
BRAZIL
t  CANA     -~~~~-   --a            e  M  A N e T  8--  S  HAOeXX           0d        W I 0  < 
ARAOF MAP
HDOPAT__ -/ 2-  H ~  -'t9        UCAA                            VE .110 X
a HE, MAL0 Laja  U 57 tA.
Wand0  a         1tf saPISCO fP
lilKILOMETERS           ANA                ELS           s                 l  / 
78 n to ta6 s                            ( attadad/M.
120 ds00                     EAao odso  f
50.0dM,., 500.5000 11,0 a, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ A  
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 0
130  CAAS                             .V
C'~~~~~~~~~~~~D 
AFFECPLATED HYR PWRTTIN
PLARTSPLANTS
THERMAL  PLANTSC
DAMS                                                                              3
\-Iwo---  CONTOURS (Intervals everyl1000meters)              40
~~-- RIVERS
DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES
0       50     10
I       I       I
KILOMETERS
750~~~~~~~7                    6



