Document of
The World Bank Group
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19961
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
CHANGCHUN WATER SUPPLY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT
(CREDIT 2457-CHA)
February 11, 2000
Urban Development Sector Unit
China Country Management Unit
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed
without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency = Renminbi
Currency Unit = Yuan (Y)
At the time of appraisal: $1 = Y 5.48
At the time of project completion mission: $1 = Y 8.28
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CSC             -     Changchun Sewerage Company
CWSC            -     Changchun Water Supply Company
ICB             -     International Competitive Bidding
ICR             -     Implementation Completion Report
IDA             -     International Development Association
GIS             -     Geographic Information System
PMO             -     Project Management Office
PRC             -     People's Republic of China
SAR             -     Staff Appraisal Report
SDR             -     Special Drawing Right
Vice President   : Jean-Michel Severino, EAPVP
Country Director : Yukon Huang, EACCF
Sector Director : Keshav Varma, EASUR
Task Manager   : Wiebe Moes, EASUR



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CHINA
CHANGCHUN WATER SUPPLY AND ENVIRONMENTAL
PROJECT
(CREDIT 2457-CHA)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface .............................................................v
Evaluation Summary ............................................................                                           vii
Part I: Project Implementation  Assessment ............................................................1l
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives .............................................................1
B. Achievement of Project Objectives .............................................................3
C. Major Factors Affecting Project Implementation .........................................7
D. Project Sustainability .............................................................9
E. IDA  Performance ............................................................                               10
F. Borrower Performance ............................................................                           11
G. Assessment of Outcome ............................................................                           12
H. Future Operations ............................................................                               13
I. Key Lessons Learned ............................................................                             14
Part II: Statistical Tables ............................................................                                  17
Table  1: Summary of Assessments ............................................................                    17
Table 2: Related Bank Loans and IDA  Credits ............................................... 18
Table 3: Project Timetable ............................................................                         19
Table 4: Credit Disbursement: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .................. 19
Table 5: Key Indicators For Project Implementation ...................................... 20
Table 6: Key Indicators For Project Operation ................................................ 21
Table 7: Studies Included in Project ............................................................   22
Table 8a: Project Costs (in $) ............................................................                    22
Table 8b: Project Costs (in Y) ............................................................                    23
Table 8c: Project Financing ............................................................                       23
Table 9: Economic Evaluation ............................................................                      23
Table  10: Status of Legal Covenants ............................................................  24
Table  11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .......................... 25
Table  12A: IDA  Resources: Staff Inputs (Actual Staff-weeks) ....................... 25
Table  12B: IDA  Resources: Staff Inputs (Actual $) ........................................ 25
Table  13: IDA  Resources: Missions ............................................................   26
Annex A: ICR  Mission's Aide-Memoire ............................................................                           27
Annex B: Borrower's Contribution  to the ICR  ...................................................... 30
Map No. IBRD 24063R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed
without World Bank authorization.






- iii -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
CHANGCHUN WATER SUPPLY AND ENVIRONMENTAL
PROJECT
(CREDIT 2457-CHA)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Changchun Water
Supply and Environmental Project in China, for which Credit 2457-CHA in the amount
of Special Drawing Rights (SDR) 86.6 million ($120.0 million equivalent) was approved
on February 9, 1993 and made effective on September 9, 1993.
The Credit was closed on June 30, 1999, six months after the original closing date
of December 31, 1998, to facilitate final payments. An amount of SDR 19,880,000 ($26.9
million equivalent) was canceled due to misprocurement. Final disbursement took place
on December 7, 1999, and a balance of SDR 7.85 ($10.7 million equivalent) was
canceled.
The ICR was prepared by a team consisting of Mr. Wiebe Moes (task team
leader) and Mr. Herbert Boehm (consultant) with assistance of Mr. Zhang Zhun
(consultant). It was reviewed by Mr. Keshav Varma, Director, Urban Development
Sector Unit, and by Mr. Yukon Huang, Country Director, China, East Asia and Pacific
Region.
Preparation of this ICR started during the International Development
Association's (IDA) supervision mission in September 1998. The ICR is based on
information obtained during the ICR mission and on data and materials in the Project
File, including analyses prepared by the Borrower and the ICR team. The Borrower's
final comments on the draft ICR, received in September 1999, are incorporated in the
final ICR version. In addition, the Borrower prepared its own project implementation
evaluation, which is included as Annex B of this report.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
CHANGCHUN WATER SUPPLY AND ENVIRONMENTAL
PROJECT
CREDIT 2457-CHA
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    Background. Prior to 1980, the Chinese Government paid little attention to the
adequate provision of urban services. During the 1980s the cities and towns began
allocating substantial resources to improve the urban water supply and sanitation
infrastructure, but it became increasingly recognized that in order to sustain economic
growth and improve environmental conditions in the urban areas, the cities would have to
make large-scale investments in the water supply and wastewater sectors for the
foreseeable future. In this context, Changchun Municipality became an excellent example
of the limitations that deficient water supply and wastewater systems place on a city's
ability to become an industrial center and its desire to improve the standard of living for
its population. Without substantial improvements to its urban infrastructure, its
significance as a major motor vehicle production and transport equipment manufacturing
center was at stake. The Changchun Water Supply and Environmental Project was
prepared to meet these requirements and, at the same time, to assist in long-term policy
formulation in these sectors and to improve their institutional structure and organization.
2.    Project Objectives. The project objectives were to assist Changchun
Municipality to: (a) improve water supply to meet the domestic needs of the urban
population and to support industrial growth; (b) reduce industrial and domestic water
pollution through building physical works, strengthening institutions, developing
regulations, improving operational management, and making changes in the pricing
policy; and (c) create a demonstration project where the lessons learned could be shared
with other municipalities in China. The institutional strengthening objective was aimed at
assisting Changchun Municipality in establishing appropriate sector institutions, policies
and regulations, improving operation practices and promoting water conservation.
3.    Project Components. The principal project components for achieving
improvements in urban water supply, appropriate wastewater disposal and institutional
development included: (a) construction of a raw water transmission pipeline to convey
water from the Second Songhua River at Majia to Changchun via the Shitoukoumen
Reservoir; construction of pumping stations, expansion and improvement of urban water
treatment facilities, and expansion of the capacity of the water distribution system;
(b) construction of a trunk interceptor sewer and a primary sewage treatment plant, and



- vi -
procurement of equipment and instruments for environmental quality monitoring and
control; and (c) technical assistance for design and construction supervision, management
support to the water and sewerage companies including the preparation of staff training
programs, and implementation of a hazardous waste study.
4.    Evaluation of Objectives. In light of Changchun's dire need to provide improved
quality and quantity of water for its population and to cope with the burgeoning industrial
growth demand as well as to control the city's growing urban pollution, the project's
original objectives were well defined and also well understood by all participating project
agencies. Since urban service provision had become a critical limiting factor for the
ambitious goals of the city, these project objectives were very important for its future
economic development and for the welfare of its inhabitants. For the Changchun
Municipality this project represented the largest infrastructure investment ever attempted
in its history. The very size of the project itself was a challenging endeavor, and the fact
that major institutional changes in the sector and reforms in pricing policies and
management had to be carried out over the project implementation period rendered
prospects for smooth completion of the project even more daunting. While there was
initially strong commitment by the provincial and municipal governments to implement
appropriate policies and reforms, it became increasingly evident that the required changes
in such areas as institutional reforms, pricing policies especially for sewerage tariffs,
providing sufficient management capabilities for the Changchun Water Supply Company
(CWSC) and setting up the Changchun Sewerage Company (CSC) as an independent and
effective organization would be difficult to achieve. As a result, the nonphysical
objectives, i.e., reorganizing the sector, converting the utilities into effective and efficient
operating companies, developing appropriate policies and regulations and creating a
model demonstration project, appear to have been overly ambitious in light of the status
of the sector at the beginning of the project.
Implementation Experience and Results
5.    Achievement of Project Objectives. Overall, the project objectives were
achieved partially. Insofar as the raw water transmission and urban water supply
components are' concerned, physical and financial objectives were achieved to a large
degree. The project has also been successful in improving the sewage collection system
in Changchun. However, the project may realize the benefits anticipated from a
centralized wastewater treatment facility only after a four-year delay since this
component was not funded by IDA as originally anticipated in the project, due to
misprocurement. It has been reported that new funding for this project has been obtained
by the municipal government. The authorities expect construction to be completed by the
end of 2000. Institutional efforts, in particular with regard to institutional simplification,
strengthening of CWSC, establishment of a functional sewerage utility, and expected
pricing reforms also remained below expectations. Consequently, the desired
demonstration effect from this project whereby the positive lessons learned could be
shared with other municipalities in China is markedly below the originally expected
level.



- Vii -
6.    Construction of the raw water conveyance system was completed at the planned
capacity although commissioning of the works was delayed by about two years. A
contract for two sections of the pipeline from Majia to the Laoyeling tunnel was canceled
by IDA on December 15, 1997 due to misprocurement, but the Government funded
completion from its own resources. Based on appropriate engineering standards, the
quality of construction is deemed generally poor although there is considerable variation
among the various contracts. While over the short term these quality deficiencies may be
of lesser impact, over the expected life of the project maintenance and replacement
investments may substantially exceed industry levels. Construction quality suffered
primarily due to deadline pressures placed on contractors to complete work at an early
date, in conjunction with weak construction management and supervision and the
insufficient use of the international project consultant team for construction quality
review. However, the Changchun authorities maintain that despite some partial
deficiencies, the water conveyance system meets all the design requirements of the
bidding documents.
7.    The extensive physical works of the urban water supply component, including
the 220,000 cubic meters per day (m3/d) Water Treatment Plant No. 3, pumping stations
and transmission lines, were completed on schedule and are in operation. This component
achieved the original objective of expanding the water supply service coverage in
Changchun to 97 percent during the project execution period and thus eliminated the past
need for water rationing by residences and industries. Overall, construction quality of the
Water Treatment Plant No. 3 appears to be better than that observed in the raw water
transmission component.
8.    Under the sewage collection and treatment component an approximately
10-kilometer (km) sewage interceptor pipeline was built with the beneficial effect of
eliminating numerous sewage discharges from the densely populated inner city. IDA
funding for the planned wastewater treatment plant with a capacity of 390,000 m3/d was
canceled on December 15, 1997 due to misprocurement. The Changchun Municipal
Government reported that it has recently obtained State funding to build the plant and
expects construction of the facility to be completed by the end of 2000. Contrary to
original plans, the implementation of this component will not be carried out under World
Bank Group procedures nor with the assistance of the project management consultants. It
is therefore too early to rate the achievement of this component's objective. Under the
assumption that this component will be implemented in a similar fashion as the other
components under the project, the wastewater treatment plant would meet its original
project objectives albeit substantially later than originally expected.
9.    The technical assistance and training component of the project was initially
appraised at SDR 6.2 million. However, the Project Management Office (PMO) availed
itself only sparingly and reluctantly of this resource. In light of the great difficulties
encountered in design, construction and supervision as well as in the procurement
activities during the implementation period, far more intensive use of international
consultants would have been desirable. Although technical assistance utilization was
substantially increased during the last two years of the project, ultimately some $4.3
million was disbursed for this purpose by the closing date of the Credit. While the



- viii -
institutional development objectives for the project may have only been partially
achieved, a number of noteworthy accomplishments in the technical assistance and
training category have been realized, such as completion of a toxic/hazardous waste
management and industrial park study and several worthwhile operational system
improvements. The Borrower expressed satisfaction with the achievements of this
component.
10.   The project's financial objectives were only partially achieved. Water supply
tariffs were increased four times during the project construction period. According to the
audit reports, these adjustments were technically sufficient to meet the financial
covenants of the CWSC Project Agreement. However, CSC has not been able to institute
sewerage tariffs for residential users and those charged to industrial customers remain
inadequately low, thus forcing the company to incur substantial operating losses in 1997.
11.   Major Factors Affecting Project Implementation. All major factors affecting
the project were generally within government or implementing agency control. However,
the project was affected by the devaluations of the yuan and by a rapid price escalation of
primarily construction materials and installation equipment.
12.   Project Sustainability. Overall project sustainability is rated likely. Jilin
Province and Changchun Municipality have a vital interest in providing sufficient
quantity and quality of water to the more than 2 million people and to the burgeoning
industrial sector in the water-scarce urban area of Changchun.
13.   Economic Rate of Return. The water supply component, i.e., the raw water
transmission component combined with the urban water supply component, achieved an
approximate economic rate of return of 12.6 percent, which compares favorably with the
appraisal forecast of 11.3 percent. Since the construction of the wastewater treatment
plant has not yet been completed, reliable estimates were not available for the calculation
of its economic rate of return.
14.   IDA Performance. IDA's performance during identification was satisfactory, but
unsatisfactory during preparation, appraisal and early implementation stages of the
project. If more attention would have been paid to project readiness through a more
rigorous review of the design quality of the individual components, the need for the
inordinate amount of design revisions during implementation and for the excessive
number of change orders could have been reduced. This led to the six-month extension of
the Credit closing date to facilitate final payments. IDA insisted on a comprehensive
project concept encompassing water supply and wastewater treatment. IDA correctly
anticipated the technical assistance needs. However, in light of the encountered
procurement problems, it underestimated the need to provide sufficient information and
training opportunities concerning World Bank Group procurement procedures. Because
of the project entities' lack of experience with large, internationally funded infrastructure
projects, a high level of project supervision by IDA was anticipated over the life of the
project. While the actual number of missions carried out from 1993 to the end of 1998
exactly matched the SAR projections, the actual weeks spent in the field amounted to
only 18 staff-weeks, far below the originally expected level of 70 staff-weeks.



- ix -
Particularly troublesome is the low supervision effort in the critical first three project
implementation years. From FY97 onward, supervision efforts increased substantially
toward the originally planned levels. Over the entire implementation project period, there
were three changes of task managers whose messages and decisions, according to the
Borrower (see Borrower's contribution to the ICR), were not always consistent. While
these personnel changes are not unusual over the full implementation period of a project,
it is essential that task managers possess the required qualifications, expertise and
experience to adequately supervise complex projects.
15.   Borrower Performance. The Borrower's commitment to the physical objectives
of the project remained strong during project implementation. Counterpart funding, for
example, was never a major problem. However, there was a lack of support at the
provincial, as well as initially at the municipal level for wastewater tariff increases to
reduce CSC's operating losses and to allow it to comply with financial covenants.
Moreover, the Borrower's performance was generally deficient in the preparation phase
of the project as evidenced by substantial change orders during project construction and
by the substantial lack of quality control concerning the design and the soil and water
testing work. In addition, there were startup problems during the actual implementation
of the project that impeded the effectiveness of the PMO and delayed design finalization
and the preparation of procurement documentation. By 1994, the Changchun
Municipality had strengthened the PMO, but could not fully resolve the other project
obstacles, such as establishing a constructive relationship with the water utility company
and increasing the support of the management consultants from a mere advisory role.
Although some parts of the projects were implemented with great urgency and even
ahead of the originally expected time schedule, e.g., the Water Treatment Plant No. 3,
procurement and disbursement problems became increasingly serious with some of the
components experiencing up to two years of completion delay. Consequently, PMO's
performance was no longer considered satisfactory and therefore, the overall
implementation performance had to be rated deficient. The unfortunate misprocurement
of two major contracts resulting in a Credit cancellation of about SDR 19.9 ($26.9
million equivalent) confirmed this evaluation. This incident and the many change orders
submitted to IDA without providing advance notification of the often considerable design
changes, also raises questions as to whether the PMO saw IDA as a constructive partner
in the project. The failure to meet some of the key financial covenants, as well as the
substantial procurement problems in the project require that the Borrower's compliance
with covenants be rated as deficient.
16.   Technical assistance could clearly have overcome some of the PMO's general
lack of construction management capabilities to simultaneously carry out a multitude of
complex and large-size projects. PMO's reluctance in utilizing this resource available
under the project is not uncommon in Chinese infrastructure projects. But in those
projects where expert technical input was sought and utilized, the outcome has been
almost invariably beneficial to the project's outcome. Another aspect, which also seems
to be a generic problem in Chinese infrastructure projects, is the lack of proper
representation by the utility companies during construction. The project management
offices, as was the case here also, are staffed by persons from the construction bureaus
and from other agencies. The end-users, therefore, have little direct input to design and



x 
project implementation. This creates friction between the parties and often reluctance to
accept the facilities as built. While this project attempted to overcome these constraints
by creating three "sub-PMOs," in practice it really did not work as conceived since these
arrangements require an inordinate level of cooperation, and ultimately the final decision-
making power remained with the PMO.
17.   Assessment of Outcome. Overall the project is rated unsatisfactory. Insofar as
the water supply part of the project is concerned, the project has achieved most of its
expected development results. However, the project did not achieve its major objectives
concerning wastewater pollution because of the failure to complete the wastewater
treatment plant before the project closing date and to properly adjust sewerage tariffs as
covenanted. Despite the failure to complete the wastewater treatment plant during the
project implementation period, the project did have a positive effect on the city's
industrial and domestic pollution situation by virtue of the constructed interceptor sewer
pipeline. In a broader sense, the city also benefited from the project by gaining
considerable experience in carrying out large infrastructure projects and by increasing its
knowledge as to how to deal with foreign suppliers, contractors, consultants and
international financial institutions.
18.   The extremely low utilization of technical assistance funds underscores the
limited commitment by the project agencies to institutional development and the
subsequent disappointing achievements. A qualitative assessment of the technical
assistance program revealed poor follow-up and little utilization of the techniques learned
by the trainees, such as in the distribution optimization plans and in GIS applications. The
project's financial objectives were only partially achieved, even though the water tariffs
were increased four times during project implementation. However, CSC was not
allowed to institute sewerage tariffs for residential users, causing the company in 1997 to
incur operating losses three times the size of its operating income. Also, the project assets
have yet to be transferred from the PMO to the operating utilities, partly due to quality of
construction disputes.
Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
19.   Future Operations. CWSC and the Northeast Municipal Engineering Design
Institute have developed a Water Master Plan for Changchun Municipality. Through
technical assistance provided under the project, long-term, computerized operational
planning systems were developed that provided CWSC with excellent management tools.
In addition, a reorganization in 1997 of CWSC and extensive training programs provided
for senior leadership, mid-level managers and operators should help the company to
become a stronger and more efficient organization. The company's financial outlook
remains positive as long as adequate tariff increases continue to be approved by the
Government. In contrast, CSC remains a small operation until the new wastewater facility
is built and financially uncertain until adequate tariffs for its services are approved by the
provincial government.



- xi -
20.   Key lessons learned from the implementation of the project include:
Project Preparation
(a) Design institutes for major civil works projects should be selected on the basis of
relevant experience and not be limited to those institutes that happen to operate in
the same city or province. Local design institutes should be appointed only if they
have the necessary background and project design expertise. The selection review
should carefully assess the financial strength of these entities, proficiency of their
engineers and operating resources. In order to improve efficiency, oversight and
leverage, the number of design institutes should be kept to a manageable level.
The design fees set by the government may be too low to attract and provide
adequate services.
(b) The accuracy of final designs should be assured using, inter alia, actual soil
conditions based on comprehensive geological and hydrologic surveys and other
relevant documents. This would avoid costly design modifications,
implementation delays and expensive change orders. Significant problems in this
regard occurred with the Majia pumping station (excessive groundwater; differing
soil conditions of the auxiliary structure, boiler house and chimney structure);
Dashuihe pumping station (differing soil condition of pump house and auxiliary
structure; changed road; inadequate water for boiler house; inaccurate elevations;
site material different for switch room); Laoyeling tunnel (differing rock
formation; excessive groundwater); and the wastewater interceptor (differing soil
conditions).
(c) Preliminary and final designs should be reviewed by experienced consultants, if
necessary by an international team of experts.
(d) End-users, e.g., the project utilities, should be involved at the preparation stage to
obtain their input and consent not only to ensure ownership commitment, but also
to reduce change orders during the construction period and plant modification
expenses during the operating phase of the project.
(e) The project management office should be set up with qualified personnel and
fully operational prior to project implementation.
(f) The need for strict compliance with the World Bank Group's procurement
guidelines should be emphasized to all parties project management personnel,
the involved utilities, design institutes, contractors and supervision companies. To
this end, ample training and follow-up training should be provided.
Project Implementation
(a) An unmanageable number of supervision companies should be avoided. As the
concept of supervision companies is relatively new in China, particular attention
should be paid to their past experience with similar projects in terms of project
quantity and complexity. If needed, additional training should be provided and



- xii -
construction management consultants should periodically review their
performance.
(b) Design and construction consultants should be involved in detailed review of
design and project implementation in large and complex projects. An only limited
(functional) role is insufficient unless the Borrower has proven expertise. If
indicated, as it would have been in this project, there should be full-time
representation of the construction consultant, including a permanent resident
engineer for the full implementation period, in order to monitor construction
quality, to dispense appropriate advice and to review change orders as they are
initiated.
(c) Management consultants should, until sufficient experience is acquired by the
local project management staff, participate in the decision-making process
concerning project matters.
(d) Training programs should be tailor-made for China to ensure effectiveness. The
persons to be trained should be those who actually carry out the work in the
respective fields. Senior managers do not always pass on their knowledge to
junior staff.
(e) Clear, written communication between IDA and the Borrower with appropriate
confirmation and follow-up during supervision missions can avoid costly
mistakes, especially concerning procurement matters.
(f) A project should be nominated as a "demonstration project" only after it has been
completed and proven to meet or exceed expectations, not at the time of
preparation.
Financial Performance
(a) In order to properly determine the size of a project and its long-term
sustainability, it is essential that realistic demand projections for infrastructure
services be developed.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
CHANGCHUN WATER SUPPLY AND ENVIRONMENTAL
PROJECT
CREDIT 2457-CHA
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
1.    Background. During the 1960s and 1970s, the Chinese Government focused
primarily on the industrialization of urban areas. Little attention was paid during this
period to the adequate provision of urban services. Although during the 1980s the cities
and towns allocated substantial resources to improving the urban water supply and
sanitation infrastructure, it was increasingly recognized that in order to sustain economic
growth and improve environmental conditions in the urban areas, they would have to
make large-scale investments in the water supply and wastewater sectors for the
foreseeable future. In this context, Changchun Municipality became an excellent example
of the limitations deficient water supply and wastewater systems can have on a city's
ability to become an industrial center of great importance and its desire to improve the
standard of living for its population. Without substantial improvements to its urban
infrastructure, its significance as a major motor vehicle production and transport
equipment manufacturing center was at stake. The Changchun Water Supply and
Environmental Project was prepared to meet these requirements and at the same time
assist in long-term policy formulation in these sectors and to improve their institutional
structure and organization.
2.    This project was originally proposed to be part of the Liaoning Environment
Urban Project (Ln. 3781-CHA), but it was found to be impractical to combine both
projects due to the geographic differences between the two provinces. It was also
determined that, in order to achieve the required benefits from the investments in
Changchun, major institutional changes and reforms in pricing policies were required.
This could be accomplished with a higher degree of probability if the project would focus
solely on Changchun Municipality.
3.    Project Objectives. As stated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) No. 11040-
CHA, the project objectives were to: (a) improve water supply in Changchun
Municipality to meet the domestic needs of the urban population and to support industrial
growth; (b) reduce industrial and domestic water pollution through building of physical
works, strengthening of institutions, development of regulations, improvements in
operational management, and changes in pricing policy; and (c) create a demonstration



project where the lessons learned could be shared with other municipalities in China. The
institutional strengthening objective was aimed at assisting Changchun Municipality in
establishing appropriate sector institutions, policies and regulations, improving operation
practices and promoting water conservation. In particular, the project supported the plan
to end the organizational fragmentation of planning and design, construction, and
operations and maintenance of water supply and sewerage services among several
municipal agencies.
4.    Project Components. Under the project the existing water supply system was to
be improved and expanded from 440,000 cubic meters per day (m3/d) to 795,000 m3/d
and a central sewage treatment facility (390,000 m3/day) was to be constructed to provide
primary treatment for the city. The three principal components for achieving these
improvements were: (a) construction of a raw water transmission pipeline to convey
water from the Second Songhua River at Majia to Changchun via the Shitoukoumen
Reservoir; construction of pumping stations, expansion and improvement of urban water
treatment facilities, and expansion of the capacity of the water distribution system; (b)
construction of a trunk interceptor sewer and a primary sewage treatment plant, and
procurement of equipment and instrunents for environrmental quality monitoring and
control; and (c) technical assistance for design and construction supervision and to
furnish management support to the water and sewerage companies including the
preparation of staff training programs, and to implement a hazardous waste study.
5.    Evaluation of Project Objectives. In light of Changchun's dire need to provide
improved quality and quantity of water for its population and to cope with the burgeoning
industrial growth demand as well as to control the city's growing urban pollution, the
project's original objectives were well defined and also well understood by all
participating project agencies. Since urban service provision had become a critical
limiting factor for the ambitious goals of the city, these project objectives were very
important for its future economic development and for the welfare of its inhabitants.
Moreover, these objectives were consistent with IDA's strategy to assist municipalities in
China to improve urban services provision.
6.    When IDA canceled funding for the wastewater treatment plant and two sections
of the raw water transmission pipeline in 1997 due to misprocurement, construction of
the wastewater treatment plant had to be delayed by several years as the Changchun
Municipality sought alternative funding. The city authorities are now expected to
complete the construction of the wastewater treatment plant by the end of year 2000
under funding assistance (Y 260 million or about $31 million) from the State
Government. However, the entire raw water transmission pipeline was completed on time
under the Borrower's own financing.
7.    For the Changchun Municipality this project represented the largest infrastructure
investment ever attempted in its history. Thus, the size of the project itself was a
challenging endeavor, let alone the fact that major institutional changes in the sector and
reforms in pricing policies and management had to be carried out over the project
implementation period. Moreover, to meet the project objectives, the two utilities for
water supply and wastewater would have to be managed in a more market-oriented



manner, and the large number of provincial and municipal agencies involved in the sector
would have to be markedly reduced and more effectively managed. While initially there
seemed to be a strong commitment by the provincial and municipal governments to
support the implementation of appropriate policies and reforms, it became increasingly
evident that the commitment to require changes in such areas as institutional reforms,
pricing policies especially for sewerage tariffs, providing sufficient management
capabilities for CWSC and setting up CSC as an independent and effective organization,
began to fade as project implementation progressed. As a result, the nonphysical
objectives, i.e., reorganizing the sector, converting the utilities into effective and efficient
operating companies, developing appropriate policies and regulations and creating a
model demonstration project, took a backseat to the construction of hardware. It is
difficult to understand that, with the limited experience of the Borrower, such ambitious
targets were set for this project, while the supervision effort by IDA during the first years
was extremely limited.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
8.    Overall Assessment. Achievement of the project's objectives overall is rated
partial. The project has to some degree achieved its physical and financial objectives
insofar as the raw water transmission and urban water supply components are concerned.
It further has managed to improve the wastewater disposal situation in Changchun
through the construction of a 10 km interceptor sewer. Unfortunately, the project will be
able to realize the benefits anticipated from a centralized wastewater treatment facility
only after an about four-year delay due to misprocurement. Institutional efforts, in
particular with regard to institutional simplification, strengthening of CWSC,
establishment of a functional sewerage utility, and expected pricing reforms also
remained significantly below expectations. Consequently, the desired demonstration
effect from this project whereby the positive lessons learned could be shared with other
municipalities in China is markedly below the originally expected level.
9.    Raw Water Transmission. Construction of the water conveyance system from
the Second Songhua River at Majia to the Shitoukoumen Reservoir, including pipeline
construction, an 8 km long tunnel at Laoyeling, a low-lift pumping station at Majia and a
booster pumping station at Dashuihe, was completed at the planned capacity
(475,000 m3/d ). Commissioning of the works took place in December 1998, a delay of
about two years behind the SAR project completion schedule. Two contracts for a large
portion of the pipeline from Majia to Shitoukomen were canceled by IDA on
December 15, 1997 due to misprocurement, resulting in the cancellation of the
corresponding Credit amount (SDR 5.2 million or $7.2 million equivalent).
10.   Although there is considerable variation among the various contracts, the quality
of construction is deemed generally poor under appropriate engineering standards.
Deficiencies concerning concrete walls and floors and equipment installation, and lack of
adequate bedding material, backfilling and compaction in some sections of the pipeline
were observed. While over the short term these quality deficiencies may be of lesser
impact, it is thought that over the expected life of the project, maintenance and
replacement investments may substantially exceed industry levels. Construction quality



- 4 -
suffered primarily due to deadline pressures placed on contractors to complete work at an
early date in conjunction with weak construction management and supervision and the
insufficient use of the international project consultant team for construction quality
assurance. While the Changchun authorities acknowledged that quality deficiencies do
exist in some works, they emphasized that overall, this component does meet the design
specifications of the bidding documents.
11.   Urban Water Supply. The extensive physical works of the urban water supply
component, including the 220,000 m3/d Water Treatment Plant No. 3, pumping stations
and transmission lines, were completed on schedule and are in operation. In fact, due to
an expected serious water shortage, work on the Water Treatment Plant No. 3 was
advanced by about 10 months so that half of its capacity was available during the summer
months of 1996. This component achieved the original objective of expanding the water
supply service coverage in Changchun from 90 to 97 percent during the project execution
period, and eliminated the need for water rationing for residences and industries as had
been necessary in the past. However, since the Changchun Municipal Government built
an additional water treatment plant outside this project (Treatment Plant No. 4) and, in
addition, past water demand projections appear to have been substantially overestimated,
both plants are currently running only at about 50 percent capacity.
12.   Construction quality of the Water Treatment Plant No. 3 appears to be generally
satisfactory despite the fact that initial problems with sludge removal from the settling
tanks were observed, but were subsequently resolved. Nevertheless, it should be pointed
out that there are a number of similar projects in China where construction quality is
considerably better. Pumping stations and transmission lines associated with the plant,
however, may not entirely meet the appropriate standard expected for World Bank
Group-funded projects. It should be noted that the Changchun authorities are fully
satisfied with this component pointing out that no problems have been encountered
during the first two years of operation.
13.   The water supply component, i.e., the raw water transmission component
combined with the urban water supply component, achieved an economic rate of return
of 12.6 percent which compares favorably with the appraisal forecast of 11.3 percent. No
financial returns were computed in the SAR. The selection of the water supply and
transmission alternatives was based on least-cost analysis.
14.   Sewage Collection and Treatment. According to the SAR, wastewater
management was considered the key component of the water supply project. Under this
component an approximately 10 km sewage interceptor pipeline was built with the
beneficial effect of eliminating numerous sewage discharges from the densely populated
inner city. A primary wastewater treatment plant with a capacity of 390,000 m /d was
included in the project in the northern outskirts of the city. IDA procurement guidelines
were found to have been violated as the contract for the plant was not awarded to the
lowest evaluated bidder and construction on the plant started without IDA's knowledge
or approval. Therefore, on December 15, 1997 an amount of SDR 14.7 million ($20.3
million equivalent) was canceled from the Credit. The Changchun Municipal
Government is reported to have obtained a commitment for funding (Y 260 million or



- 5 -
$31 million) from the central government to complete within the next couple of years the
wastewater treatment facility since it would not be able to fund this project entirely from
its own resources.
15.   Due to the fact that the wastewater treatment facility will not be completed in time
as foreseen under the project, the achievement of this component's objective within this
project must be rated as negligible. Nevertheless, there is the positive effect of the
interceptor sewer that was successfully completed within this project. Under the
circumstances, the economic rate of return for sewerage collection and treatment
comparable to that given in the SAR cannot be calculated for this component.
16.   If the treatment facility is not constructed within a reasonable period of time, the
environmental effect from the additional water capacity generated under this project,
estimated at 350,000 m3/d, will have an overall detrimental pollution effect not only on
Changchun Municipality, but also on the receiving water downstream from the city,
especially the Yitong River system into which most of the additional wastewater is
discharged. It was hoped that through this project, the majority of the waste loading
contributed by Changchun Municipality would be removed from the Yitong drainage
system and the river classification could ultimately be elevated from Class III to Class II,
resulting in improvements in agriculture and public health. Clearly, without the
wastewater treatment plant these expected benefits cannot be achieved.
17.   Technical Assistance and Training Objective. The technical assistance and
training component of the project was extensive, appraised at $13.2 million. However,
the PMO availed itself only sparingly and reluctantly of this resource. In light of the
inexperience of the project agencies with the size and complexity of such projects and
their lack of expertise in working with international contractors and international lending
agencies, the proposed level of technical assistance and training was by no means
overdimensioned. On the contrary, the great difficulties encountered in design,
construction and supervision as well as in the procurement activities during the
implementation period raised questions as to whether the level of technical assistance
should perhaps have been even more extensive. Although technical assistance utilization
was substantially increased during the last two years of the project primarily as result of
IDA's supervision effort, the ultimate disbursements amounted to only $4.3 million by
the closing date of the Credit. The extremely low utilization of technical assistance funds
underscores the limited commitment by the project agencies to institutional development
and the subsequent disappointing achievements. Nevertheless, it must be pointed out that
the Borrower considers the achieved results satisfactory and in line with expected
effectiveness. Among a number of useful studies, they single out as noteworthy examples
the toxic/hazardous waste management and industrial park study and a water resource
optimization model.
18.   It should be noted that even large doses of technical assistance and training are
not effective unless there is full commitment by the Borrower to utilize them in its
policy-making and project decision-making activities. With the noteworthy exception of
a number of studies and computer applications, technical assistance and training appeared
to have achieved less than the originally expected results in terms of either increased



-6 -
operational improvements or improved project design, construction management and
quality assurance. Therefore, in mid-1997 at the initiative of IDA, a markedly different
approach to the provision of technical assistance was chosen, emphasizing more
constructive and proactive involvement by the international consultant team whereby
explicitly formulated and dated outputs were developed. This new approach clearly had a
positive effect on CWSC and CSC, but with only one year remaining to project closing,
the consultants' input had only limited impact on overall construction management.
19.   Although the institutional development objectives for the project have only been
partially achieved, a number of noteworthy accomplishments in the technical assistance
and training category have been realized. Specifically, they include: (a) completion of a
toxic/hazardous waste management and industrial park study; (b) preparation of a water
resources optimization model of the project area; (c) completion of water leakage
detection activities of the water distribution networks; (d) introduction of GIS methods
and training for CWSC and CSC; (e) preparation of an energy management database for
CWSC; (f) development of an industrial waste database and monitoring system; (g)
increased operational training for CWSC and CSC managers and operators; (h) assistance
in developing the water supply master plan; (i) training related to the new communication
system for the water supply network; (j) preparation of the CSC report on organization
and responsibilities; (k) improvements in the sewer collection system; and (1)
development of a customer account database and a computerized accounting system. In a
qualitative assessment of the technical assistance program, the consultants responsible for
its implementation cited numerous successful applications, such as the senior leadership
training, the water resource optimization program, and the GIS system training, but also
complained about poor follow-up and nonutilization of the techniques learned by the
trainees, such as in the distribution optimization plans and in GIS applications. Other
observations noted by the consultants found that the courses were too short, without any
long-term assignments that encourage intensive training, feedback and interaction.
Training programs should be tailor-made for China to ensure effectiveness. The persons
to be trained should be those who actually carry out the work in the respective fields
because senior managers do not always pass on their knowledge to junior staff. While it
was also criticized that the Borrower in general rejected working managers from foreign
utility companies as trainers because of their high fees, a small number of such specialists
did provide some valuable technical assistance. Finally, it was felt that IDA ought to have
applied more pressure on the Borrower to utilize the technical assistance allocation to a
larger degree.
20.   Financial Objectives. The project's financial objectives were only partially
achieved. Water supply tariffs were increased four times during the project construction
period and the 1997 audit report for CWSC confirms, without providing details,
compliance with the tariff covenant of the Credit Agreement. On April 1, 1998 the water
tariff was increased to Y 2.25/mi3 ($0.27/m3) for industrial users and to Y 1.20/m3
($0.14/m3) for residences. Nevertheless, according to the 1998 audit report, CWSC could
meet the financial covenants only because the project assets had not been transferred to
the company and therefore depreciation expenses were correspondingly lower. CSC has
not been able to institute sewerage tariffs for residential users and those charged to
industrial customers remain inadequately low, causing the company in 1997 to incur



- 7 -
operating losses three times the size of its operating income. While a tariff schedule was
approved by the Changchun Municipal Government on June 15, 1998, it is not expected
that the provincial government will approve it until the completion and operation of the
new wastewater treatment facility. This linkage with the start of the operation of the
wastewater treatment is clearly inconsistent with the objectives of the project and in
violation of the covenants in the legal agreements.
21.   The achievement record regarding other financial requirements is also mixed. A
collection and accounting system for combined water and sewerage bills has been set up
and, once the wastewater fees are approved, they will be collected by CWSC on behalf of
CSC. Computerized programs for operational and financial planning and forecasting have
been developed and put into operation by both utilities. Ownership of the public sewer
network was officially transferred to CSC on December 14, 1993. However, the sewer
interceptor pipeline will not be transferred to CSC until after the completion of the new
wastewater treatment plant, which the authorities expect by the end of 2000. On the water
supply side of the project, despite repeated promises by the authorities and the fact that
some works were physically completed more than two years ago, such as the Water
Treatment Plant No. 3 (December 31, 1998), none of the project assets have officiallv
been transferred to the utilities. Furthermore, Changchun Municipality is in violation of
the covenant to eliminate all commercial, domestic and other exemptions from water
charges and sewerage fees by completion of the project.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
22.   Factors Outside Government Control. All major factors affecting the project
were generally within government or implementing agency control.
23.   Factors Subject to Government Control. The project received various degrees
of govermnent support and commitment at the central, provincial and municipal levels. In
particular at the municipal level, the project was accorded high priority and was
considered a key project because at its completion it would provide clean water to the
city's urban population, lift past water restrictions, remove major growth restraints
curtailing further industrial development, and reduce urban pollution. A case in point is
the close collaboration between Jilin Province and Changchun Municipality to resolve the
issues related to the location of the Majia intake and raw water pumping station as a
result of a decision by the Northeast Hydropower Administration to relocate a dam
downstream from the original location. Since the Changchun Municipality had no prior
experience with World Bank Group-funded projects, a higher degree of professional
assistance, if available, may have prevented some of the implementation problems.
24.   As this was Changchun's largest infrastructure project ever, the municipal
government had to devote a large amount of its limited managerial resources to the
project. Reportedly, the situation was exacerbated by the decision to build, outside the
project under review, another water treatment plant (No. 4) during the project period,
further stretching available managerial resources and possibly overbuilding needed water
supply (both water treatment plants No. 3 and No. 4 are presently running at only half
capacity). This, together with project startup problems by the PMO, CWSC, and the



- 8 -
design and supervision consultant firm, contributed to an implementation delay of the
water supply components of about two years compared to the appraisal expectation. The
project was further affected by the devaluations of the yuan and by a rapid price
escalation of primarily construction materials and installation equipment. The provincial
government's failure to approve a sewerage tariff schedule before Credit closing resulted
in CSC's inability to comply with financial covenants.
25.   Factors Subject to Implementing  Agencies' Control. Inexperience in
procurement matters and problems in completing final designs in a timely fashion caused
implementation delays of the water supply components. When the PMO decided to make
up for some of these delays, construction quality was compromised, in particular with
regard to the raw water transmission component. Due to poor implementation, the official
transfer of assets to the operational entities has not taken place.
26.   As a result of poor surveys and inadequate design work, but also due to frequent
decisions for design changes, a large number of change orders, were required, thus
increasing project costs and delaying project implementation. A further contributing
factor was the limited input sought from the international consultants who appear to have
often been underutilized. Nevertheless, the project succeeded in developing improved
management, operational and financial systems for both utility companies. Land
acquisition and resettlement activities, reviewed by an IDA expert, proceeded
satisfactorily during the early project implementation phase.
27.   Procurement and Contracting. The project suffered to a large degree from the
misunderstanding of and general lack of adherence to the procurement requirements
stipulated by World Bank Group-financed projects. This is particularly difficult to
explain as the two procurement agencies provided assistance in this area and procurement
training was provided to several project managers prior to Credit approval. However,
little follow-up training was provided during project implementation and the
responsibilities of the international construction and management consultants included
inadequate procurement assistance and training. In hindsight, IDA's supervision efforts
should have been more rigorous and resourceful in the early implementation stages to
achieve better adherence to the World Bank Group procurement guidelines. For example,
the PMO presumed that IDA's preferred mode of pricing would be based on unit rates
rather than lump sum, although IDA had advised this method for only one specific bid
package (water treatment plant). The Borrower expressed concern about IDA's lengthy
approval process. Clearly, the most prominent evidence of the procurement problems
experienced in this project were the misprocurement of two major contracts for a total of
SDR 19,880,000 (approximately $26.9 million equivalent) and an inordinate number and
size of change orders exceeding the original bid prices by an average of 38 percent, often
without prior approval of IDA. These problems, which have been analyzed in
considerable detail by the Borrower with the help of the management consultants, as well
as by an IDA retained consultant with regard to the change orders, can be summarized as
follows:
* Misprocurement. In September 1997, it was discovered that the Borrower had
signed contracts for (a) parts of the pipeline from Majia to Shitoukomen; and (b) a



wastewater treatment plant with two companies prior to IDA's approval of the bid
evaluation reports. In fact, construction activities had already commenced for a
number of months on both project sites. Although the two companies were ranked as
the lowest evaluated bidders by the Borrower, IDA had repeatedly questioned the
disqualification of a number of lower bidders. The Borrower claimed the projected
serious water shortage in Changchun as justification for its actions. The Borrower
also quoted its fear of losing IDA funding if the contract was not completed before
the closing date of the Credit, despite written assurance from IDA that it would
favorably consider a request for extension of the closing to enable the PMO to
complete the works. Ultimately, IDA had no alternative under these circumstances
but to declare misprocurement of the two contracts and to cancel the respective
amounts of the Credit.
Change Orders. The total estimated cost of 141 change orders submitted to the IDA
for approval was over $20 million after contractual price and foreign exchange
adjustments, or some 40 percent over the original contract prices. Deviating from
normal practice, most of the change orders were not presented to IDA for prior
review and were submitted to IDA only during the final phase of project
implementation. About one-third of the total value of the change orders were the
result of actual site conditions being different from those set out in the contracts.
Better project preparation and design work, such as thorough geological and
hydrologic investigations and clarification of land ownership and easement rights
could have avoided costly design changes. Deficiencies in the Bill of Quantities
prepared by the design institutes required adjustments of another third of the total
amount of change orders. The last third was due to design changes initiated after
contract signing, and again are evidence of inadequate design work or lack of
coordination among the involved governmental entities.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
28.   Overall project sustainability is rated likely. China's commitment to addressing
long-term improvements of basic urban infrastructure is reflected in government policy
and the Five-Year Plan. Similarly, Jilin Province and Changchun Municipality have a
vital interest in providing sufficient quantity and quality of water to the more than two
million people and to the burgeoning industrial sector in the water-scarce urban area of
Changchun. But the investments put into place under the project increase recurrent costs
and will in the future also require substantial replacement investments. This may pose a
potential problem only if the utilities are not permitted to operate more independently and
to raise tariffs in a prudent manner. While there is less concern about water supply tariff
adjustments, the Government has been reluctant to charge users the full cost for sewage
collection and treatment services.
29.   Under the project both utility companies received substantial amounts of technical
assistance and training to install appropriate management control systems to properly
monitor operational efficiency. To this end, a major restructuring of CWSC resulted in an
improved organizational structure and a host of cost-cutting measures including a cutback
of 400 employees. The Water Treatment Plant No. 3 built under the project exhibits the



- 10-
lowest operating costs among the four treatment plants in the city. With the assistance of
international consultants, a Report on Organization and Responsibilities was prepared,
which could form the basis for CSC to strengthen its structure and functions in order to
become a more autonomous, effective and efficient entity.
E. IDA PERFORMANCE
30.   IDA's performance during identification was satisfactory. IDA insisted on a
comprehensive project concept encompassing water supply and wastewater treatment. As
the involved project agencies and the two utilities had limited project experience, IDA
focused correctly on strengthening the participating institutions, developing the required
training programs and bringing in the necessary design/construction and management
support consultants. However, IDA's performance during the preparation and appraisal
phases of the project was deficient. If more attention would have been given to project
readiness through a more rigorous review of the design quality of the individual
components, the need for the inordinate amount of design revisions during
implementation and for the excessive number of change orders could have been reduced.
While IDA correctly anticipated the technical assistance needs, in light of the
encountered procurement problems, it may have underestimated the need to provide
sufficient information and training opportunities concerning World Bank Group
procurement procedures. IDA succeeded in sensitizing the local authorities about the
harmful consequences of industrial and residential water pollution. And, although the
wastewater treatment facility was not funded by IDA, the municipal government is
reported to have been successful in finding financial resources to complete this project on
its own by the end of 2000. Moreover, it wishes to upgrade the treatment from a primary
to a secondary process, exceeding the requirement under the project.
31.   IDA's performance during the early stages of project implementation was also
deficient. Because of the project entities' lack of experience with large, internationally
funded infrastructure projects, a high level of project supervision by IDA was anticipated
over the life of the project. The SAR projected a total of 11 missions with 70 staff-weeks
in the field and 25 staff-weeks at headquarters for progress review. The actual number of
missions carried out from 1993 to the end of 1998 closely matched the projections.
However, the actual weeks used overall amounted to only 86 staff-weeks, of which only
18 staff-weeks were used in the field, far below the originally expected level of 70 staff-
weeks. The mission frequency was in accordance with the twice-per-year foreseen
schedule. Unfortunately, an almost one-year gap between missions occurred from April
1996 to March 1997, a very difficult period of project implementation during which
major implementation delays and unsatisfactory financial covenant compliance were
experienced. Over the project period, there were three changes of task managers whose
project evaluation criteria showed marked differences depending on their specialization.
A review of the supervision reports prepared by IDA missions reveals that up to March
1997 there was almost no indication of the difficulties the project was having. In fact, the
project was consistently given very high performance ratings. In general, World Bank
Group policies and procedures were consistently applied with some flexibility where
justified. Misunderstandings between IDA and the Borrower did occur, especially
concerning IDA's instruction that a unit price contract should be used for the Water



- 11 -
Treatment Plant No. 3 because of its size and complexity, whereas the Borrower
misinterpreted this instruction to be applied to all future contracts under the project.
While supervision frequency and quality improved in the latter stages of the project,
IDA's performance rating for the full supervision project period is rated unsatisfactory.
In its contribution to the ICR (see Section 3 of Annex B), the Borrower states that the
project could have benefited from better understanding and better communication
between the PMO and IDA. The Borrower was particularly critical of IDA's staff
changes and IDA's protracted and sometimes inflexible procurement review process.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
32.   As indicated earlier, the Borrower's commitment to the physical objectives of the
project remained strong during project implementation. Counterpart funding, for
example, was never a major problem. However, the Borrower's performance was
generally unsatisfactory in the preparation phase of the project as design work was often
not detailed enough and some of the geological and hydrologic work was inadequate.
During the actual implementation of the project, there were startup problems caused by
(a) the delay of appointing experienced project managers to the PMO which impeded its
effectiveness; (b) delayed design finalization; and (c) delayed preparation of procurement
documentation. By 1994, the Changchun Municipality had strengthened the PMO, but
could not fully resolve the other project obstacles, such as establishing a constructive
relationships with the water utility company and increasing the support of the
management consultants from a mere advisory role. Although some parts of the project
were implemented with great urgency and even ahead of the originally expected time
schedule, e.g., the Water Treatment Plant No. 3, by 1997 procurement and disbursement
problems became increasingly serious with some of the components experiencing up to
two years of completion delay. Consequently, PMO's performance was no longer
considered satisfactory. The unfortunate misprocurement of two major contracts resulting
in a Credit cancellation of about SDR 19.9 million (equivalent to about $26.9 million)
confirned this evaluation. This incident and the many change orders submitted to IDA
without providing advance notification of the often considerable design changes, raised
questions as to whether the PMO saw IDA as a partner in the project.
33.   Likewise, the agencies failed to a certain degree to take full advantage of their
expert consultants by not soliciting their views freely and incorporating them into their
decision-making process. International consultants were involved in design preparation
during project preparation and design review during project implementation. They also
played a role in contract management and construction supervision. However, their
services was more of an advisory role, often only incidental and ad hoc. This raises the
question whether the consultant firm should have taken a more active part in the project,
especially when they realized that project performance had become unsatisfactory.
34.   Project performance on the water supply side was impeded by a lack of
cooperation between the PMO and the CWSC. Further constraining factors were the
considerable quality differences between the contractors who often had insufficient
experience in large infrastructure projects, and the large number of supervising
companies which occasionally failed to apply consistent and proper standards of quality



- 12 -
control. Project reporting improved over the implementation period, but rarely
highlighted potential problems or sought ex-ante IDA's assistance. Audit reports were
submitted in a timely fashion and in a manner consistent with other World Bank Group
projects in China. The Borrower's compliance with covenants was deficient. In particular,
the Borrower has not met the financial covenants concerning sewer charges as it prefers
to first construct the wastewater treatment plant before instituting sewerage tariffs. In
addition, the substantial procurement problems in the project contributed to this rating. It
should be noted, however, that the Borrower, although recognizing these shortcomings,
felt that the performance of its PMO was in general acceptable.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
35.   Overall, the assessment of outcome is rated unsatisfactory. Insofar as the water
supply part of the project is concerned, the project has achieved the expected
development results although the water treatment plant may have been overdimensioned
and the quality of construction work could have been better. The project did help to
improve the water supply in Changchun to meet the initially expected domestic needs of
the urban population and support industrial growth. The water tariffs have been adjusted
to improve the financial situation of CWSC. Problems in construction quality may, over
the long run, lead to higher than normal operating and maintenance costs.
36.   However, the project did not achieve its objectives concerning wastewater
pollution because of the more than four-year delay in completing the wastewater
treatment plant compared to the original project implementation schedule and the
Borrower's failure to properly adjust sewerage tariffs as covenanted. As mentioned
above, central government funding reportedly has been made available to complete the
wastewater treatment facility by the end of 2000. On the positive side, it should be
mentioned that the municipal authorities have expressed interest in upgrading the
treatment process from the one included in the project. Because the IDA Credit has
closed, neither design changes nor construction supervision will have the benefit of
IDA's or the management consultants' review and comments. Despite the failure to
complete the wastewater treatment plant during the project implementation period, the
project did have a positive effect on the city's industrial and domestic pollution situation
by virtue of the construction of a 10 km interceptor sewer pipeline. In a broader sense, the
city also benefited from the project by gaining considerable experience in carrying out
large infrastructure projects and by learning how to deal with foreign suppliers,
contractors, consultants and international financial institutions.
37.   The extremely low utilization of technical assistance funds underscores the
limited commitment by the project agencies to institutional development and the
subsequent disappointing achievements. A qualitative assessment of the technical
assistance program revealed poor follow-up and low utilization of the techniques learned
by the trainees, such as in the distribution optimization plans and in GIS applications. The
project's financial objectives were only partially achieved. Water supply tariffs were
increased four times during project implementation. However, CSC has not been able to
institute sewerage tariffs for residential users and those charged to industrial customers
remain inadequately low, causing the company in 1997 to incur operating losses three



-13 -
times the size of its operating income. In addition, as of December 1, 1999, none of the
project assets had officially been transferred from the PMO to the operating utilities.
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
38.   Changchun Water Supply. CWSC and the Northeast Municipal Engineering
Design Institute have developed a Water Master Plan for Changchun Municipality. They
show a further increase in Changchun's urban population and an increase in the service
factor of population served with treated water, reaching from 90 percent in 1993 to 100
percent by 2020. Simultaneously, water consumption per capita is forecast to slow,
probably as a result of water conservation measures. Overall, the maximum daily total
water demand in the year 2010 would be over 20 percent below the level expected in the
SAR. Similarly, the future industrial water demand is now projected to be less than
originally projected mainly because of slower growth rates of the major industries located
in Changchun and higher expected water recycling rates. Unaccounted-for water losses
are also expected to improve significantly from the present rate of 22 to 25 percent as a
result of the extensive training provided by the international experts. These projections
indicate that the existing water supply plants and the new water supply facilities, Water
Treatment Plant Nos. 3 and 4, most likely will meet the water demand for a longer-than-
originally-expected time period. Operational plans for CWSC show that the company is
well prepared for managing its operations. Through technical assistance provided under
the project, long-term, computerized operational planning systems were developed that
provided CWSC with excellent management tools. In addition, extensive training
programs provided for senior leadership, mid-level managers and operators should help
the company to become a stronger and more efficient organization. CWSC restructured
its organization in the second half of 1997 by making it more transparent and easier to
manage. It has reduced staff from 3,800 to 3,400, simplified its organizational structure,
improved its investment planning capabilities, and increased operational efficiency with
the help of computers. The company is committed to carefully monitoring and controlling
its operating costs and capital expenditure program. In particular, it plans to make further
improvements to the city's water distribution system, 400 km of which, built by the
Japanese, are more than 50 years old. Also, a second raw water supply pipeline from the
Majia pumping station is on the drawing board. The company's financial outlook remains
positive as long as adequate tariff increases are approved by the Government.
39.   Changchun Sewerage and Wastewater Treatment. CSC was established only
in 1992 with the responsibility to collect and treat storm drainage and sanitary sewage.
The municipal government approved the transfer of the sewage network assets to CSC in
1993, but it appears that the sewage network and the four pumping stations continue to be
operated by the six district governments. At the request of the municipal government, the
transfer of the sewer interceptor pipeline will be delayed until after the completion of the
new wastewater treatment plant, expected by the end of 2000. Until this new facility is
built and adequate tariffs for its services are approved by the provincial government, CSC
is likely to remain a small operation. Under the project, the company has received
technical assistance to improve its management, operations and maintenance capabilities
and should be in reasonable position to assume increased responsibilities in the future.
The technical assistance program included training of the company's technical staff as



- 14 -
well as its higher and middle management and, in addition, comprised discrete tasks such
as the development of a computerized accounting and forecasting system; upgrading of
the company's maintenance system; development of a database, pretreatment criteria and
monitoring system for industrial waste management; training in GIS application for the
sewage collection system; improvement of a wastewater flow monitoring system; and
preparation of a plan to inspect, rehabilitate and maintain the collection system.
40.   In a "Report on Organization and Responsibilities" prepared in 1998 with the
assistance of the management consultants, CSC lays out an operational plan on how it
intends to meet its future, substantially increased responsibilities after the waste treatment
plant has been built and all responsibilities for the sewage network and the pumping
stations have been transferred to the company. At that time, CSC will increase its work
force by an additional 500 staff. Over the longer term, CSC has plans to build yet another
wastewVater treatment plant in the western part of the city and substantially upgrade the
city's sewer network, most of which was built in the 1930s. The critical key to its future
successful operation and expansion will not only be the management capabilities of the
company's senior staff, but to an equally important degree the consent by all involved
parties that these ambitious plans can only be realized if (a) sewage user charges are
adjusted to properly reflect operational needs and financial costs and (b) the government
as well as domestic and foreign lenders provide the necessary funding for the desired
additional capital investments. Judging from past experience, doubts are warranted as to
whether these plans are realistic.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
41.   Key lessons learned from the implementation of the project include:
Project Preparation
(a) Design institutes for major civil works projects should be selected on the basis of
relevant experience and not be limited to those institutes that happen to operate in
the same city or province. Local design institutes should only be appointed if they
have the necessary background and project design expertise. The selection review
should carefully assess the financial strength of these entities, proficiency of their
engineers and operating resources. In order to improve efficiency, oversight and
leverage, the number of design institutes should be kept to a manageable level.
The design fees set by the government may be too low to attract and provide
adequate services.
(b) The accuracy of final designs should be assured using, inter alia, actual soil
conditions based on comprehensive geological and hydrologic surveys and other
relevant documents. This would avoid costly design modifications,
implementation delays and expensive change orders. Significant problems in this
regard occurred with the Majia pumping station (excessive groundwater; differing
soil conditions of the auxiliary structure, boiler house and chimney structure);
Dashuihe pumping station (differing soil condition of pump house and auxiliary
structure; changed road; inadequate water for boiler house; inaccurate elevations;



- 15 -
site material different for switch room); Laoyeling tunnel (differing rock
formation; excessive groundwater); and the wastewater interceptor (differing soil
conditions).
(c) Preliminary and final designs should be reviewed by experienced consultants, if
necessary by an international team of experts.
(d) End-users, e.g. the project utilities, should be involved at the preparation stage to
obtain their input and consent not only to ensure ownership commitment, but also
to reduce change orders during the construction period and plant modification
expenses during the operating phase of the project.
(e) The project management office should be set up with qualified personnel and
fully operational prior to project implementation.
(f) The need for strict compliance with the World Bank Group's procurement
guidelines should be emphasized to all parties-project management personnel,
the involved utilities, design institutes, contractors and supervision companies. To
this end, ample training and follow-up training should be provided.
Project Implementation
(a) An unmanageable number of supervision companies should be avoided. As the
concept of supervision companies is relatively new in China, particular attention
should be paid to their past experience with similar projects in terms of project
quantity and complexity. If needed, additional training should be provided and
construction management consultants should periodically review their
performance.
(b) Design and construction consultants should in large and complex projects be
involved in detailed review of design and project implementation. An only limited
(functional) role can be justified only if the borrower has adequate expertise. If
indicated, as it would have been in this project, there should be full-time
representation of the construction consultant, including a permanent resident
engineer for the full implementation period, in order to monitor construction
quality, to dispense appropriate advice and to review change orders as they are
initiated.
(c) Management consultants should, until sufficient experience is acquired by the
local project management staff, participate in the decision-making process
concerning project matters.
(d) Training programs should be tailor-made for China to ensure effectiveness. The
persons to be trained should be those who actually carry out the work in the
respective fields. Senior managers do not always pass on their knowledge to
junior staff.



- 16 -
(e) Clear communication between the World Bank Group and the borrower with
appropriate confirmation and follow-up during supervision missions can avoid
costly mistakes, especially concerning procurement matters.
(f) A project should be nominated as a "demonstration project" only after it has been
completed and proven to meet or exceed expectations, not at the time of
preparation.
Financial Performance
(a) In order to properly determine the size of a project and its long-term
- sustainability, it is essential that realistic demand projections for infrastructure
services be developed.



- 17 -
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of Objectives         Substantial       Partial    Negligible     Not Applicable
Macroeconomic Policies
Sector Policies                                         v
Financial Objectives                                    V/
Institutional Development                               V
Physical Objectives                                     V
Poverty Reduction                                                                      V
Gender Issues                                                                          V
Other Social Objectives                                 V
Environmental Objectives                                              V/
Public Sector Management                                              V
Private Sector Development                                                             V
Other (specify)                                                                        V
Overall                                                 ,
B. Project Sustainability                  Likely             Unlikely            Uncertain
Water Supply        '
Wastewater                                                                             v
Hazardous Waste                                                   V
Overall                                      V
C. IDA Performance                     Highly Satisfactory      Satisfactory        Deficient
Identification                                                       V
Preparation Assistance                                                                  V
Appraisal                                                                               V
Supervision                                                                             V
D. Borrower Performance                Highly Satisfactory       Satisfactory        Deficient
Preparation                                                                             V
Implementation                                                                          V
Covenant Compliance                                                                     V
E. Assessment of Outcome         Highly         Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory       Highly
Satisfactory                                       Unsatisfactory
Water Supply Component                              V/
Waste Water Component                                                                   V
Other Components, incl. TA                                            V
Overall                                                               V



- 18 -
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
Loan/credit title           Purpose                                 Year of     Status
Approval l
Medium-Sized Cities         1) To  improve  overall city  planning  FY91    Completed/
Development Project (Cr. 2201 - including across and within sectors;            Closed
CHA/Ln. 3286-CHA)           2) To increase efficiency in the utilization
and management of existing facilities;
3) To strengthen resource mobilization;
4) To support expansion of economic
activity; and
5) To promote prudent management of
environmental resources.
Liaoning Urban Infrastructure   1) To improve water supply conditions in  FY92    Completed/
Project (Cr. 2219-CHA)      three project cities through physical works         Closed
and strengthening of institutions, regula-
tions, management, financial and pricing
policies;
2) To improve traffic and public transport
conditions in Shenyang through a pilot
program of selected low-cost physical works
and institutional strengthening; and
3) To improve measures for water pollution
abatement through technical assistance in
wastewater treatment, and strengthening of
institutions and enforcement measures for
water pollution control.
Liaoning Environmental Project 1) Protect main water resources in Liaoning  FY95  Under
(Ln. 3781-CHA)              Province;                                       implementation
2) Strengthen pricing policy and institutional
management for environmental protection,
water pollution control, wastewater, and
solid waste; and
3) Institute measures for air pollution control
and cultural heritage asset management.
Shandong Urban Environment  1) To strengthen policies, regulations and  FY98     Under
Project (Ln. 4237-CHA)      institutional arrangements for municipal        implementation
water, wastewater, and district heating, and
environmental pollution prevention and
control;
2) Expand surface water supply to Jinan to
prevent further depletion of groundwater
aquifers;
3) Facilitate sustainable management of
investments in pollution control and munici-
pally  provided   urban   environmental
services; and
4) Arrange for updating the information
database with respect to water quality and
management in Xiaoqing River Basin.



- 19 -
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in Project Cycle      Date Planned                 Date Actual
Identification              December 1988                January 1989
Preparation                 March 1989                   October 1991
Appraisal                   February 1992                May 17, 1992
Negotiations                October/November 1992        December 7, 1992
Board Presentation          January 1993                 February 9, 1993
Signing                     February 1993                March 18, 1993
Effectiveness               April 1993                   September 9, 1993
Credit Closing              December 31, 1998            June 30, 1999
TABLE 4: CREDIT DISBURSEMENT: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
(in $ Million)
Fiscal Years    1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000
Appraisal Estimate          7.2   29.2   61.2   91.2   105.2  116.2  120.0  120.0
Actual                       0      7.0   10.8   35.0   56.0   69.7   81.5   83.5
Actual as % of Estimate      0      24      18     38     53     60      68     70
Date of Final Disbursement - December 7, 1999



- 20 -
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Indicators                        Planned at Appraisal                Actual
Total Average Raw Water Demand (m3/d)                        1,234,000                   995,000
Water Supply Capacity (m3/d)                                  794,000                    755,000
Water Transmission
Intake Pumping Station: Year of Completion                    1996                       1998
Laoyeling Tunnel: Year of Completion                          1996                       1998
Pipelines: Total Length (in km)                                7.9                         8.4
Year of Completion                                   1997                       1998
Urban Water Supply
Pumping Stations and Pipelines: Year of Completion            1997                       1998
Water Treatment Plant:
Capacity (m3/d)                                         220,000                     220,000
Year of Completion                                         1996                       1997
Urban Distribution Network: Year of Completion                1997                       1998
Wastewater Components
Trunk Interceptor Sewer
Total Length (in km)                                        10.4                       11.0
Year of Completion                                         1997                       1998
Wastewater Treatment Plant
Capacity (m3/d)                                         390,000                       N/A
Year of Completion                                         1997                      2000*
Water Tariff in 1998 (in Yuan/m3)                                 0.79                       1.86
Sewerage Tariff in 1998 (in Yuan/m3)                              0.40             Not established
Communication Systems
Year of Completion                                         1997                       1998
Power Supply
Year of Completion                                         1995                       1998
Toxic & Hazardous Waste Management and
Industrial Relocation Study
Date of Completion                                Dec. 31, 1995               October 1998
Program for Computerized Planning & Forecasting
Date of Completion                                Dec. 31, 1994                      1997
New Computerized Billing System
Date of Completion                                Dec. 31, 1994                      1997
Institutional Set-Up of CWSC
Date of Completion                                Dec. 31, 1993                      1998
Institutional Set-Up of CSC
Date of Completion                                Dec.31, 1993                      2000*
Increased Staffing of CSC
Date of Completion                                 January 1997                     2000*
* Estimate



- 21 -
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION
1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001   2002
Population (OOOs)
Actual                                      1,665   1,694   1,741   1,862   1,902   1,943
Projected at Appraisal                      1,815   1,842   1,870   1,898   1,926   1,955   1,985  2,014   2,045   2,059  2,089
Estimated at Closing                                                                       2,040  2,100   2.150   2,230   2,320
Changchun Water Supply Company
Average Daily Water Supply (OOOs/rn3)
Actual                                       456    479    506    514    548    593
Projected at Appraisal                        390    395    410    410    410    795    795    795
Estimated at Closing                                                                        755    810    880    950   1,040
Total Water Sales (Million m3/y)
Actual                                        174    183    194    195    205    220
Projected at Appraisal*                        60    108    108    108    107    229    259    266    271    282
Estimated at Closing                                                                        234    250    266    281    295
Changchun Sewerage Company
Population Served (OOOs)
Actual                                        833    932   1,045   1,210   1,331   1,554
Projected at Appraisal *
Estimated at Closing                                                                       1,632   1,790   1,830   1,900   1,970
Total Wastewater (000 m3/d)
Actual                                        365    383    405    411    438    474
Projected at Appraisal*                                              653                                    805
Estimated at Closing                                                                        680    729    792    855    936
Total Sewer Length (km)
Actual                                        949    972    994   1,004   1,014   1,020
Projected at Appraisal*
Estimated at Closing                                                                       1,025   1,030   1,035   1,040   1,045
Total Gross Revenues (Y Million)
Actual                                                        4.6    4.9    5.1    5.3
Projected at Appraisal*                                                             69.6   72.3   74.2
Estimated at Closing                                                                         6.1    6.4   52.1   56.5   61.4
* Information available only for the years shown.



- 22 -
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
No.             Title                    Conducted By                    Impact
1.  Toxic/Hazardous Waste        International consultants (IC),   Satisfactory, but implementation
Management and Industrial Park Project Management Office  of recommendations is uncertain.
Study
2.  Water Resource Optimization    Changchun Water Supply Co.,  Satisfactory and useful.
Study                        Domestic Design Institute, IC
3.  Changchun Sewerage Company: Changchun Sewerage Co.,        Satisfactory. Implementation
Report on Organization and   Project Management Office, IC  awaits completion of WWTP.
Responsibilities
4.  Construction Inspection Final   IC                         Satisfactory.
Report
5.  Construction Cost Review     Project Management Office,    Satisfactory.
Report                       IC/Domestic
6.  Changchun Water Master Plan   Domestic Design Institute,   Satisfactory and useful for future
Changchun Water Supply Co.,  water demand projections and
_Project Management Office, IC  investments.
Note: All studies were completed at time of Credit closing.
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS
(in $ million)
Appraisal Estimate           Latest Estimate(12/15/99)
Item                          Local    Foreign      Total       Local   Foreign      Total
Water Transmission             36.0       44.5      80.5       62.0       26.5      88.5
Urban Water Supply             34.2       36.1      70.3       32.6       51.2      83.8
Sewage Collection/Treatment    20.3       16.2      36.5       45.8        3.4      49.2
Technical Assistance            6.3        6.5      12.8        0.9        2.2       3.1
Total Base Cost        96.8      103.3      200.1
Contingencies                  29.5       21.8      51.3
Total Project Cost     126.3     125.1      251.4*     141.3      83.3      224.6
* Excluding interest during construction.



- 23 -
TABLE 8B: PROJECT COSTS
(in Y million)
Appraisal Estimate            Latest Estimate (12115/99)
Item                            Local     Foreign     Total       Local    Foreign       Total
Water Transmission              198        244        442         514.8      220.0      734.8
Urban Water Supply               187        198       385         270.7      425.2      695.9
Sewage Collection/Treatment     111         89        200         379.7       28.3      408.0
Technical Assistance             34         36          70          7.4       18.6       26.0
Total Base Cost         530        567       1,097
Contingencies                   160         120       280
Total Project Cost      690        687       1,377*     1,172.6      692.1    1,864.7
* Excluding interest during construction.
TABLE 8C: PROJECT FINANCING
(in $ million)
Appraisal Estimate           Latest Estimate (12/15/99)
Source              Local     Foreign      Total      Local     Foreign     Total
Domestic Contribution           141.2        5.1       146.3      141.3                 141.3
GOC                              25.5        5.1        30.6       45.5                  45.5
Jilin Province                   54.7                   54.7        4.8                   4.8
Changchun Municipality           61.0                   61.0       91.0                  91.0
IDA                               0.0      120.0       120.0                  83.3       83.3
Total                   141.2      125.1      266.3       141.3       83.3      224.6
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC EVALUATION
Estimates at  Estimates at
Appraisal    Completion
Water Supply Component (75.4% of Total Project Costs)              11.3%           12.6%
Sewerage Component (18.2% of Total Project Costs)                  22.8%           N/A*
Combined Economic Rate of Return                                   13.3%           N/A*
*      No estimates concerning delayed WWTP available.



- 24 -
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Agreement   Section   Covenant Present Description of Covenant                            Comments
Type      Status
Credit       4.10      01        C        Ministry of Finance to fumish IDA not later than six
months after the end of each year the auditor's report
accounts of the withdrawals from the Credit Account
and Special Account.
Changchun                                I
Credit       3.1 0(b)   01       C        Changchun to fumish IDA not later than six months
after the end of each year, the audit report of the
records and accounts reaffirming the parts C, D.2 and
E of the project.
Credit       3.03(a)   02        CP       Changchun should eliminate all commercial, domestic Sewerage fees not yet
and other exemptions from water and sewerage   implemented.
charges by completion of project.
Credit       Sched. 2, 09        CD       Changchun shall provide to IDA a report on      Complied with after delay.
Part A3                     inspection, maintenance and operation arrangements
for the Shitoukoumen Reservoir dam.
Project      Sched.2, 06         CD       Changchun to carry out a study on (a) hazardous and  Complied with after delay.
Part C.2                    toxic waste management; and (b) industrial relocation.
Credit       3.03 (c)  10        CD       Changchun shall transfer ownership of all public sewei Complied with after delay.
assets.
CWSC/CSC
Project      2.08 (b)  10        C        CWSC to enter into a contract with Jilin Province to
(a) ensure that water is made available at appropriate
prices and quantities from the Xin Licheng Reservoir;
and (b) provide a report on inspection, maintenance
and operation arrangements of the Xin Licheng
Reservoir dam.
Project      3.04 (a)  05        C        CWSC and CSC to hire consultants to assist in   Services of consultants were
improving their management and operations.     not fully utilized.
Project      3.04 (b)  05        C        CWSC and CSC to provide IDA with action plan to
improve management and operations.
Project      3.04 (d)  09        C        CWSC and CSC to submit semiannual reports on
achieving progress under action plan (see 3.04(b)).
Project      3.05      10        CD       CWSC and CSC to implement (a) computerized      Delayed due to late start of
planning, billing and collection fees; (b) a managemen consultants.
information system.
Project      4.01(b.ii) 01       C        CWSC and CSC to fumish IDA not later than six
months after the end of the year, the audit reports and
certified copies of their accounts.
Project      4.04 (a)  02        NC       CWSC and CSC to produce for each of their fiscal    Water financial covenant
years (after 1993) total revenue not less than total    only partially complied
operating expenses; plus an amount for debt services  with; wastewater financial
requirements or provision for depreciation, whichever covenant not complied with.
is higher.
Project      4.04 (b)  09        CD       CWSC and CSC to produce revenue forecasts for the  Complied with after delay.
next fiscal year before September I of each year and
take measure to meet requirements.
Project      4.05      02        CD       CWSC to increase water tariffs.                 Tariffs were increased after
delay, but increases not
always adequate to meet
financial covenant.
Covenant Class:                                                                  Status:
I = Accounts/audits                8 = Indigenous people                      C   = covenant complied wth
2 = Financial performance/revenue    9 = Monitoring, review, and reporting    CD  = complied with after delay
generation from beneficiaries    10 = Project implementation not          CP  = complied with partially
3 = Flow and utilization of project     covered by categories 1-9             NYD= not yet due
funds                         11 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral             NC  = not complied with
4 = Counterpart funding                 budgetary or other resources
5 = Management aspects of the           allocation
project or executing agency   12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
6 = Environmental covenants             regulatory/institutional action
7 = Involuntary resettlement      13 = Other



- 25 -
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
There was significant lack of compliance with the procurement directives of the World
Bank Operational Manual Statements which led to misprocurement as described in para.
27 of this report.
TABLE 12A: IDA RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS (ACTUAL STAFF-WEEKS)
Stage/Fiscal Years     1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999 2000* Total
Preparation to Appraisal    13.6  25.7  15.5  28.2                                                          83.0
Appraisal                                      5.4   30.7                                                   36.1
Negotiation to Board                                  10.6                                                  10.6
Presentation
Supervision                                           13.6   7.8  13.1  15.4   9.6  14.6   9.9   1.5   85.5
Completion                                                                                    2.6   6.9    9.5
Total            13.6  25.7  15.5  33.6   54.9   7.8  13.1  15.4   9.6  14.6  12.5   8.4  224.7
* Estimate
TABLE 1211: IDA RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS (ACTUAL $'000)
Stage/Fiscal Years    1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999 2000* Total
Preparation to Appraisal   39.8  79.6  44.1  83.0                                                          246.5
Appraisal                                      16.3  93.8                                                  110.1
Negotiation to Board                                  36.4                                                  36.4
Presentation
Supervision                                           45.9  25.7  33.4  39.9  33.3  54.8  26.4   6.0 265.4
Completion                                                                                     13.6  20.7  34.3
Total             39.8  79.6  44.1  99.3  176.1  25.7  33.4  39.9  33.3  54.8  40.0  26.7 692.7
* Estimate



- 26 -
TABLE 13: IDA RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Performance rating
Specialized     Imple-     Devel-
Stage of project cycle      Month/ Number of   Days          staff skills    mentation   opment
year    persons    in field  represented /a  status /b   objectives
Preidentification            12/88       1          3            SE
Identification               4/89        3          6          SE, FA
Preparation                  10/89       4          10         SE, FA
Preparation                  4/90        1           1           SE
Preparation                  5/90        2          5            SE
Preparation                  11/90       5          8        SE, FA, US
Preappraisal                 10/91       9          16     SE. FA. US, PS
Post Preappraisal            2/92        2          11           SE
Appraisal                    5/92        9          17       SE, FA, US
Post Appraisal               10/92       3          5            SE
Supervision 1                5/93        4          10         US, SE           I           I
Supervision 2                10/93       2          3            SE             I          I
Supervision 3                3/94        3          4          SE, FA           I          I
Supervision 4                12/94       2          3          OA, SE           I           I
Supervision 5                8/95        2          6          FA, SE          2           2
Supervision 6                4/96        3          4        FA, SE, RS        2           2
Supervision 7                3/97        3          5        FA, SE, PM        3           2
Supervision 8                9/97        5          7      SE, FA, PM, PS       3          3
Supervision 9                6/98        2          5          SE, PM           3          3
Supervision 10/Completion    9/98        3          7        SE, FA, PM       N/R         N/R
/a      SE: Sanitation Engineer/Water Engineer; US: Urban Specialist; OA: Operations Analyst; FA: Financial Analyst; PS:
Procurement Specialist; RS: Resettlement Specialist; PM: Project Management Specialist.
/b      1: Highly satisfactory; 2: Satisfactory; 3: Unsatisfactory
N/R     Not Rated



- 27 -                     Annex A
ANNEX A: ICR MISSION'S AIDE-MEMOIRE
September 23-30, 1998
A.   Introduction
1.    A mission composed of Messrs. Herbert Boehm and Zhang Zhun visited Jilin
Province between September 23 and 30, 1998 to carry out the implementation completion
mission of the Changchun Water Supply and Environmental Project. Mr. Wiebe Moes
(EASUR), Task Manager for this project, participated in the mission from September 23
to 25, 1998 and at the same time carried out a partial supervision mission of this project.
In two field visits, the ICR mission reviewed the status of several major parts of the
Urban Water Supply component in Changchun (Water Treatment Plant No. 3 and
Zhengyang network pumping station) and the Water Transmission component (Majia
pumping station and Dashuihe pumping station).
2.    The mission would like to express its gratitude to the Project Office and other
authorities for the excellent arrangements for the mission's program and the courtesies
extended. This Aide-Memoire summarizes the mission's findings and confirms the
agreements reached with the authorities concerning the preparation of the Borrower's
contribution to the ICR.
B.   Borrower's Review of Implementation Performance
3.    The closing date of the IDA Credit is December 31, 1998. To ensure that
preparatory work for the implementation completion report is commenced well in
advance of that date, this mission was fielded to ensure that IDA obtain all necessary data
and information and to give the Project Management Office (PMO) sufficient time to
prepare their contribution to the ICR exercise. To this end, the mission states with
satisfaction that a team within the Planning Department of the PMO, headed by its
director, has been organized to oversee the Borrower's ICR responsibilities.
4.   In addition, a "Construction Cost Review Report" has been drafted by the PMO in
collaboration with the external management consultant firmn which to a large degree could
form the basis for the Borrower's own final evaluation report on the project (see para. 5).
As there were disagreements on certain issues about this draft report on the Chinese side
as well as between the PMO and their consultants, who were the main authors of the
report, the PMO promised to revise the draft report and submit it to IDA by mid-October.
5.    The mission briefed the involved project agencies in detail about the Borrower's
responsibilities in the ICR preparation. In particular, it was emphasized that the
Borrower's own final evaluation report must include (i) an assessment of the project
objectives, design, implementation, and operational experience; (ii) an evaluation of the
Borrower's own performance during the evolution and implementation of the project,
with special emphasis on lessons learned; and (iii) an evaluation of the performance of
IDA during the evolution and implementation of the project, again with special emphasis
on lessons learned. The PMO indicated that they would expect to have a first draft of



-28 -                      Annex A
their ICR contribution ready by the end of October. Furthermore, the mission discussed
the requirements for the preparation of an operational plan after the project has been put
into operation. This requirement concerns primarily the Changchun Sewage Company
(CSC), as the other entities under the project are well-established entities with adequate
operational controls. As requested by previous IDA supervision missions, CSC has
prepared a draft report on organization and responsibilities to satisfy this requirement.
This report was reviewed by the mission and its comments will be incorporated in a
revised version of the report which will be submitted to IDA by the end of November
1998.
C.   IDA's Review of Project Design and Implementation
6.    In order to assess to what degree the project has achieved its original project
objectives and to assess the prospects for the project's future success or failure during its
operational phase, the mission held extensive discussions with the PMO and all other
relevant project agencies and the project's external consultants. They included staff of the
PMO, Changchun Water Supply Company (CWSC), CSC, Environmental Protection
Bureau, Municipal Finance Bureau, Municipal Planning Commission, Jilin Hydraulic
Power and Design Institute, Changchun Civil Engineering Design Institute, Northeast
Civil Engineering Design and Research Institute, and several supervision companies.
7.    The mission benefited from a number of reports, although several of them were
still in draft version: the Construction Cost Review Report; the Progress Report for the
Third Quarter of Year 1998; the CSC Report on Organization and Responsibilities; the
Progress Report of April 1, 1998; the Construction Inspection Final Report; and the
Toxic/Hazardous Waste Management and Industrial Park Study.
8.    The mission's discussions with the authorities focussed on the status of the
project, current and anticipated problems and issues and lessons learned from the project.
As there may be a separate procurement audit carried out by IDA with special focus on
the large number of change orders, procurement issues were dealt with only to the extent
that they could impact the achievement of project objectives. The results of the
procurement audit will be incorporated into the ICR. The findings of the procurement
audit are expected to be available by the end of November 1998.
9.    Key implementation indicators for the project were submitted and discussed by
the mission and the PMO arranged for the completion of the tables before the mission's
departure. In addition, performance indicators as part of the operational plan were
prepared by CWSC and CSC on a draft basis. It was agreed that these indicators will
have to be refined as part of the Borrower's ICR contribution.
D.   Project Funding
10.   Since IDA had canceled the wastewater treatment project and the Majia to
Dashuihe raw water transmission pipelines, with a total contract value of Y 350 million,
the municipal government had to fund the work done to date fully on their own, i.e.,
about RMB 30 million. Moreover, the PMO has paid the change order amounts (about $5
million) before they were submitted to IDA for review and approval. Consequently, the



- 29 -                    Annex A
PMO reported problems with financing the completion of a number of contracts, e.g., on
the Majia and the Dashuihe pumping stations.



- 30 -                          ANNEX B
ANNEX B: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
Introduction. Changchun Water Supply and Environmental Project is the first World Bank loan
project of Changchun Municipal Government of PRC for infrastructure construction. The Project
was approved by the State Planning Commission to be started on Oct. 29, 1993. The planned
date of completion is Dec. 31, 1997. The Credit agreement took effect on Sept. 18, 1993, and
Credit closing date is Dec. 31, 1998. The Credit closing date was postponed to June 30, 1999 by
the World Bank in May 1999.
1. Assessment of Performance of the PMO
1.1   Project Objectives
Improve water supply in Changchun Municipality to meet the domestic needs of the urban
population and to support industrial growth. Reduce industrial and domestic water pollution
through physical works. Strengthening of institutions, developments in operation management,
and changes in pricing policy.
1.2.  Scope of the Project
The project consists of three parts: (a) Construction of a raw water transmission pipeline to
convey water from the Second Songhua River at Majia to Changchun via the Shitoukoumen
Reservoir; construction of pumping stations, expansion and improvement of urban water
treatment facilities; and expansion of the capacity of the water distribution system; (b)
Construction of a trunk interceptor sewer and a primary sewage treatment plant, and procurement
of equipment and instruments for environmental quality monitoring and control; and (c)
Technical assistance for design and construction supervision, management support to the water
and sewerage companies including the preparation of staff training programs, and
implementation of a hazardous waste study.
1.3   Assessment of Project Design
* The purpose of the project design is to improve existing water supply, sewer collection and
treatment system in Changchun City.
*  The design realizes diversion of 154,000,000 m3 water per year from the Songhua River to
Shitoukoumen Reservoir of Changchun City. In the meantime, the project completion will
make optimizing management of Shitoukoumen Reservoir and Xinlicheng Reservoir
possible. After optimizing management, supply capacity of Shitoukoumen and Xinlicheng
Reservoirs will increase from 462,500 m3/day to 600,000 m3/day, plus water withdrawn from
Songhua River the total raw water source will be 1,050,000 m3/day (95% of the time). The
project, therefore, abates water shortage in Changchun City. According to the new Water
Master Plan prepared by the local consultants it could meet the raw water demands in 2001.
* During the detail design, Tuanshanzi booster pumping station of the raw water transmission
system and sewage lift pumping station were taken out from the project according to the
suggestion of foreign consultants.



- 31-                            ANNEX B
*  In original design, raw water transmission system includes about ten-kilometer stretch of
Chaluhe River to transfer raw water to Shitoukoumen Reservoir. As on both sides of Chaluhe
River, paddy fields are going to enlarge, water losses are serious. To eliminate water losses, a
pipeline with a length of 12.23 km has been installed during the construction period.
*  Due to the expansion of the city water distribution network (adding 67 km pipeline), the
water supply has been improved especially in the previously low-pressure area. Nearly
300,000 people in the 30 km2 area have benefited from it.
*  The sewage interception trunks have intercepted the sewer discharged to the Yitong River.
The surface water pollution has been efficiently controlled in the city area of the Yitong
River. The water environment has been improved in the city area.
*  Changchun Municipal Government has improved the institution of CWSC and CWC,
reformed the price of water supply to meet the financial covenant stipulated in the Credit
Agreement. From 1996 onward, CWSC has made profits, it is helpful for improvement of
management. Under the help of the municipal government, CSC has been set up and the
assets of public sewer network were transferred to them. The Price Bureau of the Provincial
Government approved the collection of a sewer tariff. This regulation will come into effect
this year.
1.4   Project Implementation
In the course of project construction, PMO was responsible to organize and manage the project
implementation. Three sub-PMOs were established to be directly in charge of construction for
raw water transmission, urban water supply and the wastewater project, respectively. The PMO
reported to the Changchun Municipal Government as well as to the World Bank under the
stipulated terms. The bidding and procurement progress, contract management, financial
statement, technical assistance, project planning and schedule, etc. have been reported.
Construction management mainly includes as follows:
*  Quality control: for each component, contractors have their own quality control system.
Additionally, during construction, supervision engineers controlled starting and acceptance
of each work procedure to guarantee works qualities. Quality control standard was strictly
based on relevant government regulations, bidding documents, technical specifications,
design requirements and so on. Priority attention was given to environment protection and
safety.
*  Schedule control: Whole schedule was established according to the basic program of SAR.
PMO has reported planning and actual schedule quarterly to the World Bank at the beginning
of each quarter. Foreign experts have provided related software and examined the plan.
Officers and experts of the World Bank also have come for field supervision at regular
intervals and pointed out requirements and made comments. One part of the WTP No. 3 was
completed a half-year in advance of the schedule stated in the contract. Control schedule of
each single works was based on the construction organization plan approved by the PMO and
supervision engineers according to the schedule in the contract.



- 32 -                          ANNEX B
*  Investment control: Investment was controlled by the PMO for the whole project. PMO takes
responsibilities for reimbursement of funds from the World Bank, collection of local
counterpart funds, overall investment planning, approving of change orders, providing price
adjustment index issued by the relevant authority and approving of monthly payment
certifications signed by engineers. The PMO developed the manual of supervision engineers
in 1995. According to the manual, engineers review or prepare expenditure schedule on the
basis of bidding documents, technical specifications, construction drawings and related
documents. The engineers control contract cost by monthly payments. Foreign consultants
gave instructions to the engineers and reviewed change orders. The World Bank has
controlled investment too. They supervised and approved the contract cost, change orders
and payments in different categories.
*  Information management: The files and information management of the project was carried
out by the PMO. The information flow chart and requirements were clarified.
*  At present, all projects have been completed except the wastewater treatment plant. The
transfer of assets is underway.
1.4.1 Raw Water Transmission System
*  An intake pumping station is set up at the Majia basin downstream of the Fengman Reservoir
in Jilin City. Three sets of pumps have been installed with a lift head of 73m and a capacity
of 2.8 m3/s and a motor of 2500 kW.
*  A pipeline with a length of 56 km, diameter of 2 m and 1.4 m (at the end of the pipeline) has
been completed from Majia Pumping Station to Shitoukoumen Reservoir. The material of
pipe is steel or prestressed reinforced concrete.
- A tunnel with a length of 7.92 km and cross-section of 3.1x3.1 m has been built in the
Laoyeling Ridge of Huanxi Town in Jilin City. The tunnel is based on gravity flow.
-  A booster pumping station is set up at Dashuihe. Three sets of pumps have been installed
with a lift head of 43 m, capacity of 2.8 m3/s and a motor of 1400 kW.
*  The objective of an annual diversion of water of 154,000,000 m3 through the raw water
transmission system has been realized.
1.4.2 Urban Water Supply System
*  An intake pumping station has been set up at Xinlicheng Reservoir of Changchun City. Four
sets of pumps have been installed, each with a lift head of 60 m, capacity of 0.9 m3/s and a
motor of 850 kW. The intake pumping station can supply 233,000 m3/day to WTP No.3.
*  Double pipelines were constructed with a length of 13.5 km and diameter of 1-1.2 m from
Xinlicheng Reservoir to WTP No. 3.
*  A new water treatment plant No. 3 was constructed in the southwest of Changchun City. It
can supply 220,000 m3/day of treated water to the city through water mains. The treated
water quality meets the national criteria.



- 33 -                           ANNEX B
*  The Shitoukoumen pumping station has been expanded by an additional five pumps. The
capacity of each pump is 0.85 m3/s with a lift head of 80 m and a motor of 780 kW.
*  A booster pumping station has been completed at Fangniugou midway between the
Shitoukoumen Reservoir and the WTP No. 1. Five sets of pumps have been installed with a
lift head of 62 m, capacity of 0.87 m3/s and a motor of 780 kW.
*  The pipeline from Shitoukoumen intake pumping station to Fangniugou booster pumping
station has a length of 8.69 km and a diameter of 1.4-1.6 m. The pipeline from Fangniugou
booster pumping station to WTP No. 1 has a length of 31.85 km and a diameter of 1.4-1.6 m.
The pipe material is prestressed reinforced concrete. The pipeline can deliver 265,000 m3/day
of raw water to WTP No. 1. Originally Xinlicheng Reservoir supplied raw water to WTP No.
1 through the Yitong River.
*  A pumping station has been built in WTP No. 1 to lift the raw water to the water treatment
basins, which has a higher elevation than other water treatment basins.
*  Two pipelines with a total length of 22 km and a diameter of 1.0-1.2 m were installed to
connect WTP No. 3 with the distribution network.
-  A Zhenyang booster pumping station was newly built to improve the water supply in the
northwest region of the city.
* Another 45 km pipeline has been constructed with a diameter of 900 mm and less in order to
form the main ring and expansion of the distribution network.
1.4.3 Sewage Interception Trunk
The sewage interception trunk is a rectangular culvert with a cross-section of 3.4x2.5 m and a
length of 3.8 km at the down stream of the Yitong River. At the upstream of the river there are
circle pipes with a total length of 7.8 km and a diameter from 1 m to 2.5 m.
1.4.4 Power Supply
Built seven sets of substations and an additional 82 km 1 OkV and 6.6kV power transmission line.
1.4.5 Communication/SCADA
Microwave stations, program-controlled telephone, radio communication lines and an 800 MHz
trunk movable communication system have been installed. A SCADA system for water
distribution network has been constructed.
1.5   Procurement Contract
The bidding package was executed according to the SAR. There are four methods of
procurement: (1) international competition bidding (2) national competition bidding (3) force
account (4) direct purchase. Of the total 21 components, there were 12 components procured
under international competition bidding (ICB) accounting for 80% of total investment; 8
components under NCB; and the power supply under force account. Direct purchase was used
for small items.



- 34 -                          ANNEX B
The PMO has worked together with an export/import procurement agency. This Company
invited a procurement agency from Liaoning to provide assistance. Technical specifications were
prepared by design institutes and reviewed by foreign consultants. Commercial terms were
prepared by the procurement agency. Both of them needed to be reviewed by the World Bank.
The purchase procedure completely followed the World Bank's guidelines.
1.6   Contract Management
The contract management of the project was based on guidelines of the World Bank and the
Ministry of Finance. The contract was managed by the supervision engineers according to the
contract.
In the course of implementation, each contract was managed within the technical and economic
means. If any argument happened, supervision engineers reported to the contract leading group,
which consisted of members from PMO, sub-PMO and supervision company. Change orders and
claims generated in the course of implementation were dealt with according to the management
procedures. In this project the amount of change orders was enormous especially in several
components.
1.7   Technical Assistance
According to the Credit Agreement, the PMO invited foreign consultants to provide technical
assistance including three aspects: 1) technical assistance for design and construction
supervision; 2) technical assistance for management improvement of CWSC and CSC; and 3)
toxic and hazardous waste management and industry park plan study. At the request of the World
Bank, the foreign counsultants input was increased during the period of project implementation.
The PMO signed amendments for three contracts.
A. Design and Construction Supervision
Foreign consultant's services for design and construction supervision were performed according
to the contract between the PMO and an U.S. consultant firm. Main services were: (a) Review of
design criteria developed by the local design institutes and offering advanced technical
information; (b) Technical input and review of the design packages; these were functional
reviews and not detailed reviews; (c) Periodic site inspection of the construction; (d) Review of
the design changes and construction schedule; and (e) Training of the technical and supervision
staff.
B. Technical Assistance for Management Improvement of CWSC and CSC
This contract was signed with the above-mentioned U.S. consultant firm and comprised:
* Training of the technical staff: consultants completed technical training for high and middle
level leaders of CWSC and CSC.
* Study on water resources management and optimization.
* Water leakage control of distribution network.



- 35 -                          ANNEX B
* Water Master Plan including water demand projection and financial analysis.
* CWSC set up a workshop for water meter inspection, repair and calibration.
* Study on water corrosion control. CWSC conducted tests in WTP No. 2 and WTP No. 3 and
concluded that the water is slightly corrosive and required lime for water stabilization.
* The consultant firm offered a sample of an energy management plan. CWSC has prepared a
preliminary plan and will set up a database for energy management.
* Finance management and commercial system. CWSC developed user database and
computerized billing system and financial forecasting software.
* Industry sewage management. CSC created an industry sewage management database.
* Sewage collection system. Inspection plan and operation manuals have been prepared.
C. Toxic and Hazardous Waste Management and Industry Park Plan Study:
This contract was signed with a British consulting firm.
The study was completed in 1998. The final report was sent to the World Bank which offered
comments. The consultant firm completed additional work at the request of the World Bank.
1.8   Operational Experiences
Changchun is a city with serious water shortage. On the basis of a feasibility study report,
prepared by a Canadian consulting firm funded by CIDA, and the SAR prepared by the World
Bank, the completed project has improved water supply in Changchun City.
A reform of the water price policy has been carried out. Water tariffs have been raised three
times (1995, 1997 and 1998) during the project implementation. The sewage tariff was approved
by the Price Bureau of the Jilin Provincial Government. The sewer tariff will be collected from
2000 onward. Regulations for water conservation, pollution charges and the penalty system for
pollution were established.
The Institution of CWSC has been strengthened. The projection and planning capability was
enhanced. The organization and operation have become more efficient. CSC has been
established. The assets of the public sewer network were transferred to CSC. But until the
collection of sewer tariffs commences, government subsidy is still needed.
1.9   Financial Situation
The China Government has received a Credit in the amount of SDR 86.6 million ($120.0 million
equivalent) from the World Bank in 1993 and transferred the Credit to Changchun Municipal
Government for construction of this project. Due to the World Bank's cancellation of the Credit
amounts for the WWTP and the pipeline from Majia to Dashuihe, a total of SDR 19.88 million
(about $26.9 million) was canceled. Therefore, the actual Credit of the World Bank was reduced
to SDR 66.72 million. Up to the Credit closing date, June 30, 1999, the estimated situation of
reimbursement was as follows: (a) 33,010 thousands SDR for goods; (b) 23,577 thousands SDR
for civil works; (c) 1,976 thousands SDR for consulting contracts; and (d) 8,155 thousands SDR
were not utilized.



- 36 -                           ANNEX B
The total project investment is as follows: By the end of 1998, Y 2,016,000,000 were expended,
among them: Y 660,000,000 from the World Bank; Y 260,000,000 from the central government;
and Y 1,096,000,000 from provincial and municipal governments.
Before 1994, the income of CWSC could not cover operation and maintenance cost and
depended on the subsidy from the government. Due to increased water prices, in 1996 CWSC
achieved positive net income for the first time. In 1998, the profit was Y 46,855,000.
CSC was founded in 1992. The assets of public sewer network were transferred to CSC with a
total amount of Y 432,042,372. Its income stems mainly from user charges of sewerage facilities
(Y 0.1 5/m3). Up to now, as the sewer tariffs have not been collected, CSC is still subsidized by
the municipal government. The sewage tariff was approved by the Price Bureau of the Jilin
Provincial Government. The sewer tariff will be RMBY 0.1 5/mi3 for residential users, 0.3/m3 for
industrial users, about 0.2/m3 on average.
1.10  Construction Supervision
The PMO was responsible for management and coordination of the whole project. The sub-PMO
was in charge of the selection of supervision companies which conducted site inspection,
construction quality control, progress control, construction expenditure control, and record
keeping.
Change orders are primarily presented by contractors, designers, supervision engineers or owner.
Supervision engineers reviewed and examined change orders requirement and, if necessary,
invited design institutes, PMO, sub-PMO and contractors for discussion. After verifications of
the change order, supervision engineers prepared documents for the change order and submitted
them to foreign consultants for review, and finally report to the World Bank for its approval.
1.11  Assessment of Performance of the PMO
The PMO, since its establishment, was formed by several different organizations to complete the
project. Those organizations included Raw Water Co., which belongs to the Water Resource
Bureau. CWSC belongs to the Utility Bureau; CSC belongs to the Urban Construction Bureau.
Assisting organizations included five design institutes, two international consultants firms.,
contractors and supervision companies. The PMO completed design, construction,
commissioning and put the whole project into operation within a period of over five years. In
general, the performance of PMO was acceptable.
*  The institution of the PMO was basically suitable to the project, especially, for this large,
complex and inter-basin project.
*  The PMO has carried out all of the tasks stipulated in the Agreements except the wastewater
treatment plant. The water shortage has been resolved. The residential water consumption has
increased rapidly. The system can supply enough water to improve the living condition of the
residents in Changchun.
*  The quality of the project agreed with the requirements of design. All components of the
project have been put into operation. WTP No. 3 and related components have operated for
two years with both water quality and quantity meeting requirements.



- 37 -                           ANNEX B
Unfortunately, in order to speed up progress of WWTP and transmission pipelines, some
active measures were taken. However, this was not acceptable to the World Bank and part of
the Credit has been canceled. In addition, the amount of change orders is great.
2.    Assessment of Performance of the World Bank
2.1   Performance of the World Bank during Project Preparation
The feasibility study of the project was carried out by three local design institutes in 1988. The
project was started in Oct. 1993. In the project preparation period, the World Bank suggested that
the project should include environment pollution control components. The Bank Mission also
suggested having foreign consultants to refine the feasibility study. With the World Bank's help,
Changchun Municipal Government has received a grant of 1 million Canadian dollars from
CIDA. A Canadian consulting firm took part in the study. Then, a feasibility study and a water
plan for 2010 were carried out. The World Bank's mission reviewed and helped in the
completion of the study. The World Bank completed the SAR of this project in Dec. 1992.
Defining the Project. Before the identification of the Changchun Project, the World Bank had
performed six projects in the water supply and sanitation sector in China. The World Bank had
sufficient experience and understood major problems of the sector. For this project, the World
Bank defined the objectives, scope and main components of the project.
Project Preparation. In the project preparation stage, major work was carried out by the PMO.
The World Bank played a very important role. They sent missions to visit sites, interview CWSC
and related authorities of Changchun. The World Bank mission checked the progress of project
preparation, reviewed study reports and helped to select alternatives both for water transmission
and the wastewater treatment plant.
Project Appraisal. The World Bank prepared the technical, economic and institutional
assessment with the help of the PMO and prepared the SAR.
2.2   Performance of the World Bank during Project Implementation
During the project implementation period the World Bank came to Changchun to inspect the
project implementation twice a year. The World Bank held a seminar about procuiement in
Changchun and a financial seminar in Beijing for staff of Changchun. The World Bank's
missions included task manager, financial experts, technical expert, etc., amounting to a total of
27 people, 46 days/mission and prepared 9 memorandums in addition to their work at the office
in Washington for this project.
2.3   Performance of the World Bank on Contract Implementation and Project
Operation
The World Bank inspected contract implementation and project operation according to the Credit
Agreement.
The World Bank has helped to: (a) Reform price policy, establish water conservation measures,
and to design public information campaigns for water conservation; (b) Make CWSC operate on



- 38 -                          ANNEX B
a full cost recovery basis with revenues generated through water rates; and (c) Improve the
management of CWSC, such as setting up a computerized billing system, establish a GIS system
and improve the abilities concerning water demand projection and planning capacity, etc.
3.    Lessons Learned
The "Construction Cost Review Report" prepared by the PMO and the management
consulting firm described a number of lessons learned. The main content is as follows:
3.1   Project Management Office
3.1.1 Design
* Improve clarity and detail of designs. The current designs resulted in many field changes.
Some of this was the result of inadequate clarity and detail of the designs.
*  Improve performance with site surveys. Check that site surveys are current and reflect the
conditions at the time of construction.
*  Increase knowledge of World Bank requirements. A better understanding of the importance
of bill of quantities for unit price contracts. Correct bills of quantities are very important for
proper implementation of contracts.
*  Follow construction through to completion. Local construction inspection practice does not
require the designer to be involved in any of the construction activities unless a major change
is identified. This approach ignores the detailed knowledge acquired by the designer during
the preparation of the tender documents.
3.1.2 Construction Management and Supervision
*  There are two levels of management-the PMO and the sub-PMO. Future projects will need
to consider the way to improve the coordination between the PMO and sub-PMO. The active
participation of CWSC and CSC in the implementation of the project also is very important.
* Improve knowledge of World Bank procedures-The PMO/sub-PMO learned the procedures
of the World Bank as the .project progressed. This took more time as some information had to
be communicated several times. The PMO would have benefited by having staff with
previous World Bank experience or by sending some staff for specialized training.
* Improve procurement procedures-Because the construction market was set up only recently
in China, some contractors have limited experience and are getting jobs with unreasonably
low prices. The PMO is not in a strong position to control such behavior. The PMO also does
not have enough experience to negotiate with the low bidder when dealing with unit prices or
unit quantities. In the future, contracts using a lump sum basis would make it easier for local
administration. The PMO profoundly regrets the misprocurement which occurred in the
bidding process.



- 39 -                           ANNEX B
*  Improve construction supervision-Construction supervision is a new system in China and
was adopted only in the beginning of the 1990s. The construction supervision companies
involved in this project were newly organized. The following deficiencies were noted: (a)
some of construction supervision companies did not carefully enough study the bidding
documents and technical specifications. They are not familiar with the procedure of the
World Bank; (b) some of the construction supervision companies were not familiar with the
imported equipment and did not properly manage the contract and infornation in a timely
manner; and 3) in 1995, the PMO prepared a Construction Supervision Manual (submitted to
the World Bank's mission in the same year), however, the rules of the manual have not been
strictly adhered to.
* Supervision should also extend to the design phase of the project. A whole process of
supervision should be adopted.
3.1.3 Project Coordination
* PMO, design institute, supervision companies and contractors cooperated closely to complete
the project. The cooperation was successful, but the multilevel management affected the
efficiency of the work.
v The cooperation between PMO, foreign consultant firms and the World Bank was good. But
they all had different styles of behavior which makes it important to foster understanding and
good communication.
3.1.4 Proper Staffing
* The present PMO/sub-PMO has insufficient staff with the experience to manage large World
Bank loan infrastructure projects. This project was very complex. Considerations for the
future should include:
* Carefully select staff with the proper background and experience level. Provide the proper
number of staff to carry out the duties.
* The technical staff of each organizational unit participating in the project entities should
improve their English to ensure work efficiency.
* For future projects the foreign consultant firms need to do a better job of screening and
assigning capable staff. Foreign consultants should fully understand the project and local
conditions.
3.1.5 Bidding and Procurement
The bidding process for packages of the WWTP and the raw water transmission pipeline from
Majia to Dashuihe have followed the guidelines of the World Bank. PMO considered the
shortness of the remaining time and started the work during the stage of clarification of bid
evaluation by the World Bank. The PMO signed interim agreements with the selected contractors
without permission of the World Bank.



- 40 -                           ANNEX B
* PMO should learn from this mistake in procurement and strictly follow the World Bank's
procedures in the future.
*  The contractors must be prequalified. Control of unreasonably low price bids (low-balling)
and strengthening of contract management are still complicated tasks.
* There are some essential differences between the Chinese and international practices in the
bidding system. In the future this should be resolved.
3.2   World Bank
*  Avoid staff changes: This is difficult to do on projects such as this with such a long duration.
Therefore, some guidelines need to be established recognizing that at some point new staff
will likely enter the project. When new staff are assigned they should be instructed to honor
decisions, directions, and commitments made by their predecessors on the project.
*  Reduce review time: On several contract packages, the review time spent by the World Bank
was excessive. That is, the time was more than 4-6 weeks. This lengthy review time was
spent at many different review stages of the contract package including the Tender Document
(seeking approval to advertise for bids), as well as the bid evaluation stage (seeking approval
to award the contract). In some cases, additional information was needed by the World Bank
and these requests caused further delays for the PMO.
*  Allow lump sum contracts: The World Bank only allowed the unit rate type of contract for
the water treatment plant package. Although the requirement was not specifically extended to
the other bid packages, the PMO assumed that the World Bank preferred this overall. The
World Bank reviewed all the bid packages, but did not request a change to lump sum on the
other bid packages. Since the World Bank has more experience with other projects and has
more procurement specialists, they should be more mindful about this subject in future
projects.
4.    Project Operation Planning
CWSC enjoys good operational conditions. The details can be seen in the financial reports by
CWSC submitted to the World Bank.
The operation planning of CSC is described in the report on organization and responsibilities of
CSC.



IRRD 24063R
CHINA                                                                                                                                                      5,, .(      D.
CHANGCHUN WATER SUPPLY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                                                    7
GENERAL LAYOUT                                                                            RUSSIA                      _. .'                                                                 OF
PROJECT.                                                        MAJOR RIVERS                                                                 ' 
-       WATER TRANSMISSION PIPELINES AND                               TRIBUTARIES
TRUNK SEWERSRUSA
5) PUMPING STATIONS tP.S.I                     a-sR WATERSHED BOUNDARIES                                                                                                   FEDERATION
PUMPING STATIONS P.S.)                  i      ~~~~LAKES/RESERVOIRS AND DAMRS                                                                        FD      TO
m  WATER TREATMENT PLANT
S     SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT      -,nde ctsi-cIin)                  URBAN AREAS                                                                                                                           [
Ea    INDUSTRIAL PARK (ldI                                            SELECTED ROADS                                         p        -y                       HEUtONG-  -           -:'
INDUSTRIAL PARK (~~~~f,,-y-RRAILROADS                                                                                                         AG
* HAZARDOUS WASTE LANDFILL SITE Isudy)L
-       PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES
EXISTING FACILITIUS 
T. B.     T. HM-                                                 ToH b,E                                                                                                                                  JAPAN   - __________w_____
.i         np fHE,,  w O AN
|TUING      SI    N 4  |                           WATERSHeD
'  OF
THM)INSAI         KOREA                       ,,, 
-        --I        -i?
,-~~~~~CA   u                                                                     sh;I ;,P:- PS
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TM                                         ToIiSoyugo               ToUiouo O;D}S rD/o,n                                 T  -oftooioo  \     ooda  .rl\                                      Fg; _
T- ~~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ERRE  9



