CREDIT NUMBER 2457-CHA
Changchun
Project Agreement
(Changchun Water Supply and Environmental Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
CHANGCHUN MUNICIPALITY
Dated     M  ack               , 1993


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2457-CRA
CZANGCBUN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated M*-C.k I t    , 1993, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and CHANGCHUN MUNICIPALITY
(Changchun).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between People's Republic of China (the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to eighty-six
million   six    hundred   thousand   Special   Drawing    Rights
(SDR 86,600,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that Changchun
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are
set forth in this Agreement;
WHEREAS Changchun, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement and in the
General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings
therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Changchun declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement and to this end, shall carry out and
cause to be carried out, the Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, engineering and environmental practices, and shall
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.


﻿-2-
(b) Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
Changchun shall carry out and cause to be carried out, the Project
in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
(c) Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
Changchun shall relend a portion of the proceeds of the Credit to:
(i)   CWSC for purposes of carrying out Parts A,
D.1(a) and (b), and E of the Project; and
(ii)   CSC for purposes of carrying out Parts B, D.1(c)
and (d), and E of the Project, under Subsidiary
Loan Agreements to be entered into between
Changchun and CWSC, and between Changchun and
CSC, respectively, under terms and conditions
acceptable to the Association, which shall
include the following terms and conditions for
eaCl such Subsidiary Loan:
(A)   the term for repayment of the Subsidiary
Loan shall not exceed fifteen years,
including five years grace;
(B)   interest shall be paid on the outstanding
principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan
from time to time: (i) at a fixed rate of
5.1 percent per annum by CSC; and (ii) at
the per annum variable rate charged by the
International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development for multi-currency loans plus
a spread of 1.5 percent by CWSC;
(C)   a commitment charge shall be paid on the
principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan
not withdrawn from time to time at a fixed
rate of one-half of one percent; and
(D)   all foreign exchange risks incurred during
repayment of a Subsidiary Loan shall be
borne by the Company receiving the
Subsidiary Loan.


﻿-3-
(d) Changchun shall exercise its rights under each Subsidiary
Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purpose of the
Credit, and, except as the Association may otherwise agree,
Changchun shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary
Loan Agreements, or any provision thereof.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Changchun shall carry out, and cause to be
carried out, the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05,
9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating respectively
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules,
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition) in respect of
the Changchun Project Agreement and Parts C, D.2 and E of the
Project.
Section 2.04. (a) Changchun shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of carrying out the Project, the performance of its
obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating to the
purposes of the Credit.
(b) Changchun shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of carrying out the Project, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit, or the performance by Changchun of its
obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Changchun shall maintain, and shall cause to
be maintained, records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources
and expenditures in respect of Parts C, D.2 and E of the Project of
the departments or agencies of Changchun responsible for carrying
out such part of the Project.


﻿-4-
(b) Changchun shall:
(i) have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal
year audited, in acccrdance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent   auditors   acceptable   to   the
Association.
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish   to   the   Association   such   other
information concerning said records and accounts
and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 3.02. Changchun and the Association shall, from time
to time, at the request of either party, exchange views with regard
to the Changchun's water and sewer services pricing policies and its
plans in respect of the overall development of the water supply and
sewer services sectors.
Section 3.03. (a) Changchun shall eliminate, by completion
of the Project, all commercial, domestic and other exemptions from
water charges and sewerage fees, and shall make progress,
satisfactory to the Association, during the implementation of the
Project toward the elimination of such exemptions.
(b)   Changchun  shall  charge  a  fee,   for  purposes  of
infrastructure development, of 10 Renminbi per square meter of new
construction for which permits are granted.
Section 3.04. (a) Changchun shall take all measures, necessary
or appropriate, to ensure that each Company complies with the
financial covenants of Article IV of the CWSC and CSC Project
Agreement.


﻿-5-
(b) Changchun shall ensure that CWSC and CSC shall retain all
profits (exclusive of taxes) during the construction of civil works
under the Project and during repayment of their respective
Subsidiary Loans.
(c) Changchun shall, by December 31, 1993, transfer ownership
of all public sewer assets owned by Changchun to CSC.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of Changchun thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the   date  on  which  the  Development  Credit
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its
terms; or
(ii) the date twenty years after the date of this
Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
Changchun of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made


﻿-6-
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or
at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice
to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INDEVAS                248423 (RCA),
Washington, D.C.         82987 (FTCC),
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For Changchun:
Changchun Municipal Finance Bureau
19 Jinshui Road
Chaoyang District
Changchun, Jilin Province
People's Republic of China
Telex:
83109 JLF BCN
Section 5.02. Any action requircl or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of Changchun may be taken or executed by the
Mayor or Vice Mayor or such other person or persons as the Mayor or
Vice Mayor shall designate in writing, and Changchun shall furnish
to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿-7-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By //~~~
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
CHANGCHUN MUNICIPALITY
By                'Rerkenti v
Authorized Representative


﻿SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I: Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A: International Coumpetitive Bidding
1. Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance    with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
2. Bidders for civil works contracts under Parts A and B of the
Project shall be prequalified as provided in paragraph 2.10 of the
Guidelines.
3. To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped
into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or
more.
Part B: Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in China may be
granted a margin or preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C: Preference for Domestic Contractors
In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 thereof, Changchun may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in China in accordance with, and
subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D: Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Civil works    for  dormitories, offices and minor water
distribution system improvements estimated to cost the equivalent of
$4,000,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $18,100,000, may be procured under contracts awarded


﻿-9-
on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.  Items or groups of items estimated to coat the equivalent of
less than $200,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $9,500,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
3.  Items or groups of items estimated to cost the equivalent of
$50,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent
to $300,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
4. Contracts for minor civil works for the provision of electricity
to project sites may be awarded after direct negotiations with the
local supplier, in accordance with direct contracting procedures
acceptable to the Association.
Part E: Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Review of prequalification:
With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided in
Part A.2 hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of Appendix
1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2. Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract for civil works estimated
to cost the equivalent of $3,000,000 or more, and each contract for
goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. When payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to
be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2(d)
shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the
first payment out of the Special Account in respect or such
contract.


﻿- 10 -
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. When payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 or Schedule 4 to the Development Credit
Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
3. The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II: Employment or Consultants
In order to assist Changchun, CWSC and CSC in carrying out the
Project, Changchun, CWSC and CSC shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
Part A: Proiect Management
1. (a) Changchun shall maintain a project management office (PMO)
through completion of the Project, with appropriate facilities and
managed by qualified and experienced personnel assisted by competent
staff in adequate numbers.
(b) Changchun shall supervise construction in accordance with
the detailed construction supervision plans provided to the
Association.
2. Without limitation to the reporting requirements of the General
Conditions and this Agreement, Changchun, through the PMO, shall
submit quarterly reports of the progress of carrying out the
Project, including progress made in acquiring land required for the
Project and in the resettlement of persons affected by the Project.
3. Changchun shall cause the Shitoukoumen Reservoir dam and related
structures to be periodically inspected in accordance with sound
engineering practice in order to determine whether there are any
deficiencies in the condition of such structures, or in the quality
and adequacy of maintenance or methods of operations of the same,
which may endanger their safety. To this end, Changchun shall, by
December 31, 1993, provide to the Association for its review,
appropriate arrangements for inspection, maintenance and operation.
Part B: Water and Sewerage Components
1. (a) Changchun shall enter into a contract with CWSC ("Changchun
Water Supply Contract"), under terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association, which shall include, without limitation, a
provision that Changchun shall ensure that water is made available
from Shitoukoumen Reservoir to CWSC at appropriate prices and in
adequate quantities sufficient to meet the household and industrial
water requirements of Changchun; and
(b) Changchun shall exercise its rights, under the Changchun
Water Supply Contract in such manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of
the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree,


﻿- 12 -
Changcun shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Changchun
Water Supply Contract or any provision thereof.
Part C: Environment and Resettlement
1. Changchun shall carry out and cause to be carried out, all
measures necessary or appropriate to mitigate any negative
environmental impact related to contruction of civil works under the
Project as set forth in the Envirnonmental Impact Assessment Report
for the Changchun Water Supply and Environmental Project.
2.  Changchun shall, by December 31, 1995, carry out the studies
described in Part D.2 of the Project and develop a plan for
industrial relocation in order to decrease industrial pollution, all
with the assistance of consultants and under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Association.     Thereafter, Changchun shall
implement the plan for industrial relocation in accordance with its
terms.
3. (a) Changchun shall, with the assistance of CWSC and CSC, carry
out a plan, acceptable to the Association, for the resettlement of
persons affected by the Project, in a manner and pursuant to a
schedule satisfactory to the Association.
(b) Changchun shall report on the progress of carrying out
the resettlement plan using monitoring indicators acceptable to the
Association.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


