CREDIT NUMBER 2457-CHA
Development Credit Agreement
(Changchun Water Supply and Environmental Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated     m    KCP           , 1993


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2457-CRA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     ^C-A^-    I            , 1993, between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B) the Project will be carried out or caused to be carried
out, by Changchun Municipality (Changchun) with the Borrower's
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make
available to Changchun the proceeds of the Credit as provided in
this Agreement; and
(C) by subsidiary loan agreements to be entered into between
Changchun and Changchun Water Supply Company (CWSC) for purposes of
carrying out Parts A, D.1(a) and (b), and E of the Project, and
between Changchun and Changchun Sewerage Company (CSC) for purposes
of carrying out Parts B, D.1(c) and (d), and E of the Project, a
portion of the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the Credit
Agreement will be relent by Changchun to CWSC and CSC, respectively,
on terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan
Agreements; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, in the Changchun
Project Agreement, and in the CWSC and CSC Project Agreement, all of
even date herewith;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section  1.01.  The   "General  Conditions  Applicable   to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January
1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.


﻿-2-
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Changchun" means Changchun Municipality in Jilin Province
of the Borrower;
(b) "Changchun Project Agreement" means the Project Agreemsnt
between the Association and Changchun, of even date herewith, as the
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Changchun Project
Agreement;
(c) "Changchun Water Supply Contract" means the contract to be
entered into between Changchun and CWSC, pursuant to Part B,
Paragraph 1 of Schedule 2 to the Changchun Project Agreement, for
purposes, among other things, of providing water from the
Shitoukoumen Reservoir to CWSC;
(d) "Charters" mean the CSC Charter and the CWSC Charter, and
"Charter" means any of the Charters;
(e) "Companies" means CSC and CWSC, "Company" means any one of
the Companies;
(f) "CSC" means Changchun Sewerage Company, a state enterprise
established by Changchun on May 12, 1992, registered with the
Changchun Bureau of Industry and Commerce on June 29, 1992, and
operating pursuant to the CSC Charter;
(g) "CSC Charter" means the Charter of CSC approved by
Changchun on October 4, 1992 through its Urban Construction Bureau;
(h) "CSC Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into pursuant to Section 2.01(c)(ii) of the Changchun
Project Agreement for relending a portion of the proceeds of the
credit to CSC for purposes of carrying out Parts B, D.l(c) and (d),
and E of the Project;
(i) "CWSC" means Changchun Water Supply Company, a state
enterprise established by Changchun on November 20, 1948, registered
with the Changchun Bureau of Industry and Commerce on March 10,
1949, and operating pursuant to the CWSC Charter;


﻿-3-
(j) "CWSC Charter" means the Charter of CWSC approved by
Changchun on November 6, 1992 through its Utility Bureau;
(k) "CWSC Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into pursuant to Section 2.01(c) (i) of the Changchun Project
Agreement for relending a portion of the proceeds of the credit to
CWSC for purposes of carrying out Parts A, D.1(a) and (b), and E of
the Project;
(1) "CWSC and CSC Project Agreement" means the project
agreement between the Association and CWSC and CSC, of even date
herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time and such term
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the CWSC and
CSC Project Agreement;
(m) "CWRC" means Changchun Water Resources Company, a state
enterprise established by Changchun on May 12, 1992, registered with
the Changchun Bureau of Industry and Commerce on June 29, 1992, and
operating pursuant to the CWRC Charter which was approved by
Changchun, through its Water Conservancy Bureau, on December 26,
1992;
(n) "CWRC 0 & M Contract" means the contract to be entered
into between CWSC and CWRC pursuant to Section 2.09 of the CWSC and
CSC Project Agreement, for purposes of assisting in carrying out
operation and maintenance of facilities constructed under Part A.1
of the Project;
(o) "Jilin" means Jilin Province of the Borrower;
(p) "Jilin Water Supply Contract" means the contract to be
entered into between Jilin Province and CWSC, pursuant to Section
2.08(b) of the CWSC and CSC Project Agreement for purposes, among
other things, of providing water from the Xinlicheng Reservoir to
CWSC;
(q) "Renminbi" means the currency of the Borrower; "fen" means
one one-hundredth of a Renminbi;
(r) "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(s) "Subsidiary Loans" means the subsidiary loans to be made
by Changchun to CSC and CWSC, pursuant to Section 2.01(c) of the


﻿-4-
Changchun Project Agreement; "Subsidiary Loan" means any one of the
Subsidiary Loans;
(t) "Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means the CSC Subsidiary Loan
Agreement and the CWSC Subsidiary Loan Agreement; "Subsidiary Loan
Agreement" means any one of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements; and
(u) "Water Supply Contracts" means the Jilin Water Supply
Contract and the Changchun Water Supply Contract; "Water Supply
Contract" means any one of the Water Supply Contracts.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to eighty-six millio)n six hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 86,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made, in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in dollars a special deposit account on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into,
and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1998 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.


﻿(b) The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
th. respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions
of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and
(iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible
currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or
selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semiannual installments payable on each January 15 and July 15
commencing July 15, 2003 and ending January 15, 2028. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on January 15,
2013 shall be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two and one-half
percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b) Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the


﻿Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c) If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association
may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of
repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in
paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to this end, without limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement,
the Borrower shall cause Changchun to perform all its obligations
set forth in the Changchun Project Agreement, and shall cause CWSC
and CSC to perform all of their respective obligations set forth in
the CWSC and CSC Project Agreement, shall take or cause to be taken
all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Changchun,
CWSC and CSC to perform such obligations, and shall not take or
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with
such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall onlend the proceeds of the Credit to
Changchun on the following principal terms and conditions: (i) the
term for repayment of such proceeds shall not exceed fifteen years,
including five years of grace; (ii) interest shall be paid on all
outstanding amounts of such proceeds from time to time at a fixed
rate of 5.1 percent per annum; (iii) a commitment charge shall be
paid by Changchun on the amount of the Credit proceeds not withdrawn


﻿-7-
from time to time at a fixed rate of one-half of one percent; and
(iv) all foreign exchange risks incurred during the period of
repayment by Changchun shall be born by Changchun.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project
Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating respectively to
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records
and reports, maintenance and land acquisition) in respect of Parts
C, D.2 and E of the Project shall be carried out by Changchun
pursuant to Section 2,03 of the Changchun Project Agreement, and by
CWSC in respect of Parts A, D.1(a) and (b), and E of the Project and
by CSC in respect of Parts B, D.1(c) and (d), and E of the Project
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the CWSC and CSC Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. Without limitation to the provisions of Section
3.01 (a) of this Agreement, the Borrower agrees that:
(a) all funds made available by the Borrower (other than the
proceeds of the Credit) shall be made available through Changchun in
Renminbi and that:
(i) for purposes of carrying out Parts A and D.1(a)
and (b) of the Project such funds shall be
considered equity capital of CWSC; and
(ii) for purposes of carrying out Parts B and D.l(c)
and (d) of the Project such funds shall be
considered equity capital of CSC;
(b)   it shall cause Jilin to make available funding through
Changchun in Renminbi and that:
(i) for purposes of carrying out Parts A and D.1(a)
and (b) of the Project such funds shall be
considered equity capital of CWSC; and


﻿-8-
(ii) for purposes of carrying out Parts B, D.1(c) and
(d) of the Project such funds shall be considered
equity capital of CSC.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall cause Jilin to enter into
and perform all its obligations under the Jilin Water Supply
Contract.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance
with sound accounting practices, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain or cause to be retained, until at least
one year after the Association has received the
audit for the fiscal year in which the last
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all
records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing such
expenditures; and
(iii) enable the Association's representatives to
examine such records.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section, and those for the
Special Account, for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of
the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association


﻿-9-
shall have reasonably requested, including a
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether
the statements of expenditure submitted during
such fiscal year, together with the procedures
and   internal   controls  involved   in   their
preparation, can be relied upon to support the
related withdrawals; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) Changchun shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Changchun Project Agreement;
(b) a Company shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the CWSC and CSC Project Agreement;
(c) as a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation
shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that Changchun will
be able to perform its obligations under the Changchun Project
Agreement, or that a Company will be able to perform its obligations
under the CWSC and CSC Project Agreement;
(d) any charter shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the
ability of a Company to perform any of its obligations under a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, or the CWSC and CSC Project Agreement;
and
(e) the Borrower, Changchun or any other authority having
jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of a Company or for the suspension of any of its
operations.


﻿- 10 -
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association
to the Borrower and Changchun; and
(b) any event specified in paragraph (b), (d) or (e) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a) the Borrower's State Council shall have approved the
Development Credit Agreement, the Changchun Project Agreement and
the CWSC and CSC Project Agreement; and
(b) the Water Supply Contracts and the Subsidiary Loan
Agreements shall have been executed.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Changchun Project Agreement and the CWSC and CSC
Project Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified by
Changchun, and by CWSC and CSC, respectively, and that each such
Project Agreement is legally binding upon the parties thereto in
accordance with their respective terms; and
(b) that the Water Supply Contracts and the Subsidiary Loan
Agreements have each been duly executed and authorized or ratified
by each of the parties thereto, and that each such contract or
agreement is legally binding upon the parties thereto in accordance
with their respective terms.


﻿-11 -
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
Cable address:    Telex:
FINANMIN       22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:               Telex:
INDEVAS                 248423 (RCA),
Washington, D.C.         82987 (FTCC),
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)


﻿- 12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
B y
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By                     £r   1CCL '
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1. The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated        % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Cateaorv             SDR Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)   Goods                    34,900,000    100% of foreign
expenditures, 100%
of local expendi-
tures (ex-factory
cost) and 75% of
local expenditures
for other items
procured locally
(2)   Civil Works              38,200,000    40%
(3)   Consultants'              6,200,000    100%
services and
training under
Parts C, D.1,
and D.2 of the
Project
(4)   Unallocated               7,300,000
TOTAL                    86,600,000
2. For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that
of the Borrower; and


﻿-14-
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed SDR 2,200,000, may
be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that
date but after May 31, 1992.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to improve water supply
in Changchun in order to meet its household and industrial water
supply needs; (b) to reduce household and industrial water pollution
in Changchun; (c) to strengthen Changchun's institutional,
regulatory and policy framework for water supply; and (d) to create
a model demonstration by which appropriate water and sewerage
practices can be shared with other cities in China.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A: Water Transmission and Supply
1. Raw Water Transmission. Construction of intake works and a
low-lift pumping station on the Second Songhua River at Maja,
upstream from Jilin City, a low pressure conduit from Maja to the
Tuanshanzi Reservoir booster pumping station; a tunnel at Laoyeling,
a second booster pumping station at Dasuihe, a water transmission
pipeline from Dasuihe to the discharge point on the Chalu River
upstream of the Shitoukoumen Reservoir, and an access road to the
pipeline discharge point on the Chalu River.
2. Urban Water Supply. Construction of additional capacity to
an existing new raw water pumping station at Shitoukoumen Reservoir,
a water transmission pipeline from Shitoukoumen to Fangniugou, a
booster pumping station at Fangniugou, a water transmission pipeline
to Water Treatment Plant No. 1 in Changchun, an intake and raw water
pumping station at Xinlicheng Reservoir, a third water treatment
plant, a twin water transmission pipeline from Xinlicheng Reservoir
to the third water treatment plant, a pumping station at Water
Treatment Plant No. 1 and a booster pumping station at Zhengyang,
and new and replacement water mains in the Changchun water
distribution system.
3. Equipment and Vehicles. Provision of vehicles and supply
and installation of communications, environmental monitoring and
other equipment for water operations and maintenance.


﻿- 16 -
Part B: Sewage Collection and Treatment
1. Sewage Collection and Treatment. Construction of an
interceptor sewer and primary sewage treatment plant.
2. Equipment and Vehicles. Provision of vehicles and supply
and installation of communications, environmental monitoring and
other equipment for sewerage operations and maintenance.
Part C: Technical Assistance for Project Management
Provision of technical assistance in designing detailed
implementation plans, and carrying out quality control and
construction supervision for the Project.
Part D: Institutional Strencthening and Studies
1. Provision of technical assistance and training: (a) to
improve the management, technical and financial operation and
maintenance of CWSC; (b) to strengthen water pollution control
regulations and enforcement mechanisms; (c) to improve the
management, technical and financial operation and maintenance of
CSC; and (d) to prepare for implementation of a second phase of
Changchun's sewage disposal master plan.
2. Carrying out studies: (a) of hazardous and toxic waste
management; and (b) industrial relocation.
Part E: Resettlement
Carrying out the resettlement of approximately 500 persons
affected by construction of works under the Project.
T  * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1997.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Categories" means the Categories (1)
through (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $7,000,000 (seven million dollars) to be withdrawn
from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special Account
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a) for withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for a deposit
or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested; and
(b)    (i)   for replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association
requests for deposits into the Special Account
at such intervals as the Association shall
specify; and


﻿- 18 -
(ii)   prior to or at the time of each such request,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
the documents and other evidence required
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
payment or payments in respect of which
replenishment is requested.   On the basis of
each such request, the Association shall, on
behalf of the Borrower,     withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have
requested and as shall have been shown by said
documents and other evidence to have been paid
out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to Make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(a) if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(b) once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible


﻿- 19 -
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified.      Unless the Association shall
otherwise agree, no further, deposit by the Association into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the
Association such outstanding amount.
(c) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
(d) Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant    provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


