CREDIT NUMBER 2457-CHA
CWSC and CSC
Project Agreement
(Changchun Water Supply and Environmental Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
CHANGCHUN WATER SUPPLY COMPANY
and
CHANGCHUN SEWERAGE COMPANY
Dated                           , 1993


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2457-CHA
CWSC and CSC
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated  "ttmk      I e, 1993, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and CHANGCHUN WATER SUPPLY
COMPANY (CWSC) and CHANGCHUN SEWERAGE COMPANY (CSC).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between People's Republic of China (the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to eighty-six
million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 86,600,000)
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition that CWSC and CSC (the Companies)
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are
set forth in this Agreement;
WHEREAS the Companies, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement and in the
General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings
therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. Each Company declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement and to this end, CWSC shall carry out
Parts A, D.1(a) and (b), and E of the Project, and CSC shall carry
out Parts B, D.1(c) and (d) of the Project, with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, engineering and environmental practices, and shall
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds,


﻿-2-
facilities, services and other resources required for each Company
to carry out its respective Parts of the Project.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Changchun
Project Agreement.
Section 2.03. Each Company shall carry out the obligations set
forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the
General Conditions (relating respectively to insurance, use of goods
and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition) in respect of the Parts of the Project each
Company shall carry out.
Section 2.04. Each Company shall duly perform all its
obligations under its respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except
as the Association shall otherwise agree, each Company shall not
amend, abrogate, assign or waive its respective Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) Each Company shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of carrying out the Parts of the Project for which each
Company is responsible, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit.
(b) Each Company shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of carrying out its respective Parts of the Project, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by
each such Company of its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 2.06. Each Company shall acquire the land required for
carrying out its respective Parts of the Project on a timely basis.
Section 2.07. (a) Each Company shall assist Changchun in the
carrying out of Part E of the Project, the resettlement of persons
affected by the construction of civil works under its respective
Parts of the Project.


﻿-3-
(b) Each Company shall carry out or cause to be carried out,
all measures, necessary or appropriate, to mitigate any negative
environmental impact related to construction of civil works under
its respective Parts of the Project, as set forth in the
Environmental Impact Assessment Report for the Changchun Water
Supply and Environmental Project.
Section 2.08. (a) CWSC shall enter into and duly perform all
its obligations under the Changchun Water Supply Contract.
(b) CWSC shall enter into a contract with Jilin ("Jilin Water
Supply Contract"), under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, which shall include, without limitation, the following
provisions:
(i) Jilin shall ensure that water is made available from the
Xinlicheng Reservoir to CWSC at appropriate prices and
in adequate quantities sufficient to meet the household
and industrial water requirements of Changchun; and
(ii) Jilin shall cause the Xinlicheng Reservoir dam and
related structures to be periodically inspected in
accordance with sound engineering practices in order to
determine whether there are any deficiencies in the
condition of such structures, or in the quality and
adequacy of maintenance or methods of operations of the
same, which may endanger their safety.   To this end,
Jilin shall, by December 31, 1993, provide to the
Association for its review, appropriate arrangements for
inspection, maintenance and operation.
(c) CWSC shall exercise its rights under each of the Water
Supply Contracts in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the
Credit, and except as the Association may otherwise agree, CWSC
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Water Supply
Contracts or any provision thereof.
Section 2.09. (a) In the event that CWSC shall enter into a
contract with CWRC ("CWRC 0 & K Contract) for purposes of operating
and maintaining the completed civil works under Part A.1 of the
Project, the terms and conditions of such Contract shall be
satisfactory to the Association.


﻿-4-
(b) CWSC shall exercise its rights under the CWRC 0 & M
Contract in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower
and the Association and accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and
except as the Association may otherwise agree, CWSC shall not
assign, amend, abrogate or waive the CWRC 0 & M Contract or any
provision thereof.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of the Companies
Section 3.01. Each Company shall carry on its operations and
conduct its affairs in accordance with its Charter and sound
administrative, financial, industry, and environmental practices,
under the supervision of qualified and experienced management
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. Each Company shall at all times operate and
maintain its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and
from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial, industry, and environmental practices.
Section 3.03. Each Company shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.04. (a) Each Company shall, by December 31, 1993,
hire consultants, under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association, to assist in improving its management and operations.
(b) Each Company shall, by December 31, 1994, provide the
Association with an action plan, acceptable to the Association,
including a time schedule for taking action to improve its
management and operations.
(c) Each Company shall thereafter implement its action plan in
accordance with its terms.
(d) Without limitation to the reporting requirements of the
General Conditions or in this Agreement, each Company shall submit
to the Association, semiannual reports, in such detail and scope as
shall be acceptable to the Association, on the progress achieved in
carrying out its action plan.


﻿-5-
Section 3.05. Each Company shall implement, by December 31,
1994, (i) a program to computerize planning, billing and collecting
water charges in the case of CWSC, and sewerage fees in the case of
CSC, and to forecast demands, resources and revenues, and (ii) a
management information system, with monthly information on water
demand, revenues and costs.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. Each CompLny shall (a) maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices, its operations and financial condition.
(b)  (i) have its records, accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements) for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles, consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but
in any case not later than six months after the end
of each such year: (A) certified copies of its
financial statements for such year as so audited,
and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors of
such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and financial
statements as well as the audit thereof, as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
Section 4.02. Each Company and the Association shall, from
time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views with
regard to the water and sewer services pricing policies, and its
plans in respect of the overall development of the water supply and
sewer services sectors.


﻿-6-
Section 4.03. (a) Each Company shall extend billing and
collection of water charges in the case of CWSC, and sewerage fees
in the case of CSC, to all household and industrial users in
accordance with the applicable water supply or sewerage tariff.
(b) CWSC agrees that it shall bill and collect water charges,
combined with sewerage fees on behalf of CSC, in a single, unified
billing of household and industrial users.
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, each Company shall produce for each of its fiscal years after
its fiscal year ending in 1993, total revenues equivalent to not
less than the sum of its: (i) total operating expenses; and (ii) an
amount for debt service requirements or provision for depreciation,
whichever is higher.
(b) Before September 1 in each of its fiscal years, each
Company shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by such Company
and satisfactory to the Association, review whether it would meet
the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year
and the next following fiscal year and shall furnish to the
Association the results of such review upon its completion.
(c) If any such review shows that such Company would not meet
the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for the Company's fiscal
years covered by such review, the Company shall promptly take all
necessary measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of
the structure or levels of its rates) in order to meet such
requirements.
(d) For purposes of this Section:
(i) the terms "total revenues" means the sum of total
operating revenues and net non-operating income;
(ii) the term "total operating revenues" means revenues
from all sources related to operations;
(iii) the term    "net  non-operating income" means the
difference between:
(A) revenues from all sources other than those
related to operations; and


﻿-7-
(B) expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu
of taxes, incurred in the generation of revenues
in (A) above;
(iv) the   term  "total operating expenses" means all
expenses   related    to   operations,   including
administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and
payments in lieu of taxes;
(v) the   term   "provision  for   depreciation"  means
depreciation calculated on a basis acceptable to the
Association, and shall exclude interest and other
charges on debt;
(vi) the term "debt service requirements" means the
aggregate amount of repayments (including sinking
fund payments, if any) of, and interest and other
charges on, debt; and
(vii) whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall
be necessary to value, in terms of the currency of
the Borrower, debt payable in another currency, such
valuation shall be made on the basis of the
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such
other currency is, at the time of such valuation,
obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt,
or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis of a
rate of exchange acceptable to the Association.
Section 4.05. Without limitation to the provisions of Section
4.04 above, CWSC shall, by January 1, 1993, increase the water
supply tariff for household users by 20 fen per 1,000 liters
consumed, and for industrial users by 30 fen per 1,000 liters
consumed.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.


﻿Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of each Company thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) the date twenty years after the date of this
Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates       in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify each
Company of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or
at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice
to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿-9-
Cable address:            Telex:
INDEVAS                    248423 (RCA),
Washington, D.C.            82987 (FTCC),
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For CWSC:
Changchun Water Supply Company
53 Dajing Road
Changchun, Jilin Province
People's Republic of China
Telex:
83109 JLF BCN
For CSC:
Changchun Sewerage Company
46 Pingzhi Street
Changchun, Jilin Province
People's Republic of China
Telex:
83109 JLF BCN
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of each Company may be taken or executed by the
Director of such Company or such other person or persons as the
Director shall designate in writing, and each Company shall furnish
to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /5/                            £
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
CHANGCHUN WATER SUPPLY COMPANY
CHANGCHUN SEWERAGE COMPANY
ByAuto                          Rereenatv
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the oriinal in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


