Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2982
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
BANGLADESH--FIRST SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
(CREDIT 353-BD)
May 14, 1980
FIllE COPY
Operations Evaluation Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
BANGLADESH--FIRST SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
(CREDIT 353-BD)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface
Basic Data Sheet                                                      ii
Highlights                                                          iii
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT MEMORANDUM
History of the Credit                                           1
Design of the Credit                                            2
Issues in Project Implementation                                4
Role of the Association                                         5
Annex:  Communication Received from the Borrower                7
ATTACHMENT:  PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I.    Introduction                                                    8
A.   Small Industry Sector                                      8
B.   Policy Framework for SSI                                   9
C.   Institutional Framework for SSI                            9
II.   Objectives, Components, and Project Design                     10
A.   Objective                                                 10
B.   Components                                                11
C.   Project Design                                            11
III.  Ex-post Experience of Subprojects financed                     12
A.   Information Retrieval                                     12
B.   Profile                                                   13
C.   Geographical Distribution                                 13
D.   Subsector Distribution                                    13
E.   Size of Subprojects                                       14
F.   Employment Impact                                         14
G.   Imported Equipment and Raw Materials                      14
H.   Performance and Problems                                  15
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






Table of Contents (Cont'd)           - 2 -
Page No.
IV.   Performance of Implementing Agencies                            16
A.   Summary Performance                                       16
B.   Subproject Identification                                 17
C.   Subproject Appraisals                                     17
D.   Assessment of Creditworthiness                            18
E.   Procurement                                               18
F.   Follow-up and Collections                                 18
G.   Reporting to IDA                                          19
H.   Accounts, Audit                                           19
V.    Role of IDA                                                     19
A.   Summary Performance                                       19
B.   Preparation and Appraisal                                 20
C.   Project Supervision                                       20
D.   Role of Consultants                                       22
E.   Extensions of Closing Date                                23
VI.   Observations and Lessons Learned                                23
A.   Institutional Arrangements                                24
B.   Objectives, Target Groups, Components                     25
Tables:
1.    Geographical Distribution of Subloans Sanctioned                27
2.    Subsector and Geographic Distribution of
Investments                                                    28
3.    Planned vs. Actual Employment and Cost per Job
by Subsector                                                   29
4.    Size Distribution of Subprojects                                30
5.    Utilization of Foreign Equipment and Raw Materials
by Subsector                                                   31
6.    Ex-post Study:  Economic and Financial Data                     32
7.    Ex-Post Study:  Production and Profitability                    33
8.    Main Problems by Subsector                                      34
9.    Project-by-Project Analysis:  BSIC's Ex-ante and
Ex-post Data                                                   35
10.    Summary of Amounts Sanctioned, Disbursed, Overdue by
Participating Bank                                             36






- i -
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
BANGLADESH--FIRST SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
(CREDIT 353-BD)
PREFACE
This report covers an audit of performance under Credit 353-BD to
the People's Republic of Bangladesh for on-lending by the Bangladesh Small
Industries Corporation  (BSIC)  to small-scale industry in Bangladesh.   The
credit was originally made to East Pakistan, and was later reactivated.  The
reactivated credit was signed in January 1973 and was closed, almost fully
disbursed, on December 31, 1977.
An OED mission visited Bangladesh in February 1979 and had discus-
sions with officials of the Government and the central bank, with project
officials and with representatives of the commercial banks on various aspects
of the project, particularly the small-scale industry program, appraisal and
supervision procedures and the working of the consortium arrangements under
which the commercial banks provided counterpart funds. Assistance rendered to
the mission during its visit is gratefully acknowledged.
Two missions, sent to Bangladesh in connection with operational
work, also collected material for the Project Completion Report (PCR).   In
addition, the South Asia Regional Office commissioned a special study by an
institute (Institute of Business Administration of the Dacca University) to
compile data on sub-projects approved under the credit--an effort which
yielded valuable material on the use of the credit.   The audit memorandum is
based on the attached PCR prepared by the South Asia Regional Office, file
review and discussions with the Bank staff, as well as project and other
officials during the OED mission. The PCR, drawing on the sub-project survey,
provides a frank assessment of the working of the credit.  The audit memoran-
dum traces the evolution of the process leading to the credit approval and
evaluates the experience under the project design and problems arising under
the credit disbursement phase.  The audit report was sent to the Ministry of
Finance, Ministry of Industries, Ministry of Planning, the Bangladesh Bank and
the Bangladesh Small and Cottage Industries Corporation in the borrowing
country; the Bangladesh Bank advised that it had no comments to offer on the
report.   No comments were received from the Ministries or the Corporation.






- ii -
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
BANGLADESH--FIRST SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
(CREDIT 353-BD)
BASIC DATA SHEET
Amounts (in US$M)
As of 2/31/80
Original Disbursed Cancelled Repaid Outstanding
Credit 353-BD                 3.0       3.03a/    0.01          -         3.03
CUMULATIVE CREDIT DISBURSEMENT
1973   1974   1975   1976   1977   1978
(i)    Planned                           0.8    1.9    3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0
(ii)   Actual                            0.3    1.8    2.6    2.7    2.9    3.0
(iii)  (ii) as % of (i)                 37.5   94.7   86.7   90.0   96.7  100.0
PROJECT DATA
Original Loan Date    Actual or Re-estimated
Board Approval                                                     1/09/73
Credit Agreement                           -                        1/19/73
Effectiveness                           4/14/73                     5/14/73
Loan Closing                           12/31/75                    12/31/77
MISSION DATA
No. of    No. of                    Date of
Month, Year      Weeks      Persons    Manweeks    Report
Appraisal             August    1972        3           3            9        12/27/72
Supervision I        April      1974       1            3            3       12/09/74
Supervision II       April      1976       4           3           12        12/26/76
Supervision III      August    1977        2           4             8        5/26/78
Supervision IV       July        1978      2           3             6         9/06/78
Completion  I         July       1978       1          3             3        12/03/78
Completion  II       February  1979        2            1            2         5/10/79
a/  Adjusted to reflect the devaluation of U.S. dollar in 1972 and 1973.






- iii -
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
BANGLADESH--FIRST SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
(CREDIT 353-BD)
HIGHLIGHTS
Credit 353-BD, successor to an earlier credit to Pakistan, was the
first credit for a small-scale industry project in Bangladesh.   The credit
was designed to operate through the medium of commercial banks to provide
foreign exchange to small-scale enterprises. In the end, 38 sub-projects were
financed under the credit against 150 sub-projects expected at the appraisal
stage. Further, employment generated by the sub-project was lower than
projected, and the sub-projects tended to be dependent upon imported raw
materials for their operation. Other points of interest are:
- role of design of the credit and organization changes in poor
project implementation experience (paras. 8 to 11 of the PPAM and
paras. 1.06, 2.09 and 4.01 of the PCR);
- failure of size-limit to operate on completion of some sub-
projects (para. 13 of the PPAM and para. 3.05 of the PCR);
- problems in obtaining independent quotations under procurement
requirements (para. 15 of the PPAMI and para 4.08 of the PCR);
and
- poor repayment experience (para. 16 of the PPAM and paras. 4.09
to 4.10 and table 10 of the PCR).






PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT MEMORANDUM
BANGLADESH--FIRST SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
(CREDIT 353-BD)
1.         IDA approved, in December 1972, a credit of US$3 million  to the
Government of Bangladesh for a small-scale industry project to be implemented
by the Bangladesh Small Industries Corporation (BSIC). In effect, this was a
transfer, following the war of independence, of an earlier credit (Credit
192-PAK) of a like amount, approved in May 1970, to Pakistan for a small-scale
industry project to be implemented by the East Pakistan Small Industries
Corporation (EPSIC), of which BSIC was the successor when the Government of
Bangladesh was formed.  The credit became effective on May 14, 1973 and was
closed, after a small cancellation of less than US$10,000 (US$8,944.57), on
December 31, 1977.
2.         The period of implementation of the credit was marked by consider-
able difficulties, leading to the war of independence in 1971 and subsequent
efforts to re-establish stability under the new Government in Bangladesh.
Credit 353-BD was the second of the credits made to Bangladesh after inde-
pendence, the first  (Credit 345-BD) being  a reconstruction  credit.   These
events had an influence on the implementation of the credit under review.
I. History of the Credit
3.         EPSIC had approached  IDA in December 1961 for funds to finance a
part of its program for developing industrial estates in East Pakistan.  IDA
considered the program to be diffuse, but expressed a willingness to consider
providing funds to finance small industries in East Pakistan, particularly
those established in industrial estates. In developing this proposal, it was
agreed that while the credit would be made available to EPSIC, which would
appraise sub-projects under the credit, counterpart funds would be provided by
a consortium of banks to purchase the foreign exchange, and EPSIC and the
consortium of banks would bear equally the risk on the sub-projects approved
under the credit.   This proposal made considerable  progress, reaching  the
appraisal stage in October 1963, but it was shelved in June 1964 on the ground
that the Bank Group should not be involved in small-scale industry financing.
4.         Later, EPSIC obtained, in 1967, a loan on similar lines from the
U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID).  The proposal for an IDA
credit for EPSIC was revived  in June 1967.  As part of an exercise for
supervision of Credit 30-PAR for West Pakistan Industrial Development Corpora-
tion (approved in November 1962 and closed in April 1968), IDA fielded, in
March 1969, a mission to appraise a small-scale industry project in East
Pakistan.   The project design--financing of small-scale industrial projects,
appraisal by EPSIC and arrangement of a consortium of banks to provide local
currency funds--was maintained as originally conceived in 1963.   In partic-
ular, it was felt, on the basis of the USAID loan experience, that the



- 2 -
consortium arrangement was working smoothly.   As a result,  IDA approved,
in May 1970, a credit of US$3 million, of which US$2.9 million was to be used
for project financing and US$0.1 million for technical assistance.
5.        The credit moved rapidly in the first year after approval when the
struggle for independence broke out.   By the time Bangladesh emerged as an
independent nation, EPSIC had approved, under the credit, about US$2 million
to 28 sub-projects; in addition, IDA had initiated the technical assistance
program in cooperation with USAID.
6.        After Bangladesh attained independence, there was a general decision
by the Bank Group to reactivate all ongoing projects in the country, making
the minimum adjustments necessary in the changed circumstances. BSIC, succes-
sor to EPSIC, was not seriously affected organizationally by the independence
struggle.   It had maintained its staff which was local.  The units financed
by it were locally-owned and had not suffered serious damage.   Given this
situation, rather than undertake and appraise a fresh small-industry financing
program which would have taken time, IDA decided to reactivate the old credit
with the same design and objectives.
7.        Though the main reasons for reactivating the credit were to maintain
continuity and provide funds expeditiously, in fact, the credit moved slowly.
As some of the earlier sub-borrowers did not continue with the projects
approved before independence,   the actual number of units and the amount of
funds to be approved (after independence) under the credit proved larger than
estimated at the reactivation stage.   There were various extensions,  the
credit being closed only on December 31, 1977.
Design of the Credit
8.        An essential aspect of the design of the credit was that the tasks
of appraisal and provision of funds were bifurcated between two sets of
agencies, appraisal being done by EPSIC (later BSIC) and financing by a
consortium of banks, with the risk shared equally between the two (in effect,
therefore, EPSIC/BSIC providing a guarantee to the consortium banks for half
the amount provided under the credit).   It was felt that EPSIC/BSIC had the
capability to appraise sub-projects while, with no branches and limited
budgetary support, it did not have the capability to reach small-scale indus-
tries outside Dacca or have funds to provide to them--lacunae which the
consortium arrangement with the commercial banks were expected to fill.
9.        In theory there was always the potential of conflict in that the
banks were expected to provide (or not to provide) funds on the basis of an
outside appraisal, though the representation of the banks on the Loan Com-
mittee (set up to approve projects appraised under the credit) was expected
to give them a share in the final decision-making process.   The banks had
originally accepted the arrangement, hoping thereby to enable their clients to
have access to foreign exchange which was scarce.



- 3 -
10.       However,  in practice, the system worked out differently.   (i)
Apparently, EPSIC/BSIC advertised the availability of the credit and invited
applications for allocations under it.  The catchment area for the credit was
thus not a set of sub-projects worked out carefully over a period of time as
under a DFC line of credit, but a set of entrepreneurs who had pending appli-
cations for import of equipment at a point of time.   Even in 1977 BSIC was
working on a list of more than 400 applications originally received and
pending with itl/.   (ii)   Secondly, as some applications were from new
entrepreneurs and a commercial bank was not their banker, the commercial banks
found that, where such entrepreneurs' sub-projects were found viable, they
were saddled with the responsibility of providing funds to them.  Some of the
banks with which an OED mission had discussions mentioned that their exper-
ience with their own clients under the credit was far better than with those
who became their clients under the consortium arrangement; BSIC attributed
this response to the lack of development orientation among some commercial
banks.
11.       As early as July 1969, even prior to the approval of the credit,
the Bank Group staff had warned of difficulties inherent in the consortium
arrangement.   On the other hand, the DFC Department (then part of IFC) had
felt that over the long run the state industrial corporations might evolve
(with IFC participation) into full-fledged DFCs, not only appraising and
supervising small-scale industrial projects, but also financing them out of
resources directly mobilized by them. While the design, which was worked out
on the basis of experience under the earlier USAID loan, does not appear to
have created problems in the initial phase of the IDA credit, difficulties
appear to have become evident in the       later stages:  various consultant and
supervision missions made references to the issue in their reports starting
early 1973.   Given the policy decision to reactivate projects and since no
problems with the arrangement had become evident in 1973, the Association did
not examine this aspect of the credit at the time of reactivation; however,
organizational changes within BSIC (particularly the breakup of the autonomous
appraising agency) and changes in key personnel, in addition to the weakness
1/   According to the Region, the main factors that undermined the viability
of the sub-projects were the inappropriate eligibility criteria and
priorities for investment in sub-projects (paras. 4.03 to 4.06 and 6.06
of the PCR). Also the response to the credit as advertised brought forth
too many sub-projects of similar type (for example, warp-knitting).
Further, the costs of the sub-projects escalated as credit implementation
became  delayed.    Finally,  the foreign exchange  shortage,  overvalued
exchange rate, and the import-licensing system made uneconomic invest-
ments appear financially attractive. OED considers these factors as only
supporting its view regarding the inadequacy of the procedural system
which was tantamount to selling foreign exchange against commercial bank
loans for sub-projects, lacking a DFC-type of mechanism for weeding out
noneconomic or non-viable sub-projects.



in design, had a significant role in undermining BSIC's ability to implement
the project effectively.   For a considerable time later (in 1976 and 1977),
the Association considered giving a second credit for small-scale industry
under the same arrangement.   However,  later the Association g-ve a second
credit (Credit 825-BD) for small-scale industry directly to the commercial
banks.
Issues in Project Implementation
12.       The method followed in allocating funds under the credit appears to
have led also to other problems, particularly in respect of size and number of
sub-projects covered and conformity with procurement requirements.
13.       The initial objective was  to provide  funds  to units with fixed
assets not exceeding Rs P 1 million (about US$210,000), changed later to
Tk 1.5 million (about US$210,000)1/.   In some cases where sub-projects were
above this size, the sub-project investment was reduced to conform to the
eligibility criterion, even though such reduction influenced adversely the
completeness and viability of the sub-projects.   The PCR (para. 3.05) notes
that seven of the 38 sub-projects were, on completion, above the upper limit
of the small-scale industry definition owing to "underestimation at the time
of BSIC's appraisal and subsequent inflation."
14.       It was originally  expected  that  about  150 sub-projects would be
financed under the credit, giving average financing of US$20,000 per sub-
project under the credit. At the time the credit was reactivated, two-thirds
of the credit amount had been approved to 28 sub-projects, and (after cancel-
lation of about five sub-projects) another 20 to 30 sub-projects were expected
to be approved under the credit.   In fact, the actual number of sub-projects
financed was much smaller, being 38 (not all of which were found to be in
operation in a special survey undertaken at the PCR stage), making for an
average financing of US$78,950.    The sub-projects are relatively larger than
originally projected and many are automated and dependent upon imported raw
materials (as in the case of warp-knitting and synthetic cloth projects);
textiles formed 44 percent in amount and 40 percent in number of the projects
financed under the credit (see paras. 3.03, 3.04 and 3.08 of the PCR).  The
dependence of many of the sub-projects upon imported raw materials has led to
low-capacity utilization and arrears. In 1970 it was expected the sub-
projects would create 3,400 jobs.   In respect of 34 sub-projects (out of 38
actually financed under the credit), against an appraisal estimate of 1,139
jobs, the number of actual jobs created was 780 (Table 3 in the PCR).
15.       The application procedure involved the borrower obtaining and
presenting three independent quotations for equipment to be procured under the
IDA credit.   While the applications were accompanied by such quotations,
1/   In October 1973, the definition of small-scale industry was changed to
cover units with fixed assets of Tk 2.5 million (about US$330,000).



some firms gave their quotations with one low and the others inordinately high
in relation to the first or they were for different items or were summaries of
the first, raising doubts about the independent nature of the quotations. On
the other hand, particularly in the troubled times after independence, small
enterpreneurs found it difficult to meet the Association's procurement
requirements, particularly given the small size and nature of their require-
ments.
16.       The  repayment  experience  on  the  sub-projects  under  the credit,
reflecting not only the unusual economic and political conditions during the
implementation period, but also the inadequacy of the design, has so far
been unsatisfactory, the arrears being Tk 7.8 million (about US$503,000)
equivalent to 61 percent of the amount due (see Table 10 of the PCR); BSIC
attributes this to a tardy collection system by the banks.  Apparently, the
BSIC appraisal system was mechanical, emphasizing the formal conformity of the
applications with project criteria (size of project, number of quotations
included). The procedures set by BSIC were cumbersome, leading to delays in
bringing sub-projects to the Loan Committee and to the slow utilization of the
credit. The commercial banks were concerned more with the credit-worthiness of
the borrowers, and apparently felt required to support BSIC-appraised sub-
project applicants with whom they had no earlier business contact.  There was
limited supervision of the sub-projects during the post-appraisal period,
leading to substantial arrears under the loans and even inability to trace
some of the borrowers.
Role of the Association
17.       The Association  took  an  inordinate  time  to approve the credit,
mainly owing to an earlier policy decision not to involve the Bank Group in
small-scale industrial financing operations.   The Bank Group operated on a
design which it felt had been functioning satisfactorily, but whose actual
experience it did not appear to have examined closely at the time it approved
the credit initially or reactivated later.
18.       The Association played an active role during the project implemen-
tation period, supporting EPSIC, and later BSIC, with technical assistance,
advising it to concentrate its activities on a limited number of industrial
estates as a major part of its activity and encouraging it to take up promo-
tion of small industry.   The Association also made, in mid-1975, a special
examination of the compliance of the sub-projects with the procurement re-
quirements under the credit. Finally, of special mention is the fact that the
Association commissioned a special survey of the sub-projects at the project
completion stage (para 3.01 of the PCR), helping strengthen the data base on
them.
19.       Summing up, the project was inadequately designed, and, as a result,
particularly given the unusual environment in which it was implemented,
ran into delays and difficulties in the implementation period.   The number
of sub-projects covered was smaller and the average financing larger than



- 6 -
originally envisaged, and the number of jobs created smaller than projected at
the stage of credit approval (also smaller than estimated at the time of
apppraisal of the sub-projects actually financed under the credit).   Pro-
curement did r,t always conform to the requirements under the credit agree-
ment, and the sub-projects ran into repayment problems. It needs to be
recognized, however, given the considerable political and economic turmoil
during the period of the project, implementation would have been difficult
under any project design.



-7-
ANNEX
COMMUNICATION RECEIVED FROM THE BORROWER
248423 WORLDBKFROM : A.K.GANGOPADHAYAY
DEPUTY GOVERNOR
BANIGLADESH BANK
DACCA
To   : INTBAFRAD, WASHINGTON DC 7.EE  U.S.A
FOR MR SHIV S KAPUR, DIRECTOR, O.E.D., WORLD BANK
REFYOUR LET 21ST DEC 1979 REGARDING AUDIT REPOLINDUSTRY
PROJECT (CREDIT 353-BD)
WE HAVE NO COMMENT6 TO OFFER STOP
A K GANGOPADHYAY
248423 WORLDBK
USAPAJ 092



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
FIRST SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT (353-BD)
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      In December 1972, a US$3 million IDA credit (353-BD) was approved
for a Small-scale Industry Project in Bangladesh. The credit was first
appraised in 1969 and was approved by the Board in June 1970 as a Small
Industries Project for East Pakistan (Credit 192-PAK). By the time of the
War of Independence in December 1971, 28 subprojects (about US$2 million)
had been approved, with two-thirds of the credit already allocated. However,
disbursements were only US$200,000. After the creation of Bangladesh in early
1972, a short mission in August 1972 re-examined the project and recommended
reactivation of the credit to be implemented by the Bangladesh Small Indus-
tries Corporation (BSIC), the successor to the East Pakistan Small Industries
Corporation (EPSIC). In line with the practice used by IDA for other projects
which were ongoing at the time of Bangladesh's independence, no new appraisal
report was prepared; rather, the President's Report included a technical note,
which stated that the project was fundamentally the same as 192-PAK, with
objectives and institutional arrangements unchanged. This allowed prompt
resumption of Bank Group relationships with the project officials.
1.02      Under ideal circumstances, the credit would have been reappraised
and the subprojects reviewed in detail, since the upheavals from the war had
created dislocations for industrial and commercial firms, particularly in the
loss of raw materials and disruptions in marketing channels. However, BSIC
had examined the damage and disruption that the war had inflicted on its
clients and had concluded that implementation of most of the subprojects
could be resumed quickly.
A.   Small Industry Sector
1.03      In the early 1970s, industrial production accounted for only about
10% of Bangladesh's GDP. Large industry, nationalized after independence,
was dominated by jute and textiles which accounted for about 60% of employ-
ment and 40% of value added of firms with over 10 workers. The 45,000
small 1/ and 425,000 cottage industries (SCIs) 2/ were estimated to represent
1/   Enterprises with fixed assets, including land, of Tk 2.5 million (GOB
definition).
2/   Activities that are carried on wholly or mainly by members of a family
either as a full-time or part-time occupation (GOB definition).



- 9 -
roughly 40% of industrial production and over 50% of industrial employment.
Major SCI subsectors were handloom textiles and agro-industries which together
accounted for about 50% of SCI units. SCIs were roughly divided into two
groups: (i) the "unorganized" manufacturing/service sector which relied
mainly upon indigenous equipment and raw materials, and were highly labor-
intensive and (ii) the small and medium-scale sector which had better access
to credit and usually were more capital-intensive, partly due to the distor-
tions caused by the linkage of raw material import licenses to equipment
capacity ratings on a one-shift basis.
1.04      With independence came several key changes in the industrial structure.
The war had caused considerable damage to plants and transportation networks,
and had interrupted trade. Raw materials, spares, and equipment previously
shipped from West Pakistan were no longer available, increasing requirements
for foreign exchange. Non-Bengali entrepreneurs, who had dominated industrial
ownership and management, were no longer present; 80% of large industry was
nationalized and a ceiling of Tk 3.5 million was placed on fixed investments
in private firms. Thus, post-war conditions caused great uncertainty among
potential industrialists.
B.   Policy Framework for SSI
1.05      GOB's Plan for 1973/74 to 1977/78 contained Tk 1.2 billion for
investment in new small enterprises. With foreign exchange scarce, GOB
tightened access to foreign exchange through the Industrial Investment Sched-
ule which specified capacity expansion by product groups. Small industries
were assumed to operate on a one-shift basis, with cash foreign exchange
allowances for raw materials linked to a fixed percentage of equipment
capacity. Tariffs on luxury consumer goods were high relative to capital
goods and raw materials, creating incentives for firms to exploit monopoly
markets for import-dependent luxury items based on equipment-intensive
processes.
C.   Institutional Framework for SSI
1.06      EPSIC had been the principal development agency for SCI, being
responsible for promotion, technical assistance and credit. Within EPSIC,
the responsibilities for promotion, appraisal and follow-up were concen-
trated in a semi-autonomous unit, the Small Industry Advisory Service (SIAS),
which was the focal point for implementation of a USAID loan. The major
credit channels were direct financing by EPSIC, and a consortium arrangement
between EPSIC and the Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan (IDBP), under
which EPSIC handled appraisals and supervision, and IDBP checked clients'
creditworthiness and collected principal and interest. The EPSIC/IDBP con-
sortium resulted in high arrears with EPSIC blaming IDBP's lack of interest
and poor collection procedures, and IDBP blaming the poor quality of EPSIC's
appraisal and follow-up work. In 1966, this system was replaced by a con-
sortium arrangement between EPSIC and the commercial banks. After the
creation of Ban-A.-   , '  -  T -   .; argladesh Small Industries Corpo-
ration .iS__L;     L LIe !-to    f 3   ati rc dispersed amoag 5 different
deTartments of LbT;,T.   i. , - '.x- .:!;i.z.nationaIiLed.



- 10 -
II. OBJECTIVES, COMPONENTS, AND PROJECT DESIGN
A.   Objectives
2.01      The Appraisal Report of Credit 192-PAK 1/ and the President's Report
for 353-BD 2/ stated that the principal reason for slow growth of small indus-
try in Bangladesh was limited access to foreign exchange to import equipment
and machinery. Also mentioned as major problems were the paucity of entrepre-
neurs with technical know-how and lack of outside technical assistance to help
improve the efficiency of small industry. The explicit objectives in promot-
ing small industries, therefore, were to develop management capabilities to
broaden the ownership of industry and to provide foreign exchange to small
manufacturing enterprises for the purchase of machinery and equipment.
2.02      As mentioned in para 1.01, the original project was designed for what
was then East Pakistan and did not include any components for West Pakistan.
Thus, it was felt that the objectives and design of 192-PAK could be modified
for implementation in Bangladesh, except that the institutional arrangements
needed to be reviewed. The President's Report for 353-BD included a short
technical note which examined the changes in conditions affecting the project.
2.03      From an analysis of the documents and discussions with relevant
officials in the Bank and in Bangladesh, and from the type of subprojects
financed under the credit, it is assumed that the implicit objectives of
353-BD were:
(i)  the promotion of import-substitution projects;
(ii)  the financing of those subprojects that conformed to
GOB's investment priorities; and
(iii)  the financing of subprojects located in and around
Dacca and Chittagong rather than in the secondary
towns.
2.04      An implicit consideration of the project in the context of a newly-
emerged Bangladesh was to work within the existing framework without creating
new institutions or shifting responsibilities, given the upheavals that had
taken place in 1971/72. An overriding concern was to implement viable pro-
jects as soon as possible. Thus, the objectives of the project, even at
that time, were considered to be quite limited, partly because of the pre-
vailing situation and also because this was the first small scale project
for the industrial sector.
1/   Report Number Pl-4a dated May 5, 1970; Industrial Projects Department.
2/   Report Number P-1133, dated December 27, 1972.



- 11 -
B.   Components
2.05      Components and credit amounts of 353-BD were specified as:
(a) US$2.74 million to cover foreign exchange expenditures
for imported equipment for about 40 subprojects;
(b) US$69,000 for one consultant to spend 18 months assisting
BSIC in subproject appraisals; and
(c) US$186,500 to be paid to Pakistan for withdrawals under
192-PAK, including subloan disbursements, technical
assistance and foreign exchange adjustments.
In addition, a consultant financed by UNDP was to provide technical assistance
to BSIC on organizational aspects.
2.06      In late 1972, when the SSI project was reactivated, GOB had not
stated any new policies or institutional arrangements for SSI development
although BSIC had reorganized internally (para 1.06). The IDA Small-scale
Industry Project was reactivated using the consortium arrangement between
BSIC (EPSIC's successor) and the six nationalized commercial banks. In
January 1973, GOB issued a policy statement, prescribing that BSIC should
concentrate on promotion, technical assistance, and industrial estate manage-
ment, leaving term lending for SSI to the Bangladesh Shilpa Bank 1/ (IDBP's
successor) and working capital lending to the commercial banks. Later GOB
reversed itself, allowing BSIC to continue the consortium arrangement with
the commercial banks. Under this arrangement, BSIC was responsible for
screening subloan applications; appraising the technical, financial, and
economic viability of subprojects; approving them for finance by the commer-
cial banks; and supervising subproject implementation and operations. The
participating commercial banks were to assess the creditworthiness of clients
once subprojects were approved by BSIC, disburse funds, and collect repay-
ments. The commercial banks also had veto power on the appraisal and financ-
ing decisions for subprojects financed under Credit 353-BD. Risks were split
50:50 between BSIC and the commercial banks.
C.   Project Design
2.07      Credit 353-BD was designed to finance subprojects approved under
192-PAK and additional subprojects still to be identified and appraised by
BSIC. The technical note annexed to the President's Report mentioned that
23 of the subprojects could be implemented, with five subprojects to be
cancelled. It was envisaged that another 20-30 subprojects still to be
appraised would exhaust the credit.
1/   At that time, there was an upper limit of Tk 2.5 million of fixed assets
for providing term finance to the private sector. Therefore, the only
scope for development banking in the private sector was for SSIs.



- 12 -
2.08      The target groups as specified in the Appraisal Report for 192-PAK
and the President's Report for 353-BD stated that subloans would be made:
(a) mainly for new subprojects, with BMR 1/ subloans extended only with
prior approval of IDA; (b) mainly for firms to be located on the industrial
estates; and (c) for small-scale industries with at least 10 workers and fixed
assets (excluding land) not exceeding Tk 1.5 million (US$210,000). 2/   This
limit was later increased to Tk 2.5 million. Priority was to be given for
subprojects which were potential foreign exchange earners or savers, and
which required minimal protection; however, no detailed subproject selection
criteria were included. Most subprojects were expected to be in light engi-
neering, textiles, agro-processing, food processing chemicals, plastics,
leather and ceramics.
2.09      The terms and conditions of the credit specified that IDA funds were
to cover up to 100% of the foreign exchange costs of imported machinery and
equipment. As counterpart contribution to the credit, commercial banks were
to provide local currency loans to meet remaining fixed costs, and working
capital requirements which would supplement owners' equity (para 5.07).
The banks were to onlend the IDA funds at 3.5% above the Bangladesh Bank rate,
with 1.5% of the interest charges paid to BSIC and 2% paid to the commercial
banks. In addition, BSIC was to collect a one time service charge of not less
than 2.5% of the foreign exchange requirement of each subproject financed.
Repayment risks were split equally between BSIC and the participating bank,
and GOB bore the foreign exchange risks. Goods and services financed with
foreign exchange were to be procured based upon quotations from at least
three qualified suppliers. Bangladesh Bank was to provide the participating
commercial banks with rediscount facilities for up to 75% of local currency
sublcan amounts.
III. EX-POST EXPERIENCE OF SUBPROJECTS FINANCED
A.   Information Retrieval
3.01      Throughout the course of implementation of the credit (Chapter IV)
progress reporting by BSIC was weak. Although reports were provided in a
fairly timely manner, these were generally too brief and did not allow a
clear view of the status of subprojects financed under the credit. The
various supervision missions (listed on title page) found BSIC's records to
be inadequate and poorly organized and thus information retrieval became a
particularly acute problem. The PCR mission in July 1978 encountered
difficulties in analyzing the subproject performance due to BSIC's lack of
1/   Balancing, modernization, and replacement.
2/   Under Credit 192-PAK, the limit was 1.0 million (US$210,000).



- 13 -
systematic inspection reports. 1/ Consequently, in December 1978, the Bank
decided to launch an independent study to compare the ex-ante projections in
the appraisal reports with the ex-post experience of the 38 subprojects that
were eventually financed under the credit. 2/ The study, which gas completed
in mid-March 1979 by the Institute of Business Administration (Dacca University)
has provided current information on the operating conditions of the 38 sub-
projects financed. Data from this study, from BSIC's files, and .from the
mission's visits to some of the firms, form the basis for the observations
below.
B.   Profile
3.02      The 38 subprojects financed under the first SSI Credit were con-
centrated in and around Dacca and Chittagong, which accounted for 71% of the
number of subprojects, 78% by amount, and 80% of employment generated. Firms
were concentrated in textiles and food processing, which represented 44% and
26%, respectively, of lending (by amount). Most projects were relatively
large, with over 70% of lending for firms with fixed assets over Tk 1 million,
and rather capital intensive (relative to other SSIs in Bangladesh), with an
average fixed cost per job of about US$5,000. Firms financed were highly
dependent upon imported equipment, which represented an average of 75% of
fixed costs.
C.   Geographical Distribution
3.03      Dacca accounted for 50% of the subprojects and 61% of the lending
under 353-BD (Table 1). Chittagong, Khulna and Rajshahi had minor concentra-
tions representing 17%, 11% and 11% of lending, respectively. This concen-
tration can be explained in part by the system of promotion and subloan
processing. Advertisement of the Credit was done mainly through newspapers
with circulation in the larger cities. Receipt of applications, interviews of
entrepreneurs, and appraisals were done at BSIC headquarters in Dacca. Over
half the subprojects were located on BSIC industrial estates, 10 on Tongi
Estate in Dacca and the other 10 spread over 6 estates. Over 75% of the
textile projects and 35% of agro-processed firms were located on estates.
This emphasis on industrial estate location was in conformity with the
Appraisal Report; BSIC actively encouraged borrowing firms to locate on
the estates, in spite of the distance of some estates from raw materials and
markets. Infrastructure services and power supply was particularly lacking
on some of the estates.
D.   Subsector Distribution
3.04      The 38 subprojects were concentrated in:  textiles (synthetics
and hosiery) which accounted for 17 subprojects and 44% of lending; and food
1/   As a result of IDA's urging in early 1978, 16 inspection reports were
prepared during May-July 1978.
2/   Referred to as the "Ex-Post Study" in this report.



- 14 -
processing (mainly grain and oil mills) with 13 subprojects and 26% of lend-
ing. These two subsectors were considered priority areas in the 1970 appraisal.
Only 3 engineering SSIs were financed, representing 12% of subloans vs. the
targeted 30%, while no subprojects in leather, glass and ceramics or chemicals
were approved, although they represented 18% of the pipeline in 1970. Three
printing and two cold storage subprojects were financed. Table 2 provides the
breakdown of subprojects and loan amount by subsector and location.
E.   Size of Subprojects
3.05      Seven of the 38 subprojects exceeded the upper limit of Tk 2.5 mil-
lion in fixed assets due to under-estimation at the time of BSIC's appraisal
and subsequent inflation. The average subproject size was Tk 1.0 million,
with 37% of the subprojects and 74% of the investment in enterprises with
over Tk 1.0 million of fixed investment, excluding land.
F.   Employment Impact
3.06      The employment impact of the project was significantly lower than
was projected in the Bank's original documents, mainly explained by the lower
number of projects:  the Appraisal Report of 1970 estimated 3,400 jobs in 154
new enterprises. The 38 subproject appraisal reports projected a total of
1,139 new positions (Tables 3 and 6) whereas actual employment generated was
780 according to BSIC's data and 875 according to the Ex-Post Study (Table 6).
Thus, the actual employment impact was less than 30% of the Bank's original
projections, which were too optimistic, considering BSIC's administrative
capacity to identify and appraise viable subprojects. There are no data on
the indirect employment generated. Table 4 shows the size distribution by
fixed costs per job. The average fixed investment per job of subprojects was
Tk 53,000 compared to Tk 40,000 estimated in BSIC's appraisals. Only 36% of
the projects had a cost per job of less than Tk 40,000 while 30% exceeded Tk
80,000. In food processing, fixed cost per job was Tk 44,000; however, if two
large flour mills are excluded, the average would be Tk 36,000 per job, with
70% of the subprojects falling below Tk 45,000 per job which shows a more
favorable result. In textiles, the average was Tk 53,500, but if 3 subpro-
jects are excluded, the average falls to Tk 45,800.
G.   Imported Equipment and Raw Materials
3.07      The 1970 Appraisal Report estimated that about 30% of the costs of
subprojects would be financed in foreign exchange through the IDA Credit.
The remainder of fixed as well as working capital subloan amounts was to be
financed by the commercial banks. In most cases, local currency loans from
commercial banks and owners' equity covered local currency expenditures (for
building, equipment, and working capital), with heavy reliance on foreign
equipment, representing an average of 75% of fixed investment. Foreign ex-
change as a percentage of fixed investment represented 87% in engineering,
81% in printing, 79% in textiles, 76% in food processing, and 46% in cold
storage. Most textile and food processing equipment was purchased from Japan
or West Germany; Japan provided engineering equipment; and West Germany
supplied most of the printing equipment (Table 5).



- 15 -
3.08      Dependence upon imported raw material varied markedly by subsector,
being negligible for food processing, (average of 3% of raw material value),
moderate in cold storage (33%) and high in engineering (86%), printing (72%)
and textiles (52%) (Table 5). Most of the projects were either import-
substitution or domestic market in design, although one or two of the textiles
subprojects (hosiery mills) reached export markets.
H.   Performance and Problems
3.09      Data on actual fixed costs per job, production, profitability or
value added of subprojects financed were not collected during BSIC's sporadic
follow-up visits. Consequently, the Ex-Post Study focused on these indicators
(Tables 6-7). The data on capacity utilization indicates significant under-
utilization in some of the food processing and textiles subprojects.
3.10      Problems causing low capacity utilization varied by product group.
In food and allied firms, problems noted in the study included insufficient
availability or high price of raw materials, need for more working capital,
technical problems, and irregular power supply. In the warp knitting plants,
common problems were: insufficiency of raw material import entitlement;
unsuccessful competition with imported cloth and used clothing; cost overruns
resulting in liquidity problems; poor finishing sections; and power failures.
For printing and packaging factories, problems included lack of technical
know-how, difficulties due to unbalanced equipment, and insufficient skilled
labor and working capital (Table 8).
3.11      It is difficult to arrive at firm conclusions on what have been the
economic and financial merits of each of the 38 subprojects. Table 9 compares
the planned vs. actual employment and cost/job achieved for the 38 subprojects
based on data supplied by BSIC. 1/ As expected, variances occur among firms
in the same subsector. A review of ex-ante profitability data projections and
the ex-post data showed large variances: low rates (profit before tax/project
cost) for some textile firms, probably explained by uneconomic scale in some
mills and price controls in the textile sector. The capital-intensive designs
meant that these fairly small units were uncompetitive with the larger BTMC
mills, some of which also faced operating difficulties. Yet BSIC financed 16
such textile mills. Ex-ante profitability rates were estimated to be more
favorable for food products and printing operations. The cold storage units
were estimated to be less profitable.
3.12      Of the 38 firms, the Ex-Post Study data has shown that 32 units
are operating although only 15 of the firms are producing at more than 50%
1/   The actual costs/job data in Table 9 differs from the figures in
Table 6 for some of the firms because of such factors as production
records which are on a two-shift basis (decreases the K/L by half if
the firm is reporting twice the number of employees compared to its
one-shift start-up).



- 16 -
capacity (Table 7). 1/ About 10 are operating on more than one-shift (in
some cases even three shifts). However, raw material shortages are causing
problems, since import permits were issued on the basis of one shift and it
usually takes some time before the Department of Industries revises its
allocation to a given firm. At least half of the firms are encountering
moderate to major problems and no more than one-third are reporting profits
(although they may in fact be making more profits than stated).
3.13         Reliable ex-post profitability data is still not available, mainly
because it is yet too soon after construction. Nevertheless, the fact that
some of the firms are not operating, and that others which are operating are
experiencing repayment difficulties (para 4.10), is prima-facie evidence that
a number of the 38 projects were not financially viable. However, a few more
years of operating data is required before arriving at firm judgements and
the next few years could still see a financial turnaround in some of these
subprojects (the June-December 1978 period showed an upturn). Nevertheless,
partial economic indicators (high costs/job, import dependence, marginal ex-
port value, concentration in the two largest urban areas) suggest that many
of the subprojects (particularly in textiles) were of doubtful priority,
while some such as the agro-based small industries and food products, appear
to have been economically justified.
IV. PERFORMANCE OF IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES
A. Summary Performance
4.01      Interviews with the 38 subproject entrepreneurs and managers con-
firmed the findings of the PCR mission that BSIC's performance under Credit
353-BD was generally considered to be weak. Subprojects were processed with-
out utilizing subsector eligibility criteria. Appraisals were superficial,
particularly in their assessment of markets, managerial capabilities, and
technical alternatives. BSCIC was arbitrary in its elimination of certain
items from cost components in order to reduce subprojects to the SSI limits
(Tk 2.5 million of fixed assets). In several cases this led to imbalanced
production plants. Procurement procedures were not satisfactory. Follow-up
visits and preparation of inspection reports were sporadic. Project promotion
and post-loan technical assistance were virtually non-existent. Subproject
accounts were in most cases unreliable and unaudited. BSIC's reporting to IDA
was punctual but perfunctory. During the course of the credit, BSIC's staff
competence and morale deteriorated due in part to the split of responsibilities
between BSIC and the commercial banks which brought inefficiencies and con-
flicts, and also to the breakup of SIAS (para 1.06), changes in BSIC's leader-
ship and vacancies within the organization. These points are discussed in
detail below.
1/   It is difficult to be precise about capacity utilization data since
it should be based on year-round production performance for which the
data are incomplete (under-reporting by firms). The figures in Table 7
reflect capacity utilization as evidenced in February 1979 adjusted to
an annual basis. However, February is not necessary a typical month,
particularly for agro-industries.



- 17 -
B.   Subproject Identification
4.02      Availability of foreign exchange subloans was advertised in local
newspapers; prescreening criteria were limited largely to compl.Ince with the
Industrial Investment Schedule and applications were processed on a "first
come, first served" basis. No specific eligibility criteria or priority
system was utilized. The supervision mission of June 1975 analyzed applica-
tions which had passed BSIC's prescreening and found over two-thirds to be of
questionable economic merit and financial viability. Most were in the import
substitution category, heavily dependent upon imported raw materials and
capital-intensive foreign equipment.
C.   Subproject Appraisals
4.03      IDA's review of BSIC's subproject appraisal reports revealed major
analytical weaknesses, which led to difficulties in project implementation.
Deficiencies in technical evaluation led to problems of balancing, particu-
larly in textile and printing firms. Technical appraisals did not give suffi-
cient consideration to alternative technologies and most plants were designed
to be almost entirely dependent upon imported equipment. Economies of scale
were not put to advantage; the availability of foreign exchange for small
industry led, especially in textiles, to fragmentation of plants which would
have benefited from larger scale. In other cases, plants were overbuilt or
overdesigned, such as printing and packaging.
4.04      Market analyses were in many cases the weakest area of appraisal,
but this was not surprising considering the turmoil that had taken place and
the conceptual difficulties of this aspect of appraisal. A rough projection
of growth in national consumption usually was cited as proof of demand for an
item; projections often were based on global population increases or outdated
data. These global projections sometimes were accompanied by assertions by
the entrepreneur that the market existed. In almost no case was there an
analysis of the competition, ability of the proposed firm to offer goods at
the required price and quality, or specific marketing channels to be used.
4.05      Financial appraisals indicated facility by SIAS staff in employing
mechanics of pro forma balance sheets, cash flows, and breakeven analysis.
However, assumptions generated by weak technical and marketing evaluation
made the results questionable. According to the 1975 supervision report,
subproject costs often were underestimated, reducing the owner's 30% equity
requirement; cost overruns became frequent, due to underestimation and
delays in processing and did not involve reappraisal or recalculation of
the owner's contribution. The ex-post study confirmed this weakness.
4.06      Assessment of the applicant's capability to operate a successful
small industry was given little attention. In fact, most owners of sub-
projects financed did not manage their SSIs. Most had little previous
experience in the subsector. The ex-post study encountered difficulties in
locating some entrepreneurs, although most were found at their registered
offices or at some of the offices of their other interests.



- 18 -
D.   Assessment of Creditworthiness
4.07      The commercial banks were responsible for assessing applicants'
creditworthiness, once subprojects were approved for financing by BSIC.
Commercial banks seem to have given preference to applicants that could bring
other useful commercial banking business.  The banks insisted upon high col-
lateral, rather than assessing the ability of an applicant to repay the sub-
loan. This attitude is understandable, since the banks did not participate
in BSIC's appraisals until a late stage, and had misgivings in some cases
about the validity of the findings and, therefore, wanted to protect them-
selves against risks.
E.   Procurement
4.08      The Bank's procurement procedures were not adequately followed under
353-BD. In several cases, BSIC had not obtained the required three legitimate
quotations from foreign equipment suppliers i.e., there appeared to be only
one legitimate offer (from a local trading firm in Dacca representing overseas
suppliers), while the other two bids were token offers with incomplete or in-
appropriate lists of equipment. IDA raised these questions with GOB 1/ and
specifically pointed out the extent to which BSIC had not followed the require-
ment of three legitimate offers. The Ministry of Planning responded that in
some cases BSIC had not obtained additional quotations in order to speed-up
project implementation to avoid equipment price increases. Finally, they
stated that the multiple layers and stages of subproject review and approval
within BSIC precluded possibilities of misprocurement. IDA decided that GOB's
undertaking to maintain, in the future, stricter adherence to IDA's procure-
ment procedures was satisfactory at that time.  BSIC's procurement procedures
did improve for the last few subprojects; three complete offers were obtained
in each case and the awards were made to the lowest bidder.
F.  Follow-up and Collections
4.09      BSIC's Supervision Department, under the Planning Director, was
responsible for follow-up and related technical assistance to subprojects
financed under 353-BD. However, no regular follow-up visits were organized
and some confusion seemed to exist within BSIC and the commercial banks as
to who was responsible for post-loan follow-up. It appears that BSIC made
occasional visits during the period of disbursements and equipment installa-
tions, after which visits were infrequent. Records of both the commercial
banks and BSIC of subprojects financed under 353-BD are spotty and incon-
sistent. No systematic program of technical assistance to clients was imple-
mented. The supervision reports and observations of the PCR mission indicated
that rudimentary advice, especially on marketing and equipment balancing,
could have improved SSI operations markedly.
1/   IDA's August 21, 1975 letter to the Secretary of the Planning Commission.



- 19 -
4.10      Arrears on subprojects financed under 353-BD have been high, with
BSIC and commercial banks placing the blame on each other. As of June 30,
1978, total arrears (Tk 7.8 million) amounted to 61% of amounts due (Table 10).
These arrears 'qere mainly concentrated in Janata Bank (44% of total arrears),
Uttara Bank (20%), and Pubali Bank (16%). The rate of recovery had been very
good at Sonali Bank (93%), which has better collection procedures than the
other banks and is generally more experienced with small-scale agricultural
and commercial credit operations. The recovery rate has been much lower for
the other banks i.e. 27% for Uttara Bank, 21% for Rupali Bank, 30% for Pubali
Bank and 23% for Agrani Bank (Table 10). It is difficult to obtain reliable
data on ageing of arrears, but it appears from the IBA study and the data
supplied by the six banks that one-third of the arrears are overdue in excess
of two years. The data indicate that about 10 of the firms could be classi-
fied as willful defaulters.
G.   Reporting to IDA
4.11       BSIC was reasonably prompt in submitting its quarterly reports to
IDA. However, the agreed reporting format was extremely sparse, consisting
of lists of physical progress on subproject implementation. No regular
information was required on changes in BSIC's organization, staffing, or
performance in project promotion, appraisal and follow-up, which would have
alerted IDA to increasing problems or have helped identify corrective actions.
H.   Accounts, Audits
4.12      Under the Development Credit Agreement for 353-BD, BSIC was required
to keep separate, audited accounts of the subprojects. Separate accounts were
kept, but BSIC's difficulties reconciling its accounts with those of IDA's
Disbursement Division indicated the inadequacy of the system. Auditing of
BSIC's accounts had been out of date (as of July 1976, the only audited
statement was for the year ending June 1970, unaudited accounts existed for
other years). IDA had requested an audit for the year ending July 1975 to
include audits of project accounts, but no date had been agreed for comple-
tion. In July 1976, IDA stated that updated audits would be a conditibn for
Board presentation of the Second Small-Scale Industry project. 1/
V. ROLE OF IDA
A.   Summary Performance
5.01       The circumstances under which the Credit was prepared and approved
(paras 1.01-1.02) meant that IDA's role could only be sub-optimal at best.
The Credit had been prepared and approved under different institutional
1/   These audited accounts were submitted to IDA in May 1978.



- 20 -
conditions, although the staff of the main implementing agency (BSIC) was
for the main part inherited from its predecessor (EPSIC). The key position
of BSIC chairman changed hands a few times complicating the lack of continuity
problem.
5.02      At the same time, the Bank's own organization and policies vis-a-vis
small scale industry were still at their initial stages. Moreover, the depart-
ment within IDA responsible for implementation of the project did not have
sufficient staff to devote the necessary number of man-weeks required to moni-
tor and supervise effectively this difficult project in a new sector for the
Bank. This mitigated against the Bank's role in identifying problems as soon
as possible and in modifying the project, where necessary. Since this was
one of the Bank's first SSI projects, many lessons were yet to be learned.
These points are discussed in detail below.
B.   Preparation and Appraisal
5.03      The problems IDA encountered in preparing and appraising this pro-
ject, from its transformation from Credit 192-PAK into 353-BD, are mentioned
in paras. 1.01-1.02 and 2.06. IDA did not evaluate the problems of BSIC in
sufficient detail particularly since BSIC had been reorganized (para 1.06).
In view of BSIC's performance under the credit, it appears that the institu-
tion building components were inadequate, particularly in the areas of sub-
project promotion and technical assistance considering that development of
local management was an objective (para 2.01). The problems inherent in the
split of responsibilities between BSIC and the commercial banks should have
been foreseen in light of the difficult experience between IDBP and BSIC
(para 1.06). More analysis should have been given to the economic justifi-
cation for the credit and the linkages with sub-project appraisal criteria.
These criteria should have been embodied in the appraisal note and in the
Credit Agreements, e.g., the extreme dependence on imported raw materials
should have been discouraged (see Chapter VI for more details). The commer-
cial banks had been nationalized but no analysis was made as to whether or
not these banks had the staff capacity to assess the creditworthiness of
subprojects involving term loans (the banks had experience in working capital
loans).
C.   Project Supervision
5.04     In February 1973, an IDA Small Industry Sector mission reviewed
conditions of SSI in Bangladesh and undertook supervision of 353-BD. The
mission noted several major problems concerning BSIC which had not been
mentioned in the President's Report of 353-BD.
(a) the over-emphasis on developing new SSIs, when most
existing firms were operating at less than one shift
capacity;
(b) the concentration in Dacca of BSIC loan processing and
decision-making, necessitating that entrepreneurs make
four to five trips to Dacca to get a subloan approved;



- 21 -
(c) the inappropriate push for units to locate on the industrial
estates, when the only reason that many units moved to the
industrial estates was that it meant access to loans. Many
of the industrial estates were poorly located and lacked
basic infrastructure, and BSIC's staff did not have the
expertise to provide technical assistance;
(d) weakness in project identification, project promotion, and
technical assistance; and
(e) extremely poor repayment record of subprojects under the
BSIC/consortium bank arrangement.
5.05      By June 1973, the records show further slippage in the situation
with (a) the private sector showing little sign of reviving, (b) BSIC and
other agencies suffering low morale, and (c) need for outside assistance to
BSIC in internal organization, regional development, and subsector studies.
5.06      The supervision missions under 353-BD, which were often combined
with other project activities due to IDA's shortage of staff, allowed for only
cursory review of project implementation. In September 1973, an IDA mission
reviewed disbursement progress for a number of credits, including 353-BD. The
mission found that only 10 of the projected 23 subprojects approved by EPSIC
had materialized after independence, and stressed that the credit needed con-
stant follow-up. An improvement was anticipated as a result of a UNDP/UNIDO
study on reorganization of BSIC (see para 5.09). The supervision mission of
April 1974 was to assess progress in detail, particularly reasons for slow
utilization of the credit. The mission reported that key positions in BSIC
(e.g. Director of Planning) were unfilled, that BSIC's technical assistance
was nearly non-existent, and that GOB appeared to be shifting the role of BSIC
away from financing to project promotion. The mission recommended that the
processing of a second SSI Credit be dependent upon the outcome of the UNDP/
UNIDO study (para 5.09) on BSIC's reorganization and the action that GOB would
take as a result of the study. Subproject processing remained slow and the
credit's closing date had to be extended to December 1977. A supervision
mission in June 1975 prepared a detailed report on BSIC's performance and
recommended remedial actions particularly on procurement (para 4.08).
5.07      One notable gap in IDA's supervision regarded operations of commer-
cial banks. The Appraisal Report for 192-PAK and the President's Report for
353-BD stressed the important role commercial banks were to play in assessment
of client creditworthiness, collections, risk-sharing and on-going client con-
tact. However, IDA had minimal contact with the six commercial banks and no
formal monitoring was kept on the banks' contribution of counterpart funds to
the credit. 1/
1    The Development Credit Agreement (Section 3.01(c)) required the parti-
cipating commercial banks to provide local currency loans upto a total
of Tk 46.0 million. Data from commercial banks do not indicate how
much was in fact contributed. The fact that many of the subprojects
encountered working capital shortages indicates that the Tk 46.0
million was not all forthcoming.



- 22 -
D.   Role of Consultants
5.08      IDA-financed Consultant.  BSIC and IDA agreed that 353-BD would
finance one consultant for 18 months to assist BSIC in subproject screening
and appraisal. Judging from the poor quality of appraisals, the consultant,
who was well-qualified and worked with BSIC from mid-1973 to December 1974,
had little impact in this area. His effectiveness was adversely affected by
payment difficulties (he was not paid from July 1 to October 31, 1973 and
considered departing at that time) and by his inability to gain the confidence
of BSIC's management due to personality differences. The consultant wrote a
series of memoranda to the BSIC chairman, few of which were acted upon.
Early in his assignment, he highlighted several problem areas and needs for
outside technical assistance including: (a) poor delineation of responsibil-
ities among agencies involved in SSI development; (b) overemphasis in BSIC on
subproject evaluation to the detriment of pre-investment promotion and post-
sanction extension; (c) inadequacy of organization and manpower to carry out
tasks of extension; (d) insufficient degree of decentralization; and (e) lack
of proper criteria for subproject selection. The consultant's memorandum of
May 1974 reemphasized these problems and noted that: (a) BSIC had no proper
system of priorities for deciding among applications; (b) SIAS had deteriorated
in both numbers and expertise; (c) the coordination among departments handling
different points in the subproject cycle had not taken place; (d) project
follow-up was noted to be nearly non-existent; and (e) strong disagreement
existed between the banks and BSIC regarding the delineation of
responsibilities.
5.09      UNDP/UNIDO Study.  As part of the DCA for 353-BD,a consultant,
financed by UNDP/UNIDO, was to complete a study on the possible reorganiza-
tion of BSIC. One major purpose of the study was to recommend organizational
arrangements for financing and technical assistance under the Second IDA
Small-Scale Industry project. In mid-1974, the consultant prepared a draft
proposal which recommended a radical expansion of BSIC's responsibilities,
to make it an autonomous private enterprise development corporation, with a
plethora of financing, raw material supply and monopolistic marketing func-
tions. The bank and UNIDO found that the recommendations went beyond both the
scope of the study and the institutional capabilities of BSIC; the consultant's
study neither helped formulate practical institutional arrangements for a
Second IDA Small-Scale Industry project nor contained a sufficient number of
practical recommendations on how to improve BSIC's effectiveness in its exist-
ing functions. In summary, the Bank had depended upon the findings of the
consultant to provide the answers and, instead, found itself with a product
which could be counter-productive and which went beyond the scope of needed
reorganization.  The November 1974 SSI supervision mission recommended that the
Bank communicate to COB that the implementation of the consultant's proposals
not be considered a precondition for appraising a second SSI project.
5.10      Bilateral Technical Assistance Sources.  A significant portion of
Bank correspondence for 353-BD was devoted to coordinating with bilateral
donors interested in providing technical assistance to BSIC. SIDA provided
bridge financing, later repaid by IDA, for the interim between termination



- 23 -
of IDA disbursements under 192-PAK and effectiveness of 353-BD. Three SIDA
representatives participated in the Bank Small-Scale Industrial Sector mis-
sion in 1973. The mission identified three principal needs for technical
assistance to BSIC; (a) reorganization and management assistance at headquar-
ters, (b) decentralized subloan decision-making and extension from divisional/
district offices, and (c) subsector studies in priority product groups. SIDA
expressed an interest in assisting in decentralization; in 1974, they proposed
a SKr 20 million project in Rajshahi and implementation began in July 1976.
The Dutch also expressed interest in providing technical assistance to BSIC.
They supplied an engineer and an economist who arrived in late 1975. After
considerable delay in receiving their work program, these advisors concen-
trate-3 on extension programs, helping to analyze problems of firms on a few
industrial estates and in the cold storage subsector.
E.   Extensions of Closing Date
5.11      Under 353-BD commitments and disbursements proceeded much more
slowly than anticipated in the Appraisal Report, which estimated that over
US$2 million of the US$2.74 million credit component would be committed
quickly in 23 subprojects approved under 192-PAK. In fact, only 8 of these
"approved" subprojects were financed under 353-BD. By October 17, 1973, only
US$0.7 million had been approved for 10 subprojects. As of April 30, 1974,
US$1.75 million had been committed to 28 subprojects. As of November 5, 1975,
two months before the scheduled closing date, about US$2.6 million had been
disbursed of which US$189,000 was repaid to Pakistan for machinery and con-
sultants financed under 192-PAK (including exchange readjustment); about
US$52,000 of the US$69,000 originally allocated was used for consultant fees,
the remainder being reallocated to the credit component. Consequently,
about US$400,000 of the US$2.7 million credit component was undisbursed, at
the original closing date, December 31, 1975.
5.12      The closing date was extended first to December 31, 1976, then to
March 31, 1977 and finally to December 31, 1977, at which time IDA made
an informal agreement to allow disbursements through March 1978. The first
extension was probably justified, since at the time it appeared that BSIC had
approved three subprojects with a six months' lag for importing equipment.
However, the three "final" subprojects were not forthcoming since delays in
processing had led suppliers to increase prices causing subproject cancella-
tion by the potential borrowers. BSIC reactivated three other subprojects
(appraised as early as 1971) of which two had subproject costs well above the
Tk 2.5 million limit. These subprojects were rejected by IDA because they
were not viable and because of their excess size. Three other subprojects
were submitted by BSIC and were ultimately approved by IDA.
VI. OBSERVATIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED
6.01      Credit 353-BD, was the first SSI project for Bangladesh, and
for the Bank (this is also one of the first PCR's on a SSI project). The



- 24 -
experience of the credit, which was affected by the war of independence,
subsequent economic dislocations, and by changes within BSIC, still however
offers lessons for design of future projects in the small scale industry
sector. 1/
A.   Institutional ArranSements
6.02      Responsibility for financing subloans should not have been split
between BSCIC and the commercial banks. A split of responsibilities within
the appraisal/financing function itself led to inefficiencies, conflicts, and
difficulties in pinpointing responsibility which hindered efficient assistance
to SSIs under the first project. The Second SSI Credit gives clear responsi-
bility to the commercial banks for appraisal/financing, and to BSIC for
promotion and extension services except for a joint appraisal role during a
transitional 18 months.
6.03      BSIC's appraisal and follow-up capabilities were weak; if, as the
Appraisal Report stated, BSIC might become a specialized financing institu-
tion for SSI, the project should have been more specific on methods for up-
grading BSIC's appraisal and follow-up procedures. Irregularities in procure-
ment procedures lead to further doubt concerning the merit of having BSIC
involved in financing. It seems that it would have been more advisable to
build these skills into the commercial banks, which have the branch network,
can attract more qualified staff, already have experience in working capital
finance, and have ultimate responsibility for collections.
6.04      Subproject identification, promotion and entrepreneurial development
are of critical importance within the context of Bangladesh. BSIC did not
have programs in these areas beyond preparation of sparse model project pro-
files. If a SSI project in Bangladesh was to provide assistance to small
enterprises which met certain economic objectives (e.g. employment, exports,
use of local raw material, development of entrepreneurs) clear eligibility
criteria or a system of priorities should have been developed accordingly.
There was a need to identify new opportunities for SSIs, since in Bangladesh
there is a tendency for investors to "follow the leader," often resulting in
a proliferation of uneconomic industries. Area and subsector-potential
studies should have been closely linked with entrepreneurial development in
order to match sound project proposals with good entrepreneurs and managers.
6.05      Clear project design and regular supervision by IDA were essential
for successful SSI project implementation in Bangladesh.  Supervision missions
did identify problems and recommended corrective actions, but the possibility
of implementing these actions were slim considering the inertia within BSIC.
Also, as mentioned, IDA was constrained by staff shortages which prevented it
from providing more intensive supervision. A major function of supervision
1/   The lessons learned were useful in designing the Second Small Industry
Project for Bangladesh (Credit 825-BD) which was approved in June 1978.



- 25 -
missions for SSI projects is the provision of regular, direct technical
assistance and encouragement to implementing agencies in developing practical
work programs, workable operating procedures, and adequate staffing. Partic-
ularly for projects such as 353-BD which are experimental, maximum contact is
important to enable adaptation and better design of subsequent projects.
B.   Objectives, Target Groups, Components
6.06      The objectives of 353-BD were somewhat unclear.  The Appraisal
Report mentions development of local management and dispersion of ownership.
In this regard, the US$3 million project which financed only 38 enterprises
had marginal impact. There is nothing wrong with starting small, if the
focus is building institutional capabilities; however, the project did not
adequately address organization and staffing requirements of BSIC and the
banks. The type of SSIs financed under 353-BD complied with the loosely-
defined target group mentioned in the Appraisal and President's Reports. All
but four were new enterprises, and owners had little or no experience in the
field. All required a large portion of subproject financing for imported
equipment since IDA's limitation of funding to foreign exchange biased sub-
project selection in favor of import-dependent subprojects, and no capability
by BSIC to assess alternative technologies was developed. No cottage/informal
industries were financed because these enterprises were not originally in-
cluded in 192-PAK, and because these activities later fell under the respon-
sibility of another agency, the Bangladesh Cottage Industries Corporation
(BCIC). Most subproject costs were at the upper end of the SSI definition
with high fixed costs per job. Subprojects were import-substitution -- many
manufacturing, protected luxury items with high imported raw material con-
tent. Therefore, BSIC cannot be blamed entirely for failing to adhere to the
objectives of 353-BD. Rather, the objectives, target group and subproject
selection criteria of the project suffered from shortcomings. Lessons
learned include:
(a)  Clear subproject eligibility criteria and/or a priority system
should be included in the project agreements, to assure that
objectives (such as employment impact, utilization of local
raw materials, export-orientation) are met.
(b)  Subject to the Bank's policy on local currency financing,
IDA financing and disbursement should include local as well
as foreign exchange costs since this would reduce bias toward
subprojects intensive in imported equipment. Local currency
financing was provided under the credit in the form of counter-
part funds but the monitoring was inadequate (para 5.07).
(c)  Credit and technical assistance to existing enterprises
should receive at least as much attention as new enterprises.
Financing new enterprises in product groups in which existing
firms from the same market area are operating below one shift
capacity, only increases the excess capacity problem. Financ-
ing existing industries ensures that the entrepreneur has some
of the requisite managerial experience.



- 26 -
(d) Institutions responsible for project identification and
appraisal should develop their capabilities in assessing
alternative technologies to avoid emphasis on capital
intensive design, when labor inputs would be cheaper and
equally efficient, and to identify processes which can be
performed with local equipment.
(e) Location on industrial estates should be optional for
industries manufacturing products with regular marketing
channels, and should be discouraged for most agro-processing
and service industries which require closer access to raw
materials and consumers than most industrial estates provide.
(f) To help achieve employment generation at low costs, SSI
projects should include cottage/informal enterprises,
identify product groups in which these types of enter-
prises could be efficient, and include marketing com-
ponents for export-oriented product groups.
(g) Follow-up and collection procedures should receive major
attention.



CREDIT 353-BD
GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION OF SUBLOANS SANCTIONED
Division         Number of Projects   Sanctioned Amount  Equity Contribution   Total Fixed Cost  Employment
(Tk)                 (Tk)                   (Tk)           (Units)
Rajshahi                    6                3,582,688              1,601,622             5,184,310           82
(Z of total)           (16)                  (11)                   (11),                 (11)            (11)
Khulna                      5                3,420,307              1,518,836             4,939,143           69
(Z of total)           (13)                  (11)                   (10)                  (11)             (9)
Dacca                      19               19,171,090              9,104,477            28,275,567          494
(% of total)           (50)                  (61)                   (62)                  (61)            (63)
Chittagong                  8                5,268,437              2,587,483             7,855,920          135
(% of total)           (21)                  (17)                   (17)                  (17)            (17)
Total             38               31,442,522             14,812,418            46,254,940          780
Source: Mission data from BSCIC's files
1K



DISTRIBUTION OF INVESTMENTS UNDER 353-BD
DACCA AND CIIITTACONG CITIES VS OTHER LOCATIONS
ANALYSIS OF AMOUNTS SANCTIONED PER SUBSECTOR
Subsector         Location               Amount Sanctioned        1 of Total Subsector        Number of Projects
(Tk)
Food and Allied:
Dacca                          3,411,869                   42                           3
Chittagong                       957,357                   12                           1
Other locations                3,710,430                   46                           9
Total               8,079,656                  100                          13
Textil..u
Dacca                          9,041,897                   64                          10
Chittagong                       682,887                    5                           1
Othsr locationc                4,469,011                   31                           6
Total              14,193,795                  100                          17
Printing;
Dacc4                          3,602,513                 100                            3
Bngineerings
Dacc                          2,095,311                   55                           2
Chittagong                     1,708,152                   45                           1
Other locations                3,803,463                  100                           3
Cold Storage:
Dacca                          1,019,500                   58                           1
Other locations                  743,595                   42                           1
Tot4l               1,763,095                  100                           2
Total Dacca                             19,171,090                                               19
(Z of total)                             (61)                                                (50)
Total Chlttagona                         3,348,396                                                3
(S of total)                             (11)                                                 (8)
Total other locations                    8,923,036                                               16
(I of total)                             (28)                                                (42)
TOTAL              31,442,522                                               38
Source; Mission data from BSCIC's files



ANALYSIS OF PROJECTS UNDER 353-BD BY SUBSECTOR AND
EMPLOYMENT AND COST PER JOB - PLANNED VS ACTUAL
Planned            Actual
Planned Employment   Actual Employment   Cost per Job         Cost per Job
(Tk)               (Tk)
Food and Allied                              474                 252              25,554             44,247
Textiles and Textile Goods                   432                 372              47,605             55,283
Printing and Packages                         87                 113              65,265             50,248
Engineering                                  112                  25              48,082             98,409I/
Cold Storage                                  34                  18              73,921            139,629
Total             1,139                  780              40,610             53,434
1/ Computed for the firms with available actual data only (11 firms out of 13 for food sector,
1 firm out of 3 for engineering).
Source: Mission data from BSCIC's files
I-!



- 30 -
TABLE 4
BANGLADESH Small Scale Industries I
Loan 353-BD
FIXED COST PER JOB
DISTRIBUTION OF PROJECTS
Tks                   No. of Projects
5 - 10,000                      0
10,000 - 20,000                      3                         9
20,000 - 30,000                      4                        12
30,000 - 40,000                      5                        15
40,000 - 50,000                      6                        17
50,000 - 60,000                      2                         6
60,000 - 70,000                      4                        12
70,000 - 80,000                      0                         0
Over 80,000                         10                        29
TOTAL                     34                       100
1/ No data are available on actual employment for 4 projects.
Source: Mission data from BSCIC's files



-   31   -AtQ S
BANIGLADESHI OSsi
UfTfL.ZATIOK 0 FP0IGII EQUIPtMr AND IIWTRTED RAW MAXERAI
AIALISIS 3Y OSUEcT
RTks                                         9~~~~~~~~~~~~~ of n.Port.J
7 of For.ig.        Raw Mitarial
- I  Total rid               L 7 Forei gn-                  E.qoipa.to Over     Consutnpion o-.r
Total Vi.ed     Co-t Exclad-    Zqipwstnt    Eqip,wat       So.-C       Total Eqzipnsoc    7tV  arw HsriAL
AetiVItco   Co.               .   ..(Tk)        Co.l        nZ> C.sclTk)   65) f 6y)      ..<)-()Counin
FOOD AIID AU= ED Pt0MXTS
Floor
flor             273,500         271,000        193.200      193,200    Italy               71                   0
Floor              MA              KA            NA            MA         NA               NA                    a
Floo           1,337,500       1,364,000      1,135,000    1.125,000     ta Ir              33                   G
FItW           1,386,100       1,386,500      1,113,000    l,112,962    Italy                                  0
Coconuat
Oil            362,470         322,470        Z22,067      222,067    Japan              69                    0
Gro,nm~o
olicak.         393,343         385,300        285,800      285,800    Japn                74                   0
0o.             215,834          Z05,821       151,821      128,500    japn                62                   0
Brand &
8.ita'        1,576,3000      1,S34,0W       1.215,000    1,l64,500    W. C.reons         76                   19.5
110hL6s        1,319,800       1,119,800      1,0460,00      671,136    Japn                60
Canning       2,290,35S       2,270,358      1,809,495    1,809,495    W. Cariany          30                  Z3
O1                NALIA                         MA            NA          IIA             NA                    0
&-s- Oil        531  91,      3      39        345,638      345,638    Japan               70                   0
969,327         934,869       751,182       705,830                       76
TEXTILES
-inttio6      1,142,626       1,127,626        951,820      950,820    W. COrmay          St                   65
Warp                                                                                                            6
Knitting      1.158,335       1,143,835        968,800      968,8W     W. Carany                               65
Knitting      1,022,460       1,001,460       S28,416        28,646    W. Coomy            83                  65
Warp
Knitting          MA                            1A iK4                   IIA              NA                   63
65
EnittlaS      1,107,400       1,079,400        906,000       06.000    W. (--any           t4
Synthetic
Clotbk        1,887,530       1,831,530      1,456,130    L,456,130    Jaa n               80                  50
Synthetic
Cloth         2,065,000       2.009,0W       1,639,540    1,639,540    JV                  8 32                50
tycthatic
Cloth         1,356,502       1,344,002      1,051,867    1,051,847    Japan               78                   0
Synthetic
Cloth         l,356,502       1,344,002      1,051,847    1,051,847    Jap n               7                   50
Synthetic
Cloth           304,200         291,600        214,000      214,000    Japan               73                  30
socke-           849,300         527,100       658,600       658,00W0    W. GrnaY           sO                  15
sock             48,551          446,351       358,033       358,033    Jap                 so                  7
VeeRs &
LT-der"a        319,564         309,564        229,780      225,980    Japa                73                  20
Vast             n21,80          201,480        137,480      137,060    Japan               68                  20
T."a &
libbona       1,565,694       1,543,492      1,191,151    1,186,151    Japan               77                  33
Vasts 4
Undareaer       458,600         447,580       345,320       344,320    Jaan               77                   70
Twisted
Cotton        2.472,650       2.442,650      1,827.650    1.827,650    Japan               75                  20
AUL_                          1,109,181        1,086,917       863,526      862,786                        79
PnINTOlO AND !ACUAGS
Printing6
PubLiebinS      569,005         549,005       466,742       466,742    Japan              35                   72
Papa Con-
rtins &
Package,      2,253,629       2,216,921     1,876,735    1,566, 735    W. Gtewny          84                   7Z
Calodars 8at
Cigarettes    1.115.700       1. 0A5 IZ0       560.000      960.000   Ii.  rouany          21,
Aware&n                       1,312,778        1,277,209     1,061,159      317,368                        Sl
Ptns &NI
Paparcllpa      308,042         293,972       239,472       215,360    Japan               73                  N
Scrw.         1,297,903       1,277,903     1,158,450    1,15,400    J-pan               91                   S2
Natal cans         NMA             KA            KA            M A         A               N                    90
S02.972         785,937       69S,961      686,905                        87
COLD0 STORAiS
Ic. block.     1,446,000       1,421,000     1,16f,DWO         NA         NA               PA                   3
Ic  block.       509,291         501.291       319444        232.4'    USA A6              36
977,645         961,145       743,732      232.444                        46
OVUALL AVIU9G0                  1,Of,780        1,032,277       830,214      801,331                        75
11 Source: *SC C's Apr2aisl  aOrca
* Names of sub-projects in this and subsequent Tables have been deleted
to ensure confidentiality of information.



6161 1.'6      ""0'"I 9Soo6  K  1- r"6 n  cz                    !
DS9                ?n!             1??         91               o             s01  !        LUt?'Z          L
~~0  !'~  9!  1 *9   19!0,19    -0~990          1)
066                                                                                                       ITT,: LI  4?  Dr
It 999  *   9i1 VA
0,             10'C              U1i          Oct              WI            61              6'          CL,
*z,                                                                   is'  ;   tz   1   Z         sot, 
vtZ            9tt1                                                           Rit;
t.t             Y11'!             U             U               O sitLi9't    n             us!
0t              W 91                            1!              CT ni n!                                  99*
orZ            Vnr                el                            M ol                         rat'           al
M               UT                n 9           0               1?            2t       Q        'I          tlR'
OLF              UZs'             Is            Is              tv            Zr             atl@'         m
K!so            16               LI            1?              nt             2             eLt'         ZSt'
onl              at.              St            IV              Fi            n              oZr          -tali
rt                W.,'            a,t           Er              Or            Ir             zrt it       Itn*s
069i            0,6i              to                    K       of            1            10'!         Rill!
,ii            41'1                            s 10             WI            VI             0f0'?        . '!
W.,s                     w8            nV               Ot          .tZ             o l           rn't
OZP                         P;A1                 A tOl         l to-                          1 AM'. mn
U      t'!                        W       I9    0               K             0             6 r!'
W9              LI!'              of            el              4l            01            919'          on
Isrl            rtot              ,            . a                             st$1          ug           *uz
DI;'1           n1t'Z              w      '      1              6 Y7 iZv                       'Z                                                    t9  1
at              34t'              4T          1               0              119 
19'!o n          3! Olt           n01                                                        YZ1 90  260'!  196t!
W6              Ut 0;                           ofr              DZ          '3               ML,          f6z
Dr               9z !6                         00               9            i              DOS          4LZ
nr!              tl IZ                          ts               ?Z           6              11            AL
tgt *191P '--7q
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n                                           rlo''-2                  Z



- 33 -
kO4fL                              _       __                                                             -           -_   _ 
Nw   w AILL"                                                                                                  (u7 .000)                       (7W low)                    (IFtl3
ft-.           M.       57,000         47,^           3,200          4.1*t               22            21t                       ILS
11.       _.            t 11,401       17.4                         3.133                                        84  i,,L.      43
33.-          1i.                      21,05      (74)  32    7(72   344                 2o 10                    75             4
?t1     1        ..    44.0            34,60                         5,34        S      ,        p1               75 d   1       42
fl_            Mi.    32,0111        43,O(f7.          2,62          30                  22         _*a .4        60             30
01 Otl                     10 _   2t,1                   723                            ILL             P%        so              3d.
3-      M au 7..    IO.J20              7.*20         1.011         1.2L               it7           324         73              74
k.     _                                             11.73          42.607             1,242          432         70
044.63
dlde .c 1Lob14.  ame..3.411    M1 t9.           .t .     dlL.  5.-17 'tb .   f6i3 .  <-Lt.
LI*4M.         Th.1.   1.300          (372 4            *1      1777   62                -73          ' .10       30 
C_        0t1    T.         5M7            43     1      .364            3 "3                         .-          40      10
C..... -A    To             m5L                        42*3 270                          431   (I-) .35           so               2
TO
7.t. 47.314. 03,bC
6-P1 LL4.4   T74..,L.   2331              341          3,62A         2,557               340            s0        70              47
4  t 34114   74.1.Tl   41t           214          3,37          1.246             2.064           93         so              31
43P K1.15tt     Thy.4       41                    (m1  s,732         3,443                         '771 40        so              40
"Im7 6  74k.rd.    414                   320           3,41          2.33              1.17  (. 530               70             14
1"t uLn  Th..S              411            32          %.232         1.0              ,1743  2         -.4) -4  5
3t..4..13      TLETh.2.     141           301          ,.727         3.64?                                        73              is
s3..b.11c      1l.l,_       L22           32           2.,6          3,724             1,147           532        70             35
17914334c      74.1.tl,      74           130          1.420         1,43         (77) 44              L24    75    
CL.34
3793t.13      4T.n734.  714               20           I*m           0.03          (77   4.6          34-         73              3J
I.Ae
^.3A.13.  Th.73r."           2             so            450     * S                     1t4           is         70             di
5.34.          54.3.4   1I                 33            $72   ,,4a                      360           75         70              72
3.3.   1 1        .-.         I            10 3o3                      933               174          700         70              71
9I*3   -_      0.            11   4.- 42                                                 320          100
T". _4         T     M t    2,304       W110 1.M        .0           3,J64               204           31         73             100
4134...                   a     F
wt.      3_.. T71l4.                        2          400           3.2J4               764                      10             .0
541~164 . 3 0To"
373..4.  .._   74.0 ..  .. 3...           33                           620                            120        113            103
F.. C_,_  T...              120           102         10.922        11,522             1I,89        1.749         40             52
C.1-AF,,   7T4.5..    330                  24          4,X0            41                041          .249       100              &
MW  C...01o..&
63 133k.    73-         4.200        0.430            330           276               143            80        77            4)
133 0134    74.3...        13            20           427           272               203     L..  -13         so            50
Ct6
Z-ft-?* 334         6...        334.I..36   3               . 34 .y 4979.
*  31*. - 83.3634 7b.                       D 7_3.4d.
jJ 0363 41_ 72F3 i.  .    -     ..4 1727 3  ..   5 )13      .3 3 t                 15



- 34 -
TABLEI 8
SMALL SCALE IDUSTRY I: REVIEW OF 15 INSPECTION REPORTS
MA! PROBLEMS E!COUNTERED BY FEMS UNDER  RlDIT 353iBD
ANALYSIS BY SURSECTOR
Subsector           Proiect                  Activity              District                Problems Encountered
FOOD AND ALLED:
Oil Mills             QittagOng        Technical Problems
Fish Processing       DHcca             igh costs of Inputs resulted in
Iambility to find export markets.
Flour Milling         Chittagon       lone
Automtic Flour        Rajshahi       - Irregular power supply;
Mill                                 - Raw Material unavailability;
- Need for working capital.
EX5TILE AND TES=IZ GOODS:
Specialized Textile  Chittagong    - Increase in costs due to exchange
Warp Knitting                          fluctuation;
- Insufficiency of import entitlement;
- Irregular power supply;
- Shortage of skilled labor.
Warp Knitting         Dacca          - Lack of market demand;
- Insufficient entitlement of imported
raw material;
- Cost overruns.
Warp Knitting         Dacca            Competition agAinst Japanese and
imparted secondhand clothes will price
disadvantage.
Warp Knitting         Dacca          - Poor finishing section
- Difficult competition againwt imported
goods resulting in 251 capacity utilization
Synthetic Textiles   Raishahi       - Inadequate power supply;
- Unbalanced plant.
Synthetic Textiles   Dacca          - Power supply insufficient;
- Insufficiency of import entitlsent.
PRINTING AND PACKAGES
Offset press          Dacca            Technical problems
PrTinting &           Dacca            Technical problems (unbalanced plant)
Packaging
Packaging             Dacca         - Machinery damaged ia 1971 by wr -
resulted in cost overruns;
- Lack of skilled workers;
- Lack of working capital.
Paper                 Daeca            Need for training.
Stationery
MISCELLANEOUS
Ice Making Plant      Dacca            Electricity  upply
Source: Mission data from BSCIC's files



- 35 -
VtS  CCO  09  1J0            114C t  Cml? -D. 211.10
0N        :     J.bOO
(1)                                  IU3                    (31                       (4 )] . I.i 2                                 (4 _ 21.
214,110                   U1                         14                     13,796                  21.2tO
9.,90                     U                          14                     1t,79                   16.s2
"G.610                    LS                         IS                                              19.79.
1.471.320                   10                         La                    101.2v                    122.49
1.541.916                   11                         14                    t2t,U31                 10.9"2
m.40                       2                         32                     14,40                   I4.473
4%,4.3                    20                         is                     13.301                 324.
2JI.4I1,                                              4                     44.*                    44 712
4209.261                    n                          n4        -              U.0                  f17.90
2..32.               13                         14~~7                  194.01                  6s.01n
21.39                     1455                       41                     4.,o9                   61
Man,t1                    72 4                       lli 0. 
.10.m                      In                          12 2.39                                            3
1,4I.l6t                    24                         14                     24,43                   U4
l,W.~~~~~4                                                             2#. VA 2Xn37
1.141,200                   13                         23                     34.*W Dt.460
1    476                    24                         17 U                   U71t                    9'1313
2.134,91                    14                         4t                    3244                     23.423
2,2*04.2                    43                         _4                     2,204                   11.1
1,4041,3041                              2D0                                  7%,522                  7la9
t,410,.33                   20                         30                     7D.9"                   47.23
22.920                     *                          *                     14,W                    40,14
091.04                    14                         a0                     61.21                   94,4
sts,i                     la 10 7,74,"G                                                             *6,a
41-.n6                     9                          a                     52.04                   29.197
h04,42                    21                         14                     21.37                   20.039
-a0.400                   U 10                                             IV,"                    33,11
1.720,114            21           ~            ~ to                    61.912                  99.24
,40,44                    14                          4.                    13,01                   at. D,
1.41.10*0                   is                         LS                     %T1n                   14.2
la         20.341.321                  43                                                   ?.3                   14 2n 3
74,.9tO                    25.                        U          ~           n,m                     117,412
20,14.312 11                                           Go m7.37                                       4.5207
1370.       1.4)0.11*                   07                        11                      00.21                   10.344
12,043                   22                          14                     14, -m
Z.37.117                   34                         13                     10.$04                   90.149
2,1Z,=01                                                                      ".3                          M ,  
T4.           .3,ZW                   112                          7J44.0                                           W9.9
1.37.37             16~~i                        9                     b0.332                 !41614
1,071,326                  14                           9                     M. 70?                 L1,391
utm         1.3113,34                  34                          to                      J331(9.629
710. c1.  .6 ft.-..        FlIOneL p-. 63             --k        "A.- 1_    *     .1 71.
.1 N714    n.d             7. *W1.21..I e.      t ActuaL  Ft-..  f73.1-l..   -I    1.,n..t     1     -       Ce-- o
C-,        9-   -      1 .1-t  1...1.l.   9, .1. a   .361.b1                             ---  h
*6,1.340        1.139              ,678.970                  903700   910.10                                51,3I
--,    MTCI. 4.- ^1ld " J-  197,                       - .    .. n777 4...



SYNOPSIS OF SUBPROJECTS UNDER 353-BD
ANALYSIS OF AMOUNTS SANCTIONED, DISBURSED, REALIZED AND OVERDUE BY BANKS
1/   Amount Overdue
Number of     Amount        Amount        Amount      Amount       Amount Fell-    as X of Amount
Bank             Projects    Sanctioned    Disbursed       Realized     pverdue         Due             Fell Due
(Tk)         (Tk)           (Tk)        (Tk)          (Tk)                X
Sonali Bank              8        6,170,878    5,781,872      2,576,431       141,827    2,103,105             7
Janata Bank              8        9,352,483    8,960,729      1,598,296    3,444,140    4,950,857             70
Uttara Bank               3       3,961,631    3,046,832        584,000    1,580,775    2,164,775             73
Rupali Bank              3        2,110,551    1,485,073        192,951       715,425      908,376            79
Pubali Bank              5        3,083,514    4,689,000        534,000    1,236,000    1,770,000             70
Agrani Bank             11        6,763,465    6,008,162        201,000       657,325      858,325            77
a'
TOTAL  38      31,442,522   29,971,668       5,686,678    7,775,492   12,755,438             61
1/ The discrepancy betweem Amount Fell Due less Amount Realized and the Amounts Overdue is explained
by the payments in advance.
Source: Mission data from BSCIC's files, as of June 30, 1978.
0~



