RESTR ICTED
Report No. P - 81 1
CY
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affilioted organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO
THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR THE
EAST PAKISTAN SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
May 13, 1970






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT TO THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR THE EAST PAKISTAN SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit in an amount in various currencies equivalent to US $3 million to
the Islamic Republic of Pakistan to support a program administered by the
East Pakistan Small Industries Corporation.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        The Bank Group's incdistrial lending in Pakistan dates from 1955,
when the Bank made a loan equivalent to US $4.2 million for Karnaphuli Paper
Mills Ltd. Since then most of the Bank's assistance to industry has been
in the form of eight loans to the Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment
Corporation (PICIC) totalling US $183 million equivalent. In January of this
year, the Association made a credit of US $20 million equivalent (No. 177-PAK)
to Pakistan for the Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan (IDBP). Hither-
to, IDBP has been the main source of finance for small firms, but in the
future as the program managed by the East Pakistan Small Industries Corpora-
tion (EPSIC) develops, it is expected that, in East Pakistan IDBP,will con-
centrate on larger firms.
3.        In 1962, the Bank Group appraised applications for the develop-
ment of small firms on industrial estates managed by EPSIC and by EPSIC's
counterpart in West Pakistan, the West Pakistan Small Industries Corporation
(WPSIC). The Bank Group at that time had had no previous experience in
assisting small firms, and both these proposals were regarded as experimental.
The appraisal of the WPSIC proposal was completed first and a credit for
US $6.5 million equivalent was approved by the Executive Directors on Novem-
ber 1, 1962 (Credit No. 30-PAK). The EPSIC proposal was subsequently
dropped.



- 2 -
4.        The East Pakistan Small Industries Project was appraised by a
mission which visited Pakistan in November 1969. Negotiations were held
in Washington April 13-22, 1970. The Borrower was represented by Mr. A.R.
Bashir, Economic Minister of the Embassy of Pakistan, and the Province of
East Pakistan by Mr. Zaman, Chairman of EPSIC.
5.        The Association has made twenty-nine development-credits to
Pakistan totalling US $397 million, net of cancellations, of-which ten
are fully disbursed. The Bank has made thirty loans in-Pakistan for an
aggregate amount, net of cancellations, of US $614 million;   eighteen are
fully disbursed. A summary statement of IDA credits and Bank loans as
of March 31, 17O together with a statement on current operations-was
attached to my report on the Second Telecommunications Proj.ect:dated
May 5, 1970 which was circulated to the Executive Directors on May 6,
1970 (IDA/R 70-23).
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF PROPOSED CREDIT
6.        Borrower:             Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Amount:              Equivalent in various currencies of
US $3 million.
Purpose:             To make available foreign exchange to
small industrial firms in East Pakistan
for the import of machinery and for con-
sultant services.
Amortization:         In 50 years, including 10 years grace,
through semi-annual installments of ½< of 1%
from October 1, 1980 through April 1, 1990
and 114 from October 1, 1990 to April 1, 2020.
Service Charge:      3/4 of 1% per annum.
PART III - THE PROJECT
7.        A report entitled "Appraisal of Small Industries Project in East
Pakistan" (No.IPI--a) dated May 5, 1970 is attached.
8.        The objective of the project is to realize the potential for invest-
ment in small industrial firms in East Pakistan, to build up a broader base of
local ownership, and to improve, through technical assistance, the efficiency
and production methods of small scale industrial operations. In this context
a small firm is defined as an enterprise the fixed assets of which, excluding
land, do not exceed Rs 1 million (about US $200,000). The financing require-
ments of enterprises involving fixed assets above Rs 1 million-would fall
within the scope of PICIC.and IDBP, both of which have received assistance
from the Bank Group.



- 3 -
9.        Of the proposed credit, US $2.9 million equivalent would be made
available for the import of machinery and US $0.1 million equivalent for
consultant services for EPSIC. The beneficiaries would be new small scale
manufacturing units, primarily those offering opportunities for foreign
exchange earning or saving. Proposals which do not fall within this cate-
gory would be referred to the Association before approval. It is expected
that the industries to be assisted under this credit would comprise light
engineering, textile, agricultural processing, chemicals and plastics,
leather and ceramics. The proceeds of the proposed credit would be avail-
able to manufacturing units located anywhere in East Pakistan; however,
it is expected that many of them would be attracted to the industrial
estates alreaeCy established and managed y EPSIC.
10.       The project would be managed by EPSIC, which was established in
1957. Because of the shortage of foreign exchange available to EPSIC, most
of its efforts have been directed towards the establishment of industrial
estates, services to cottage industries, and pilot plants. In 1962, some
foreign exchange for small industrial investments was made available through
IDBP for a joint IDBP/EPSIC program under which EPSIC carried out the tech-
nical appraisal while IDBP handled the financial appraisal. However, this
program did not work as well as expected.
11.       EPSIC has tried to improve and broaden the scope of its appraisal
work, and a department known as the Small Industries Advisory Service (SIAS)
was set up in 1965 to specialize in this work. This department has received
technical assistance from the Ford Foundation, Colombo Plan, and USAID.
12.       In 1967/68 and 1968/69, USAID made two loans of US $1 million each
for investment in small industrial firms to be disbursed under a joint pro-
gram between EPSIC and local commercial banks. The program was managed by
SIAS and both loans were disbursed quickly and effectively.
13.       Local commercial banks would also participate in the proposed
project.   Applications from entrepreneurs would be appraised by SIAS with
regard to technical, financial and economic feasibility. SIAS's appraisal
reports would then be submitted to the EPSIC Loan Committee for approval.
In cases where loan finance is required, the applicant's commercial bank
would assess the creditworthiness of the applicant and, if satisfied, would
make available the required amount of loan finance in rupees. EPSIC would
then authorize the commercial bank to open letters of credit for imports of
machinery. On settlement of the letter of credit out of the proceeds of
the proposed IDA credit, the commercial bank would pay the equivalent amount
in rupees from the entrepreneur's loan account to the Government of Pakistan.
In those cases where no loan fiance is required for a project approved by
EPSIC, foreign exchange would also be made available from the proposed credit
to cover the cost of any necessary machinery imports.
14.       Those commercial banks wishing to participate in this project would
enter into agreements with the Province of East Pakistan and EPSIC pledging
adequate loan funds to ensure that the project can be implemented. Agree-
ments covering pledges of Rs .30 million would be a condition of effectiveness
of this credit. In addition to pledging funds, the participating commercial



banks would agree to charge borrowers an interest rate of 3½A.per ent above
the State Bank interest rate (presently 5 percent), for maturities of up to
10 years and they would be responsible for securing repayment. The State
Bank would discount, when required, all loan notes under this project up to
75 percent for up to 10 years. In the event of default, losses would be
shared equally between EPSIC and the commercial bank.   Of the 31 percent
interest spread, EPSIC would receive 1¼ percent interest., as compensation
for its services and for its assumption of half the credit-risk.   EPSIC
would also impose a one-time service charge of 2½ percent on..all approved
foreign exchange allocations.
15.       SIAS would be organized as a self-contained appraisal cell respon-
sible for all EPSIC's lending operations.   SIAS would be the exclusive concern
of an officer of executive director level responsible directTlyto the Chairman
of EPSIC. SIAS will continue to receive technical assistance-^fom USAID with
whom EPSIC is presently negotiating for a minimum of three consultants.   An
additional consultant would be financed from the credit,.and he;would be spe-
cifically assigned to the appraisal of projects to be financed under this
credit; he would be a member of the EPSIC Loan Committee. "The engagement of
a minimum of four consultants would be a condition of effectiveness for the
proposed credit.
16.       The project would offer considerable benefits to East Pakistan,
including not only the return on the investments undertaken but also the
opportunities it would provide for the development of entrepreneurship and
the broadening of industrial ownership. At the end of 1969, EPSIC had under
consideration a pipeline of projects with estimated total foreign exchange
requirements of US $5.5 million, of which US $3.7 million would be needed
over the next two years. Although the composition of this pipeline is likely
to change, it may be noted that execution of the projects presently included
in the pipeline would involve the launching of over 150 new enterprises em-
ploying some 3,400 workers and producing value added of aboutlRs hO million
(US $8.4 million equivalent) per annum at capacity operation. -This output
would be primarily for export or in substitution of imports.
17.       Under this credit, EPSIC has agreed to undertake, in coordination
with IDBP, a study on the future institutional and financial requirements
for the development of small industrial firms in East Pakistan.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
18.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Islamic Republic
of Pakistan and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the
Province of East Pakistan and the Association, the Recommendation-of the
Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agree-
ment and the text of a Resolution approving the proposed credit are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.



19.       The draft Development Credit Agreement and the draft Project Agree-
ment differ basically from the general pattern of agreements for development
finance companies, because EPSIC will not be borrowing and relending the pro-
ceeds of the proposed credit, but will only have a technical appraisal, super-
vision and advisory function. Under Section 2.01(d) of the draft Project Agree-
ment, the Province of East Pakistan, EPSIC and the participating commercial
banks are required to enter into agreements for implementing the project.
A model agreement for this purpose has been approved by the Association.
Particular attention is called to Schedule 1 of the Project Agreement,
"Operating Procedures for the Project", which sets forth the agreed plan of
operation.
PART V - THE ECONOMY
20.       Recent economic developments in Pakistan are described in my
report on the Second Telecommunications Project dated May 5, 1970 (cir-
culated to the Executive Directors on May 6, 1970 as IDA/R 70-23).
21.       East Pakistan is predominantly agricultural with rice (over 80
percent of cropped area) as the main subsistence crop and jute as the prin-
cipal cash crop (about 7 percent of cropped area). The manufacturing sector
contributes less than 10 percent to gross provincial product and the main
activity is the manufacture of jute goods in which East Pakistan is competi-
tive, accounting for 25 percent of world trade. For the last three years
the annual rate of increase in foreign exchange earnings from jute goods has
been about 18 percent and these earnings now account for 40 percent of East
Pakistan's exports. Apart from jute manufacturing, progress in industrial-
ization has been limited.
22.       The need to diversify the narrow industrial base is evident and the
process of diversification will require equal attention to both large and
small industrial firms. The report "Industrialization of Pakistan, the Record,
the Problems and the Prospects" (SA-lla), which was prepared by a joint Govern-
ment of Pakistan/IBRD mission and distributed to the Executive Directors on
April 2, 1970 as R 70-53 has emphasized the importance of small firms, partic-
ularly as suppliers of engineering goods to large firms. Furthermore, the
analysis prepared by this mission indicates that Pakistan could develop a
comparative advantage in engineering goods.
23.       The proposed project meets a priority need and the economic position
and prospects of Pakistan justify continued assistance on concessional terms
such as those provided by IDA.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
24.       I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 6 -
PART VII - RECOMMENDATION.-
25.       I recommend that the Executive*.Direc.torse.approve the proposed
Development Credit.
Rbber,t:.S. McNamara
by-
Attachments                                           J. Burke.nKhapp.



