RESTRICTED
Report No.  PI-4a
This report was prepared fcr use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK ]FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT IN EAST PAKISTAN
PAKISTAN
May 5, 1970
Industrial Projects Department



Curreney Equivalents
US$ 1              R Rs. 4.762
Re. 1          -   US$ 0.21
Ps. 1,000,000  -   US$ 210,000
1 Lac          -   Re. 100,000
1 Crore        a  Rs. I0 million
Fiscal Year
July 1 - June 30
Acronyms
EPSIC - East Pakistan Small Industries
Corporation
WPSIC - West Pakistan Small Industries
Corporation
IDBP - Industrial Development Bank of
Pakistan
PICIC - Pakistan Industrial Credit and
Investment Corporation



PAKISTAN
APPRAISAL OF SMALL IN])USTRIES PROJECT IN EAST PAKISTAN
TAIBLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
INTRODUCTION  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -         1
II.     SMALL INDUSTRIES IN EAST PAKISTAN - - - - - - - - - - - -          1
A.   Background - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -         1
B.   Past Growth and Present Position - - - - - - - - -    2
C.   Prospects  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -    4
D.   Fourth Plan Projections  - - - - - - - - - - - - -    5
(i)  Public Sector Program  - - - - - - - - -    6
(ii)  Private Sector Investment  - - - - - - -    6
III.    EAST PAKISTAN SMALL INDUSTRIES CORPORATION (EPSIC)- - - -    7
A.   Policy and Orga:imzation  - - - - - - - - - - - - -    7
B.   Industrial Estates - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -    8
C.   Lending Operations - - - - - - - - -                       8 - - - - - -    8
(i)  EPSIC's Lending Program  - - - - - - - -    9
(ii)  EPSICfIDBP Lending Program - - - - - - -    9
(iii) EPSIC,/Commercial Bank Lending
Program  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -   10
(iv)  Arrear  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -   11
D.   Service and Technical Centers  - - - - - - - - - -   12
E.   EPSIC Managed Projects - - - - - - - - - - - - - -   12
F.   Management - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -   13
G.   Small Industries Advisory Service (SIAS) - - - - -   13
H.   West Pakistan Experience - - - - - - - - - - - - -   15
IV.     ThE PROJECT - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -   15
A.   Project Pipeline and Loan Amount - - - - - - - - -   17
B.   Financial Arrangements - - - - - - - - - - - - - -   17
C.   Organizational Requirements  - - - - - - - - - - -   18
D.   Technical Assistance - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -   19
E.   Procurement  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -   20
V.      ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -   20
VI.     RECOMMENDATIONS - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -   21



(Table of Contents Continued)
Annexes
1.   Comparison of Ex-Factory and Import Prices
2.   Description of Industrial Estates
3.   EPSIC Financial Statements
4.   EPSIC Project Pipeline
Charts
1.   Organization of EPSIC
2.   Proposed Organization of SIAS
MAP



PAKISTAN
APPRAISAL OF SMALL
INDUSTRIES IRODJECT IN EAST PAKISTAN
SUMMAILY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Small industries in East Pakistan have developed slowly in
comparison to large scale indtstry, which comprises mainly jute manu-
facturing. The shortage of fcoreign exchange for the import of machinery
and equipment, the lack of outside technical know-how and a paucity of
enterpreneurs familiar with more advanced techniques of production and
management have been the major factors for this slow progress.
ii.       East Pakistan needs to diversify its industrial sector and
needs to develop local management capacity. It also wants to broaden
the ownership of industry which has tended to be concentrated. An ef-
fective means of achieving theme objectives will be the development of
small scale industry. The IDA credit of US$3.0 million equivalent is
intended to support such develDpment by making available foreign exchange
for the import of capital goods and for foreign technical assistance.
iii.      Of the proposed IDA credit, $2.9 million will be for the import
of equipment and machinery required for small manufacturing enterprises
throughout East Pakistan, most of which will be newly established. The
major part of this portion of the credit is expected to finance equipment
and machinery for industries to be sited on existing industrial estates
which the East Pakistan Small tndustries Corporation (EPSIC) has developed
near major cities, while the bilance is expected to finance equipment and
machinery for enterprises to be established outside the estates.  Cottage
industrv will not be included :Ln the credit.
iv.       The remaining $0.1 million of the credit will cover about one
quarter oF the foreign exchange cost of technical assistance to be provided
to EPSIC over a two-year period. The balance of the foreign exchange cost
will be met by USAID which has been providing this assistance, although
on a smeller scale, since 1968. The purpose of the Bank-financed portion
is to provide specific assistance to EPCIC in the task of appraising and
administering the Bank project, while at the same time complementing US
AID assistance in developing suall-scale industry upon sound criteria.
v.        EPSIC was established in 1957 and its charter provides for 49% of
the shares to be held by the public. So far, the Corporation has not been
able to sell shares to the public so that it is entirely owned by the East
Pakistan Government. This, however, has not resulted in any undue Govern-
ment interference in EPSIC's management. The objective of the Corporation
has oeen to foster the development of small and cottage industries through
provision of loans and of industrial estates as well as through pilot
projects and technical training facilities. Initially, the Corporation
emphasized cottage industries waich do not use motive power. More recently,
it has sought, within the limited resources available, to direct its efforts



- ii -
more towards small manufacturing units, which use motive power and have
fixed assets excluding land of less than Rs 0.5 million.
vi.       The project would be the second operation of the Bank Group in
the development of small industry; the first was also to Pakistan, and
consisted of a US$6.5 million IDA credit made in 1962 to finance projects
on two industrial estates near Lahore in West Pakistan. Settlement of
industry on the estates proceeded more slowly than had originally been
expected and the credit was not disbursed until mid-1968. The project
provided practical experience of the problems which can be encountered
in dealing with small-scale industry and in the administration of the
credit down to the ultimate beneficiaries.
vii.      Experience under the IDA credit in West Pakistan, and similarly
in the case of EPSIC in East Pakistan, has shown that there have been sub-
stantial arrears in the repayment of loans to small industry. These ar-
rears are attributed much more to the poor collection of loans than to
the financial weakness of small borrowers. Nevertheless, the present posi-
tion is most unsatisfactory. Unless institutions have a strong financial
involvement and commercial interest in the success of small industry, this
problem is bound to remain.
viii.     Hitherto, the Industrial Development Bank (IDBP) has been the main
source of finance for small industries under a joint program with EPSIC.
IDBP does not have the organization to administer a large number of small
loans, and as the amount which IDBP has at risk is small relative to its
other activities, collection under the joint program hm_ had low priority.
EPSIC on the other hand has little financial interest in collection, and
instead, only a share of the risk which, if called upon, would have to be
met through the Provincial Government budget, the source of EPSIC's funds.
ix.       An important lesson which has been learned in both East and West
Pakistan over the last two years is that commercial banks can play a vital
role in the administration of loans to small industries. Through a risk
sharing arrangement, these banks can be encouraged to have a real financial
stake in projects to which their commercial expertise can be applied. Fur-
thermore, these banks have much closer contact with small industries through
their many branches. The critical feature of this project is the involve-
ment of the commercial banks in collaboration with EPSIC. At the same time,
IDBP will phase out of this field and concentrate on medium-scale industries
as EPSIC develops.
x.        The IDA credit will be made to the Central Government.  EPSIC,
through its Small Industry Advisory Service (SIAS), will make the tochni-
cal and economic appraisal of the projects to be financed by loans granted
by comercial banks in local currency. Once a project has been approved
by EPSIC, the comercial banks will be able to obtain through the Central
Government the foreign exchange required for the project. SIAS was created
in 1965 with assistance from the Ford Foundation, Colombo Plan and USAID
and is expected to provide an effective service for the appraisal and
follow-up of the Bank assisted projects.



- iii -
xi.       The project will offer considerable benefits to East Pakistan
through the broadening of industrial ownership and some diversification of
the economy. The credit will contribute about 70 percent of the foreign
exchange required over the next two years for investment in new projects
already in the pipeline, the balance being met from other bilateral sources.
The projects assisted by the proposed credit could create employment for
about 3,400 people through the establishment of some 150 small manufactur-
ing enterprises. These enterprises are expected to produce a value-added
of around Rs 40 million per year, and most of which will represent savings
in foreign exchange.
xii.      Knowledge of small industry in East Pakistan is still rudimentary
and needs to be improved considerably. One additional purpose of the pro-
posed credit is to give support to EPSIC to help it to improve this knowledge
and its ability to identify and foster those industries which are partic-
ularly suited for small scale manufacture.
xiii.     The project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$3.0 million
equivalent on the usual terms. It is expected that the credit will be
disbursed over a period of about two and a half years.






PAKISTAN
APPRAISAL OF SMALL
INDUSTRIES P'ROJECT IN EAST PAKISTAN
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Piikistan has requested an IDA credit to help
finance the development of private sector small industries in East Pakistan.
A credit of US$3.0 million wotuld be granted to the Government of Pakistan
which would make the foreign eLxchange available for assisting small indus-
tries sponsored jointly by the East Pakistan Small Industries Corporation
(EPSIC) and a group of commercial banks. The program would be managed by
EPSIC.
1.02      In 1962, the Association appraised applications for the develop-
ment of small industries on industrial estates managed by EPSIC and by
EPSIC's counterpart (WPSIC) iD, West Pakistan. The Bank had had no previous
experience in assisting small industries, and so both these proposals were
regarded as experimental. The appraisal of the credit to WPSIC (30-PAK)
for $6.5 million for two industrial estates at Gujranwala and Sialkot,
near Lahore was completed first and approved by the Board. Subsequently,
it was decided not to proceed with the credit to EPSIC because of insti-
tutional difficulties and because the Bank at that time did not wish to
make further investments in this field. The proposed project is the first
one to be based upon experience gained through the credit to EPSIC.
1.03      After a preliminary review of the project in April 1969, a Bank
mission appraised the project and the operations of the East Pakistan Small
Industries Corporation in December 1969. This report was prepared by Mr. E.
Cunningham with the assistance of Messrs. A. Muramatsu, B. Pottker and
D. Eynon (IFC).
1.04      Tne general economic background in Pakistan is covered in IBRD"s
report No. SA-4a dated April 18, 1969. A report on "Industrialization of
Pakistan, the Record, the Problems and the Prospects", No. SA-lla dated
March 10 has been prepared for the Government of Pakistan and was circulated
to the Executive Directors on April 17, 1970; it provides background on the
industrial situation in East Pakistan.
II. SMALL INDJSTRIES IN EAST PAKISTAN
A.   Background
2.01      East Pakistan is predominantly agricultural (54% of gross provin-
cia) product (GPP) in 1968/69), and toge.Lher with West Bengal (India), con-
tains the largest concentration of poverty in the world. Attempts to ac-
celerate growth in East Pakistan have only been partly successful and the
issue of income disparity oetween East and West Pakistan remains a signi-
ficant issue.



-2-
2.02      The manufacturing sector contributed 92 of GPP in 1968/69 and
jute is the single most important industry. Prior to partition, jute
manufacturing was concentrated in West Bengal (India) while raw jute was
cultivated in what is now East Pakistan. Other industries also happened
to be located outside East Pakistan with the reSult that after partition,
East Pakistan had no industrial base. The Government has attempted to
stimulate industrial growth through public investment and also through
fiscal incentives. In jute manufacturing these measures have proved re-
markably successful but development of other industries has proceeded
more slowly.
2.03      Jute, both raw and manufactured, now addounts for 95% of East
Pakistan's and 40% of Pakistan's total exports. Of the total earnings
from jute, somewhat over 40% comes from manufactured goods and Pakistan's
exports of these goods accounts for 25% of world trade. Exports of jute
manufacturers have increased in value from Rs 101 million in 1955/56 to
Rs 590 million in 1967/68; for the last three yeas, the annual rate of
increase has been about 18%.  East Pakistan is c6ffetitive in this field.
Apart from jute manufacturing, progress in industrialization has been
limited, although textiles, paper, sugar and cement industries have been
set Up.
2.04      In this report a distinction is drawn betveen cottage and small
scale industry as defined below in paragraph 2.05. Within the category
of small scale industry, reference will be made to small scale manufactur-
ing units, which will also include agricultural support industries, as
distinct from small service industries. The latter encompassing such ac-
tivities as garages, and laundries.
B.   Past Growth and Present Position
2.05      Information on small industries is very limited and often does
not distinguish between cottage industries -- which are small family enter-
prises without motive power -- and small-scale mafnufacturing enterprises.
EPSIC prepared a survey on small and cottage industries in 1961 which was
published in 1964. This survey defined small-scale industries as an estab-
lishment which uses motive power and does not employ more than 50 wovkmhe
and whose fixed assets, including land, do not exceed Rs 250,000. For
the purpose of administering the Comprehensive Industrial Investment Sched-
ule (1966) and its successor the Priority List of Industries (1968), the
Government redefined small-scale industries as est-ablishments with fixed
assets, excluding land, not exceeding Ra 500,000. No surveys have been
carried out within this definition, so the only data available are the
estimates made by the Central Statistical Office (CSO) for the national
accounts as shown below:



- 3 -
Manufacturing Industry in East Pakistan
Gross P'rovincial Product
(Re million at 1959/60 Prices)
Average Annual
Increase in %
1959/60   1964/65
1959/60   1964/65   1968/69   1964/65   1968/69
Small-scale (including
cottage) industries          506        577        660       2.7        3.4
Large-scale industries         406       633      1,270       9.3       19.0
Total Manufacturing
Industries                   912      1,210      1,930       6.0       12.1
Total Manufacturing
Industries as X of GPP          6.3       6.7        9.3       -         -
Growth rate of GPP                -         -          -       4.4       3.6
2.06      A Bank mission reviewed CSO data in October/November 1969 and
concluded that the estimates for the manufacturing sector could be subject
to a substantial margin of error, and in particular that the output of
small industries had been seriously underestimated. 1/ Nevertheless, it
is generally accepted that while large scale manufacturing industry has
expanded fairly rapidly, particularly over the past few years, the pro-
gress of small-scale industries has been considerably slower.
2.07      The principal reason for the slow growth of small-scale industry
was its limited access to fore:Lgn exchange. For instance, from 1963/64 up
to 1966/67, smal'-scale industry obtained only a total $0.2 million of
foreign exchange. However, in the following two years (1967/68 - 1968/69)
foreign credits exceeded $2 miLlion.  They had a considerable impact and
resulted in loan disbursements under various schemes sponsored by EPSIC
rising from an annual average of Rs 1.5 million for the period 1963/64 to
1966/67 to RS 14 million per anmum or close to $3 million equivalent, in
1967/68 and 1968/69.
2.08      Another factor affect:ing small industry performance has been the
slow emergency of entrepreneursi; although there is considerable oechanical
expertise, masnagement capacity has yet to develop on a broad basis. How-
ever, experience in West Pakist:an has shown that this capacity can be ex-
pected to evolve if a sufficiernt number of small businessmen and skilled
workers are given the opportunity to establish industrial units.
1J The Draft Report of the Wcrking Party on Improvement on National Income
Estimates prepared by The Planning Commission on April 2, 1970 confirms
that underestimation has occurred and estimates that the growth of the
small scale industry sector in East Pakistan may have been about 5% per
annum between 1959/60 and 1966/67.



-4-
2.09      Progress has also been affected by the inherent difficulties which
afflict small-scale industries in all developing countries. These indus-
tries often operate with obsolete machinery and in crowded quarters; manage-
ment seldom knows much about modern production methods and as a result tends
to produce uneconomically all parts of a final product instead of special-
izing. Also, small business normally does not have marketing networks and
frequently encounters difficulties in obtaining credit which forces it to
operate with inadequate working capital.
2.10      In East Pakistan the majorlty of mall industries are concentrated
around Dacca-Narayanganj, Chittagong and Khulna, which are also the main
urban industrial areas (Map). These industries produce a wide spectrum,
such as textiles, clay products, furniture, and light engineering goods.
Agricultural support industries, principally riee milling, have been a
significant feature which was recently given added importance through the
erection of 27 cold stores for potatoes under two USAID loans. Most sMall
industries are privately owned family businesses, although EPSIC does own
and operate a variety of small cottage industries as well as a large solar
salt cooperative venture with over 100,000 participants.
2.11      Presently (1969-70), employment in the small industry sector is
estimated at 1.8 million (or about 2.6% of East Pakistan's population) of
which 0.3 million are engaged In at least 20,000 small upnufacturing
units. 1/ Employment in large-scale industry is also estimated at about
0.3 million but engaged in only 2,000 units. 2/
2.12      According to EPSIC, the value added pew s mloyse in small omnu-
facturing in 1969/70 is estimated at Re 1,400 coepred with Rs 5,150 in
large-scale manufacturing and Rs 702 in axriculture. Cottage industry is
believed to offer still lower per employee output than agriculture. The
per employee output for small-scale manufacturing compares reasonsbjy wsll
with such data as is available from other less developed countries. None-
theless, the reliability of this data is still open to question.
C.   Prospects
2.13      The need to diversify the narrow industrial base in East Pakistan
is evident and the process of diversification will require equal attention
to both large and small-scale industries. The role of small industries, as
part of the industrial sector, was exumined by the Bank's Industrial Policy
Mission and in their report the importance of smell industries as suppliers
to large firms, particularly engineering goods, was emphasized.
l/ EPSIC 1961 survey of small and cottage industrites.
2/ Census of Manufacturing 1966/67.



2.14      The scope and potent:ial of small industries are considerable in
servicing the needs of manufacturing and agricultural processing industries
as well as in meeting the deMuLnd for a number of consumer goods. Despite
all the handicaps under which small industry works in East Pakistan, some
measure of its competitiveness is demonstrated by a sample of ex-factory
prices compared with imports (Annex 1). The production of engineering goods
by small industries has yet tc' be encouraged but an analysis prepared by
the Bank's Industrial Policy mLission confirms that Pakistan could also
develop a comparative advantage in this field.
2.15      One important constraint on small industry development is the
shortage of foreign exchange. Development could also be affected by the
multiple exchange rate system 1/ and by the regulations which surround it.
Also, the establishment of new small industry is subject to the Government's
Priority List of Industries (PLI), which specifies not only those indus-
tries which are to be fostered but also product lines and capacities. The
purpose of the PLI is to direct private sector investment towards the Gov-
ernment's priority objectives particularly those concerned with foreign ex-
change earnings and savings. However, the difficulty of defining eligible
industries for an economy of the size of Pakistan has created a great deal
of administrative complexity.
2.16      A further problem is posed by the uncertainty of the present
political situation. This uncertainty, however, can be expected to affect
large private sector projects more than small industries. These prospects
and problems are the background against which the implications for small
industry of the Fourth Plan prDjections have to be considered.
D.   Fourth Plan Projections
2.17      The Government of E&3t Pakistan has recognized the importance of
smal. industries in the province and has proposed that in the Fourth Plan
(1970/71 to 1974/75) the unnecessary constraints on their development
should be alleviated. Tne intention is to simplify procedures for invest-
ment sanctioning and for impori: licensing and to rectify anomalies arising
from the exchange rate system.
1/   The present exchange rate system has three effective rates for imports,
the official parity rate of Rs 4.76 to US$1, the cash-cum-bonus rate
of about Rs 9 to US$1 and the bonus rate of about Rs 13 to US$1. Most
imported raw materials are priced at the cash-cum-bonus rate whereas
competing imported finished goods often come in at the official rate
under foreign aid. The arnomalies which have arisen under this system
are now under active review by the Government ao that a more equitable
price/cost relationship between imported and local axunfacturers may
be expected.



- 6-
(i) Public Sector Program
2.18      Together with the above proposed changes, the East Pakistan Govern-
ment has drafted a public sector program for small industries as shown be-
low in comparison with the targets and actual results of the Second and
Third Plan.
East Pakistan
Public Sector Program for Small Industries
(Rs million)
Targt          Actual
Second Plan          (1960/61 to 1964/65)        94             79
Third Plan           (1965/66 to 1969/70)         99            48
Fourth Plan         (1970/71 to 1974/75)        151
2.19      The low implementation rate in the Third Plan is attributable, in
part, to the overall financial constraint which the Government has faced
since the Indo-Pakistan war, but more importantly, to a failure to give
small industries the necessary priority for such funds a were available.
The latter factor is expected to be mitigated by the much more serious
intent behind the Fourth Plan proposal. The public sector program for
the Fourth Plan of Rs 151 million includes Rs 60 million for loans for
rupee financing of small and cottage industries; most of the balance is
allocated to promotion and extension service work and to infrastructure
including Rs 11 million to complete the development of six industrial es-
tates. This program is ambitious and in addition will probably exceed the
resources which are likely to be available. The amount of rupee financing,
which is the principal item in this program, has not been specified for
cottage and small-scale manufacturing. But, as thi latter can now aepect
to obtain its requirements through commercial banks (par". 4.10 to 4.13),
this item could be reduced in the event of a cutback without prejudicing
the prospects of private investment.
(ii) Private Sector Investment
2.20      The limited data on past investment in small industries show vide
discrepancies and therefore do not provide a basis tor making realistic
projections. In any case these data do not identify small manufacturing
units which are the main concern of this project. So, in order to forecast
future investments, it is necessary to look to EPSIC's experience.
2.21      Between 1963/64 and 1966/67, EPSIC sponsored investvAnt i1 n
small-scale manufacturing industries of about Rs 2 million per amum. But
in 1967/68 and 1968/69, under the stimulus of USAID financing, the level rose
sharply to Rs 24 million per annum with an estimate of Rs 30 million for
1969/70.



2.22      It would be reasonaile to assume that new investment over the
next two years (1970/71 and 1971/72), would at least equal the level achieved
in 1969/70 and thus amount to Re 60 million for the period, provided ade-
quate foreign exchange is made available. In general, the foreign exchange
component can be expected to he about 30% of total investment which would
result in foreign exchange requirements over the next two years of Rs 20
million or the equivalent of $4.2 million.
III. EAST PAKISTAN SNALL INDUSTRIES CORPORATION
A.   Policy and Organization
3.01      In order to assist the development of small industries, the East
Pakistan Provincial Assembly in May 1957 passed an Act creating the East
Pakistan Small and Cottage Industries Corporation. In 1962, it was de-
cided to orient the activities of the Corporation more towards small rath-
er than cottage industries and to reflect this new emphasis, the name of
the Corporation was changed to East Pakistan Small Industries Corporation
(EPSIC).
3.02      The Corporation was established with a share capital of Rs 10
million of which at least 51% was to be held by the Provincial Government;
the rest was to be subscribed Dy the public. The intention was that EPSIC
should be a profit making corporation which, through a publicly held share
holding, would be free from Government interference. In practice, however,
it has never proved feasible to obtain any public subscription so that EPSIC
has come under the de jure control of the Provincial Government. However,
the Government has not sought to use its controlling position to influ-
ence management.
3.03      The Board of Directors of the Corporation may consist of up to
seven directors; four, includirng the Chairman, to be appointed by the
Provincial- Government and up to three to be elected by shareholders other
than the Provincial Government. As there are no other shareholders, the
present complement of six directors represent the Provincial Government,
and comprises three civil servants, two politicians, and a university pro-
fessor in Commerce. The Chairnan, Mr. H. Zaman, who was appointed in 1968
for an initial term of three years, is a civil servant with wide experience
in industry.
3.04      The head office of the Corporation is in Dacca and field opera-
tions, including EPSIC's 18 industrial estates, are managed through four
regional offices at Chittagong, Dacca, Khulna and Rajshahi. The total s,aff
numbers about 1,500 of which 43.6 are at the head office (118 professionals
and 318 others).  The organization of the Corporation is shown in Chart 1.
3.05      The Corporation's major activities in assisting small industry
can be divided into:



- 8 -
-    promotion of industrial estates;
-    lending activities either with its own funds or through
its function as appraisal agent for loans made by the
Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan (IDBP) or com-
mercial banks;
-    technical training and extension services primarily to
cottage industries;
-    establishment of pilot projects.
B.   Industrial Estates
3.06       Since 1962 the Corporation's principal effort to stimulate small
industrial units has been directed towards the establishment in the public
sector of 18 industrial estates. Six out of these estates (Bogra, Chitta-
gong, Comilla, Khulna, Sylhet and Tongi) are of primary importance. They
have been partially developed and some industries have settled on them.
All have distinct potential, particularly Tongi near Dacca, and the Provin-
cial Government plans to complete the infrastructure early in the Fourth
Plan. Annex 2 provides more details on these estates and their location is
shown on the Map. Very little work has been done on six of the other es-
tates and for the time being EPSIC does not intend to proceed further with
them. The remaining six estates are still undeveloped sites.
3.07      The six primary estates cover an area of  romn 250 acres and
contain 920 plots, of which 540 plots have been allotted. Thirty-seven
industries are now in production while 78 others are under construction.
In the past, plots were allotted before the entrepreneur had decided upon
a project. This has resulted in land speculation. EPSIC has now decided
that the project must be appraised before a plot is allotted and that many
of the plots on which no construction has taken place should be cancelled.
The cost of land on these estates compares favorably with the cost of de-
veloped land elsewhere.
3.08       The availability of developed industrial estates has not stimu-
lated the interest which was originally expected. This failure has been
partly attributable to the lack of foreign exchange but also to the fact
that such estates may be more suited to medium-scale industries. In order
for the investment in these estates to realize a return, EPSIC has already
begun to promote the establishment on them of medium-sized industries. This
policy could itself encourage the establishment of small-scale units on the
same estate as suppliers to the larger enterprises.
C.   Lending Operations
3.09      EPSIC extends financial assistance to small industries on and
off the estates under three programs, namely: EPSIC's own lending;
EPSIC/IDBP lending; and EPSIC/commercial bank lending. Under the two lat-
ter programs, EPSIC fulfills only an appraisal and supervisory function
while the actual funds come from either IDBP or the coamercial banks.



- 9 -
3.10      Under the EPSIC/IDB]' and the EPSIC/commercial bank programs,
EPSIC guarantees to the instil:utions providing the funds repayment of be-
tween half and two-thirds of iheir loans (see paragraphs 3.13 and 3.16),
but EPSIC holds no special reslerve to cover such risk. While so far no
calls on EPSIC's guarantee havre been made, it is understood that should
they occur, the Provincial Government, as the sole shareholder, would
meet EPSIC's obligations. The foreign exchange risk in the EPSIC/IDBP
program is carried by the ulti.mate beneficiary as is customary with IDBP
loans. But under the EPSIC/ccimmercial bank program the foreign exchange
risk is carried by the Central Government in the interest of promoting
small-scale industries.
3.11      EPSIC's authority tc sanction new projects was increased in
January this year under East Pakistan Ordinance No. 111 of 1970 from
Rs 0.5 million (US$105,000) to Rs 1 million (US$210,000) covering fixed
assets excluding land.
(i) EPSIC's Lending Program
3.12      When EPSIC was established in 1957, it was authorized to use
Rs 0.75 million out of the paid-in share capital of Rs 10 million for local
currency lending to small industries.  In 1961 this fund was increased by
a Rs 5 million loan from the Provincial Government. The limits set under
the charter on the size of loans is RS 50,000 to an individual and Rs 150,000
to a company.  rhese limits may, however, be raised with specific approval
of the Provincial Government.  Loans are made for a period of up to five
years and at present the interest rate is 7% per annum. Up to June 30, 1969,
776 projects had been approved and through the revolving of the original
funds about Rs 9 million had b,een disbursed of which two-thirds were for
land and buildings and the balance was for locally-produced machinery.
Virtually all of the loans werqm made to cottage industries.
(ii) EPSIC/IDBP Lending Program
3.13      Under this program, :EDBP extends loans for projects for which
EPSIC makes the technical appratisal and IDBP assesses the creditworthiness
of a borrower. EPSIC does not make any funds available but shares the
credit risk (75%) with IDBP (25%).  The interest rate spread is also shared
between EPSIC two-thirds and IllBP one-third. The spread varies according
to the cost of funds in relatien to IDBP interest charges of 8.5% per
annum on foreign exchange loans and 8 to 9% on rupee loans, the latter
varying according to the size with lower rates being charged on smaller
loa as. The maturity of loans is related to project requirements and is
up to 15 years. Foreign excharge as well as rupee finance is available;
the former having been made available to IDBP by the Central Government
from bilateral credits from such countries as Denmark, Germany, Italy and
Japan.  Rupee loans are made from a deposit of RB 5 million placed with
IDRTE in 1961 by the Central Government for use in EPSIC projects.
3.14      Since the program started in 1962 and up until June 1969, IDBP
approved 706 projects requiring total loans of Rs 19.1 million, of which



- 10 -
Rs 11.8 million were in foreign exchange and Rs 7.3 million in rupees. The
amount of these loans is very small averaging Rs 27,000. Of the total
approvals, IDBP has only had funds available to comit Rs 6.7 million,
mostly foreign exchange, of which Rs 6.3 million had been disbursed by
June 30, 1969.
3.15      There are various reasons for the low level of commitment com-
pared with approvals, such as the shortage of foreign exchange resources
available to IDBP; the restriction on the use of such resources to pro-
curement in the lending country; and the unfamiliarity of small businesses
with the legal complexities involved in long-term borrowing under this
program. More important, however, is the fact that the involvement of two
institutions in the financing has inevitably created delays and has caused
friction. The difficulties encountered under the EPSIC/IDBP program have
been recognized by both institutions and in IDA credit 177 PAK to IDSP
approved in February 1970, IDBP has undertaken to examine ways in which
it can phase out of small industry lending.
(iii) EPSIC/Commercial Bank Lending Program
3.16      Largely on account of the difficulties which arose under the
EPSIC/IDBP program, the Corporation in 1967 pioneered with USAID a new
program which secured the support of commercial banks. Under this program,
EPSIC receives applications from entrepreneurs directly or through com-
mercial banks; it appraises the projects and refers them to commercial
banks for approval of creditworthiness. Once a project is approved, the
Central Government makes available cash foreign exchange from USAID to
the State Bank to meet the cost of imported goods against payment by
the commercial bank which charges the borrower 3-1/4% above the State
Bank rate, presently 5%. 1% of the interest spread is paid to EPSIC.
EPSIC and the commercial bank share the commercial risk equally while,
as was mentioned before, the foreign exchange risk is covered by the
Central Government.
3.17      Under this program US AID has granted two loans of US$1 million
each in 1967/68 and 1968/69 and a few relevant data are shown below.
(Rs million)
No. of /I   Total Cost                    Financing
Projects-   of Projects-    Comtmercial Banks   Entrepreneurs
lst Loan     31              27.8               14.7             13.1
2nd Loan     43              18.3                8.2             10.1
/1   Two projects in the first loan and 17 projects in the second did
not require loan capital.
/2   Including foreign exchange cost of Rs 4.8 million for each.
3.18      The first loan (1967/68) was utilized mainly for the construction
of the 27 potato cold storages referred to in paragraph 2.10 with a total
project cost of Rs 25.8 million altogether, but under the second loan



- 11 -
(1968/69) projects were diversified. The AID loans have been committed
remarkably quickly despite the fact that procurement is restricted to the
U.S.
3.19      This program has worked more efficiently largely because the
functions of EPSIC and the commercial banks are complementary.  The com-
mercial banks know the credit standing of the beneficiaries from their
commercial dealings with them and close contact can be maintained through
their branch offices. Furthernore, the financial stake of the commercial
banks in the success of a projact has already been shown to bring about a
much more effective follow-up and administration of the loans than in EPSIC's
own lending program and than it did together with IDBP.
(iv) Arrears
3.20      Arrears have proved a serious problem with both the EPSIC and the
EPSIC/IDBP lending programs. Similar difficulties have arisen in West
Pakistan and in this context i: is appropriate to review experience in
both provinces. The position :s summarized below:
Stateiment of Arrears
as oft December 31, 1969
Lending Programs
EPSIC     EPSIC/IDBP       WPSIC/IDBP
1. Total loan principal outstanding
(Rs 000)                              4,919         6,506          23,779
2. Amount of principal paymentei due
(Rs 000)                              3,891         1,648           3,685
- as % total. loan principal
outstanding                             79%           25%             16%
3. Amount of principal outstanc.ing for
loans affected by arrears (Rs 000) 4,550            4,991          18,167
- as 7s of total loans principal
outstanding                             93%           76%              72%
3.21      The arrears on EPSIC's lending program result from the nature of
the loans which were very small (on average Rs 12,000 or US$2,500), from
the inappropriately short maturities (maximum 5 years) and from the fact
that the loans were made to cottage industries. The administrative task
of collection is formidable, and EPSIC now realizes that apart from in-
adequate supervision, the concept of the program was mistaken. Of the 453
cases in arrears, 317 are under litigation.



- 12 -
3.22      The EPSIC/IDBP and WPSIC/IDBP programs have concentrated on small
rather than cottage industky. Although the extent of loans affected appears
to be little better, the amount of principal due is substantially lower.
Even 80, overdue payments are high. As there are indications that many of
these projects are financially successful, it is primarily poor follow up
and collection to which the arrears are attributable.
3.23      The appraisal report of the IDA credit 177-FAX to IDBP commented
on this unsatisfactory state of affairs and concluded that the division
of responsibility between the Small Industry Corporations and IDBP was the
major factor. Also, neither institution has any great financial stake in
these loans. Clearly, if there is not to be a repetition of this experience,
any new lending program to small industry must introduce a much stronger
element of financial involvement and commercial motivation. This has been
the basis of the EPSIC/commercial bank program. Although it is too early
to judge the payment performance under this program, it is already evident
that the commercial banks are keeping a tight cotrol on arrears.
D.   Service and Technical Centers
3.24      EPSIC has established technical trainiag and "rvice centers,
primarily for artisans. Although there is a great need for such training,
the objective of these centers has been frustrated by the unwillingness
of small family enterprises to release people and by a tendency for pupils
to be attracted away from employment when only part of the way through a
course. The Corporation has decided, quite rightly, to reduce its activi-
ties in this field. As a result, the Rs 6 milli** industrial enginearing
training center in Chittagong, was transferred in November 1969 to the
administration of the Pakistan Industrial and Technical Assistance QOwpora-
tion (PITAC) which provides industrial engineerin* and training serviU*
to the whole of industry and is specifically engaged in developing machine
tools.
E.   EPSIC Managed Projects
3.25      In carrying out the promotion of cottage industries, the Corpora-
tion established demonstration units to give on-the-job training to artisans
and to provide outlets for primary commodities. These units include an
agricultural implements' pilot plant at Chandpur, pottery and ceramics in
Dacca, cigar plants at Rangor and Cox's Bazaar, a coir and copra plant at
Barisal and sericulture activities at Rajehahi. Results from these upits
have been variable but the majority have had to be subsidized. In 1969,
the Corporation decided to divest itself of most of these activities and
negotiations with private entrepreneurs are in progress.



- 13 -
F.   Management
3.26      The management of E?SIC under the Chairman, Mr. H. Zaman, comprises
three departments each under an Executive Director, one of whom is respon-
sible for the Corporation's various operational schemes, the other for ad-
ministration, and the third for finance (Chart 1). Mr. M. Y. Latifullah is
the Executive Director respomnible for most of the operational schemes and
is primarily concerned with the proposed project. He was appointed in 1962
and has been closely associated with the creation and development of the
Small Industries Advisory Service (SIAS) whose functions are described be-
low. The Executive Director for Administration is responsible for EPSIC's
managed projects and for various promotional activities including technical
training and service centers. This post is presently vacant. Mr. Moni-
ruddin Ahmed is the third director and is in charge of finance.
3.27      Although the Charteir emphasizes the role of EPSIC as a financial
institution for small businesss, it has never had the resources to fulfill
this function. Instead, the dlevelopment of industrial estates has been
emphasized, probably too much so, and other efforts have been concentrated
on cottage industries and the related activities of EPSIC managed projects,
as well as technical service amd training schemes. None of these activ-
ities has proved much of a success.
3.28      The financial managRment of EPSIC conforms to Government civil
service accounting practice and, therefore is primarily concerned with the
control of expenditure. EPSIC is subject to Government audit. However,
financial statements are prepared by outside auditors for those activities
defined as commercial operations which include EPSIC managed projects and
loan operations (see Annex 3). As a variety of EPSIC's other activities,
including a large part of the establishment budget, are excluded, these
statements have limited value.
3.29      The development of small industry in any country is an exacting
task and EPSIC has had to contend with all the usual difficulties comr-
poivnded X y the lack of any substantial industrial base and of foreign ex-
clange.  EPSIC is now at a turning point in its task to assist small-scale
industry as the EPSIC/commercial bank program (managed by SIAS) offers
real prospects for channeling more meaningful assistance to small industry.
The immediate need is for continued availability of foreign exchange, pre-
ferably untied. The IBRD project would meet this need.
G.   Small Industries Advisory Service (SIAS)
and Foreign Technical Assistance
3.30      The establishment of SIAS in 1965 grew out of the recognition
by EIPSIC's management that the appraisal and supervisory function of proj-
ects should be strengthened. To fulfill this objective the Corporation has
obtained from foreign sources a number of technical and management advisors
to help set up SIAS. SIAS has a professional staff of 27 and is in the
course of expanding it to 47. The relationship of SIAS to the rest of



- 14 -
EPSIC is shown in Chart 1. Staff's morale is high and the cooperation be-
tween SIAS's staff and the foreign advisors is good. Actual expenditures
in 1968/69 (primarily for expenditures on personnel) amounted to Rs 0.5
million and Rs I million per annum has been allocated for the Fourth Plan
period.
3.31      The Stanford Research Institute of California, under a contract
financed by the Ford Foundation, was engaged initially in the building-up
of SIAS. Assistance was also obtained through the Colombo Plan. Total
assistance has amounted to 32 man years, of which about one-third has been
directed towards specialized industrial engineering and training, another
50% towards management and consulting services to SIAS, while the balance
has been concerned with general marketing services.
3.32      The Stanford team is now phasing out in favor of Checchi & Co. of
Washington, D. C., and the last Stanford advisor is due to leave in June
1970. Checchi and Co. are being financed by USAID and at the moment they
have two financial consultants in East Pakistan. At the request of EPSIC,
USAID is now considering an increase to a total of four, or possibly five,
consultants. The additional posts are expected to be filled by one or two
industrial engineers and a marketing specialist. Checchi and Co. will also
provide on an ad hoc, and short-term basis, additional technical specialists
primarily for the appraisal of projects.
3.33      SIAS has two main functions:  (a) to appraise &ad follow-up proj-
ects, and (b) to prepare "investment briefs" on industries suitable for
promotion to EPSIC. The standard of SIAS's appraisal work is fairly good.
SIAS is aware of certain shortcomings that still exist, such as the need
to pay more attention to market considerations and to the realistic calcu-
lation of working capital requirements.  There is also an inherent wqDAems
in an arrangement whereby the appraisal of the creditworthiness of the pro-
moter of a project rests solely with the commerciaJ. bank. Managerial capa-
bility is the most important factor for the succeos of small business and
it does not necessarily correspond with creditworthiness, particularly in
small businesses where all managerial functions tbad to be combined in one
person. However, these weaknesses can be overcome through further tech-
nical assistance to EPSIC/SIAS and continued close coordination with comr
mercial banks.
3.34      SIAS has a small follow-up section which is concerned with the
physical implementation of projects. Disbursements by commercial banks
are made on recommendation of this follow-up group. In the future, it
will be necessary to strengthen this group in order to maintain effective
supervision of projects and assurances to this end were given during nego-
tiations.
3.35      Finally, the investment briefs, of which some 40 have been pre-
pared, provide the technical and marketing data for new projects. These
briefs have aided entrepreneurs in selecting new industries and have pro-
vided SIAS with essential background information for appraisals. The
standard of these briefs is varied, but the more recent issues have been
quite good.



- 15 -
H.   West Pakis tan Experience
3.36      In November 1962, the Association made a credit (IDA Credit 30-PAK)
to Pakistan for an amount of US$6.5 million equivalent for the development
of small industries on the Gujaranwala and Sialkot estates near Lahore.
The West Pakistan Small Industries Corporation (WPSIC) was to carry out
the project. The credit encountered a number of difficulties and settle-
ment of the estates proceeded more slowly than expected so that the credit
was only disbursed in mid-1968 instead of mid-1966. The project was fur-
ther affected by the Indo-Pakistan war of 1965.
3.37      Nevertheless, the project has made a significant contribution
to industrial growth as evidenced by the 118 enterprises now established
on the two estates. But this achievement has not been unattended by diffi-
culties. Certain industries are operating at below capacity owing to
frequent changes in import licensing policy. These changes in some cases
have affected the profitabilitr of investments, and in others have re-
sulted in uncertain supplies of imported raw materials. A more rational
industrial policy is expected to be applied along the lines recommended
in the Bank's Industrial Policr Mission. Another difficulty has been the
shortage of power which has become more acute as transmission and distri-
bution capacity lags behind deiand.
3.38      This credit has provided the Bank with its first experience of
the problems of developing small industries and in general terms, some of
the experience gained is applicable to East Pakistan. For instance, it is
essential to have available an effective and experienced appraisal cell
such as SIAS.  Financing arrangements and lending procedures should be
simple and should allow for the granting of cash licenses for foreign ex-
change to those entrepreneurs wrho do not need loan finance. The financing
through commercial banks who haive an intimate knowledge of entrepreneurs
improves and speeds up the appraisal and administration of the loans.
Finally, lending should also cover projects outside industrial estates;
in this way the choice of locat:ion becomes a business decision, the valid-
ity of which is tested in appriaisal.
IV. THE PROJECT
4.01       The project would make available to small industry in East
Pakistan US$2.9 million in foreign exchange for the import of equipment
and US$0.1 million for additior,al foreign consultant services for EPSIC.
The objective of the project is to realize the potential for investment
in small industry, to build up a broader base of local Pakistani ownership,
and to upgrade, through technical assistance, the general efficiency and
production methods of small-scale operations.
4.02      The project would be restricted to small industrial manufactur-
ing units with total investment costs not exceeding Rs 1 million. Invest-
ment costs for the purposes of the project are defined as fixed assets



- 16 -
excluding land, which is within the sanctioning power of EPSIC. Projects
above this amount will fall within the jurisdiction of PICIC and IDBP
and for borderline cases, the three institutions would coordinate their
activities.  At the lower end of the scale, cottage type industries would
not be eligible for receiving foreign exchange under the proposed loan.
While the distinction between the two categories is not precise, the gov-
erning criterion would be the potential of the enterprise to be operated
along sound industrial lines.
4.03      Priority will be given to projects which have a potential for
exports or savings of foreign exchange and which at the same time require
a minimum of protection. In addition to the usual criteria for establish-
ing the soundness of an industrial project, EPSIC, in its appraisal, will
take into account the willingness of the enterprise to take advantage of
the technical assistance offered in working out the project details and in
improving methods of production and operations. Also the Association will
review from time to time with the Government of East Pakistan (GOEP) and
EPSIC, the appropriateness of various categories of units for financing
under this credit.
4.04      Industries financed under the credit would be manufacturing units,
primarily in the fields of metalworking and general light engineering,
textiles, agricultural processing, chemicals and plastics, leather and
ceramics, with the focus on new units. There are certain industries such
as bakeries and printing presses which fall within the definition of manu-
facturing units but which may not adequately satisfy the criteria of either
foreign exchange earning or saving. There may, however, be good reasons for
permitting some investment in such industries and so the Association agreed
during negotiations that EPSIC may refer for consideration proposals for
these industries, and others which the Association may designate. Service
industries, such as laundries, and garages would be excluded. Also, the
project would not normally include balancing, modernization and expansion
projects (BME), which can be financed more appropriately by PICIC and IDBP
and for which these two institutions have foreign exchange available. How-
ever, in exceptional cases where these two institutions are unable to assist,
EPSIC may seek the Bank's approval for inclusion of BME in the loan.
4.05      It is expected that the services -- and in particular the land
provided in the six industrial estates -- will attract a major portion of
the investment in new projects, but IDA funds would be available for pro-
jects wherever sited. In general, it will be easier for EPSIC to appraise
and supervise projects on its own industrial estates but with the planned
building up of SIAS staff and of foreign technical assistance, EPSIC should
have the management capacity to handle the anticipated number of projects
elsewhere. However, EPSIC will need to keep this aspect of its operations
under review.



- 17 -
A.   Project Pipeline and Loan Amount
4.06      In paragraph 2.22, foreign exchange requirements for investment
in new small manufacturing industries for the two years 1970/71 and 1971/
72 were projected at a total of US$4.2 million. This credit would cover
70% of this requirement. At thie end of 1969, EPSIC had a pipeline of proj-
ects with estimated total foreLgn exchange requirements of US$5.5 million
of which US$3.7 million (Annex 4) would be needed over the next two years.
In anticipation of the proposed credit, EPSIC has started the appraisal of
these projects. Some of them nay not materialize but it is expected that
additional applications will b,e filed when the proposed credit is announced,
particularly as foreign exchange from IDA has the attraction of being freely
us able.
4.07      Foreign bilateral loans of about US$2 million equivalent are
presently available for EPSIC tiponsored projects through IDBP. Part of
these loans will have been disbursed by the time the proposed credit be-
comes effective but their balamce together with this credit should meet
the estimated requirements.
4.08      In order to make app ropriate allowances for slippages on commit-
ments and on the time lag between commitment and disbursement, the drawings
from this credit are projected to take place over two and a half years and
to amount to US$0.7 million in 1970/71, US$1.5 million in 1971/72 and
US$0.8 million in 1972/73. Thet amounts for 1970/71 and 1971/72 include
US$50,000 in each year for conaiultancy services.
4.09      If the availability of freely usable foreign exchange through
the IBRD loan should stimulate a higher level of investment, and if the
foreign exchange component actulally comes out at around the 34% of total
project cost compared with the 30% used in the projection (paragraph 2.22),
the credit would be disbursed suore quickly. EPSIC would then have to obtain
additional foreign finance to maintain the tempo of investment.
B.   Finaacial Arrangements
4.10      Trhe credit will be mrLde to the Government of Pakistan which would
make available foreign exchange against import requirements for machinery
and equipment approved under the EPSIC/commercial bank program.  The Gov-
ernment of Pakistan would assume the foreign exchange risk because, in
effcct, the Government would be making available cash foreign exchange in
return for rupees paid by a couaercial bank.  The ultimate beneficiary
would pay EPSIC a one- time serNice charge of 2-1/2% of the amount of the
foreign exchange license. In cases where rupee loans are advanced by a
commercial bank, loans would bear interest at 3-1/2% above the State Bank
rate (at present 5%), and 1-1/4% interest would be paid by the commrcial banks
banks to EPSIC for the service it renders. The credit risk would be shared
equally by EPSIC and the coercial bank.  Loans would be for a maximum
period of 10 years and would include an appropriate grace period which takes
account of delivery and start-up time.



- 18 -
4.11      So far eight banks 1/ have indicated that they would be willing
to cooperate with EPSIC in this joint program and that they would make
the necessary loan finance available. A model agreement, satisfactory
to the Association, between the GOEP (with EPSIC acting on behalf of GOEP)
and the commercial banks has been drafted. The State Bank has undertaken to
grant commercial banks refinance facilities of un to 75% on loans to small
industries for a period of up to 10 years. Commercial banks have so far not
utilized these facilities, but the arrangement is necessary to provide a
safeguard in case of tight credit conditions.
4.12      Entrepreneurs would have to put up, in the form of equity, at
least 30% of the total cost which is defined to include land and other
fixed assets, as well as working capital. In practice, it has been found
that equity contributions range from 35 to 45%. In the future, the fi-
nancing of equity, particularly for entrepreneurs who have difficultv in
reaching these levels, will be eased by the introduction in July 1969 of
the Equity Participation Fund, the purpose of which is to assist entre-
preneurs to meet any equity gap for new small enterprises and particularly
those in East Pakistan. This fund was established through the 1969/70
budget with an initial capital of Rs 50 million subscribed mainly by the
Central and Provincial Governments. The head office of the Fund is in
Dacca and IDBP will provide management personnel.
4.13      Assuming that, at the most, one-third of the cost of the projects
represents foreign exchange, a US$2.9 million credit would call for a total
project cost of about US$9 million (Rs 42 million). On a 7:3 loan equity
ratio, there would be a maximum loan requirement of about Rs 30 million,
which the commercial banks have indicated they would be able to meet. A
condition of effectiveness to this credit is that agreements have been
entered into with participating commercial banks pledging a minimum of
Rs 30 million.
C.   Organizational Requirements
4.14      The IDA project will be administered by SIAS within the general
authority of EPSIC. Presently SIAS is the responsibility of an executive
director who has also under his control the Private Sector Department,
which manages EPSIC's own lending and the EPSIC/IDRP lending programs, as
well as the industrial estates Drogram, planning and statistics and sur-
veys. In order that the executive director's primary responsibility should
be clear, these additional functions should be reduced. In particular,
continued responsibility for the industrial estates program would not only
prove to be a major burden but it could al80 result in conflicts over the
1/ United Bank, Eastern Mercantile Bank, Australasia Bank, Commerc Bank,
Eastern Banking Corporation, Muslim Commercial Bank, Habib Bank, Naw-
tional Bank of Pakistan.



- 19 -
appropriate location of industry. EPSIC has indicated its general agree-
ment with these internal organlzational changes. EPSIC has also agreed
that while the Executive Director will retain responsibility for the pres-
ent Private Development as welL as the Statistics and Survey Departments,
the functions of these departmants will be merged, to the extent practica-
ble, with the proposed new SIA3 organization as shown in Chart 2. As men-
tioned before, SIAS's budget provides for a build-up of staff during 1970/
71 from 27 to 47. This staff increase is not critical for the annraisal
of the IDA projects but the addled strength will be required for the ade-
quiate supervision of these projects and the expected expansion of EPSIC's
other operations.
4.15      SIAS intends to establish a Committee which is to decide on loan
applications; the Committee wiLl comprise the Chairman of EPSIC, the Execu-
tive Director of SIAS, its three Senior Managers and the Senior Financial
Consultant. The Committee wilL also consider inviting representatives ot
commercial banks to attend wheni appropriate.
4.16      SIAS will continue to maintain accounts separate from the rest
of EPSIC. As SIAS will not be self-financing for some time, it will have
to receive a subvention from E]?SIC as already announced for 1970/71. The
SIAS accounts will be audited by outside auditors, who may be the same as
those auditing EPSIC's accounts. Assurances have been given that the Gov-
ernment of East Pakistan will imupply adequate funds to EPSIC to maintain
operations at a satisfactory level.
D.   Technical Assistance
4.17      For the future, it muy be appropriate for EPSIC/SIAS to develop
into a specialized financial institution to serve small industry. In order
to assess the requirements and benefits of a viable institution in relation
to the proposed role of the cotmercial banks under this credit, EPSIC has
agreed to undertake a study of the future institutional requirements. This
study wil- be coordinated with similar work to be undertaken by IDBP under
IDA Credit 177 PAK so that the functions and activities of various insti-
tutions are clearly established.
4.18      EPSIC now has two foreign financial consultants from Checchi & Co.
who are being financed by USAID. To strengthen its various activities,
EPSIC has requested USAID to finance two, or possibly three, more consult-
ants and thus add engineering ind marketing expertise. This request is
now being negotiated.
4.19      As at least one consultant will be required to work full-time on
the management of the IDA-finarLced projects, the Association has agreed
that an allocation towards the foreign exchange cost of this consultant
should be made from this credit. The consultant would be designated the
Senior Financial Consultant ancl he would be a member of the EPSIC Loan
Committee. The Association has also agreed to make an allocation to cover



- 20 -
the foreign exchange cost of some other short-term consultants as may be
required. The allocation from the credit for these services would be
$100,000.
4.20      EPSIC has agreed to arrange for the financing of at least three
additional consultants for a two-year period and the effectiveness of
this credit is contingent upon the four advisors being contracted for and
in the field. EPSIC will undertake to select the Senior Financial Consul-
tant mutually acceptable to EPSIC and IDA and in agreement with USAID.
This technical assistance arrangement is expected to be particularly bene-
ficial to the IDA project since it would allow the use of a pool of ex-
pertise not otherwise obtainable for $100,000.
E.   Procurement
4.21      Equipment and machinery will be purchased from suppliers in
member countries of IDA and Switzerland through letters of credit opened
by a participating commercial bank of the EPSIC/commercial bank program
(para 4.11). The selection of equipment and machinery will be subject to
technical appraisal and approval of SIAS. Disbursements under the pro-
posed credit would be restricted to the actual foreign exchange cost of
imports and consultant services.
V. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
5.01      The achievement of the objectives of this project would offer
considerable benefits to East Pakistan, the most significant of which would
be the opportunities it will provide for the development of entrepreneurship
and the consequent broadening of industrial ownership. The opportunities
would be important to East Pakiptan which has been subjected to a severe
foreign exchange constraint over the last five years and which urgently
needs to stimulate some diversification of its economy.
5.02      As in many developing countries, industrialization in East
Pakistan has taken place mainly through the establishment of large-scale
industry with a heavy input in foreign technical and management experts.
There is no doubt that the process of industrialization could be acceler-
ated if modern methods of production and management could be conveyed to
small industry as intended through this credit.
5.03      The direct and indirect benefits of the project are difficult to
quantify but the present pipeline of projects can be taken to illustrate
in more spacific terms some of the economic benefits which would be obtained.
About 3,400 jobs would be created through 154 new enterprises which would
produce a value added of about Re 40 million per annum at capacity opera-
tion. This output would be largely import substituting and foreign exchange
savings of an estimated Rs 33 million per annum would be obtained for a
foreign exchange investment cost of Rs 23 million. These figures are only



- 21 -
broad indicators obtained from generalized ratios but nevertheless, the
prospective magnitude of foreilgn exchange savings would be significant.
5.04      Investment cost per Job created would work out at about RS 20,000
compared with Rs 12,000 under IDA Credit 30-PAK in West Pakistan. This
indicates a somewhat higher degree of mechanization of the projects in
EPSIC's pipeline than those finianced on the two estates in West Pakistan
but not as much as the difference would suggest since there has been a
significant rise in costs in Pakistan and abroad.
5.05      In terms of individual projects, the criteria to be applied by
EPSIC/SIAS should ensure a proper return on investment. In practice, of
course, the benefits of the project will be largely determined by SIAS
which has the potential to maket a real contribution to industrial develop-
ment.
5.06      Hitherto, little has been known about the role of small-scale
industry in the development of East Pakistan but more has to be known before
the effect of assistance to smill industry can be more accurately assessed.
EPSIC intends to obtain more data on this sub-sector and to study those in-
dustries which are particularly suited for economic small-scale manufacture.
In its supervision of the project, the Association will place emphasis on
this aspect of the function of EPSIC.
VI. RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      In view of the object:ives that can be achieved with this credit
in the sound development of nhMLl-Scale industry in East Pakistan, the
project is suitable for an IDA credit to the Pakistan Government of $3.0
mill'-on equivalent, of which $2.9 million would be used for imported ma-
chinery and equipment and $0.1 million for the foreign exchange cost of
consultancy services. The credit would be made under the usual IDA terms.
6.02      During negotiations, assurances were obtained on various aspects
of the project and the more impiortant of these assurances are summarized
below:
1.   The Government of Eaat Pakistan will make available adequate
funds to EPSIC for the operations of SIAS to be maintained at
a level satisfactory to the Association (para 4.16).
2.   EPSIC will carry out a reorganization of SIAS (para 4.14).
3.   Participating commercial banks will enter into an agreement
with the GOEP on the basis of the draft model agreement
(para 4.11).



- 22 -
4.   The credit will not be used for catt*ge-type Industries
nor for service industries. Balancing, todeftization and
expansion will not normally be financed although exceptions
may be allowed (paras 4.02 to 4.04).
5.   New units to be prooted throQigh this eXtdit will focus on
foreign exchange earnings or savinAs (*Sra 4.03).
6.   EPSIC will arrange for ual1yat of a Inimu* of four con-
sultants (para 4.19).
7.   EPSIC vill undertake a study of the  fi*cial         institu-
tionAl requirements of small industriZ (para 4.17).
Industrial Prtojcts Department
May 5, 1970



S:4AAL INDUSTH1RS PR!ECfT IN EAST PAKISTAN
COMPARISON OF EX-FACTORY COSTS AND IMPORT PRICESV/
__ __ __(1)                       _ _ (2)            (3)                  (4)                             (5)
2/                              ~~~~~~~~~3/                    3/
Products                               Ex-Factory Price    Imported CIF Price21   (2) * (1)   Ex-Factory Price with Tax-         Imported Price with Tar-
Warp Knitted Fabric                    Rse.  4.50 per yrd.  Rs.  3.50 per yrd.         0.78         Rs.  5.50 per yrd.               Rs.  13.00
Tire (recapping)for Volkswagon Car    Rs. 65.00 each        Rs. 90.00 (new)            1.39         Rs. 75.00 each                   Rs. 180.00 (nev)
Drinking Glasses                       Rs.  8.00 per doz.  Rs. 10.00 per doz           1.25         RS.  9.00 Der doz.               Rs. 20.00 per doz.
Chinaware Plates                       Rs. 18.00 per doz.  Rs. 24.00 per doz           1.33         Rs. 20.00 ner doz.               Rs. 36.00 per doz.
Dry Cell Battery                       Rs.  7.00 per doz.  RS. 6.00 Der doz.           o.86         Rs.  9.00 per doz.                Rs. 18.00 per doz.
1/ Sample of ex-factory costs from small industrial units seonsored through EPSIC programs, December 1969,
2/ Imported price converted at official rate of exchange.
3/ Tax includes in Column 4,capacity and excise taxes; in Column 5, import duties.
Source: EPSIC






ANNEX 2
SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT IN EAST PAKISTAN
In East Pakistan, the Government has scheduled eighteen localities
for small industrial development by EPSIC. Only six of these estates have
potential to early development and funds have been made available by the
Provincial Government to complete the infrastructure and connect public
utilities. The following is a brief description of these estates:-
PRIMARY ESTATES
TONGI is situated on the northern outskirts of Dacca and is in
fact part of the greater Dacca conurbation, the population of which was
estimated to be three quarters of a million according to the 1961 census
but is now estimated to have grown to 1.3 million. The estate has an area
of 89 acres which have been divided into 214 plots for industrial building.
119 plots have already been allotted to entrepreneurs and 19 factories
are under construction. About 50 men are employed and the present invest-
ment totals some RS 300,000 of which 40% is in buildings. Around the
estate is a cluster of large factories including several textile mills
and plant for the dyeing and printing of cloth. Other plants include the
production of telephone instruments for the Pakistan Post and Telegraphs,
drugs, footwear, irrigation pumps, drawn wire, chinaware, furniture and
cigarettes. The estate is positioned near the railway and a paved highway
connects it to Dacca and ta the North to Joydevpur where additional heavy
engineering works are coming into production. This area contains the larg-
est urban population in East Pakistan, and a large business community al-
ready exists.
CHITTAGONG. This city, with a population of half a million, is
the largest port in East Pakistan, handling four million tons of cargo
per year, increasing at an annual rate of 6%. Chittagong is already a
center for metal working and will undoubtedly develop further in this
direction nince the coming into operation of the 150,000 ton p.a. steel
rolling mill. A cross section of large industry is already established
inctlding paper, glass, jute, textiles, truck assembly, paint, rolling
milla and wood processing industries. The city has good communications
both domestically and internationally.  The business community is of an
international composition and is well established with a large element
of emigrant businessmen from Calcutta and Burma. EPSIC's industrial estate
covers an area of 26 acres at Kalurghat and Sholashahar comprising 135
plots of which. 50 have been allotted. No projects have been established
on the estate. A further area is available to EPSIC at Fouzderhat for
future development by EPSIC, where the EPSIC Light Engineering Service
Institute built at a cost of $1.25 million is located. Fouzderhat has
poor access and low potential
KHULNA is located in the southwest of the Province and is the
most rapidly growing city in East Pakistan. The present population is
estimated at 350.000 and is trowing at a rate of 8% per year.  It is



AMNNX 2
Page 2
surrounded by a rural population of some three million and the growth of
the region is attributable to the opening of Chalna port about 20 mile
south of Ihulna. At present Chalna handles about 2.6 million tons of
cargo per year. The EPSIC industrial estate is about nine miles north
of the town on the main highway leading to Jessore and Kushtia. The estate
covers 42 acres divided into 234 plots of which 138 have been allotted.
Three factories are in operation and uineteen under construction. One
factory produces glass bottles and shades for hurricane lamps, and there
is one oil mill and one saw mill. In addition, three cold storage units
for potatoes have been recently built. The total investment is ostimated
to be Rs 6 million, and about 350 people are employed. There are jute
mills, paperboard and wood making factories in the vicinity. The Aga
Khan-owned Industrial Promotion Services of Pakistan (IPS) has been
particularly active in developing large industries around Khulna.
BOGRA is the center of the northwestern region of the Province
and serves as the industrial center of the surrounding region. Population
is about 75,000 people, but the region, centered on the town, contains
some ten million. The local business coumunity hs been active in setting
up textile industries, tanneries, ceranics, bicycle, light engineering
and foundry industries. EPSIC's industrial estate is located about two
miles north of the town on the highway leading to Rangpur. The estate
covers an area of 14.5 acres and is divided into 79 plots of which 68
have already been allotted. Two factories representing a total investment
of Rs 120,000 have just gone into production, but otherwise the estate
is unoccupied.
COMILLA is located about 60 miles southeast of Dacca, and hk
been traditionally a trading and communication center dealing in jute,
paddy, spices and locally grown cotton. The population is estimated to
by 200,000 and the region served by the town contalns soe five milliha
people including some of the most prosperious farming conunities in
East Pakistan. The estate is adjacent to the towy and covers 54 acres,
consisting of 124 plots of which 78 have been allotted to potential entre-
preneurs. There are 11 factory units in production and 12 in various
stages of completion. The factories represent a total investment of Rs 2.2
million and the total annual output is estimated to be about Re 2 million.
There are glass factories and light engineering workshops in the vicinity.
The business community is almost entirely local.
SYLHET is located in the northeast corner of the Province about
20 miles south of the Assam border. The population is about 100,000, serv-
ing a rural area with a population of 4.3 million. EPSIC's industrial
estate is located two miles north of the town on a paved highwy, and cevoers
an area of 25 acres, divided into 136 plots of which about 80 have been
allotted. Sylhet is the center of the tea growing ares and extenSive
plantations are owned by both expatriate and Pakistan firm s There are
in the region tea processing plant and the manufacture of shook for tea-
chaste. Fruit is also grown and canned in the area. Pakistan's only
cement plant in the East Wing is located near Sylhet, and fifteen iles
away is the Fengchuganj Urea Plant with a capacity of 117,000 tons per



ANNEX 2
Page 3
year. There is a natural gas field in the area and it is expected that
in the future gas will be pumped to the estate for industrial use. A
large number of Sylheti have emigrated to the United Kingdom and approxi-
mately 60% of the Pakistan population there come from this region. The
inflow of remittances from relatives in the U.K. has become significant,
and a large volume of capital is seeking investment opportunity.  Also
a number of the emigrants from time to time switch wi,th relatives and
would return technical and other skills to Pakistan.
In s-ary, the location and progress of construction on the
above estates are as follows:
Industries    Industries
Area        No         Plots           in             under
Location          Acres     Plots      Allotted       Production    Construction
Tongi               89        214          119             1               19
Chi ttagong
a) Sholashahar      14          67          37             -                2
b) Kalurghat        12          68           13            -                3
Thulna              42         234         138             3               19
Bogra               15          79          68             3                5
Comilla             54         124          78            25               10
Sylhet              25         136          88             5                0
251.       922          541            37
SECONDARY ESTATES
These estates are located at Jessore, Mymensingh, Pabna, Rajshahi,
Vangpur and Chittagong (Fouzderhat referred to above). Jessore offers
good potential for industrial development as industry moves north on the
Chulna/Jessore road and after the development of Khulna. While some of
the infrastructure has been completed on these six secondary etates, no
funda are aveilable as yet to complete the work and couple up public
utilities. These estates cover the following areas and such industries
which have been established are small with hardly any mechanization:



ANNEX 2
Page 4
Industries    Industries
Area        No        Plots           in           under
Location      Acres     Plots      Ailc',-.ed  Production    Constructi.cn
Chittogng
Fouz.Aeziht     36          158       35               
Jes&s,e         50          274      [1L             9               4
Mymensingh      11           60       40             1               2
Pabna          103          416       56            21               3
Rajshahi       106          327       66            18               3
Rangpur         21           82       4j2            1               3
327-    _11,31.7     280             50             15
The six remaining undeveloped estates are located at:-
Area
Location                    Acres
Barisal                       129
Cox's Bazar                    21
Dinajpur                       31
Feni                           25
Kushtia                        19
Rajbari                        15
Swarupkati                     19
Total                      262  acres
IFC/IBRD
January 9, 1970



ANNEX 3
Page 1
SMALL INDUS;TRIES PROJECT IN EAST PAKISTAN
Financial Statements of EPSIC
Balance Sheets
1966/67 - 1968/69
(Commercial Operations) (Rs. million)
ASSETS                                    1966/67    1967/68      1968/69
Cash and Bank balances                       7.77       7.12         6.07
Stock in trade                               0.73       0.57         0.35
Deposits, advances
and investments                             0.24       0.48         0.52
EPSIC Development budget                      -         0.41         1.16
Loans to Small industries /1                 5.71       6.07         6.16
Loans to Public sector                       2.96       1.43         1.99
Deposit with IDEP                            5.00       5.00         4.25
Loans to employees
and other long term assets                  0.37       0.44         0.50
Fixed Assets                                 1.32       1.87         2.32
TOTAL                                       24.10      23.29        23.32
LIABILITIES
Current Liabilities                          1.22       1.08         1.54
EPSIC Development Budget                     0.88        -            -
Staff benefit and provident .fnd             0.36       0.76         0.98
Loans
Provincial Gwlermnent                        4.63       4.63         4.63
Central Government                           5.00       5.00         4.25
Grants                                       0.13       0.07         0.07
General Reserves                             1.30       1.30         1.30
Share Capital                               10.00      10.00        10.00
Unappropriated profits                       0.58       0.55         0.55
TOTAL                                       24.10      23.39        23.32
/I   Includes Interest on Arrears
Source   EPSIC -   Ata Khan & Co. (Accountants)



ANNEX 3
Page 2
SMAIL INDUSTRIES PROJECT IN EAST PAKISTAN
Financial Statements of EPSIC
Income and Expenditure
1966/67 - 1968/69
(Commercial Operations)  (Rs. million)
1966/67    1967/68     1968/69
Income
Interest on loans and deposits              506         571         589
Net income from projects, rent
and commission                              93          26          14
Sub-total Income                            599          9 
Expenditure
Interest on Loans                           162        162          162
Administrative expenses                     1475        429         438
Sub-total Expenditure                        3           9           E
Operating Profit (Loss)                    ( 38)          6           3
Sale of raw materials and stocks /1       1,117          -
Net Profit                                1,079           6           3
A    Includes Rs. 1,062 from sale of Biri leaves
Source   EPSIC -Ata Khan & Co. (Accountants)



Au 4
SMALL  MDDSTFIES PROJWECT IN AST PAKISTAN
iPSIC FROJSCT PIPEUlNE
at DeImber 1969
Priawr  Indfstriel 3statos                                     Total
6 Primary
lacation                      gi    Chittwaor        KbuLnn     01ina        Sylhet     Bogra           5ste                  Otber Loctione                Total
Agricultural Soboort
No. of Projects                   4           4             2            2          1          1              14                      19                           33
Total Investment (il.Rs.)         3.3          2.7          1.4          1.2        0.9        0.8            10.3                     5.2                          15.5
Fixed Investmnt (N.Rs.)           2.3          1.9          1.0          0.9        o.6        0.6             7.3                     3.8                          11.1
Total Foreign Exchange
Requireesnt  (M.Ra.)          1.2          1.0          0.5          0.4        0.4        0.3             3.8                     2.0                          5.8
Initial Foreign lhchange
Requiremet - (' .Re )         0.9          1.0          0.5          0.4        0.4       0.3              3.5                     1.9                          5.4
bmplo-ent (number)              125           82           50           47         22         25             351                     472                          823
1A  ht no ineerino           
1aW. of Projecto                 141           3            5            2          1          2              27                      16                            43
Total Inveatment (CI.Rs.)         6.4          0.9          1.7          3.9        0.4        0.5            13.8                     4.9                          18.7
Fr!ed Investment (.Yts.)          4.8          0.7          1.3          2.8        0.3        0.4            10.3                      3.7                         14.0
T*tal  Fore ign Exchange
Requirm-nt  (E.Re.)           2.1          0.3          0.5          1.1        0.1        0.2             4.3                      1.6                          5.9
Initial Foreign ~xchange
Requiremer.t K1  (.l,aE.)     1.8         0.1           0.5          0.5        0.1        0.1             3.1                     1.2                          4.3
awpl.o~'ent (number)            380           20          150           38         20         35             643                     385                        10c28
Gheuica- e
No. ofr toJects                   4            2            1            1                     1               9                        8                           17
Total. Investment ( h Rs.)        2.3          o.6          0.6          0.2                   0.3             4.0                       1.9                         6.9
Fixed Investment (        1.%     1.5          0.5          0.4          0.1                   0.2              2.7                      2.2                         4.9
Total Foreign hEchange
Requireamet   (m.Ro.)          0.7          0.2          0.2          neg                   0.1             1.2                      1.0                          2.2
Initial Foreign Ixchenge
Requirewnt /" (XNt..)          0.5         0.1           0.2         nmg                   nii              0.8                       0.9                         1.7
Employment (number)              40          10            25           12                     12             99                       128                         227
Rubber and Leather Producta
No. of Projects                   1            3            2            1          2                          9                         1                          10
Total Iaveetment  tt.rs.)         0.4          0.7          0.9          0.2        0.7                        2.7                       0.5                         3.2
Fixed Investoment  G.R3.)         0.4          0.5          0.6          0.1        0.5                        2.1                       o.4                         2.5
Total For dgn i t.hange
Raquireamnt      (M.Rs.)       0.2          0.2          0.3          nag        0.2                        0.9                       0.2                         1.1
Initial Foreign foxhnge
Requirement  _ (.Jls.)         0.2         0.1           0.2         nag         0.1                        0.6                       nil                        o.6
SDployeent (number)              t5          28            55           13         27                        138                        16                         154
OIASS and CreanJ o
P,. of frojects                   1                                                                            1                          2                          3
Intel Investment (h.)             1.2                                                                          1.2                        1.2                        2.4
Fi.et  invesOO.O   (Mats.)        0.8                                                                          0.8                        0.8                        1.6
Total ForvtEa S.-ohange
Rwq4uireant   (M.Rs.)          0.h                                                                          0.4                        0.4                        0.8
Initial Foroeigh faoha*e
Riquireent '- (M.R1.)          0.4                                                                          0.4                        0.2                        o,6
FiWloiiymnt  rnumber)            22                                                                           22                         44                         66
textt _es
So. oF Frojects                   3             2          2            1           2          1              11                         13                        24
Total Investmn6   (4.Rs.)         1.9           1.1        0.7           0.5        1.1         0.8            6.1                        4.5                       10.6
FiAed Investment (M.k-.1          1.14          0.7        0.5           0.4        0.8         0-5            4.3                        3.4                        7.7
Tl tal Forelvn iacha*go
Nelxireae.tN.ik  .   .         ... )  0.7     0.14       0.2           0.2        0.3         0.2            2.0                        1.6                        3.6
Iltirl Foroi-xr xbago36
?nquirenL  . 34     ..)         0.7          0.4         0.2           0.2        0.3        0.2             2.0                        1.2                       3.2
Employment (zmuiber)             60           41          60            25         45         19             250                        415                       665
Ktiloel-aneous
No. o  Proc'a;ts                  3             2          1             2          1           2             11                         13                         24
Total lnvoestonot ( N.Rs.)        1.8           1.6        0.7           1.5        0.5         1.5            7.6                        3.0                       10.6
Fixed Investment C k.is.)         1.3           1.1        0.5           1.0        0.4         0.9            5.2                        2.0                        7.2
Total Fore 4i &Kchange
R.quireunt    ( M.Re.)          0.o          0.5         0.3          o.6         0.2        0.5             2.7                        1.0                       3.7
incA tel F I-4) 5xchange
.tequiramsnt       (MIt.s.)     0.2           0.3        0.2           0.3        0.2         0.3            1.5                        0.5                        2.0
Employment (number)              95            18                       26         15          27            181                        300                        481
Total
No. of Projects                  30            16         13             9          7           7             82                         72                        154
TotAl lnvoetment (Y.6s.)         17.3           7.6        6.0           7.5        3.6         3.7           45.7                       22.2                       67.9
Fixed Investmbnt (N.te.)         12.5           5.4        4.3           5.3        2.6         2.6           32.7                       16.3                       49.0
Total Foreign Exchange
As4eqVnIInnt    (Yl.Ra.)        5.9           2.6        2.0           2.3        1.2         1.3           15.3                        7.8                      23.1
IrOtl&l ForeisrR Exchange
Xeqat-r';nt  I  (" Ra.)         4.7           2.0        1.5           1.14       1.1         0.9           11.9                        5.9                       17.8
lop1oyment (number)             737           199        340           161        129        118           1,684                       1700                     3,1444
/    Estimated requirnmts for firet two years
Source   EPSIC



I



DEVELOPMENT OF SMALL INDUSTRIES IN EAST PAKISTAN
EAST PAKISTAN SMALL INDUSTRIES CORPORATION
ORGANIZATION CHART, 1969
ROARD OF DIRECTORS
IVTXEC          AI                                        TTUTiVCE                                                                                                      CHIEF ACCOUNTANT            T
S   1ECTOR (PES)      E                                                       | R   RECTOR (A6DI|TY                                                                     (FINANCE) P
-L. ...... .
z   SMALL INDUSTRY  |                                                      t REGIONALOFFICES                                                                             INEERI
ADVISORY SERVICE                                                       
I          ;                            I
_    SERIICE INSTITUTE 
A&D   ADMINISTRATION AND DEVELOPMENT
_  RURAL !NCS IAL                                                                                                                                                                                           1MG - ARIE
_  SERVICE                                                                              PRS   PLANNING, ESTATES, AND SIAS
TFC   TEXTILE FACILITY CENTER



DEVELOPMENT OF SMALL INDUSTRIES IN EAST PAKISTAN
EAST PAKISTAN SMALL INDUSTRIES CORPORATION
PROPOSED ORGANIZATION CHART FOR SIAS
FEBRUARY 1970
I       CHAIRMAAN  OF EPSIC
OTHER  EPSIC  DEPARTMENTS
SMALL INDUSTRIES ADVISORY SERVICE (SIAS)
L           EXEC1)TIVE DIRECTOR (SIAS)         
oos"ego"$"~"ItloomfSENIOR FOREIGN CONSULTANT
I-  Ian                             -noger,                                                                                I agenoer,
Business Resech                                                SIAS Counselling                                      Consortium Financial Commitee
cand Information Service                                          and Coordinotion
LlUARY              BRIS            BUSINESS                  SIAS           Counseluing           SIAS                Imp  emntatbn         Consortium
INQUIRY  &               Admini-                             Accounts              ond Follow up           Affairs            Trainingi
1- Li6rorion     5-Researck           RECEPTION                tration         2- Deputy
Staff           Officer,s                                                       Managers    1     - Asst.              1-Counsellor       2-Counsellors        1-Junior
8-Asst. Resarch    1 -Informration          I -Staff          9- Counsellors         Accounts            1 -Asst.           2-Asst.                Off icer
Officers           Off icer                 Offi cer        6- Aust.               Officer               Counsel lor        Counsel lors         Sta ff
1 -Edi tor          I -Asst.                1 -Junior            Counsellors         Staff                 Stoff              Staff
Staff              Information              Offi cer           Staff
Officer                 Staff
1 Foreign Consultant                                         1 Foreign Consultant                      I Foreign Consultant
IBRD - 4619(4R)



" 4t..      X           _PAKISTAN
.A<'  *\ '1, ,S,(q;                                                                     INDUSTRIAL  ESTATES
_'      A  \'NC~~AS                        s
/)                                                                                                  U 8   t3v  <   7  _ Primary industrial estates
/                  '~~~~~~i3        L                                   -s~~~~~~~~~~.e- ~~~~Railways
\,   t  e ,           t                                 -   - -   International boundaries
RANGJ           a- 9Rivers
>2~~~~R
'DINAP 
3*X .v .                                                                   0s   10 20     30   40    00
-~~ ~~~. .2,4fZ 
_                                                                                                                                           SS   /f,t(.r
} v\ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~COMI LLl1, ' 
z  z   = =       ===-r   -. -                                                                                                              ci     z=z====   -- r          =z ==
KHULN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
X = = -~                                         -K                  -                            .'- -  -   - --- -- = -_
=R =~ =    ==  ====== =                -      ---------------==------ - -=-=- -
FEBRUARY 1970                                             -                                                                                                      2849
K  ~~~~~~~~~   --------
- - - - - - - - - - - -                 -      -- - - -  - -   -
A>                                 2~~~~~~--   ------
-   -- --   -    -   -- -- -- 
-   -   -     -   -     -   -   - -   -   - -   -   -     -   -     -   -     -   -   - -   -   - -   -  -     -   -     -   -  
FEBRUAR R-  l ------2-84-9



