CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 353 BD
Development Credit
Agreement
(Small-scale Industry Project)
BETWEEN
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JANUARY 19, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 353 BD
Development Credit
Agreement
(Small-scale Industry Project)
BETWEEN
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JANUARY 19, 1973


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 19, 1973, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
OF BANGLADESH (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) on June 10, 1970 the Association agreed to make available
a development credit (hereinafter called Credit No. 192) in an amount equivalent
to three million dollars ($3,000,000) to assist in the financing of a project for
the establishment of small-scale industrial enterprises (hereina fter called Small
Industries Project);
(B)   withdrawals from the credit account opened by the Association under
Credit No. 192 were suspended on December 29, 197 1;
(C)   by an exchange of letters between the Government of Sweden
(hereinafter called Sweden) and the Borrower on May 31, 1972 and June 2, 1972,
Sweden agreed to extend financial assistance to the Borrower as an interim source
of financing for certain projects of high developmental priority in the territories
of the Borrower, including Small Industries Project;
(D)   the Borrower has requested the Association to resume its financial
assistance for the continuation and completion of Small industries Project, as
modified as hereinafter set forth, by extending to the Borrower a development
credit for such purpose, and to include therein provision for repayment to the
Association of the principal amount of Credit No. 192 withdrawn from the credit
account opened by the Association thercunder and for repayment to Sweden of
the financial assistance extended by Sweden for Small Industries Project; and
(E) the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
to extend a development credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions
hereinafter set forth.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to   Development Credit Agreements of the


﻿4
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02(h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02(i) into 6.02(h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreement of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement. unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additio: l terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "BSIC" means Bangladesh Small Industries Corporation established by
Act XVII of 1957 as amended, and includes any successor thereto;
(b)   "SIAS" means Small Industry Advisory Service department of BSIC;
(c)   "Bangladesh Bank" means Bangladesh Bank established by Bangladesh
Bank (Temporary) Order of 197 1;
(d)   "Scheduled Bank" means a bank constituted under Section 4(l) of
Bangladesh Banks (Nationalization) Order of 1972;
(e)   "small-scale industrial enterprise" means any small scale manufacturing
unit the total fixed assets (machinery and buildings) of which do not exceed one
million five hundred thodsand Takas (Tksl,500,000);
(f)   "Project Enterprise" means any small-scale industrial enterprise to
which financing is provided out of the proceeds of the Credit;
(g)   "Participating Commercial Bank" means a Scheduled Bank which will
participate in the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement:
(h)   "Technical Advisory Committee" means the committee established in
accordance with the provisions of Section 3.07 of this Agreement; and
(i)   "Takas" and the letters "Tk" mean the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to three million dollars ($3,000,000).


﻿5
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for the purposes set forth
in paragraph 5 of such Schedule and for expenditures made (or, if the Association
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed under the Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except
as the Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account
of expenditures in the territories of any country which is not a member of the
Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1976 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Sectibn 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on April 1 and
October I in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each April I anc October 1 commencing
April 1, 1983 and ending October 1, 2022, each installment to and including the
installment payable on October 1, 1992 !o be one-half of one per cen, (1/2 of
I7) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2'() of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound administrative,


﻿6
financial and engineering practices and shall provide or cause to be provided
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
(b)   In carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall cause BSIC by
January 3 1, 1973 (or such other date as may be agreed upon between the Borrower
and the Association) to employ a qualified and experienced industrial consultant
acceptable to the Association under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association.
(c)   The Borrower shall ensure that the operating procedures for carrying
out the Project shall be as set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and to
that end the Borrower shall enter into and shall cause BSIC to enter into agreements
with the Participating Commercial Banks, which agreements shall be on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association and shall, except as the Borrower and
the Association may otherwise agree, contain inter alia the following assurances:
(i)         that the Participating Commercial Banks undertake to provide
Taka funds for lending to Project Enterprises in an aggregate
amount of not less than forty-six million Takas (Tks46,000,000);
(ii)        that the proceeds of the Credit will be used for projects of
Project Enterprises which have been approved for financing by
BSIC except that expenditures for balancing, modernization or
expansion of existing small-scale industrial enterprises will not
be eligible for use of the proceeds of the Credit without the
prior approval of the Association;
(iii)       that BSIC will at all times have the necessary powers and the
responsibility for supervising projects of Project Enterprises for
which financing has been provided out of the proceeds of the
Credit;
(iv)        that the Participating Commercial Banks shall charge interest on
their loans to Project Enterprises at a rate of interest three and
one-half per cent (3-1/2%) above the Bangladesh Bank rate, and
that the   proceeds of such    interest payments above the
Bangladesh Bank rate shall be shared on the basis of interest
of one and one-quarter per cent (1-1/4%) being due to BSIC
and interest of two and one-quarter per cent (2-1/4%) being due
to the Participating Commercial Bank;


﻿7
(v)         that loans to Project Enterprises by the Participating Commercial
Banks shall have an amortization schedule and period of grace
appropriate to the project to be financed;
(vi)        that the risk of non-repayment of a loan by a Participating
Commercial Bank to a Project Enterprise will be shared equally
by BSIC and the Participating Commercial Bank;
(vii)       that BSIC shall collect a service charge for processing applications
from Project Enterprises of not less than two and one-half per
cent (2-1/2%) of the Taka equivalent of the amount of foreigin
exchange required by the Project Enterprise for the project and
approved by BSIC, and
(viii)      that BSIC and the Participating Commercial Banks exercise their
rights in relation to Project Enterprises in such a manner as to
protect the interests of the Borrower, BSIC and the Participating
Commercial Banks and to ensure that Project Enterprises are
managed in accordance with sound engineering and financial
standards, that they maintain adequate records and that the
goods financed by loans from the Participating Commercial
Banks are used exclusively in carrying out the project for which
approval has been obtained from BSIC.
(d)   Without restriction or limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section 3.01, the Borrower shall promptly upon receipt of an application
approved in accordance with the operating procedures set forth in Schedule 4 to
this Agreement, issue, or cause to be issued, such import licences as shall be required
to carry out the project for which such application has been approved and shall
make available or cause to be made available all foreign exchange required to carry
out such project.
Section 3.02. For the purpose of the Project the Borrower shall ensure that
Bangladesh Bank provides the Participating Commercial Banks with discount
facilities for up to seventy-five per cent (75(i) of loans to Project Enterprises the
period whereof does not exceed ten years.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause BSIC to ensure that the imported
goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit are insured against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of
use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable to replace or repair such goods.


﻿(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports
and work and procurement schedules, for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall cause BSIC to maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof), to identify the
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and to disclose the
use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited
representatives to inspect the Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish or cause
to be furnished to the Association all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the
Credit and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall at all times:
(a)   cause BSIC to be managed, its financial position to be maintained,
and its operations to be carried out, in accordance with sound administrative,
financial and engineering practices and under the supervision of competent and
experienced management; and
(b)   cause the Participating Commercial Banks to take all steps as shall
be necessary on their part to ensure the carrying out of the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound administrative and financial
practices.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall prepare or cause BSIC to prepare and submit
to the Association by December 3 1, 1973 (or such other date as may be agreed
upon between the Borrower and the Association) a study of financial and
institutional requirements for the channeling of financial assistance to the small-scale
industry sector in Bangladesh and shall promptly thereafter consult with the
Association on appropriate measures for implementing the recommendations of said
study.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall cause BSIC to establish a Technical Advisory
Committee with membership, terms of reference and operating policies and
procedures to be determined in consultation with the Association.


﻿9
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause BSIC to maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices
its operations, resources and expenditures, including separate accounts to record
all funds received or disbursed for the purposes of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower shall (i) cause said separate accounts for each fiscal. year
of BSIC to be audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied, by competent and experienced auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii)
furnish or cause to be furnished to the Association as soon as available, but in
any case not later than four months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of said accounts for such year as so audited, and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors; and (iii) furnish or cause to be furnished to the Association
such other information concerning said accounts and the audit thereof as the
Associ,ition shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the administration, operations and financial condition, resources and
expenditures of BSIC, the implementation of the agreements referred to in Section
3.0 1(c) of this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit;
and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.


﻿10
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations and financial condition, resources and
expenditures of BSIC, and the implementation of the agreements referred to in
Section 3.01(c) of this Agreement.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof or the performance by either of them        of its obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed tinder the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 7.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare


﻿11
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment or suspension of operations
of BSIC.
(b)   Act XVII of 1957 (as amended to the date hereof) shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as, in the judgment of the
Association, to materially and adversely affect the carrying out of the Project or
the operations or financial condition of BSIC.
(c)   Any of the agreements entered into by the Borrower, BSIC and the
Participating Commercial Banks pursuant to Section 3.0 1(d) of this Agreement shall
have been amended, suspended, abrogated, terminated or waived so as, in the
judgment of the Association, to materially and adversely affect the carrying out
of the Project.
Section.7.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of The General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   either of the events specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 7.02
of this Agreement shall occur;
(b)   the event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 7.02 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01(b) of the General Conditions, namely, that the Participating
Commercial Banks shall have entered into duly executed and delivered agreements
with the Borrower and BSIC in accordance with paragraph (c) of Section 3.01
of this Agreement.


﻿12
Section 8.02. The following is specified as an additional matter within the
meaning of Section 10.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the agreements
provided for under paragraph (c) of Section 3.01 of this Agreement have been
duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the
Borrower, BSIC and the Participating Commercial Banks, in accordance with their
respective terms.
Section 8.03. The date April 13, 1973 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 3.01(b) and
3.05(a) of this Agreement, and the provisions of Sections 7.02 and 7.03 of this
Agreement, shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate or on June 30, 1980, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Chief of the External Resources Division of the Planning
Commission of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Planning Commission
Bangladesh Secretariat
Dacca
Cable address:
PLANCOM
Dacca


﻿13
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By /s/ A. R. Choudhury
Autliorized Representatire
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ 1. P. M. Cargill
Regional Vice President
Asia


﻿14
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentages of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
I.   Imported ma-              2,744,185.59        100% of foreign
chinery and                                  expenditures
equipment
II.   Consulting                  69,354.80        100% of foreign
services                                     expenditures
III.  Repayment of               186,459.61
principal
amount with-
drawn under
Credit No.
192
TOTAL              3,000,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and
in the currency, of any country other than the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made under Categories I or 11, in respect of:
(a)   expenditures made prior to the date of this Agreement, except as
provided in paragraph 5(a) hereof; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed directly under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation,


﻿15
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount
represented by the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph
I above in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all
such taxes, such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the
Credit will be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above;
(a)  if the estimate of the expenditures under Category II shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
amount of the Credit allocated to Category I; and
(b)   if the Association  shall have reasonably  determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, no expenditures for such
item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association may,
without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of
th: Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.
5.   The Association shall, on the Effective Date or as soon as possible thereafter,
withdraw from the Credit Account and pay:
(a)   to Sweden, under Categories I and II, respectively, the equivalent of
amounts disbursed by Sweden, until the Effective Date, in respect of items within
said Categories, under the interim financing arrangements for Small Industries
Project referred to in paragraph (C) of the Preamble to this Agreement; and
(b)   to the Association, under Category III, an amount equivalent to
$186,459.61, in full repayment in advance of maturity of the principal amount
of Credit No. 192 withdrawn from the credit account opened by the Association
thereunder, it being hereby agreed and recorded that, for the purpose of determining
the principal amount of the Credit to be repaid by the Borrower, in accordance
with Section 4.03 of the General Conditions, this withdrawal shall be deemed to
have been made as of the respective dates of withdrawal under Credit No. 192.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of a program administered by Bangladesh Small
Industries Corporation in conjunction with the Participating Commercial Banks for
the development of small-scale industry in Bangladesh. The objectives of the
program are to ensure (a) that manufacturing units are established and managed
along sound industrial lines, (b) that resources are mobilized through commercial
banks for investment in small-scale industrial enterprises, and (c) that industrial
activity and ownership are broadened.
The Project includes:
(1)   The importation and installation of machinery and equipment.
(2)   Establishment of a program      which   will appraise  new   Project
Enterprises, provide advisory technical and financial services, and supervise the
construction, operation, and management of Project Enterprises.
(3)   Provision of the services of an industrial consultant to assist in carrying
out the Project.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31. 1975.


﻿17
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
Except where it would be impractical for technical reasons, the goods and
services to be financed out of the loans for foreign exchange which are approved
by the Participating Commercial Banks shall be procured on the basis of contracts
awarded after the respective Project Enterprise has obtained quotations from at
least three qualified suppliers outside the territories of the Borrower in member
countries of the Association (and Switzerland). The respective contract shall be
awarded to the supplier making the lowest evaluated quotation, factors other than
price, such as the time of delivery, the efficiency and reliability of the equipment,
the availability of service and spare parts and the desirability of standardization
of equipment, having been taken into consideration.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 4
Operating Procedures for the Project
The following steps will be carried out in the implementation of the Project:
1.    BSIC will advertise throughout Bangladesh the availability and the terms of
the Credit. BSIC Regional Offices and Industrial Estate Offices will be briefed to
promote use of the Credit and to assist parties in submitting applications.
2.    Potential Project Enterprises will submit applications for loans or for cash
foreign exchange on forms available through all BSIC Offices and also through
offices of the Participating Commercial Banks. Quotations for the cost of the
machinery to be imported will be submitted along with the applications. All
applications will be forwarded to the BSIC Screening Committee.
3.    The BISC    Screening Committee will give preliminary scrutiny to all
applications received to check them for completeness and for conformity with
Government regulations and with the objectives of the Project. The Screening
Committee will also estimate the approximate investment required for the project
and will specify that the proposed Project Enterprise must then submit, as evidence
of its financial capability to meet the equity requirements of the project, either
a bank guarantee in an amount of 30% of the estimated total project investment
or a good faith deposit certificate from a Participating Commercial Bank in an
amount of 15% of the estimated total project investment.
4.    The potential Project Enterprise will submit a bank guarantee, or a good
faith deposit certificate, in the specified amount, to BSIC, including a statement
by the sponsoring Participating Commercial Bank that such bank will agree to
provide loans for the project, if required, providing that the case is approved by
BSIC and that other applicable terms and conditions are met.
5.    After receiving an application which has passed the BSIC       Screening
Committee and for which an acceptable bank guarantee or good faith deposit
certificate has been received, SIAS will make a technical and economic feasibility
analysis of the proposed Project Enterprise including an analysis of the appropriate
machinery specifications and building size required for the project. This analysis
will include a discussion with the applicant to assess his knowledge of the industry
and his potential managerial ability and also a visit to the proposed site. A particular
supplier's quotation for machinery, meeting the specifications agreed to by SIAS,
will then be selected by the applicant, after having received SIAS's advice and
consent, from the available quotations. A project report will be prepared by SIAS


﻿19
which will include all relevant specifications and financial particulars of the
proposed Project Enterprise and make specific recommendations for any loans or
cash foreign exchange which are to be considered by the Technical Advisory
Committee.
6.    The Technical Advisory Committee will review the project reports prior to
its regular meetings. The Technical Advisory Committee will make its
recommendation to the Board of Directors of BSIC regarding sanctioning of the
project. Once the project has been sanctioned, BSIC will make specific
recommendations to the sponsoring Participating Commercial Banks on the amount
and terms and conditions of loans which are to be considered.
7.    In each case where no loan from a Participating Commercial Bank is required
and where BSIC has sanctioned cash foreign exchange for the project, BSIC will
proceed to issue a Cash Foreign Exchange Sanction Letter which will constitute
a contract between the Project Enterprise and BSIC.
8.    In each case where a loan is required, the Participating Commercial Bank
will review the SIAS project report and the BSIC recommendations and will then
determine, within the terms of the agreement entered into by that Participating
Commercial Bank with the Borrower and BSIC and consistent with the pledge
made at the time a bank guarantee was provided or a good faith deposit certificate
issued to the Project Enterprise, the amount and the terms and conditions of the
loan it is prepared to make to the Project Enterprise. The Participating Commercial
Bank will then issue a Loan Sanction Letter to the Project Enterprise which will
be countersigned by BSIC and which when accepted will constitute a contract
between the Project Enterprise, the Participating Commercial Bank, and BSIC.
9.    The Project Enterprise will, after accepting the Loan Sanction Letter or Cash
Foreign Exchange Sanction Letter, apply through the Participating Commercial
Bank to the Controller of Imports and Exports for issuance of an Import License.
BSIC will assist in expediting issuance of the License. Meanwhile, the Project
Enterprise will complete all documentation    required  by  the Participating
Commercial Bank and will deposit the necessary funds to cover the equity
investment in the project as specified in the SIAS project report.
10.  Having received the Import License and the necessary documentation, the
Project Enterprise will make arrangements for the import of the goods and if
necessary will arrange for the opening of an irrevocable Letter of Credit through
the Participating Commercial Bank.
11.  Within a time to be specified by BSIC, the Project Enterprise will start
construction of the factory building and will make purchase of local machinery


﻿11
-   -- -   , 1
-a-
~A4


