CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 192 PAK
Project Agreement
(East Pakista% Small Industries Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
PROVINCE OF EAST PAKISTAN
DATED JUNE 10, 1970


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 192 PAK
Project Agreement
(East Pakistan Small Industries Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
PROVINCE OF EAST PAKISTAN
DATED JUNE 10, 1970


﻿prn;rrt Arourndn
AGREEMENT, dated June 10, 1970, between INTERNA-
TIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association) and the PROVINCE OF EAST PAKISTAN, acting by
its Governor (hereinafter called the Province).
WHEREAS by a credit agreement of even date herewith
(hereinafter called the Development Credit Agreement) be-
tween the Islamic Republic of Pakistan (hereinafter called
the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower a credit in
various currencies equivalent to three million dollars
($3,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in such
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that
the Province agrees to undertake certain obligations to-
ward the Association as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Province, in consideration of the Associa-
tion's entering into the above-mentioned Development
Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to under-
take the obligations hereinafter set forth;
Now THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
f ollows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
SECTION 1.01. Wherever used in the Project Agreement,
unless the context shall otherwise require, the several terms
defined in the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Borrower and the Association and in
the General Conditions (as so defined in the Development


﻿4
Credit Agreement) shall have the respective meanings
therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Particular Covenants of the Province
SECTION 2.01. (a) The Province shall cause EPSIC to
carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with sound administrative, financial and
engineering practies.
(b) The Province covenants that it will provide EPSIC
with such funds as shall be necessary to enable SIAS to
maintain its operations at a level satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation.
(c) In carrying out the Project, the Province shall cause
EPSIC: (i) to employ a qualified and experienced financial
consultant acceptable to the Association with such terms
of reference and upon such terms and conditions as shall
be acceptable to the Association; and, in addition, (ii) to
secure the services of qualified and experienced engineer-
ing, marketing and financial consultants.
(d) The Province shall ensure that the operating proce-
(lures for carrying out the Project shall be as set forth in
Schedule 1 to this Agreement and to that end the Province
shall enter into and shall cause EPSIC to enter into agree-
ments with the Participating Commercial Banks, which
agreements shall be on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association and shall, except as otherwise agreed
beiween the Province and the Association, contain inter alia
the following assurances:
(i) that the Participating Commercial Banks under-
take io provide Rupee credits for small industry at a level
satisfactory to the Association;
(ii) that the proceeds of the Credit will be used for
small industry projects which have been approved for fi-


﻿5
nancing by the EPSIC Loan Committee except that ex-
penditures for balancing, modernization or expansion of
existing small industry will not be eligible for use of the
.proceeds of the Credit without the prior approval of the
Association;
(iii) that EPSIC will at all times have the necessary
powers and the responsibility for supervising small indus-
try projects for which financing has been provided out of
the proceeds of the Credit;
(iv) that Participating Commercial Banks shall
charge interest on their loans for small industry at a rate
of interest three and one-half percent (31/2%) above the
State Bank rate and that the proceeds of such interest pay-
ments above the State Bank rate, shall be shared on the
basis of interest of one and one-quarter percent (11/%)
being due to EPSIC and interest of two and one-quarter
percent (21,!c/ ) being due to the Participating Commercial
Bank;
(v) that loans to small industry by Participating
Commercial Banks shall have an amortization schedule and
period of grace appropriate to the project to be financed;
(vi) that the risk of non-repayment of a loan by a
Participating Commercial Bank to a Project Enterprise
will be shared equally by EPSIC and the Participating
Commercial Bank;
(vii) that EPSIC shall collect a service charge for
processing applications from Project Enterprises of not
less than two and one-half percent (2 /%) of the Rupee
equivalent of the amount of foreign exchange required by
the Project Enterprise for the project and approved by
EPSIC; and
(viii) that EPSIC and the Participating Commer-
cial Banks exercise their rights in relation to Project
Enterprises in such a manner as to protect the interests of
the Province, EPSIC and Participating Commercial Banks


﻿6
and to ensure that Project Enterprises are managed in
accordance with sound engineering and financial standards,
that they maintain adequate records and that the goods
financed by loans from Participating Commercial Banks
are used exclusively in carrying out the project for which
approval has been obtained from the EPSIC Loan Com-
mittee.
SECTION 2.02. (a) The Province s.hall cause the proceeds
of the. Credit to be applied in accordance with the provi-
sions of the Development Credit Agreement and of this
Agreement to expenditures in respect of the Project de-
scribed in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agree-
ment.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be procured in accordance with the pro-
cedures set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(c) Except as the Association and the Province shall
otherwise agree, the Province shall cause all goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be
used exclusively in the carrying out of the Project.
SECTION 2.03. (a) Upon request from time to time by
the Association, the Province shall cause the Association
to be furnished promptly upon their preparation, with the
plans, studies, specifications, procurement and work sched-
ules for or in connection with the Project and any material
modifications subsequently made therein, in such detail as
the Association shall reasonably request.
(b) The Province shall cause SIAS to maintain records
adequate to identify the goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, to disclose the use thereof in
the Project, to record the progress of the Project (includ-
ing the cost thereof) and to reflect in accordance with con-
sistently maintained sound accounting practices the opera-


﻿7
tions and financial condition of SIAS; shall enable the As-
sociation's representatives to inspect the Project, the
goods, and any relevant records and documents; and shall
furnish or cause SIAS to furnish to the Association all such
information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit,
the Project, the agreements between the Province, EPSIC
and the Participating Commercial Banks, the goods and
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
and the administration, operations and financial condition
of SIAS.
(c) The Province shall cause SIAS: (i )to establish and
maintain separate accounts and to record therein an ac-
count of all funds disbursed or received for purposes of
the Project; (ii) to have such accounts audited annually
by an independent auditor acceptable to the Association;
and (iii) promptly after the preparation of the audit and
not later than four months after the close of EPSIC's
financial year, to transmit to the Association certified copies
of such audited accounts and a signed copy of the auditor's
report.
SECTION 2.04. (a) The Province and the Association
shall cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the
Credit will be accomplished. To that end, each of them
shall furnish to the other all such information as it shall
reasonably request.
(b) The Province and the Association shall from time
to time, at the request of either party, exchange views
through their representatives with regard to matters relat-
ing to the purposes of the Credit and the performance by
the Province of its obligations under the Project Agree-
ment, and with regard to the administration, operations and
financial condition of SIAS.
(c) The Province shall promptly inform the Association
of any condition which intereferes with, or threatens to


﻿8
interefere with, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit or the maintenance of the service thereof, or the
performance by the Province of its obligations under the
Project Agreement, or the performance by the Province,
EPSIC or the Participating Commercial Banks of their
respective obligations under the agreements to be entered
into by them pursuant to paragraph (d) of Section 2.01 of
this Agreement.
SECTION 2.05. The Province shall at all times:
(a) cause SIAS to be managed, its financial position to
be maintained, and its operations to be carried out, in ac-
cordance with sound business, financial and engineering
practices and under the supervision of competent and ex-
perienced management; and
(b) cause the Participating Commercial Banks to take
all steps as shall be necessary on their part to ensure the
carrying out of the Project with due diligence and effi-
ciency and in conformity with sound administrative and
financial practices.
SECTION 2.06. Except as the Association and the Prov-
ince shall otherwise agree, the Province shall cause
EPSIC to ensure that the imported goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, are insured against marine,
transit and other hazards incident to the acquisition, trans-
portation and delivery thereof to the place of their use or
installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be
payable in a currency freely usable to replace or repair
such goods.
SECTION 2.07. The Province shall prepare or cause
EPSIC to prepare and submit to the Association by not
later than September 30, 1971 a study of financial and
institutional requirements for the channeling of financial
assistance to small industries located in the Province and
shall promptly thereafter consult with the Association on


﻿9
appropriate measures for implementing the recommenda,
tions of said study.
SECTION 2.08. The Province shall cause EPSIC to es-
tablish a Loan Committee with such membership, terms
of reference and operating policies and procedures as shall
be satisfactory to the Association.
ARTICLE III
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 3.01. The Project Agreement shall come into
force and effect on the Effective Date. If the Development
Credit Agreement terminates pursuant to Section 10.04
of the General Conditions, the Association shall promptly
notify the Province of this event and, upon the giving of
such notice, the Project Agreement and all obligations of
the parties thereunder shall forthwith terminate.
SECTION 3.02. The Project Agreement and all obliga-
tions of the parties thereunder shall terminate (i) on the
date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall ter-
minnate in accordance with its terms, or (ii) on June 30,
1977, whichever is the earlier.
ARTICLE IV
Miscellaneous Provisions
SECTION 4.01. No delay in exercising, or omission to
exercise, any right, power, or remedy accruing to either
party under this Project Agreement upon any default shall
impair any such right, power or remedy or be construed
to be a waiver thereof or an acquiescence in such default;
nor shall the action of such party in respect of any default
or any acquiescence in any default, affect or impair any
right, power or remedy of such party in respect of any
other or subsequent default.


﻿10
SECTION 4.02. Any notice or request required or per-
mitted to be given or made under the Project Agreement
and any agreement between the parties contemplated by the
Project Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or re-
quest shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex, or radiogram to the party to which it is re-
quired or permitted to be given or made at such party's
address hereinafter specified, or at such other address as
such party shall have designated by notice to the party
giving such notice or making such request. The addresses
so specified are:
For the Association:
Internal io,,al Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D. C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
For the Province:
Chief Secretary
Government of East Pakistan
Dacca
Cable address:
East Pakistan
Dacca
SECTION 4.03. Any action required or permitted to be
taken, and any documents required or permitted to be ex-
ecuted, under the Project Agreement on behalf of the
Province, may be taken or executed by the Chief Secr-


﻿11
tary to the Government of East Pakistan or such other
person or persons as the Province shall designate in
writing.
SECTION 4.04. The Province shall furnish to the Asso-
ciation sufficient evidence of the authority of the person
or persons who will, on behalf of the Province, take any
action or execute any documents required or permitted to
be taken or executed by the Province pursuant to any of
the provisions of the Project Agreement, and the authenti-
cated specimen signature of each such person.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused the Project Agreement to be signed in their respec-
tive names and delivered in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASsoCIATIoN
By   /s/ J. BuRKE KNAPP
Vice President
PROVINCE OF EAST PAKISTAN
By /s/ A. R. BASHIR
Authorized Representative


﻿12
SCHEDULE 1
Operating Procedures for the Project
The following steps will be carried out in the implementa-
tion of the project:
1. EPSIC will advertise throughout East Pakistan the
availability and the terms of the Credit. EPSIC Regional
Offices and Industrial Estate Offices will be briefed to pro-
mote use of the Credit and to assist parties in submitting
applications.
2. Potential Project Enterprises will submit applications
for loans or for cash foreign exchange on forms available
through all EPSIC Offices and also through offices of the
Participating Commercial Banks. Quotations for the cost
of the machinery to be imported will be submitted along
with the applications. All applications will be forwarded
to the EPSIC/SIAS Screening Committee.
3. The EPSIC/SIAS Screening Committee will give pre-
liminary scrutiny to all applications received to check them
for completeness and for conformity with Government
regulations and with the objectives of the project. The
Screening Committee will also estimate the approximate
investment required for the project and will specify that
the proposed Project Enterprise must then submit, as evi-
dence of its financial capability to meet the equity require-
ments of the project, either a bank guarantee in an amount
of 30% of the estimated total project investment or a good
faith deposit certificate from a Participating Commercial
Bank in an amount of 157c of the estimated total project
investment.
4. The potential Project Enterprise will submit a bank
guarantee, or a good faith deposit certificate, in the speci-
fied amount, to SIAS, including a statement by the spon-
soring Participating Commercial Bank that such bank will


﻿13
agree to provide loans for the project, if required, provid-
ing that the case is recommended by the EPSIC Loan
Committee and that other applicable terms and conditions
are met.
5. After receiving an application which has passed the
EPSIC/SIAS Screening Committee and for which an ac-
ceptable bank guarantee or good faith deposit certificate
has been received, SIAS will make a technical and economic
feasibility analysis of the proposed Project Enterprise
including an analysis of the appropriate machinery speci-
fications and building size required for the project. This
analysis will include a discussion with the applicant to as-
sess his knowledge of the industry and his potential man-
agerial ability and also a visit to the proposed site. A par-
ticular supplier's quotation for machinery, meeting the
specifications agreed to by SIAS, will then be selected by
the applicant, after having received SIAS's advice and
consent, from the available quotations. A project report
will be prepared by SIAS which will include all relevant
specifications and financial particulars of the proposed
Project Enterprise and make specific recommendations
for any loans or cash foreign exchange which are to be
considered by the EPSIC Loan Committee.
6. The EPSIC Loan Committee will review the project
reports prior to its regular meetings. The Loan Committee
will decide on the sanctioning of the project and will make
specific recommendations to the sponsoring Participating
Commercial Banks on the amount and terms and conditions
of loans which are to be considered.
7. In cases where no loans from a Participating Coiamer-
cial Bank are required and where the EPSIC Loan Com-
mittee has sanctioned cash foreign exchange for projects,
EPSIC will proceed to issue a Cash Foreign Exchange
Sanction Letter which will constitute a contract between
the Project Enterprise and EPSIC.


﻿14
8. In cases where loans are required, the Participating
Commercial Bank will review the SIAS project report and
the EPSIC Loan Committee recommendations and will
then determine, within the terms of the agreement entered
into by that Participating Commercial Bank with the Prov-
ince and EPSIC and consistent with the pledge made at the
time a bank guarantee was provided or a good faith deposit
certificate issued to the Project Enterprise, the amount and
the terms and conditions of the loan it is prepared to make
to the Project Enterprise. The Participating Commercial
Bank will then issue a Loan Sanction Letter to the Project
Enterprise which will be countersigned by EPSIC and
which when accepted will constitute a contract between the
Project Enterprise, the Participating Commercial Bank,
and EPSIC.
9. The Project Enterprise will, after accepting the Loan
Sanction Letter or Cash Foreign Exchange Sanction Letter,
apply through the Participating Commercial Bank to the
Controller of Imports and Exports, Dacca, for issuance of
an Import License. SIAS will assist in expediting issuance
of the License. Meanwhile, the Project Enterprise will
complete all documentation required by the Participating
Commercial Bank and will deposit the necessary funds to
cover the equity investment in the project as specified in the
SIAS Project Report.
10. Having received the Import License and necessary doc-
umentation, the Participating Commercial Bank will open
an irrevocable Letter of Credit with a correspondent com-
mercial bank in any member country of the Association or
Switzerland for the import of the machinery from such
country.
11. Within a specified time after opening a Letter of
Credit, the Project Enterprise will start construction of the
factory building and will make purchase of local machinery
and other items required for implementation of the project.


﻿SIAS will inspect regularly the progress of construction
and project implementation, whether the case is one in
which a loan has been obtained from a Participating Com-
mercial Bank or is one in which the Project Enterprise
has requested and obtained cash foreign exchange.
12. In the case of a loan, the Project Enterprise will invest
the specified amount of equity in each category of invest-
ment prior to the disbursement of the Loan. SIAS will
inspect and issue loan disbursement certificates to the Par-
ticipating Commercial Bank which will certify the extent of
progress and the investment which has taken place and then
permit disbursements of loan funds.
13. SIAS will assist the Project Enterprise, if required,
in arranging for customs clearance and delivery and instal-
lation when the imported machinery arrives. Whether a
loan or cash foreign exchange has been obtained, SIAS
will inspect the project at the time of installation and at the
start of trial production. After the start of regular produc-
tion and at regular intervals thereafter, SIAS will continue
to inspect Project Enterprises and will offer management
and technical assistance to help solve any operating prob-
lems that may arise.
14. The Participating Commercial Banks will maintain the
disbursement and repayment records on all loans to Project
Enterprises.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement
Except where it would be impractical for technical rea-
sons, the goods and services to be financed out of the loans
for foreign exchange which are approved by the Participat-
ing Commercial Banks shall be procured on the basis of
contracts awarded after the respective Project Enterprise
has obtained quotations from at least three qualified sup-
pliers outside the territories of the Borrower in member
countries of the Association (and Switzerland). The re-
spective contract shall be awarded to the supplier making
the lowest evaluated quotation, factors other than price,
such as the time of delivery, the efficiency and reliability
of the equipment, the availability of service and spare parts
and the desirability of standardization of equipment, having
been taken into consideration.


