CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 192 PAK
Development Credit
Agreement
(East Pakistan Small Industries Project)
BETWEEN
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 10, 1970


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 192 PAK
Development Credit
Agreement
(East Pakistan Small Industries Project)
B]STWEEN
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 10, 1970


﻿Brortapmritt Tu~rbit Agruntrut
AGREEMENT, dated June 10, 1970 between ISLAMIC
REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN, acting by its President (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower and the Province of East Paki-
stan have requested the Association to assist in the financ-
ing of a program for the establishment of small industries
in the Province of East Pakistan;
WHEREAS the Province of East Pakistan will, with the
Borrower's assistance, carry out or cause to be carried out
such program, and, as part of such assistance, the Borrow,-
will make available to the Province of East Pakistan the
proceeds of the credit provided for herein; and
WHEREAS the Association is willing to make a credit
available on the terms and conditions provided herein and
in a project agreement of even date herewith between the
Province of East Pakistan and the Association;
Now THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Special Definitions
SECTION 1.01. The parties to this Development Credit
Agreement accept all the provisions of the General Condi-
tions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force


﻿4
and effect as if they were fully set forth herein, subject,
however, to the following modifications thereof (said Gen-
eral Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association as so modified being hereinafter
.alled the General Conditions) :
(a) Section 6.06 of the General Conditions is amended
by inserting the words ", the Project Agreement" after
the words "the Development Credit Agreement".
(b) Section 8.02 of the C -neral Conditions is amended
by inserting the words "or under the Project Agreement"
after the words "the Development Credit Agreement".
(c) Paragraph 5 of Section 2.01 is amended to read as
follows:
"5. The term 'Borrower' means the Islamic Repub-
lic of Pakistan, acting by its President."
(d) The following subparagraph is added to Section
2.01:
"13. The term 'Project Agreement' shall have the
meaning set forth in the Development Credit Agree-
ment."
SECTION 1.02. Wherever used in this Development
Credit Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires,
the several terms defined in the General Conditions have
the respective meanings therein set forth, and the follow-
ing additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Province" means the Province of East Pakistan, a
political subdivision of the Borrower.
(b) "EPSIC" means the East Pakistan Small Indus-
tries Corporation established by East Pakistan Act XVII
of 1957 as amended by East Pakistan Ordinance No. LXVII
of 1958, East Pakistan Ordinance No. XVII of 1962 and
East Pakistan Ordinance No. III of 1970, and shall include
any successor to EPSIC.


﻿5
(c) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between
the Province and the Association, of even date herewith,
providing inter alia for the carrying out of the Project, and
shall include any amendments thereof made by agreement
between the Province and the Association.
(d) "small industry" means any small scale manufac-
turinig unit the total fixed assets (machinery and build-
ings) of which do not exceed one million rupees
(Rs. 1,000,000);
(e) "State Bank" means the State Bank of Pakistan
established pursuant to the Borrower's Act No. XXXIII
of 1956;
(f) "Scheduled Bank" means a bank included in the
list of banks maintained under sub-section (i) of Section
37 of the Borrower's Act No. XXXIII of 1956;
(g) "SIAS" means the Small Industry Advisory Serv-
ice department of EPSIC;
(h) "rupees" and the letters "Rs." shall mean the cur-
rency of the Borrower;
(i) "Project Enterprise" means any small industry to
which financing is provided out of the proceeds of the
Credit;
(j) "Participating Commercial Bank" means a Sched-
uled Bank which has entered into an agreement with the
Province and EPSIC on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association.
Words importing the singular number include the plural
number and vice versa.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
SECTION 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower on the terms and conditions in this Development


﻿6
Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in
various currencies equivalent to three million dollars
($3,000,000).
SECTION 2.02. (a) The Association shall open a Credit
Account on its books in the name of the Borrower and shall
credit to such Account the amount of the Credit.
(b) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Accotut as provided in, and subject to the rights
of cancellation and suspension set forth in, the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement and in accordance with the alloca-
tion of the proceeds of the Credit set forth in Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such allocation shall be modified
from time to time pursuant to the provisions of such Sched-
ule or by further agreement between the Borrower and the
Association.
SECTION 2.03. The Borrower shall be entitled to with-
draw from the Credit Account such amounts as shall have
been paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, such
amounts as shall be required to meet payments to be made)
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods or services
required for the Project and to be financed under the
Development Credit Agreement.
SECTION 2.04. No withdrawals from the Credit Account
shall be made on account of payments in the currency of
the Borrower, or for goods produced in, or services sup-
plied from the territories of the Borrower.
SECTION 2.05. The currency of the United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
SECTION 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Associa-
tion a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per
cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.


﻿7
SECTION 2.07. Service charges shall be payable semi-
annually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
SECTION 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal of
the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account in semi-
annual installments payable on each October 1 and April 1
commencing October 1, 1980 and ending April 1, 2020, each
installment to and including the installment payable on
April 1, 1990, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to
be one and one-half per cent (11/2o) of such principal
amount.
ARTICLE III
Use of Proceeds of the Credit
SECTION 3.01. The Borrower shall cause the proceeds
of the Credit to be applied in accordance with the provi-
sions of this Development Credit Agreement to expendi-
tures in respect of the Project, described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement.
SECTION 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the goods and services to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in accordance with
the procedures set forth in the Project Agreement.
SECTION 3.03. Except as the Borrower and the Associa-
tion shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause all
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit to be used exclusively ir the carrying out of the
Project.
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants
SECTION 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Project
to be carried out with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with sound administrative, financial and engi-


﻿8
neering practices and shall provide or cause to be pro-
vided promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) The Borrower shall p. omptly upon receipt of an
application approved in accordance with the operating
policies and procedures as set forth in Schedule 1 to the
Projec  Agreement, issue, or cause to be issued, such im-
port licenses as shall be required to carry out the Project
and shall make available or cause to be made available all
foreign exchange required to carry out the Project.
(c) The Borrower shall cause the Province punctually
to perform all the covenants and agreements set forth in
the Project Agreement, shall take or cause to be taken all
action which shall be necessary to enable the Province to
perform such covenants and agreements and shall not take
any action which might interfere with such performance.
SECTION 4.02. (a) The Borrower and the Association
shall cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the
Credit will be accomplished. To that end, each of them
shall furnish to the other all such information as it shall
reasonably request with regard to the general status of
the Credit. On the part of the BoLirrower, such information
shall include information with respect to financial and eco-
nomic conditions in the territories of the Borrower and
the international balance of payments position of the
Borrower.
(b) The Borrower and the Association shall from time
to time, at the request of either party, exchange views
through their representatives with regard to matters relat-
ing to the purposes of the Credit and the maintenance of
the service thereof.
(c) The Borrower shall promptly inform the Association
of any condition which interferes with, or threatei,s to


﻿J9)
interfere with the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit or the maintenance of the service thereof, the per-
formance by the Borrower of its obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement, or the performance by
the Province of its obligations under the Project Agree-
ment.
(d) The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportu-
nity for accredited representatives of the Association to
visit any part of the territories of the Borrower for pur-
poses related to the Credit.
SECTION 4.03. The principal of, and service charges on,
the Credit shall be paid without deduction for, and free
from, any taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories.
SECTION 4.04. The Development Credit Agreement and
the Project Agreement shall be free from any taxes that
shall be imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on or in connection with the execu-
tion, issue, delivery or registration thereof.
SECTION 4.)5. For the purpose of the Project the Bor-
rower shall ensure that the State Bank provides Participat-
ing Commercial Banks with discount facilities on loanFs to
small industries for up to a maximum of seventy-five per
cent (75%o) and for up to a period of ten years.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
SECTION 5.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of
the General Conditions or in Section 5.02 of this Agree-
ment shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any,
therein set forth, then, at any subsequent time during the
continuance thereof, the Association, at its option, may by


﻿10
nof ice to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit
then outstanding to be due and payable immediately, to-
gether with the service charges thereon, and upon any such
declaration such principal, shall become due and payable
immediately, anything in the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the contrary notwithstanding.
SECTION 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified:
(a) that a default shall have occurred in the perform-
ance of any covenant or agreement of the Province under
the Project Agreement, and such event shall continue for
a period of thirty days;
(b) that the agreements to be entered into between the
Province, EPSIC and Participating Commercial Banks
pursuant to paragraph (d) of Section 2.01 of the Project
Agreement shall have been amended, suspended, termi-
nated, abrogated or waived, in such a way as to materially
and adversely affect the Project and such event shall have
continued for a period of sixty days;
(c) that East Pakistan Act XVII of 1957 as amended by
East Pakistan Ordinance No. LXVII of 1958, East Paki-
stan Ordinance No. XVII of 1962 and East Pakistan Ordi-
nance No. III of 1970 shall have been suspended, abrogated
or waived in such a way, as would in the opinion of the
Association, materially and adversely affect the Province's
ability to carry out its obligations under the Project Agree-
ment.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 6.01. The following events are specified as ad-
ditional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development


﻿11
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 10.01 (b)
of the General Conditions:
(a) that the execution and delivery of the Project Agree-
ment on behalf of the Province shall have been duly
authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action;
(b) that a sufficient number of Participating Commercial
Banks shall have entered into duly executed and delivered
agreements with the Province and EPSIC in accordance
with paragraph (d) of Section 2.01 of the Project Agree-
ment, so as to provide assurance of the availability of rupee
funds for lending to small industry in an aggregate amount
of not less than thirty million rupees (Rs. 30,000,000);
(c) that the Province shall have caused the consultants
required under paragraph (c) of Section 2.01 of the
Project Agreement to be employed.
SECTIoN 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters within the meaning of Section 10.02 of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the
Province and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of
the Province in accordance with its terms; and
(b) that, subject to the provisions of paragraph (b) of
Section 6.01 of this Development Credit Agreement, the
agreements provided for under paragraph (d) of Section
2.01 of the Project Agreement have been duly authorized
or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the
Province, EPSIC and the Participating Commercial Banks,
in accordance with their respective terms.
SECTION 6.03. The date of September 30, 1970 is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 10.04 of the General
Conditions.


﻿12
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous
SECTION 7.01. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1973,
or such other date as shall be agreed between the Borrower
and the Association.
SECTION 7.02. The Secretary to the Government of Paki-
stan, Economic Affairs Division, is designated as represen-
tative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03
of the General Conditions.
SECTION 7.03. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan
Economic Affairs Division
Islamabad, Pakistan
Cable address:
Economic
Islamabad
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D. C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D. C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have


﻿13
caused this Development Credit Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
By /s/ A. R. BASHIR
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ J. BURKE KNAPP
Vice President


﻿14
SCHEDULE 1
Allocation of the Proceeds of the Credit
Amounts Expressed
Category                          in Dollar Equivalent
I. Imported Machinery & Equipment           2,900,000
II. Consulting Services                       100,000
Total      3,000,000
Reallocation upon Change in Cost Estimates
1. If the estimate of the cost of the items included in
Category II shall decrease, the amount of the Credit then
allocated to, and no longer required for, such Category
will be reallocated by the Association to Category I.
0


﻿15
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of a program administered by the
East Pakistan Small Industries Corporation in conjunction
with Participating Commercial Banks for the development
of small industry in East Pakistan. The objectives of this
program are to ensure (a) that manufacturing units are
established and managed along sound industrial lines, (b)
that resources are mobilized through commercial banks for
investment in small industries, and (c) that industrial
activity and ownership are broadened.
The Project includes:
(1) The importation and installation of machinery and
equipment.
(2) Establishment of a program which will appraise new
Project Enterprises, provide advisory technical and finan-
cial services, and supervise the construction, operation, and
management of Project Enterprises.
(3) Provision of the services of an industrial consultant
to assist in carrying out the Project.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1972.


