Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7856
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
WESTERN SAMOA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT
(CREDIT 951-WSO)
JUNE 27, 1989
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnauwe of
be        'Id



CURRENCY EOUIVALENT
Name of Currency:   Tala (WST)
Rate f Exchange:
Appraisal year                           US$ 1.00 - WST 0.68
Weighted average during implementation  US$ 1.00 - WST 1.33
Present                                  US$ 1.00 - WST 2.03
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
COWS and WSTEC : January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1-pound (lb) - 0.45 kg
1 acre (ac) - 0.41 ha
1 mile (mi) = 1.61 km
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB   - Asian Development Bank
AIDAB - Australian International Development Assistance Bureau
DAFF  - Department of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries
EEC   - European Economic Community
GOWS  - Government of Western Samoa
PCR   - Project Completion Report
SAR   - Staff Appraisal Report
UNDP  - United Nations Development Programme
WSTEC - Western Samoa Trust Estates Corporation



Tf* WORLD BANK         FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLtD BANK
Washington. DC. 20433
U.S.A.
MCe co Dvectitw.nIal
Opetatw tvakutwin
June 27, 1989
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Reports Western Samoa - Agricultural
Develoiment I Proiect (Credit 951-WSO)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
'Project Completion Report: Western Samoa - Agricultural Development I
Project (Credit 951-WSO)" prepared by the Asia Regional Office. Full
evaluation of this project by the Operations Evaluation Department has
not been rade.
Attachment              I         7
Tnis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World fBank authorization.



AL
WESTERN SAMOA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT (CR. 951-WSO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface .........................................                        i
Basic Data Sheet ...................................... ii
Evaluation Summary ....................................  v
I. PROJECT FORMULATION
Policy Framework ............................. 1
Project Preparation .......................... 2
Project Objectives ........................... 2
II. IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE
Components ................................... 2
Costs and Financing .......................... 5
Organization and Management .................. 6
Bank Performance ............................. 6
Borrower Performance .......................... 8
Project Relationships ........................ 8
Legal Agreements and Covenants ............... 8
III. PROJECT RESULTS
Agricultural .................................8
WSTEC Financial Performance ..................9
Economic Rate of Return ......................9
Environmental Impact ......................... 9
Role of Women ................................9
Project Beneficiaries ........................ 10
Project Sustainability
and Follow-up Projects ............... 10
IV. CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED
Conclusions ....................... 10
Lessons Learned ............ ................. 10
This document has a restricted distribution and mnay be used by recipients only in the performanice
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (contd.)
ANNEXES
Table 1 : Disbursement Schedule
Table 2 : Annual Planting Program
Table 3 : Project Costs
Table 4 : Project Financing
Table 5 : Use of Loan Funds
Table 6 : Compliance with Lcan Covenants
Table 7 : Physical Indicators of Project Accomplishment
Table 8 : Yield, Area and Production Estimates
ATTACHI4ENT I: Comments from the Asian Development Bank
MAP: IBRD No. 13742R



- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
WESTERN SAMOA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT
(CREDIT 951-WSO)
PREFACE
This is a Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Agricultural
Development I Project in Western Samoa, for which Credit 951-WSO in the
amount of US$8.0 million was signed on November 27, 1979. The original
Credit Closing Date was June 30, 1986; after two one-year extensions, the
final revised Closing Date was June 30, 1988. The accounts were closed on
March 3, 1989, and an undisbursed balance of about US$1.5 million
cancelled.
This PCR was prepared by staff of the Asia Region, following a
project completion  mission  in  July  1988.    This  PCR was  read by the
Operations Evaluation Depattment (OED).    The  draft  PCR was sent to the
Borrower and its agencies, as well as to the major cofinanciers, for
comments in February 1989.    Comments  received from the Asian Development
Bank (which financed a parallel project on the island of Upolu) are
reproduced as Attachment I.



- ii -
WESTERN SAKOA
AGRICULTURAL DEVEL3PHENT I PROJECT (CR. 951-WSO)
PROJECT COHPLETION REPORT
Basic Data Sheet
KEY PR0IECT DATA
Actual or   Actual as %
Appraisal   current    of appraisal
xoectation  estimate       estimate
Project costs (US$ million)                 20.5        19.5 A/        95
Loan/Credit amount (US$ million)             8.0         6.5 &!        81
Date Board approval                                     9/18/79
Date effectiveness                                      3/3/80
Date physical components completed          12/3/85    hI
Proportion completed - WSTEC tree (ha)
plantings          1,930       780 a/         41
- roads (km)          93.5        93.5           100
Closing Date                                6/30/86    6/30/88
Economic rate of return (%)                 13.5        0
Institutional performance                   Adequate   Poor
Agronomic performance                       Adequate   Poor
Number of direct beneficiary families       2300        240 £/         10
CUMULATIVE DISBURSEMENTS
FY80  FY81F   FY83 FY84 F    FY86 FY87 FY88 FY89
Appraisal estimate
(US$ million)                 0 4  1.6  3.2  4.8  6.2  7.4  8.0  3.0  8.0  8.0
Actual (US$ million)            1.0  2.5  3.5  4.2  4.7  5.0  5.4  5.9  6.5  6.5g/
Actual as % of estimate         250  156  109  88   76   68   68   74   81   83
Date of final disbursement      2/17/88
Amount Cancelled                US$1.5 million (approx.)
Principal repaid to date        ncne
MISSION DATA
Date   No. of Man-days  Specializations
Mission         LmoLr). Rersons  in field  represented le
Preparation        5/78    NA        NA
Appraisal         10/78   6i         N&A     e,f,f,f,f,f
Subtotal                 6        NA



- iii -
MISSION DATA (contdl
Staff   Special-        Perfor-          Type of
Date   No, of  days in  izations          mance   Trend  Problems
Mission        (mo/vr) persons   fiel   regresented/e  ratinjgf   /g/k   Lh/k
Supervision 1    02/80    2          ii       ff,             1        Li       Li
Supervision 2    10/80    1         Li        f               2        Li       Li
Supervision 3    04/81    2          18       f,f             2        3        M,F,T
Supervision 4    12/81    2           10      b,b             2        3        M,F,T
Supervision 5    06/82    2           28      a,c             3        1        M,F,T
Supervision 6    02/83    2           10      a,b             3        2        M,F,T
Supervision 7    11/83    1            7      d               2        1        Ri,F,T
Supervision 8    06/84    2           12      d,b             2        1        F,M,T
Supervision 9    11/84    1            6      d               2        1        F,M,T
Supervision 10   05/85    1            9      d               2        1        F,M,P
Supervision 11   12/85    1            8      b               3        3        F,M,T
Supervision 12   06/86    2           12      b,e             3        1        F,M,T
Supervision 13   12/86    2           22      b,e             3        2        F,M
Supervision 14   06/87    2           .0      b,e             3        1        F,M
Supervision 15   12/87    2            8      e,c             3        2        F
Supervision 16   05/88    2           10      e,c             3        2        F
Subtotal              27        170
PCR               07/88   -1           6      b               -         -          -
Total                 i4/1       L6Z/1
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Borrower                             Government e? Western Samoa
Executing agency                    Western Samoa Trust Estates Corporation  (WSTEC)
Fiscal year of borrower             January 1 - December 31
Currency Exchange Rate:
Name of currency (abbreviation)          Western Samoa Tala (WST)
Appraisal year average (1978)           US$1.00 - WST 0.68
Intervening years average (1979-87)   US$1.00 - WST 1.33
Completion year average (1988)          US$1.00 - WST 2.03
Follow-on proiect:
Name                               Agricultural Development II
Loan/credit number                  Cr. 1080-WSO
Loan/credit amount (US$ million)  2.0
Date Board approval                 12/18/80



- iv -
STAFF INPUT (Staff Wtks)
FY     77-78  79  se  1  02  63  34  8C  se  67  se  TOTAL
Pr.-Appralsel 38.1  12.6  1.6  -    -    -   -    -    -   -   -    44.4
#ppraosll    -    4".1  -    -    -   -    -    -    -    -    -   40.1
Negotiation    -    2.7  S.@  -    -   -    -    -    -   -    -    3.5
Supervision    -    -   12.2 14.5 10.4 15.9 12.6  6.5 14.2 11.2 10.9 112.3
Other        -    0.7  -    0.1  -    -   -    -    -   -    -    0.3
Total      3S.1  60.1 19.6 14.6 18.4 16.9 12.6  6.5 10.2 11.2 10.9 2W.1
la   Approximately US$1.5 million cancelled.
lb   Components not yet completed.
/c   Smallholder  component  of  project   not  carried  out.    Actual
beneficiary families shown represent incremental WSTEC labor
requirements due to project (240 actual as opposed to 600
estimated at appraisal).
le   a - agriculturist;  b - agricultural economist;
c = financial analyst;  d - agricultural engineer;
e - tree crops specialist;  f - unknown
if   1 - problem-free or minor problems; 2 - moderate problems; and
3 = major problems.
Jg   1 - improving; 2 - stationary; 3 - deteriorating.
/h1   F- financial; M - managerial; T - technical; P = political; and
0 - other.
IL   Form 590 not available following this mission.
I.J  Not available
/k   Not indicated on  form  590s  after  5/85; numerical ratings given
here  for  supervisions   after   5/85   based  on  evaluation  of
supervision report.
LI  Totals exclude missions for which  data  on number of persons and
man-days not available.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
WESTERN SAMOA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT
(CREDIT 951-WSO)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.       This project was based on  a project preparation report in s'-pport
of the Western Samoa Trust Estates Corporation (WSTEC), the country's
largest enterprise, which the Government submitted to the Asian Development
Bank (ADB) in 1977. ADB selected the operations proposed fcr the island of
Upolu. The components proposed for the other main island, Savaii, became
the core of the project under review, which was appraised in October 1978
and presented to the Board in September 1979. Although the Closing Date
was extended twice, from June 30, 1986 to June 30, 1988, the Credit funds
could not be fully disbursed and at accounts closing on March 3, 1989, an
undisbursed amount of about US$1.5 million was cancelled.
Proiect Obiectives and Content
2.       The objectives of the project were four-fold:
(i) to increase production and exports of copra, cocoa and coffee on
four new WSTEC estates on Savaii;
(ii) to enhance WSTEC's technical capabilities;
(iii) to transfer improved technologies to the farmers; and
(iv) to expand taro exports.
Secondary objectives were land conservation, employment generation
and institution building at WSTEC and the Department of Agriculture,
Forestry and Fisheries (PCR, paras. 7-8).
The project contained the following components:
(i) the establishment of coconut and cocoalcoffee nurseries and the
introduction of improved planting materials and agricultural
practices;
(ii) field plantings of a total area of 4,730 acres (ca. 1,900 ha),
with about half the area under coconuts, 45Z under cocoa and 5Z
under coffee; these plantings were to be carried out at four
different estates;



- vi -
(iii)  village land development  comprising  500  acr"s  (ca. 200 ha) and
includii, a taro marketing component;
(iv)  construction of access roads to  the four estates and upgrading of
the major road on Savaii, the 93 km long South Coast road; and
(v)  technical assistance, training and  studies related to the project
(PCR, paras. 9-21).
Total project cost was estimated at US$20.5 million, with the
following financing arra-igements: IDA was to cover about 39X of project
cost through a credit of US$8 million equivalent, the Government of
Australia 26Z, the Government of Western Samoa 10%, WSTEC and UNDP 8S each,
the Government of Japan 71 and the EEC 21 (SAR, para. 3.18 and PCR, Table
4).
Implementation Experience
3.       With the exception of the  South  Coast road, not a single project
component was carried out as foreseen at appraisal: no seed gardens were
established, there was a resistance against the introduction of new plant-
ing materials and agricultural practices, and only 411 of planting targets
were expected to be achieved by the end of 1988. The reasons for this
latter shortfall were many-fold:    one  estate  proved unsuitable for tree
crops, land disputes arose on another, salt spray from the nearby ocean and
insufficient shading lead to losses of cocoa plantings in two locations;
these difficulties were compounded by a lack of planting materials (due in
part to the before-mentioned aversion to new varieties), lack of WSTEC
counterpart funds (mitigated by the Bank's agreement to raise the disburse-
ment percentage for field development from 42 to 90) and poor plantation
manaigement. However, towards the end of the project WSTEC's performance,
both in regard to project plantings and general management, started to
improve (PCR, paras. 11-16).
The village development and taro marketing components were deleted
from the project in view of the strain the other activities put on WSTEC's
capacities. The technical assistance and staff training activities were
ultimately unsuccessful. Although the two crop specialists (the third one
on crop diversification was never recruited) performed good work, the
impact was limited because of the before-mentioned resistance to change.
Of the thirteen WSTEC staff sent abroad for training only one is still with
WSTEC, and few of the others have remained in plantation agriculture. An
M&E system called for at appraisal was never established, but a comprehen-
sive UNDP-sponsored review of WSTEC's management and control system halfway
through the project led to the introduction of a management information
system for WSTEC (PCR, paras. 17, 18 and 20).
Aerial mapping of Savaii was carried out as anticipated but has
yet to lead to the expected impact on land use planning and village
development (PCR, para. 21).



- vii -
The road building component was the only activity which did not
follow the general pattern of failure and shortfalls. A longer implementa-
tion time (five instead of four years) and a 32% nost overrun notwithstand-
ing, the road turned out to be the only successful project component.
Quality of construction and maintenance service are good, and apparently
the road is having a stimulating effect on economic activities on the South
Coast; the Government is now planning to complete the road loop around
Savaii through an upgrading of the North Coast road (PCR, para. 19).
Despite the various reductions in project scope, total project
cost in US$ was only 5Z less than the appraisal estimate (US$19.5 million
vs. US$ 20.5 million) whereas in the national currency there was a substan-
tial overrun (86%, or WST26 million vs. WST14 million), due to successive
devaluations of th  Western  Samoan  Tala.    Because of the implementation
shortfalls in the agricultural components (which resulted in almost one-
fifth of the IDA Credit being subject to cancellation), the early withdraw-
al of the Japanese Government from the project and cost overruns on the
road construction component, the actual financing pattern differed consi-
derably from ti.e appraisal estimates, with the GovernmentlWSTEC financing
25% (instead of 18%), IDA 33% (39%) and the Australian Government 29Z
(262), the other three donors covering 132 (17%) (PCR, paras. 22-23, Table
4).
The shortcomings of WSTEC's management (which led to a protracted
financial crisis of the corporation) have already been mentioned above.
Because of its prominence in the national economy, WSTEC was also exposed
to political pressure; frequent personnel changes in Government and both
WSTEC's Board and management complicated the situation further (PCR,
para. 25).
The PCR leaves no doubt that IDA bears a good deal of the respons-
ibility for the project's failure:   ADB's reluctance to finance the entire
project as identified by the Government should have prompted a thorvugh
evaluation of WSTEC's capabilities, the more so as WSTEC had so far not
operated on the  Island  of  Savaii.    Similarly, Government's and WSTEC's
responsiveness to agricultural innovations was not properly assessed, nor
were the agro-climatic limitations and land ownership questions which
affected three of the  four  estates.    Similarly, the village development
component, which was never implemented, seems to have been added on by IDA
reflecting the popularity of rural development initiatives in the Bank at
that time rather than the priorities of the Government. IDA's supervision
efforts appear to have been technically sound but ineffective (PCR,
para. 25).
In 1982, a supervision report explicitly discussed the option of
an early Credit closure if implementation performance should not improve.
Paradoxically, in the following years supervision intensity reached its
lowest levels. More specifically, no tree crops specialist visited the
project (which despite its more general title was essentially an investment
in tree crops) until mid-1986 (PCR, paras. 26-28).



- viii -
Yields per acre are estimated at or close to appraisal levels
(100% for copra, 84% for cocoa, and 91% for coffee). However, since the
corresponding crop areas are only 22%, 64% and 13% of appraisal targets,
total production levels are only a fraction of what was aimed at. With
actual costs (in US$) in the neighborhood of appraisal estimates and imple-
mentation delays of several years, this means that the economic rate of
return is near 0% (instead of the appraisal estimate of 13.5%) (PCR, para.
35, Table 8).
Sustainability
4.       At the time of the  project completion mission, plantation manage-
ment had markedly improved.   However,  the financial and management crisis
of WSTEC eontinues, and so far there  is no adeq.ate plan to train national
field managers to take over from the foreign staff. Thus, the continuity
of even the modest achievements of this project remains in doubt (PCR,
para. 39).
Findings and Lessons
5.       The project experience provides several specific lessons:
(i) lending operations in very small countries carry a much greater
risk for the borrowers because of the relative orders of magni-
tude: the PCR points out that this project would have been equiva-
lent to a US$20 billion operation in Indonesia, a country with a
comparable GNP/capita. This should oblige the Bank to take the
greatest possible care in preparing a project;
(ii) if in addition, the country is relatively isolated and tradi-
tional, technological innovations should be incorporated sparing-
ly and only after the Bank is satisfied about their acceptance in
this environment;
(iii) once it decides to start a lending program in such a country, the
Bank should be careful not to overtax local managerial resources.
This would call for a compact and uncomplicated project design,
with reasonable post-completion demands on the country's adminis-
trative, financial and technical resources; and
(iv) when embarking on a project with such severe diseconomics of
scale, the Bank should be fully prepared to devote a much larger
than average (in relative terms) supervision effort to it, and to
do so not only during the project's start-up but throughout imple-
mentation (PCR, paras. 41-43).



WESTERN SAMOA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT (CREDIT 951-WSO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I. PROJECT FORMULATION
1.       Policy Framework.   The  Western  Samoa Agricultural Development I
Project was the second Bank Group operation in Western Samoa 1/ and the
first in the agricultural sector.    At  the  time of appraisal in 1979 the
agricultural sector was considered the country's only viable development
possibility, accounting for more than half of GDP and employing two thirds
of the labor force. However, most agricultural production was in villages
for subsistence and yie'ids were uniformly low. A constraint to introducing
new agronomic practices was the absence of their successful introduction on
the couintry's plantations, especially those of the Western Samoa Trust
Estate Corporation (WSTEC). WSTEC, a Government owned plantation company,
was and is Western Samoa's largest producer of major tree crops (coconut,
cocoa and coffee), as well as the country's largest employer, foreign
exchange earner and contributor to GDP.
2.       Western Samoa  consists  of  two  main  islands,  Upolu,  with the
capital of Apia, and the larger island of Savai'i. At the time of apprais-
al another constraint to the country's development was the relative econo-
mic isolation of Savai'i, caused in part by a poor infrastructure network.
3.       Given the above context, the  Government of Western Samoa's (GOWS)
economic development strategy was to emphasize agriculture, and:
(a)   Make maximum use of  WSTEC,  which  was considered the only entity
capable of rapid agricultural development.
(b)   Concentrate on traditional,  well  proven  crops such as coconuts,
cocoa and coffee.
(c)   Emphasize the development of Savai'i.
(d)   Establish the technical/financial  basis for agricultural develop-
ment in village areas.
(e)   Coordinate effective domestic and  foreign  resources to support a
comprehensive, long-term development effort.
4.       As will be seen  below, the Bank-assisted Agricultural Development
I project, focusing on WSTEC and Savai'i, was designed to fit in well with
11 Following the First Highway Project (Cr. 535-WSO).



- 2 -
all the points of the GOWS development strategy 2/ However, with the excep-
tion of improving the infrastructure (road) network on Savaili, it general-
ly failed to achieve any of them.
5.       Prolect Preparation.  Major  project components were identified in
a GOWS preparation report submitted to the Asian Development Bank (ADB) in
1977. ADB subsequently approved a loan for WSTEC's Upolu operations which
became effective in 1978, but which excluded the Savai'i components that
later became part of the Bank-assisted Agricultural Development I Project.
ADB's concern at the time was that WSTEC would be stretched enough by
rehabilitating and expanding its operations on Upolu; and a major expansion
to Savai'i, where WSTEC had no estates, would overtax WSTEC's managerial
and financial resources. In hindsight this concern proved valid.
6.       In spite of ADB's reservations,  the project did appear consistent
with the GOWS's development  strategy,  supported  by  the Bank, and a bank
appraisal team visited Western Samoa in November 1978. Board approval came
in September 1979 and the project became effective in March 1980. In addi-
tion to the Bank, GOWS and WSTEC, financing was provided by the European
Economic Community (EEC); under a Special Action Credit Agreement admin-
istered by the Bank, the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in the
form of a Technical Assistance Project administered by the Bank, the
Australian International Development Assistance Bureau (AIDAB), and the
Government of Japan.
7.       Pro1ect Objectives.  In line with the Bank-endorsed GOWS develop-
ment strategy (para 3) the primary objectives of the project were:
(a)   A rapid and substantial increase  in the production and exports of
copra, cocoa and coffee from new WSTEC estates in Savai'i.
(b)   Improvement of the technical know-how and training of WSTEC staff.
(c)   The transfer of the improved technology to village farmers.
(d)   Expansion of taro exports.
8.       Secondary  objectives   included   land  conservation,  employment
generation and institution building at WSTEC and the Department of
Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries  (DAFF).    As discussed later, none of
the stated project objectives was satisfactorily achieved.
II. IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE
Components
9.       Nurseries and Improved Planting Material.   A major project objec-
tive was the introduction of new agronomic practices, including improved
planting material.    The  project  called  for  a  coconut  nursery  and a
2/  The term 'Bank" is used throughout the report to refer to both the Bank
and the Association.



- 3 -
cocoalcoffee nursery to be established on the new WSTEC estates in Savai'i.
They were never completed, partly because the project's Vaiaata site, .hich
was to have been the location for the coconut nursery, was found to be
unsuitable for  tree  crops.    It  appears  from  project  files  that the
Government of Japan, which was to have provided US$ 1.4 million for ferti-
lizers, agro-chemicals, vehicles and equipment for these nurseries, with-
drew from the project, after disbursing nearly US$ 900,000, when it became
apparent that the inputs supplied had been diverted for other purposes.
10.      Although  the  project  nurseries  were  not  established, project
technical assistance did support the coconut seed garden at Olomanu and
work on cocoa and coffee planting material at the Nuu Research Station,
both on Upolu. The work at Nuu was also supported by the Bank-assisted
Agricultural Development II Project (Cr. 1080-WSO; see para 39), which
became effective in 1981 and financed DAFF research and extension activi-
ties. However, despite the positive impact on the project of the work done
at Olomanu and Nuu, the failure to establish project nurseries at the
remaining sites on Savai'i was evidence of a lack of commitment by
Government and WSTEC's Board and management to the new agronomic practices
the project was supposed to support. Throughout the early years of project
implementation there was active resistance to the introduction of new
planting materials and new technologies in areas such as intercropping,
spacing between trees and shade  requirements.   The stated reasons for the
resistance was risk aversion to new agronomic practices in the absence of
long term experimental evidence under Western Staaoan conditions. The
effect was to delay project implementation and greatly reduce the antici-
pated benefits of the project. A related problem was the lack of effective
cooperation between DAFF and WSTEC on technical matters (para 31). Because
the resistance to new ag;onomic practices was so widespread at different
levels of Wastern Samoan society and officialdom, it appears that project
preparation was deficient in anticipating that the project could be carried
out successfully as designed. Towards the end of the project the attitude
of WSTEC's previous Board, and especially WSTEC management., seemed to be
changing in favor of the new agronomic practices, and this provided partial
justification for the extensions of the Credit Closing Date. However, the
long term resolution of these issues, particularly since the Board and
management has recently changed, is still unknown.
11.      Field PlantinRs.  The SAR called for WSTEC to plant 4730 ac by end
1984: 2400 ac of coconuts; 2130 ac of cocoa and 200 ac of coffee. By the
end of 1984 only 814 ac (17Z of SAR targets) had actually been planted and
the end-1988 estimate is 1916 ac (41%).
12.      One problem was the  discovery  that  one  of the 4 project sites,
Vaiaata, for which 1530 ac had been planned, was unsuitable for tree crops.
However, excluding Vaiaata from the SAR  target leaves a target of 3200 ac,
only 60% of which is expected to be planted by end 1988 (Table 2).
13.      Other problvw'.a included a  land  dispute with  a village near the
Lata estate which reduced the land available for Lata plantings. In addi-
tion, areas of the Lata  and  Asau  estates  had  to be replanted. This was
partly due to the need to replace dead cocoa areas with coconuts because
the salty seaspray killed the cosoa planted near the coast. There was also



- 4 -
insufficient shading of some cocoa areas due to technical disputes. Most
important, the extremely slow rate of planting and the high mortality rate
was due to: (a) insufficient planting material caused in large part by
resistance by GOWS and some members of the WSTEC Board to new agronomic
practices (para 10); (b) a shortage of WSTEC counterpart funds; and (c)
poor plantation management, exacerbated by occasional, unwarranted inter-
ference from the WSTEC Board in day to day operations, and political
pressures due to WSTEC's national importance.
14.      Some  progress  in  addressing  these  problems  were  made during
project implementation.   Vaiaata was  appropriately abandoned rather than
throwing good money after bad.   The  planting program at the other estates
was adjusted  after  experience with  local  agro-climatic  condit'ons was
gained and there was a partial resolution of the land dispute at Lata. The
Bank disbursement percentage for field development was increased from 42S
to 901 to alleviate the WSTEC counterpart funding problem and a Special
Account was stt up. UNDP financed technical assistance recruited a planta-
tion manager, two assistant plantation managers and other WSTEC management
staff.   To  avoid  the  politicization  of WSTEC's activities, Government
decided that as a matter of policy, sitting Members of Parliament should
not serve on WSTEC's Board of Directors. Finally, GOWS and the Bank agreed
to two one-year extensions of the Credit Closing Date, which was originally
scheduled to close June 30, 1986.
15.      In response to these measures  the  annual planting rate more than
doubled from 136 ac during 1979-84 to 276 ac during 1985-88. While better,
the improvement to 276 ac per year fell far short of the SAR estimate of
916 ac per year. In the best year, 1986, only 541 ac were planted. Of
even more positive significance than the increased planting rate has been
the striking improvement in the quality of plantation maintenance, which
was very poor as recently as end-1985 and  .s now adequate.
16.       The  outlook  for  WS.EC  and,  possibly, for plantings under the
project, would appear difficult after non-adoption of the action plan to
redress WSTEC's financial problems, and the resignation of the General
Manager and Finance  Controller.    Virtually  all key management personnel
below General Manager have been externally recruited and financed and there
is not yet any realistic plan to phase them out and replace them with
qualified local staff.
17.      Village Land Development.  In addition to WSTEC field development,
another project component was to support 500 ac on village lands starting
in project year 3.   During  implementation  it was mutually agreed by GOWS
and the Bank that the village component should not be carried out due to
the demands being made on WSTEC by its own operations. A taro marketing
component associated with the village development component was also never
carried out.
18.      Technical  Assistance  and  Training.    The  project  called  for
recruitment of a coconut specialist and a cocoa/coffee specialist. As
described above in the section on nurseries (para 10), while the quality of
their work appears good, the long-term practical impact may still be
limited, due to continuing resistance by some officials to new agronomic



- 5 -
practices. A third specialist on crop diversification was never recruited,
but this was not a problem within the Bank given the Bank's reluctance to
diversify into other crops. Training abroad in estate management was to be
provided to 12 WSTEC field staff.   In  fact 13 staff were trained in Papua
New Guinea, and 9 returned there for further training. However, only one
is still with WSTEC and reportedly few of the others are still in planta-
tion agriculture.
19.      Roads.  Construction of  access  roads  to  the 4 original project
sites and sealing and realignment of the 93 km Savai'i South Coast road,
the major road on Savai'i, were  completed.      This was the largest single
project component acccunting for 56% of total project costs (SAR estimate:
41x; see Table 3), and the only one which can be considered successful.
Although road construction took 5 years instead of 4 and was 32X over
budget (US$ 11.0 million actual vs the SAR estimate of US$ 8.3 million
including contingencies) the South Coast road in particular is of good
quality and continues to be well maintained. The impact of the road on the
quality of life of the Savai'i people is reported to be good. Economic
development along the road is visible, and, although no formal economic
evaluation has been done, GOWS believes that the economic benefits of the
road have been high and is planning a Savai'i North Coast road to complete
the loop around the  island.    In  sum,  although  the SAR paid relatively
little attention to the road component, because of its success and its
large share of total project costs, the project as a whole cannot be
considered a total failure, despite the disappointing results of the
agricultural components.
20.      Program Support Component.   The  SAR  called for a monitoring and
evaluation system for the project to be designed by a consultant during
project implementation.  This was  not  done.   However, midway through the
project consultants financed by UNDP did a comprehensive review of WSTEC's
management and control system, one result of which was the introduction of
a management information system for WSTEC as a whole, which has had some
positive impact.
21.      Aerophotographic mapping of Savai'i was  carried out as described
in the SAR.    However,  the  intended  impact  of  these maps on land use
planning for the further development of Savei'i has not materialized. The
preparation of a follow-up project to concentrate on village development in
Savai'i was not done, nor were studies of 10 representative villages in
Savai'i and Upolu to analyze constraints to village agricultural develop-
ment in Western Samoa.
Proiect Costs and Financing
22.      Tables 3 and 4  compare  actual  project  costs and fin&ncing with
those estimated in SAR. Actual project costs in US dollar terms were 952 of
the SAR estimate (US$ 19.5 million vs US$ 20.5 million), although 862
higher measured in local currency (WST 26.0 million actual vs WST 14.0
million in the SAR) due to devaluations of the Western Samoa tala against
the U.S. dollar during project implementation. Costs for the major project
components, agricultural development and roads, were 702 and 132% of the
SAR estimates, respectively.



- 6 -
23.      A significant change  from  the  estimated financing plan included
less than expected IDA disbursements (USS 6.5 million actual vs US$ 8.0
million in the SAR; 81Z; Table 5) due to the failure to fully carry out the
agricultural components. As noted in para 9, after US$ 900,000 of an
estimated US$ 1.4 million had been disbursed, the Government of Japan
stopped financing the project nurseries when it became apparent that the
nurseries were not going to be  completed    and inputs were being used for
other purposes. Although AIDAB disbursements of US$ 5.6 million were close
to the SAR estimate of US$ 5.4 million, it should be noted that midway
through project implementation AIDAB disbursements to WSTEC were suspended,
partly due to concerns over project management and partly due to changing
GOWS priorities for the relatively fungible AIDAB funds. On the other hand,
AIDAB financed cost overruns for the project's road component. When the
Bank-executed UNDP TA grant SAM1791005 ended in 1987, UNDP continued to
support the project with a new TA grant, SAM/861010, executed by Government
with the Bank as the  cooperating  agency.    EEC funds were disbursed soon
after project effectiveness for the road component under a Special Action
Credit Agreement administered by the Bank. Vinally, it should be noted that
ADB supported WSTEC's Upolu operations throughout project implementation
and there was a great deal of coordination between WSTEC's Bank and ADB
supported activities (paras. 31 and 39).
Prolect Organization and Management
24.      The SAR envisaged that  a Project  Steering Committee, chaired by
the Prime Minister who, by statute, is also the Minister for WSTEC, and
including Directors of the relevant Government Departments and the WSTEC
General Manager, would have overall responsibility for project policy,
budget approval and monitoring. As the non-WSTEC components were completed
or dropped, the Project Steering Committee fell into disuse and was dis-
banded around 1983. Responsibility for project implementation within WSTEC
lay with a special project unit which was merged, with Bank concurrence,
into the rest of WSTEC's  operations  in  1986.   Given the severity of the
problems experienced, one may conclude that neither of the project specific
bodies, the Project Steering Committee or the WSTEC project unit, succeeded
in providing adequate oversight.    One  difficulty in maintaining adequate
project management was the negative impact of repeated changes in WSTEC's
Board and management (including 4 General Managers during project imple-
mentation as well as 2 gaps of about 1 year each when WSTEC had no formally
designated General Manager). Due to the national importance of WSTEC, the
instability of WSTEC management was perhaps unavoidable given Western
Samoa's frequent changes of government during the project period (6
Governments in all). WSTEC and project management was further weakened by
the time spent on WSTEC's financial problems (para 34) and on WSTEC's large
number of peripheral, often uneconomic, activities not related to WSTEC's
core plantation  and  livestock  business.    In  later  years the Treasury
Department became more actively involved with WSTEC and project management
due to WSTEC's financial crisis (para 30).
Bank Performance
25.      Appraisal.  In terms of  the  Bank assistance strategy, it appears
that Bank support for a project to address two of Western Samoa's key
development needs, plantation agriculture and Savai9i, was sound. However,



- 7 -
the Bank can be faulted for paying insufficient attention at the appraisal
stage to several important problem areas. These include:
(a)  Inadequate agro-climatic data.  This  resulted  in one of the four
project sites being abandoned and large replanting being required
at other sites.
(b) A serious failure to appreciate the resistance to the new
agronomic practices and planting material the project was designed
to promote.
(c)  Management  weaknesses  in WSTEC.    Although  acknowledged  as a
project risk in the SAR, and covenanted in the Credit Agreement,
in hindsight it appears that the lending pressures at the time
overcame reservations about the ability of WSTEC to take on major
new activities. It is worth recalling that, one year before the
appraisal of the Bank project, ADB declined to include the Savai'i
estates in its own WSTEC project, precisely because of such
concerns.
(d) It appears that the village components, which were never carried
out, may have been inserted late in the day, without adequate
preparation, or appraisal due to internal Bank pressure for such
components, rather than any strong desire for them on the part of
Government.
26.      Supervision.  By 1982, a  Bank supervision -eport commented that a
very high level of supervision would be required to salvage the project,
which was already in deep trouble, and recommended cancellation if the Bank
considered continued support of the project not to be cost effective.
Ironically, it was during the years immediately following this recommenda-
tion, 1983-85, that the Bank spent the fewest man-days supervising the
project.    The  effective  time  spent  by  supervision  missions  on  the
Agricultural Development I project was further reduced by the time required
working on other Bank operations in the country. A UNDP project evaluation
document in 1986 criticized the Bank for the infrequency of Bank supervi-
sion missions and the frequent changes of Bank staff supervising the
project. With regard to the composition of supervision missions it should
be noted that, despite the extremely poor quality of project field work,
there is no record that any tree crop specialist supervi ed the project
between project effectiveness in 1980 and 1985.
27.      The quality of advice provided by tb" jank supervision missions to
address WSTEC's financial and management problems, as written in the Aide
Memoirs, appears generally sound.    On  the  other  hand, the fact that it
changed relatively little from mission to mission indicaces that the advice
was often not acted upon, although some progress was made late in project
implementation. Field conditions deteriorated steadily until 1986 when the
second UNDP-financed plantation manager started work and a Bank tree crop
specialist started to supervise the project on a regular basis.
28.      During the middle years  of  the  project (1983-85), which had the
lowest level of Bank supervision and, ironically, the highest supervision
ratings, the status of project implementation appears to have been assessed



- 8 -
higher than was justified, and the case for additional supervision re-
sources reduced. The initial UNDP-financed plantation manager, recruited
by the Bank in 1984, proved to be an unfortunate choice, as did the first
ADB-financed financial controller, in that they were not effective.
Although the possible suspension of disbursements due to poor project
implementation was discussed at least 3 times (in 1982, 1983 and 1986), a
strategy was adopted to maintain relations with WSTEC because improvement
in its performance was  consid:-ed  central  to  the development of Western
Samoa (see para 31 for a discussion of the Bank/Borrower relationship).
Meanwhile, ADB had expressed major concern to the Bank about WSTEC's
performance for projects with which it was associated.
29.      Credit Closing Date Extension.    Consistent  with its position in
maintaining a relationship with WSTEC, the Bank agreed to two one-year
extensions of the Credit Closing  Date.   Although the planting program did
not expand as rapidly as had been hoped, the two-year extension period
provided time for field operations to improve dramatically, a good
management team to be    recruited,  and  progress  to be made in resolving
WSTEC's financial problems. A third one-year Credit Closing Date extension
was considered, but WSTEC withdrew the request, with the support of the
Bank, after analysis indicated that extension would not particularly con-
tribute to improving WSTEC's overall corporate position, which depended
upon Government decisions concerning sales of non- or poorly producing
assets, and cessation of loss making activities.
Borrower Performance
30.      As alluded to in para  24,  WSTEC's management of the project, and
of WSTEC's operations generally, was unsatisfactory and characterized by
frequent changes of Board members and managers, and loose management and
financial discipline. The result was the plunging of WSTEC into a finan-
cial crisis which has yet to be adequately addressed, although some
improvements have been noted in recent years. Because of WSTEC's national
importance, the project was also affected by political pressures, exacer-
bated by the frequent  changes  of  Government.    About midway through the
project, the Treasury Department took a much more active and positive role
in  trying  to  resolve   WSTEC's   financial  crisis;  and  in  supporting
recruitment, late in project implementation, of WSTEC's management team,
which had been moving steadily to address the WSTEC and project problems.
However, the General Manager and Finance Controller resigned after the new
Board, appointed in mid-1988, rejected their comprehensive recommendations.
Project Relationships
31.      The relationship between  the  Bank  and  Government was generally
good and staff of both the Bank and the Treasury Department were generally
in accord with the  actions  needed  to  rescue  WSTEC.   One exception was
during the middle years, when the Treasury Department thought the Bank was
being "too soft" with WSTEC.   The  relationship between the Bank and WSTEC
was also good, and, as suggested by the Treasury comment above, perhaps too
good at times. Because ADB had its own WSTEC projects on Upolu, regular
coordination between the Bank and ADB was an important feature of project
implementation, and while this was generally effective there were dif-
ferences from time to time on the most appropriate strategy to correct



- 9 -
deficiencies in WSTEC's performance, on which the Bank took a longer term
view than ADB.    Within  Western  Samoa  the  project  suffered because of
inadequate cooperation between DAFF and WSTEC on the introduction of new
agronomic practices.
Legal Agreements and Covenants
32.      Table 6  sunmmarizes  Government  and  WSTEC  compliance  with loan
covenants. At times during implementation, Section 3.01 of the Credit
Agreement, the "due diligence" covenant, was not complied with and the
possibility of formally suspending disbursements arose, although never
carried out. For the non-WSTEC components adequate records were not kept,
audited project accounts were never submitted, and the relevant covenants
were eventually waived.  Similarly, in early years adequate :ecords for the
WSTEC component  were  not  kept  and  some  IDA  disbursements  were never
adequately accounted for.   Annual  audited  project accounts for the WSTEC
component and WSTEC corporate accounts  were submitted.  However, they were
virtually never on  time  and were  always  of unacceptable quality and/or
qualified or disclaimed by the  auditors.    Thei:e has recently been a sub-
stantial improvement in WSTEC's record-keeping and accounts due to project
technical assistance and an AIDAB recruited financial controller.
III. PROJECT RESULTS 3!
33.      Agricultural.  As described in  para  11, only 419 of the planting
target was actually achieved. Current yield estimates are 100%, 84% and 91%
of SAR expectations for coconut, cocoa and coffee, respectively. Over the
25-year economic life of the project assumed in the SAR, total production
of copra, cocoa and coffee is now estimated to be 22%, 54% and 11% of SAR
expectations JTable 8).   As  a consequence, rapid, significantly increased
exports from the project, a major project objective, will not materialize.
The SAR estimated full project development would be reached in 1989 and
*would result in incremental exports over the export levels at appraisal of
18% for copra, 54% for cocoa and 650% for taro, and coffee exports for the
firsL time.   However,  current  estimates  of  incremental exports at full
developmaent (now estimated for 1993) are 4% for copra and 23% for cocoa.
No tar^ or coffee is expected to be exported as a result of the project.
34.      WSTEC Financial  Performance.    At  appraisal,  WSTEC's financial
performance appeared healthy.    Profits  and  income  tax payments had in-
creased steadily during  the  1970s  and  WSTEC's  return  on total capital
employed was good.   Since  the  project  began  in 1980, WSTEC's financial
performance has been extremely poor and in no year did WSTEC report an
operating profit.   The  deterioration  was  due  to falling export prices;
loose financial and management discipline; and severe difficulties for
Government and the  Board  to  take  prompt  remedial  action.   Because of
external financing, the project was not a significant direct contributor to
WSTEC's deteriorating financial position.   Nevertheless, this second large
development project, and its attendant large expenditures, may not only
have been an unreasonable burden upon a traditionally managed operation
3/ See Table 7 for physical indicators of project accomplishment.



- 10 -
unaccustomed to change; but also contributed to the loosening of financial
and management discipline.   Project  implementation was adversely affected
by a shortage of WSTEC counterpart  funding.   This was largely overcome by
an increase in the IDA disbursement percentage to 90% and the establishment
of a  Special  Account  in  1983.    More  significantly, WSTEC's financial
problems have drawn management attention away from its plantation opera-
tions, including those related to  the  project.   Because of the project's
goal of contributing to a strong healthy WSTEC, Bauik supervision in later
years focussed as much on WSTEC as a corporation as on project specific
activities.   Whilst  some  progress  had  been made  towards  a financial
restructuring, and a Bank-endorsed restructuring program prepared by
management had been reviewed by GOWS and WSTEC's Board, in the event this
was not adopted, and the outlook for restoring WSTEC to financial health
remains gloomy.
35.      Economic Rate of  Return.  The  SAR  estimated  the project ERR at
13.5%. Because of the large areas which required replanting, the slow pace
of field development in relation to infrastru' ture investments, current
yield estimates lower than those in the SAR, and the general mismanagement
of assets, especially in early years, the ERR for the project is now esti-
mated to be near 0%. If the largely wasted expenditures incurred in early
years were excluded, the ERR would be positive, although less than Western
Samoa's estimated opportunity cost of capital of 10%. This appears mostly
due to the reverse economies of scale caused by the failure to achieve
planting targets.
36.      Environmental Impact.    Consistent  with  the  SAR, the project's
environmental impact  appears  to  be  positive.    The  trees planted have
prevented uncontrolled shifting cultivation in highly erodable undulating
terrain, and have replaced secondary forest and scrub land with a stable
long-lasting tree crop system.
37.      Role of Women.  The  SAR  said  that the project would endeavor to
assist women as much as men and this would be facilitated by WSTEC's policy
of providing equal opportunity to men and women for recruitment, training
and promotion. In practice, project training and WSTEC supervisory posi-
tions appear to have gone exclusively to men.
38.      Proiect Beneficiaries.   The  SAR  estimated  that about 1700 sub-
sistence farm families would benefit from the project's village development
component, which was never carried  out.    WSTEC has employed an estimated
240 permanent workers as a result of the project, compared to 600 estimated
in the SAR.
39.      Proiect  Sustainability  and  Follow-Up  Projects.    A  follow-up
project (Agricultural Development II; Credit 1080-WSO; effective 1981)
supported rehabilitation of WSTEC's Upolu estates (financed primarily by
ADB) and DAFF research and extension (financed primarily by the Bank). The
DAFF component suffered many problems, and, although extended once, a
request for a second extension of the Credit Closing Date was turned down
by the Bank.   The  Agricultural  Development  II Project suffered from the
same agricultural, management and financial problems as the Agricultural
Development I Project. ADB has extended financing of the WSTEC component
of the Agricultural Development II Project until December 31, 1988. With



- 11 -
the rejection of the management recarmendations to restructure WSTEC, it is
difficult to predict at what stage WSTEC will return to financial viabili-
ty. As for the WSTEC field activities supported by both the Agricultural
Development I and Agricultural Development II Projects, while the plantings
are now being adequately maintained, there is not yet an *Aeouate plan to
train local field managers to take over from the externally re ruited staff
to ensure that the full benefits of the plantings are obtained over the
long term. Project roads are being adequately maintained and Government is
planning a follow-up Savai'i North Coast road project.
CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED
40.      Conclusions. None of the  project's four main objectives (a rapid
increase of WSTEC's production and exports of copra, cocoa and coffee;
improvement of WSTEC staff skills; a transfer of technology to villages;
and increased taro exports) was satisfactorily achieved. As a result, the
project  also  failed  to  satisfactorily  achieve  any  of  the  points of
Government's economic development  strategy  (para  3).  WSTEC s financial
position will remain  unviable,  unless  a  satisfactory alternative Action
Program to that prepared  by  WSTEC  managers  (who have since resigned) is
adopted.  At this time the  most significant net project benefit appears to
be the Savai'i South Coast road, which, as described above (pare 19),
accounted for 56Z of total project costs and is considered to have been
successful in stimulating economic development on Savai'i and improving the
quality of life of the people there.
41.      Lessons Learned.  The most  important lessons of the Western Samoa
Agricultural Development I Project relate to the special problems in
designing and implementing projects  in  small,  isolated economies such as
those in the South Pacific.    First,  there  is  the need to recognize the
greater vulnerability a tiny economy has to a project failing. If the Bank
is to be associated with small country projects in the future, more pre-
paration work in areas such as agro-climatic conditions, project management
and the country's commitment to project design will have to be done than
was the case in the Western Samoa Agricultural Development I Project. The
overall Implication is that Bank operations in small countries, because the
countries must be more risk averse, may need larger staff inputs for
economic and sector work and project preparation than in larger countries.
In a relatively isolated, traditional country, like Western Samoa, it is
especially important to assess the likely acceptance of the technological
innovations a project may be designed to promote.
42.      Another lesson for  external  donors  is  the  need to avoid over-
burdening local management  capability.    Especially  in  a small cou try,
there may be relatively few institutions capable of handling a project of
the minimum size required by an organization like the Bank. This is
perhaps why the US$ 20 million Agricultural Development I project had 5
external financiers. In the rush to provide assistance, there is a danger
that new activities ercouraged by external donors may do more harm than
good and contribute to turning a relatively strong institution (like WSTEC
in 1979), into a problem-filled one.



- 12 -
43.      Following from the above two points, the final lesson is that if a
project starts to go wrong, as happened in the Western Samoa Agricultural
Development I Projoct, the Bank should be preparod to take a far more
active role in trying to improve project performance. Not only should tho
Bank's sense of responsibility be greater in a small country which is more
vulnerable to damage if a Bank-assisted project fails, but the need for,
and the ability of, Bank supervision missions to provide project technical
assistance and advice may be greater in small countries where project
management may be relatively thin.   If  the Bank is going to be associated
with projects in such small economies in the future, supervision rosources
uhould be increased substantially.



- 13 -
Table 1
WESTERN SAMOA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT (CR. 951-WSO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Disbursement Schedule
IDA FY                  SAR Estimate                   Actual
USS M     2                USS M    2
80                     0.4        5               1.0      13
81                     1.6       20               2.5      31
82                     3.2       40               3.5      44
83                     4.8      60                4.2      53
84                     6.2       78               4.7      59
85                     7.4       93               5.0      63
86                     8.0      100               5.4      68
87                                                5.9      74
88                                                6.5ls    81
89                                                6.5Lb    81
As of May 18, 1988.
Revised following final disbursement transactions (See Prefave).  An
estimated US$ 1.5 M or 192 of the Credit was cancelled following
final disbursement transaction on March 3, 1989 (See Preface).



- 14 -
Table 2
WESTERN SAMOA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT (CR. 951-WSO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Annual WSTEC Planting Program (Acres La)
X of
Appraisal                                                             Appraisal
Site     Estimate  1979 1980 1981 1982 1983 1984 1985 1986 1987 1988b/Total Estimate
ASAU
Coco&      500      51    -    52   50    0   86   48    -    -    -    287    57
FALELIH&
Cocoa     1000       -    -    39   64   60   34   88  101   20    -    406    41
Coconuts      -      -    -      -    -    -    -   35   65    -    -    100    /e
AOTEAROA A le
Cocoa               46    -    91   52   71  118    -  150    -    -    528    80
AOTEAROA B /c
Cocoa                -    -      -    -    -    -  110   25    -    -    135    27
Coconuts             -    -      -    -    -    -        185  100  150    435    80
Coffee               -    -      -    -    -    -         15    -    -       15    le
AOTEAROA C le
Coffee               -    -      -    -    -    -   10    -    -    -        10    /e
VAIAATA /d
Cocoa       130      -    -      -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -         0     0
Coconuts  1200       -    -      -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -        0      0
Coffee     200       -    -      -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -         0     0
Total
Cocoa     2130      97    -   182  166  131  238  246  276   20    -   1356    64
Coconuts  2400       -    -      -    -    -    -   35  250  100  150    535    22
Coffee     200       -    -      -    -    -    -   10   15    -    -       25    13
TOTAL
SAVAI'I  4730      97    -   182  166  131  238  291  541  120  150   1916    41
/a       2.47 acres = 1 ha. Table excludes areas abandoned or replanted areas.
/b       Estimate.
/c       Aotearoa A, B and C originally constituted Lata Estate in the Staff
Appraisal Report with the following estimates : cocoa - 500 acres,
coconuts - 1200 acres.
/d       Vaiaata Estate was found unsuitable for tree crop development.
/e       No planting originally envisaged.



- 15 -
Table 3
WESTERN SAMOA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT (CR. 951-WSO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Proiect Costs
Component                               SAR estimate   Actual la  Actual/SAR
----------US$ '000------        (%) lb
Planting material and
nurseries                                1064           1375          98
Agricultural development le                  6063          5555          70
Aerophotographic surveys                      665           474          54
Technical assistance                         1311          1102          64
Monitoring & evaluation
and studies                               180              0          0
Roads                                        6360         10997         132
Subtotal base costs                     15643          19503         95
Contingencies                                4904            -            -
Total costs                             20547          19503          95
/a  Estimated prior to final disbursement transactions, which were
insignificant.
lb  Based on base costs plus an allocation of contingencies.
lc  Including field development and associated civil works, vehicles,
incremental WSTEC staff, maintenance and other operating
costs.



- 16 -
Table 4
WESTERN SAMOA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT (CR. 951-WSO)
PROJECT CONPLETION REPORT
Prolect Financing
Financier                 SAR estimate            Actual            SAR/Actual
US$ M      2         US$14 M    2
GOWS                      2.1        10        2.8       14             133
WSTEC                     1.7         8        2.1/a    11               122
IDA                       8.0       39         6.5      33               83
EEC                       0.3         1        0.3        1             100
UNDP                      1.7         8        1.3        7              76
AIDAB                     5.4        26        5.6       29              104
Japan                     1.4         7        0.9        5              63
Total                  20.5/a    100         19.5    100               95
/a   Estimated through end-1988.
lb   Column does not add up precisely due to rounding.



- 17 -
Table 5
WESTERN SAMOA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT (CR. 951-WSO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Use of Loan Funds
CateRory                            SAR estimate       Actual /a   Actual/SAR
US$'000    z   US$'000    Z             Z
1.  Equipment                        200       3    675       10           338
2.  Fertilizers and                 2700/b    34    151        2             6
agro-chemicals
3. Field development
3a. WSTEC                        850/c    11   2420       37           285
3b. Villages                     100        1      0       0             0
4.  Roads                           3000       38   3149      48           105
Other Id                         150       2    160        2           107
Unallocated                     1000       13      -       -
Total                           8000     100   6555      100            82
/a Revised following final disbursement (see Preface).
/k Changed during project implementation to US$ 400,000.
/c Changed during project implementation to US$ 3,250,000.
Id Category 5 (US$ 150,000) was part of the original project design and
included monitoring and evaluation, feasibility studies and preparation
activities for a follow-up project. No disbursements were actually made
against Category 5. During project implementation, additional categories
were created to permit IDA disbursements against incremental operating costs
(Category 6; no disbursements made; apparently reimbursements for increment-
al operating costs were made from Category 3A) and consultant services
(Category 7; US$ 160,231 disbursed).



- 18 -
Table 6
Page 1
WESTERN SAMOA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT (CR. 951-WSO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Compliance with Loan Covenants
Section  Covenant Afreement                       Remarks
3.01     Borrower/WSTEC to fund and carry      Complied with for non-WSTEC
out project with due diligence and   components.  For WSTEC, not
efficiency in accordance with        in compliance in earlier
appropriate practices.               years; improved in later years.
3.02     Borrower to maintain the Project      Initially in compliance.
Steering Commttee with planning,    Condition waived during
overview and coordination functions, project implementation.
and appoint the Project Manager
and Field Operations Coordinator.
3.03     Borrower to employ the required       (a) and (b) complied with,
consultants for (a) road building    (c) and (d) waived, compo-
supervision, (b) mapping, (c) moni-  nents not carried out.
toring and evaluation, and (d)
studies.
3.04     Borrower to cause WSTEC to            Complied with for coconut
employ consultants and experts       and cocoa/coffee consultants.
whose qualifications, experience      Crop diversification consul-
and terms of employment are satis-   tant never appointed.
factory to IDA.
3.05     Borrower to (a) present to IDA       Waived, component not carried
a program for the village deve-      out.
lopment component, and (b) imp-
lement such a program.
3.07(a)  Borrower to furnish IDA promptly      Poor compliance in early
the plans, specifications, reports, years; in compliance in later
contract documents and work and      years.
procurement schedules for the
project, and any material modifi-
cations thereof or additions
thereto, in satisfactory detail.
3.01(b)  Records and accounts.                 Not complied with in early
years; in compliance in later
years.



- 19 -
Table 6
Page 2
Section  Covenant Azrement                        Remarks
3.07(c)  Borrower to furnish IDA with a       Waived. PCR prepared by the
Completion Report not later than     Bunk.
six months after the Closing Date.
3.08     Borrower to acquire land rights       Generally complied with
necessary.                           except for a land dispute
with a village adjoining one
project estate.
3.09     Road design standards.                Complied with.
4.01(a)  Records and accounts                  Not complied with in earlier
years, in compliance in later
years.
4.01(c)  Borrower to submit to IDA            Waived for non-WSTEC compo-
audited project accounts not         nents.  Submitted for WSTEC
later than six months after the      but nearly always late, and
end of each yer.                     not in compliance with generally
accepted auditing standards.
4.02     Borrower to cause road equipment      Complied with.
and roads to be reasonably main-
tained.
4.03     Borrower to collect Information       Complied with.
on road traffic and road construc-
tion and maintenance costs.
4.04     Borrower to take action necessary    Complied with.
to ensure that dimensions and axle
loads of vehicles are consistent
with the road design standards.
Subsidiary Loan Aareeiment
Article  Terms and conditions of Government   Complied with.
II      loan to WSTEC.
3.03     WSTEC to not, during project         Complied with.
implementation, undertake addi-
tional responsibilities or sub-
stantially expand its activities
without prior consultation with
Government and IDA.
3.04    WSTEC's post of General Manager to   Generally complied with.
be filled with a person with quali-
fications and experience satiseactory
to Government and IDA.



- 20 -
Table 7
WESTERN SAMOA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT (CR. 951-11O0
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Indicators of Prolect Accomllishment I&
Credit Agreement                Unit      SAR     Actualla     Actu-lISAR
Category                                                        (X)
A. Savai'i Nurseries                       2          0               0
B. WSTEC tree crop
planting
Coconuts                     ac   2400         535              22
Cocoa                        ac   2130        1356              64
Coffee                       ac    200          25              13
Subtotal                as   4730         1916              41
C. Taro marketing component             not carried out               0
D. WSTEC staff training         J of      12         13             108
staff
E. Village tree crop planting     ac    500           0               0
F. Village agricultural                 not carried out               0
credit component
G. Roads
South Coast highway          km     93.5        93.5           100
Estate access roads           1      4           4             100
H. Aerographic mapping                    done      100
Village feasibility studies     1      10          0               0
I. Department of Agriculture            not carried out               0
component
/a Estimate to end 1988.



- 21 -
Table 8
WESTERN SAMOA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT (CR. 951-WSO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Yield. Area and Production Estimates
Copra        Cocoa         Coffee
Yields (TIac)Ia
SAR                                       29            12           10
Current                                   29            11            9
Current/SAR (Z)                          100            84           91
Area (ac)
SAR                                     2400         2130           200
Current                                  535         1356            25
Current/SAR (Z)                           22           64            13
Proiect Production ('OOOT)
SAR                                       69           27             2
Current                                   15            14            0.2
Current/SAR (Z)                           22            54           11
/a Over an assumed economic life of 25 years.



- 23 -
ATTACHMENT I
ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANEK                  (Page 1 of 2)
12 April 1989
Mr. Graham Donaldson, Chief
Agriculture, Infrastructure and
Human Resources Division
The World Bank
1818 H. Street M.W. Washington D.C.  20433
U. S. A.
Dear Mr. Donaldson:
Re: Western Samoa: Agricultural Development Project
(CR. 951-WSO) - Draft Project Completion Report
Thank you for your letter dated 21 February 1989 which we received on
7 March 1989, with the enclosed draft Project Completion Report (PCR) on the
captioned Project. We have reviewed the draft report as revised and would like
to offer the following comments:
1.   It is a frank report which candidly brings to light the difficulties
encountered by small island countries of the South Pacific in
implementing relatively large agricultural projects;
2.   The Project did not achieve its four main objectives, but it was
able to complete the Savaii South Coast road which was a major link
of communities in that part of Western Samoa. How this road has
improved the quality of Western Samoa of life of the peopli>, should
have been further elaborated in the PCR;
3.   We noted your conclusion (para 28 of your PCR) that the UNDP-
financed plantation manager and the ADB-financed financial
controller were ineffective. Our PCR mission found out that the
plantation manager had helped organize for planting of hybrid
coconuts and cacao replanting.  The financial controller initiated
management  information and control systems  (MICs).   However,
implementation of the MICs was not very satisfactory due to lack
of trained staff.
4.   The provision of a long-term (3-5 years) implementation consultant
in the plantations at the beginning of the Project could have
improved Project performance, but this subject was not fully
discussed in the report.
We have taken note of the lessons learned in this Project. We agree with
the view that projects should be carefully designed so that the technological
innovations being introduced are readily accepted, and that the local
implementing capabilities are not overburdened. The rush to provide development
7 o R. ...    1- ..1--J..M-     MAP. .k ..r... * ,4AJJ. ...A  I' () 1- ,,,,"ADh .  Y0   A
'r.l. 3t 7V ...A3 7 , o*t61l AJd,... ASIANANAK.MANILA. I-1-mr.. T,1-X-4*:(Ft CA)W.-11-ADKlll MIAM *.107 AMSl P.-Att I 1.) sar ff^"AIM V\



- 24 -
ATTACHMENT I
(Page 2 of 2)
assistance which had ambitious targets and was to yield fruits in 5-7 years, is
not readily grasped by people with a unique culture and who have led such a life
for centuries.
Enclosed is an edited copy of our PCR for the Agricultural Development
Project, which we promised in our telex of 21 March 1989.
Yours sincerely,
fficer-in-charge
Agriculture East (Division 3)
attachment: a/s
OAG/tra



toW                                       142W                                     10                                         11
WESTERtN SAMOA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJKT
F/-I"_                                                                                PROJECT ROADS IWROVEWENtS
Apors                                       sone.Kdu J   z                                                   PREVIOUS PROJECT ROADS(FkU    OM Pn*t CR 536 WSOt
PAVED ROADS
-   - I       \ -PROVED ROADS
....IN.... IM.PRO U VED ROAS
--- - PLANTATION ROAOS
FERRY
I'M   ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~+ AIRRORT
FdOUM                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RIVERS
<              ~~~~S A V A I'I     .      ..\           \ #I~ 
ESTAT AREA
_1304W                   1.S ,                                            -'    yFwi
0 ;0                     20           30
KILOMETERS
0         0                             20
MILES
T_ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~d Fd_                         r
Thd WA hP.d17 _   =         _ _            _       _       _                ima SgWa       t&.tiIfU.aw War d
17204W                                   172°
U S. TA.                                                         tttt Ft                        /jM.
KOI ..P^lt                    ~~~~~~~Son Fr U. S. A.                               F?R                        Affmd*   G mAftOWN    ;a
CHtINA   >KOREA   PA                                                                                                                         UPOL U                      U      r
TAW"                              HtAWA                                                                                                                   St9op   Fop           d 
14OW~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sh
PHILIPNES
PAPUJA
NEW GUIINEA
INDOOESIA
WESTERN SAWQA    hpPa
S   ANITI 
AUSFRALIA                            COOK tSLND                                                                                                                                    d 5
elTONG~A                                                                                                                                                    '
N  ZEALAND                                                              12%



