FILE CL",
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No.P-2620-WSO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON
PROPOSED CREDITS
TO
WESTERN SAMOA
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
August 28, 1979
This document hs a resticted distribution nd may be ued by recipients only In the performance of
their official duts. Its catents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.  i



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1        =  WS$0.68*
WS$1        =  US$1.47
*The exchange rate is floating; the rate used in this
report is the short-term average at the time of appraisal.
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB    -  Asian Development Bank
DOA    -  Department of Agriculture
EEC    -  European Economic Community
LSD    -  Lands and Surveys Department
PWD    -  Public Works Department
RCTA   -  Regional College of Tropical Agriculture
RDD    -  Rural Development Division
SPDC   -  Special Projects Development Corporation
VDP    -  Village Development Program
WSDB   -  Western Samoa Development Bank
WSTEC  -  Western Samoa Trust Estates Corporation
GOVERNMENT OF WESTERN SAMOA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1-December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
WESTERN SAMOA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:        Western Samoa
Beneficiary:    Western Samoa Trust Estates Corporation (WSTEC)
Amount:          US$8.0 million (IDA credit); and US$0.3 million
(EEC Special Action credit)
Terms:           Standard (for both credits)
Relending        Part of the project funds (about US$5.0 million, of which
Terms:         US$3.7 million would be from the IDA credit) would be onlent
to WSTEC for a period of 25 years including 10 years of grace,
with interest at 10% per annum. The Government would bear
the foreign exchange risk.
Project          The project would introduce an agricultural technology and
Description:  management package to Western Samoa through WSTEC and
provide for initial steps to transfer this package to village
areas in the island of Savai'i, the least developed area of
the country albeit with the highest development potential.
The project would provide investments in the island of Savai'i
for: nurseries, imported planting materials, and field develop-
ment for coconuts, cocoa and coffee; technical assistance for
the developm,ent of these crops and agricultural diversification;
marketing of taro (a root crop) produced by the villages;
construction. of estate roads and improvement of the southern
coastal road.; project administration; and monitoring/evalua-
tion, surveys, studies and preparation of a second phase of
development.
The project is expected to bring about technological, mana-
gerial, and institution-building benefits to Western Samoa's
agricultural, sector and substantially increase agricultural
production in the island of Savai'i.  Increased production
and exports would benefit WSTEC, as well as 1,500 subsistence
farm families.
Since the project is the first major attempt at agricultural
development in Western Samoa, there are substantial institu-
tional and sociological risks due to possible delays by the
Government in obtaining planting materials, managerial
weaknesses of WSTEC, and uncertainty regarding villagers'
motivation. The project attempts to minimize these risks by
providing technical assistance and by phasing the application
of resources to match the performance of the agencies involved
and the response of the villagers.
Thisd~ocument has a restricted dilstribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated
Costs:
Local  Foreign  Total
------ US$'000
Planting materials & nurseries                        154     910   1,064
Field devplonment                                   2,046   1,801   3,847
Buildings, vehicles & equipment                       267     632     899
Aerophotographic surveys                               55     610     665
Incremental staffing                                 209        -     209
Incremental operation & maintenance                  335      773   1,108
Technical assistance                                  157   1,154   1,311
Monitoring/evaluation studies & preparation
of second development phase                         21      159     180
Roads                                               1,750   4,610   6,360
Total base cost       4,994  10,649  15,643
Contingencies
Physical                     560   1,145   1,705
Price                      1,236   1,963   3,199
Subtotal              1,796   3,108   4,904
Total Project Cost (excluding taxes /1)            6,790  13,757  20,547
Financing Plan:
Local     Foreign    Total
…---- (US$ million) ------
Government                              2.1                   2.1
WSTEC                                   1.7                   1.7
IDA                                     2.2       5.8         8.0
EEC                                     0.2       0.1         0.3
UNDP                                              1.7         1.7
Australia                               0.6       4.8         5.4
Japan                                              1.4        1.4
Total                               6.8       13.8        20.6
/1   Estimated at less than 2% of total project cost.



- iii
Estimated
Disbursements:
IDA fiscal year         1980  1981  1982  1983  1984  1985  1986
------------- (US$ million) ------------
IDA
Annual                   0.4   1.2   1.6   1.6   1.4   1.2   0.6
Cumulative               0.4   1.6   3.2   4.8   6.2   7.4   8.0
EEC
Annual                   0.3
Cumulative               0.3
Rate of Return:       13.5%
Staff Appraisal
Report:             No. 2427-WSO, dated August 29, 1979






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION TO THE EXECUTIVE
DIRECTORS ON PROPOSED CREDITS TO WESTERN SAMOA FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on two proposed
credits to Western Samoa for the equivalent of US$8.3 million on standard IDA
terms to help Einance an agricultural development project. A credit of
US$8.0 million would be made from IDA resources and a second credit of
US$0.3 million equivalent would be made on a parallel basis from the EEC
Special Action Account administered by IDA in accordance with the terms of
the agreement of May 2, 1978 between IDA and the European Economic Community.
The project is expected to be co-financed with grants from UNDP (US$1.7 mil-
lion), Australia (US$5.4 million) and Japan (US$1.4 million). Part of the
project funds (about US$5.0 million, of which US$3.7 million would be from the
IDA credit) would be onlent to the Western Samoa Trust Estates Corporation
(WSTEC) for a period of 25 years, including 10 years of grace with interest at
10% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The latest economic report, "Western Samoa: Development Issues and
Prospects" (No. 2168a-WSO), is dated December 29, 1978. Country data are
provided in Aninex I.
3.        Western Samoa is a small island country in the South Pacific that
has been independent since 1962, following a period of administration by New
Zealand as a lJnited Nations trust territory. The country has a population of
153,000, most of whom live in the two main islands - Upolu and Savai'i -
with a per capita GNP of US$360 (1977). The population is homogeneous,
almost all of it being of Samoan extraction and Christian. The closest
country is American Samoa, 130 km away; the distance to New Zealand is 2,900
km and that to Hawaii 4,200 km. Transportation is costly due to the country's
relative isolation from the main trading routes. The country's road system
of about 800 km mainly serves the coastal areas, which have the heaviest
population concentration. There is a fairly developed system of public
transportaticin. The main harbor is in Apia, the capital city and the only
major urban area, which is located on Upolu Island (see Map). The harbor at
Asau on Savai'i Island is partly developed and is being used to export
timber. Apart from the Faleolo International Airport, the country has three
small airstriLps.
4.        The population's basic needs are reasonably well met.  The
standard of Living can be described as "affluent subsistence", with sufficient
access to shelter, food and clothing.  There is a primary school in every
village and most children have nine years of basic education and at least
three years of high school education. Adult literacy is almost universal. A
good coverage of health services has been achieved through district hospitals



-2-
and village clinics. As shown in Annex I, there has been a general improvement
in social indicators over the last decade.
5.        Net emigration, principally to American Samoa and New Zealand, has
been important both in keeping down the population growth rate, from a
natural rate of about 3% per annum to a net growth rate of less than 1% per
annum during 1971-76, and in providing a large inflow of personal remittances,
equivalent to about 40% of the value of exports of goods and services. Since
1975, however, New Zealand has limited the number of people from Western
Samoa who could apply for permanent residence and the number of net emigrants
has since dropped significantly. This does not appear to have resulted
in a noticeable increase in overt unemployment because of the strength of the
extended family system, but there is now greater population pressure and
consequently a need to expand income-earning opportunities.
6.        Agriculture is the mainstay of the economy, accounting for about
one-half of GNP, employing two-thirds of the active population, and producing
about two-thirds of the country's exports of goods and services. Village
agriculture, consisting of both subsistence and cash crop cultivation, is the
predominant economic activity in Western Samoa. Over one half of the country's
agricultural production comes from village cultivation. The agricultural
sector is characterized by low yields, and export volumes of major commodities -
copra, cocoa and bananas - have fluctuated widely over the past decade
without showing an upward trend. All aspects of Western Samoa's development,
including the income, employment, budgetary, and balance of payments situations,
derive from the strengths and weaknesses of the agricultural sector. Detailed
analyses of the agricultural issues are made in Part III of this report.
7.        The development of the industrial sector has been limited by the
small size of the domestic market and isolated geographic location; as a
result, the sector currently accounts for only about 10% of GDP and 5% of
employment. However, tourism has expanded steadily, and now brings gross
receipts amounting to 30% of exports of goods and services. In contrast to
the earlier years of the present decade, when increases in real per capita
income were small, the economy made significant progress in 1977 due to sharp
increases in export volumes of copra and cocoa combined with favorable
prices. It is estimated that the real GDP growth in 1977 was 7%. Although
growth slowed in 1978 due to adverse weather, which depressed the production
of copra and cocoa, the Government's expanding development spending moderated
the effect of lower export earnings on the economy. Another favorable
development has been a continuing decline in the rate of inflation since
1976. The Government's wage policy, which has held down increases in salary
and wage levels in the public sector below the rate of inflation, has contri-
buted to this trend.
8.        Reflecting the acceleration in the country's development effort
since 1975, development expenditures over the five-year period, 1973-77, grew
at an average annual rate of over 30% in current prices and 24% in real terms.
There was a strong shift of emphasis in favor of agriculture, whose share in the
total development expenditures rose from 20% in 1975 to 30% in 1978. The
expansion of the Government's developmental activities was made possible by a
substantial increase in the use of external assistance (mainly grants and
soft-term loans) which financed about 64% of the development expenditures in
1978 compared with 47% in 1973.



9.        The bulk of the domestic finance comes from current account
surpluses and the National Provident Fund, the main source of non-bank
borrowing fromn local sources. The budgetary surplus on the current account,
virtually static in the early ].970s, showed significant improvement in
1977/78 as a result of higher economic growth, better administration and
enforcement of income tax and new taxes and higher user charges for several
services introduced in 1977. Hlowever, the recent progress in lifting the
level of government saving must be sustained to ensure the availability
of domestic finance for long-term development. In this connection, the tax
structure should be reviewed to make it more productive and elastic, and the
scope for raising non-tax revenues fully utilized.  Continued restraint on the
growth of current expenditures will also be necessary.
10.       Western Samoa's balance of payments largely mirrors developments
in the agricultural sector. The stagnation in export volumes, together with
a steady expansion of imports, has meant growing trade and current account
deficits. Despite the substantial contributions of tourism and personal
remittances to foreign exchange receipts, the current account deficit has
widened significantly since 1974. Besides, contributions from personal
remittances would decrease substantially in the future because of the
immigration restrictions abroad. As a result, the large resource gap (at
present 25% of GNP) would have to be financed through a growing reliance on
foreign grant:s and loans. Project grants have traditionally come from
Australia and New Zealand, while the main sources of loan finance are ADB,
IDA and New Zealand.  Interest-free loans have been received recently from
the OPEC Special Fund. Western Samoa's capital requirements will not be met
if external fEinancing is limited to the foreign exchange component of projects.
Consequently., external financing agencies should finance a part of the local
cost as well.
11.       Th,s present debt service ratio of 8.6% of exports of goods and
services is moderate. However, because of the wide imbalance between the
country's imports and exports and large fluctuations in its exports, virtually
all of Western Samoa's external public capital requirements should continue
to be met through grants and Loans on concessional terms.
12.       The structure of Western Samoa's balance of payments has a clear
long-term implication. While small, low-income island economies tend to have
large resource gaps, it will 'be unrealistic for the country to assume that
its present, unusually large resource gap of about 25-30% of GNP can be
maintained indefinitely. The balance of payments picture, therefore, also
underlines the need to tackle the problems of the agricultural sector with a
sense of urgency and determination.
13.       The country's agricultural strategy recognizes the need to
develop both large-scale estate and small-scale village agriculture. The
expansion of large-scale activities is being carried out by two government-
owned companies, the Western Samoa Trust Estates Corporation (WSTEC) and the
Samoa Foresi: Products Limited. Small-scale agriculture is being devel-
oped through the Village Development Program (VDP), which aims at providing



-4 -
villagers with a wide range of investments. To overcome constraints in
agricultural development, government policies have emphasized improved
credit availability through the Western Samoa Development Bank (WSDB),
provision of fertilizers and other inputs at concessionary prices, construc-
tion of rural access roads and improved shipping facilities. Increasing
attention has also been paid to timber and livestock production, and
to fishing, for which there are good prospects. Within this framework,
high priority has been given to agricultural development in Savai'i, the
country's poorest region but the one with the highest development potential.
14.       While the country's policies to deal with short-term agricultural
problems appear appropriate, a bolder and more comprehensive strategy is
needed to achieve a significant increase in agricultural productivity, output
and exports. In a longer-term context, the necessary prerequisites for the
modernization of the agricultural sector are the introduction of high-yielding,
disease-resistant planting material and the adoption of satisfactory agricul-
tural practices related to land clearing, planting, fertilization and disease
control. Without these conditions, the additional output from new investments
will continue to be far below what is potentially possible. To bring better
inputs and improved agricultural practices to village agriculture is perhaps
the greatest challenge the country faces. Alternative ways of transforming
the traditional, low-productivity village agriculture into an efficient
subsector, therefore, need urgent and careful consideration.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN WESTERN SAMDA
15.       Western Samoa became a Bank Group member in June 1974.  In order to
embark on an active program of economic development, the country needed a
rapid expansion and improvement of its basic infrastructure. To this end, IDA
helped finance the improvement of the east coast and central cross-island
roads in Upolu with a credit of US$4.4 million, approved in 1975. This
project (so far the Bank Group's only project in Western Samoa) has been
substantially completed. The outstanding IDA credit of US$4.4 million repre-
sents about 12% of the country's total outstanding external debt. Annex II
contains a summary statement on this credit and a note on the current status
of the project.
16.       The proposed project represents the first phase of the Bank's
long-term strategy to assist the Government in modernizing both small- and
large-scale agriculture. The Bank Group plans to continue its involvement in
the sector with another IDA credit for a rural development project in FY83,
which will begin the second development phase with particular emphasis on
village development.
17.       There has been no IFC involvement in Western Samoa and none is
envisaged in the near future.



-5-
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Physical Background
18.       The soils of Upolu arLd Savai'i are volcanic in origin and are
characterized by widespread surface deposits of stones and boulders. Of the
country's total land area of 700,000 acres, about 20% has high to moderate
fertility, 16% moderate to low fertility, and 64% low fertility. The areas
with agricultural potential lie between the coast and about 1,000 ft elevation.
Some 80% of the land area (560,000 acres) is held in accordance with Samoan
tradition as customary land. The Government controls 11% (77,000 acres) and
the Western Samoa Trust Estates Corporation (WSTEC) 5% (35,000 acres).
Freehold lands amount to 4% (26,000 acres). A large proportion of the
customary land in production is under old coconuts, with the balance used for
taro and bananas. About 17,000 acres of WSTEC lands are under coconuts,
coffee, cocoa, bananas and pastures. In all, the productive lands, including
the WSTEC properties, total about 150,000 acres (about 20% of the total
area), scattered over the two main islands. The uncultivated lands are
covered by forest or secondary scrub, with the most valuable timber resource
being in the range of 1,000 to 1,500 ft above sea level. Climatic factors
such as rainfall (from 80 to 120 inches per annum), temperature (750F to
90 F) and humidity do not impose restrictions on crop production. However,
occasional strong winds do cauise damage, especially to banana crops in
exposed areas.
Western Samoan Society
19.       A unique feature of Western Samoa is the traditional structure of
its society. Villages consist of 20 to 30 extended families (each with an
average 3 nuclear families of 6 people each) called aiga. A typical aiga
controls 15 to 20 acres of plantings. These add up to a total of 400 to 500
people controlling 300 to 400 planted acres per village. Each aiga elects
its leader, or matai. A council of matai, or fono, controls and manages the
distribution and uses of land, as well as of labor among family members,
and makes all, decisions at the village level. About 80% of the land surface
of Western Samoa belongs to the aiga, and most of the country's agricultural
production ies under the jurisdiction of the matai. In addition, the Parliament
is elected by and from among the matai. Thus, the matai system has been a
strong and central force in the social, political and economic system of the
country.
20.       However, the matai system is exposed to increasing stress at
present. The situation is comLplex. In the past there was little incentive
for villagers to work harder given the plentiful land which was easy to
develop and their few needs beyond subsistence requirements. More recently
the population pressure on larnd has become serious. Rapidly increasing cash
consciousness of the younger generation, combined with the ready avail-
ability of foreign goods and e-xposure to foreign customs in the country,
is another factor that is calling for change. As a result, old communal
traditions and respect for matai authority are weakening, and a new sense of
individualism based on material (as opposed to ceremonial or prestigious)



-6-
incentives is fast emerging in the more mobile sections of the population,
especially the young people in and around Apia, where the population con-
centration is heaviest. On the other hand, the agricultural economy remains
basically stagnant at subsistence level, and land use continues to be based
on customary laws, which preclude individual (as opposed to extended family)
rights an+' 3t.ble occupancy (land allocations among family members are
reviewed annually by the matais).
21.       In some of the more progressive villages, matais are giving ipso
facto permanent usufruct rights to nuclear families and changing their own
roles from those of chiefs to those of managers. In most of the villages,
however, changes are taking place much more slowly because of their direct
impact on matai powers and authority.  In summary, development based on
villages involves sensitive issues and its approach should avoid unwarranted
socioeconomic upheavals if it is to be achieved smoothly.
Sectoral Context
22.       The agricultural sector represents the country's only viable
development possibility, accounting for more than one-half of GDP and employing
about two-thirds of the economically active population. However, most of the
agricultural and livestock production, which originates in village areas, is
for subsistence, and yields are uniformly low. While in the past production
increases were brought about by expansion of the cultivated area, good
agricultural land, with moderate to high fertility and suitable topography,
is becoming progressively scarce. This, combined with the population growth
(the impact of which has substantially increased in recent years due to
reductions in the number of Western Samoans allowed to settle in New Zealand),
has worsened the long-term prospects for maintaining, let alone improving,
living standards along traditional lines. The situation is further complicated
by the lack of incentive for villagers to invest money or labor on land
improvement because the land is communally owned, and by villagers' doubt
about the benefits of such investments since there are no examples of successful
intensive development anywhere in the country.
23.       The Government has taken various steps to improve conditions in
the agricultural sector. The country's land development agency, WSTEC, under
a new and dynamic management, is substantially expanding its activities, and
is now taking the lead in new land development, marketing operations, and
agro-industrial enterprises. A declining timber company was purchased by the
Government and in less than a year exports have been profitably expanded.
Efforts to increase the fish catch, and fish refrigeration and canning
capacity are proving successful. The continued growth of the country's
financial system is opening up new credit sources for short- and medium-term
investments. These several promising starts are forming the nucleus of a
strong development thrust. At the same time the Government has taken steps
to improve living conditions in many villages (where 70% of the population
live) by providing them wi-th access roads, drinking water, health and education
facilities and electricity.



-7-
Institutional Framework
24.       The Department of Agriculture (DOA), the Rural Development Division
(RDD) in the Prime Minister's Office and WSTEC are the most important govern-
mental agencies with responsibiLlity for the development of the rural sector.
25.       DOA is responsible for agricultural research and extension, but it
has performed its responsibilities poorly, partly because of its lack of
general development policies (resulting in limited and largely ineffective
research on less important crops and pastures) and partly because of lack of
effective management, manpower and facilities. DOA's weaknesses have con-
tributed to the stagnation of the rural sector. Under recently concluded
bilateral and UNDP/Government agreements, an overall review of DOA's policies,
procedures and staffing will be conducted over the next few years, which
should enable DOA to perform its responsibilities more adequately.
26.       RDD is in charge of :Lmplementing the Village Development Program
(VDP) under which the Government is trying to improve villagers' living
standards, with villagers' support, within the established socioeconomic
structure. By the end of 1978, about 300, or more than 80% of all villages,
had been visited by interagency teams, which were assigned to make brief
analyses of warranted development needs while RDD organized subsequent input
deliveries. Investments are financed by a 5% village contribution, a 30%
mixture of village contribution and/or loan, and a 65% government grant which
is deemed necessary to induce villagers to participate in VDP, given their
general reluctance to incur debt.
27.       Although VDP's goals and energetic activities are commendable,
the program has a number of weaknesses. Investments, for example, have been
largely oriented to consumption, electricity, churches, and improved housing,
which are not directly related to generating self-sustaining growth of
agriculture. In addition, because of the lack of an adequate and tested technical
package, no suitable productive investments can be recommended at present and
villagers are not prepared to engage in integrated productive investments
requiring a major commitment of labor and/or money because many of them
cannot yet visualize either the need for, or the benefits from, such invest-
ments. Finally, there is a lack of adequate supervision, which results in poor
implementation. As a result, VDP needs a major policy reorientation and
strengthening. Villagers' losses are likely to engender resentment at what
will be perceived as "Government" projects which would be compounded when
loan repayments by villagers become due. This would make it much harder for
outsiders to enlist the cooperation of villagers for legitimate rural develop-
ment. In summary, VDP is largely confined to providing social investments
and services for lack of a suitable package of productive investments. VDP's
poor implementation and the need for villagers to repay part of the investments
being made, will have adverse consequences for future lending to villagers
unless these issues are more clearly addressed.
28.       On the other hand, WSTEC has begun to improve its performance under
the new management and is both expanding its tree crop plantings and entering
new fields of business, such as copra and cocoa processing, saw milling, soap



-8-
manufacture, and retail activities. WSTEC's overall performance and financial
condition are good. However, it must concentrate now on improving tree crop
productivity, production and exports, and its middle level management and
other manpower must be substantially upgraded. Its most important task is
involvement with the development needs of subsistence farmers if it is going
to fulfill adequately its development responsibilities to th,. country at
large.
29.       Other agricultural supporting services, such as training, credit,
input supplies, marketing and road infrastructure, are generally adequate under
present conditions and could be expanded without much difficulty to cope with
an increased development effort. The main weakness affecting these services
has been the lack of a general agricultural development policy and a resulting
lack of coordination among agencies dealing with the rural sector.
Issues and Strategy
30.       The basic development issues confronting Western Samoa at present
are: (a) how to increase productivity, production and exports of traditional
crops (coconuts, cocoa and coffee) rapidly and substantially to close the
resource gap; and (b) how to initiate and increase subsistence farmers'
participation in the above effort and its benefits in the absence of large-
scale development alternatives. The latter will entail working within
existing sociological and institutional constraints so as to avoid unwarranted
upheavals of the socioeconomic structure of the society.
31.       The Government's new development strategy is adapted to the above
needs and limitations and consists of maximum use of WSTEC, which is
the most suitable entity for bringing about rapid agricultural development, and
concentration of efforts in traditional, well proven crops. It emphasizes
the development of the island of Savai'i, the largest in the country, which
offers the greatest development potential and is the least integrated into
the market economy. The strategy includes establishing the technical/financial
basis for future development of traditional rural areas and initiating
village participation, as well as coordinating effectively the inputs of
domestic and foreign resources to support a comprehensive, long-term development
effort. The most important component of the strategy is the parallel
strengthening of main line agencies, such as DOA and RDD, to enable them to
assume increased responsibilities in the long-term development of the
country, as well as improved coordination among agencies to reach the agreed
development objectives.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
32.       The proposed project was identified by the Government in late
1977 and prepared under the assistance of an IDA mission in May 1978. Field
appraisal took place in October/November 1978. Negotiations were held in
Washington from June 20 to 27, 1979, with the Western Samoan delegation
led by Mr. Alistair Hutchison, Financial Secretary. A Staff Appraisal Report
(No. 2427-WSO, dated August 29, 1979) is being distributed separately.
Supplementary project data are provided in Annex III.



-9-
Oblectives and ScoRe
33.       The main objectivei; of the proposed project are in line with the
Government's development strategy and would include a substantial increase in
the productivity, production and exports of copra, cocoa and coffee in four
WSTEC estates, which would help close a serious resource gap in the short
and medium term. The project also aims at the build up of technical knowhow
and training of a cadre of staff, as well as initiating the transfer of
improved technology to villages through the provision by WSTEC of improved
planting material and technical assistance for planting and maintenance to
improve the living standard of subsistence farmers in the medium and long
term. These objectives would be complemented by the expansion of taro
exports through WSTEC. In addition, the project has been formulated to
promote land conservation and employment creation.
34.       Project activities would be limited to the island of Savai'i.
Investments would be made in: (a) nurseries, importation of improved
planting materials and field development of about 2,400 acres of coconuts,
2,130 acres of cocoa and 200 acres of coffee in four WSTEC estates (at
Vaia'ata, Falelima, Lata and Asau) and in about 20 villages in the vicinity
of the four WSTEC estates; (b) technical assistance for the development of
the above crops and for agrLcultural diversification in the WSTEC estates and
selected villages; (c) WSTEC's marketing of taro produced by the villages;
(d) estate road construction and improvement of the southern coastal road of
Savai'i; (e) project administration; and (f) monitoring and evaluation,
surveys, studies and preparation of a second phase of development.
Project Management
35.       A most important element of the project is institution-building.
To provide adequate project management, a Steering Committee has been estab-
lished, chaired by the Prime Minister and consisting of the Directors of the
Treasury, the Department of' Agriculture (DOA), the Department of Economic
Development (DED), the Rural Development Division of the Prime Minister's
Office (RDD), the Public Works Department (PWD), the Marketing Boards, and
the Lands and Surveys Department (LSD) and WSTEC's General Manager. The
Steering Committee would be responsible for policy setting, interagency
coordination, budget approval, overall review and supervision. It would be
responsible for hiring a consultant to design the monitoring system and to
carry out evaluation. The consultants' proposed terms of reference were
discussed at negotiations. WSTEC's General Manager would be responsible for
the day-to-day project management and specifically for planting materials,
nurseries, field development and technical assistance to be monitored through
a field operations coordinator. He would work closely with RDD and PWD,
which would be responsible for village area development and for project-related
roads, respectively. DOA and the Regional College of Tropical Agriculture
(RCTA) would provide ad hoc technical support to the project's research and
technical assistance activities, and LSD would contract and supervise the
aerophotographic survey. The Marketing Boards and WSTEC would sell
increment:al production from the project areas. Preparation of a second
development phase would be jointly carried out by the relevant agencies under
RDD's direction.
36.       The project aims at strengthening WSTEC as the leading agricultural
agency in Western Samoa. WSTEC's estate management would be substantially
improved through the overseas training of 12 staff members. Additionally, WSTEC



- 10-
would develop the technical capability to work with new methods of
agricultural husbandry for both permanent tree and annual crops. Given that
WSTEC resources would be substantially involved with the project and to
ensure the continuance of WSTEC's high efficiency standards, assurances were
obtained that WSTEC would not, during the project period, enter into any new
activities or substantially expand any of its present activities without prior
consultation with IDA (para. (c) of Schedule 4 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). Because of the important role of WSTEC's General Manager,
assurances were also obtained that the Government would consult IDA prior to
the appointment of any new General Manager (para. (d) of Schedule 4 of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).
37.       The Government has issued a directive enabling WSTEC to import
improved planting materials, establish and operate nurseries, and provide
research and extension services for project purposes. Adequate progress has
been made in arranging for planting material imports and nursery sites prepa-
ration. To ensure that WSTEC will be able to transfer the above duties to DOA
within five years in preparation for the second phase development, the
Government would endeavor to improve DOA's performance in the above fields,
making full use of the assistance to be provided from UNDP and bilateral
sources. Research and extension staff and facilities developed under
the project would progressively be made available to DOA from project year
three, beginning with four field.technicians who would train DOA staff
(Part I of Schedule 2 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). WSTEC and
RCTA would continue to be involved in plant material multiplication, applied
research and support to villages. The Steering Committee would coordinate the
efforts of WSTEC, RCTA and DOA in these and related fields (Section 3.02 of
the draft Development Credit Agreement).
38.       Other specialized agencies would be strengthened through their
involvement in project works. The Special Projects Development Corporation
(SPDC) would be awarded by PWD the road construction and improvement works.
The Western Samoa Development Bank (WSDB) would expand short-term lending for
taro production in Savai'i through its recently established branch in Salelologa.
This would link WSDB credit with the WSTEC marketing operation, which would
foster useful investments and loan collection. The Lands and Surveys Department
(LSD) would gain experience useful for subsequent development by supervising
the aerophotographic survey. The Government would benefit from its first
attempt at project monitoring and evaluation. Finally, RDD would strengthen
its information base and analyses methodology by conducting in-depth studies
to determine project organization at the village level.
Technical Assistance
39.       Under the project, three specialists would be hired for three years
each, one for coconuts, one for cocoa and coffee, and one to initiate and
supervise crop diversification field trials. Short-term consultants would
be recruited to deal with specific problems such as plant material multipli-
cation, crop husbandry and processing, semi-detailed soil surveys and soil
sampling. The average total cost of consultants is estimated at US$6,125 per
man-month. Assurances were obtained that the Government would obtain IDA's
agreement prior to approving: (a) the terms of reference and the appointment
of specialists; and (b) the terms of reference and the appointment of
consultants for the monitoring and evaluation, in-depth village analyses and



- 11-
preparation of a second development phase (Sections 3.03 and 3.04 of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).
Roads
40.       Under the project, access roads would be built to the four WSTEC
estates.  (No additional roads are needed for participating villages.)  In
addition, improvements would be made to the southern coastal road between
Salelologa and Asau.  These improvements would result in user savings and
reduce road maintenance costs in the most important trunk road sections
serving the project areas. Asi the current road maintenance is inadequate, a
comprehensive road maintenance program was prepared by PWD.
Monitoring and Evaluation, Studies, Surveys and Preparation of a Second
Development 'Phase
41.       Effective project monitoring and evaluation are essential given the
paucity of data and the importance of the proposed project as the first phase
of an integrated rural development program. Data would be collected on
inputs, nursery seedling production, areas cleared and planted, yields, and
the impact of wages and of project-induced production on WSTEC and villagers'
revenues. An aerophotographic survey would be made of the most important
agricultural, lands in Savai'i, i.e., the four-mile coastal fringe, for
topographic and land-use mapping. Additionally, funds and staff time would
be allocatedl for the preparation of a second development phase. In-depth
analyses would be made of at least ten representative villages in Savai'i and
Upolu to determine factors affecting the village's incorporation into the
development process and nondisruptive ways of removing obstacles to development.
These studies- would be undertaken by RDD with the help of consultants and
relevant agesncies.
Prolect Cost and Financing
42.       The total project cost, excluding taxes (which are estimated at
less than 2% of total projecit cost), is estimated at US$20.6 million, of
which about US$13.8 million, or two-thirds, would represent the foreign
exchange requirements. 1/ Physical contingencies of 11% of base costs have
been included. The price contingency has been estimated on the following
basis: fertilizer, chemicals, vehicles and equipment, 6% per annum. (1980-84);
and civil works and salaries, 7% per annum. (1980-84). The IDA credit of
US$8.0 million would finance about 40% of the total project cost, and the EEC
1/   The ratio of the foreign exchange component in the total project cost
is high in this case, because virtually all equipment and materials
for field development aLnd nurseries have to be imported. However,.
once the nurseries, seed farms and planting fields are developed, no
further importation of materials would be necessary and the foreign
exchange requirement in future developments would be proportionately
less.



- 12 -
credit of about US$0.3 million would finance about 1.5% of the total project
cost. Given the importance of the field development component to the success
of the project, IDA would finance 74%, or US$3.7 million, of the cost of this
component, including US$2.2 million in local costs. The Government would
bear the foreign exchange risk. The remainder of the project cost would be
financed by the Government (US$2.1 million), WSTEC (US$1.7 mi''ion), UNDP
(US$1.7 million), Australia (US$5.4 million), and Japan (US$1.4 million).
Commitments have already been obtained from UNDP, Australia, and Japan,
but should any of these co-financing arrangements fail to materialize, the
Government would provide the necessary financing. To avoid costly delays in
project implementation, retroactive financing of US$0.7 million (US$0.3
million from the EEC credit and US$0.4 million from the IDA credit) is
proposed for the road improvement works undertaken by the Special Projects
Development Corporation (SPDC) since January 1, 1979.
43.       The Government has entered into a subsidiary loan agreement with
WSTEC under which about US$5.0 million would be transferred to WSTEC at 10%
interest for a term of 25 years, including 10 years of grace, to cover the
full costs of field development.   These terms are in line with existing
commercial lending rates in Western Samoa, and with past (10%) and expected
(8%) inflation rates. The Government would make arrangements satisfactory to
IDA to ensure financing for tree crop development in village areas. Assurances
were obtained that, as a condition of IDA credit disbursement, financing
would be arranged for the first village tree crop plantings (para. 4(b) of
Schedule 1 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Additional financing
is expected to be provided through the Treasury to the participating agencies
(Western Samoa Development Bank, Lands and Surveys Department, Rural Development
Division, Regional College of Tropical Agriculture and Department of Agricul-
ture) as direct payments for specified services. Village taro plantings and
WSTEC's marketing activities would be financed by villagers and through
short-term credit by the Government under arrangements satisfactory to
IDA (Part F of Schedule 2 of draft Development Credit Agreement).
Procurement
44.       Of the IDA-financed field development component, land clearing and
other field operations would be carried out by WSTEC through force account,
costing about US$2.6 million under arrangements satisfactory to IDA. Fertilizer
and chemicals would be purchased following international competitive bidding
procedures according to IDA Guidelines. Road construction and improvements
(US$8.6 million) would be carried out by the Special Projects Development
Corporation (SPDC) on the basis of negotiated unit price contracts. SPDC has
the necessary organization and machinery in place and is expected to carry
out the work at a lower cost than any other contractor. Since road investments
would be spread over a three- to four-year period, the works would be un-
attractive to foreign contractors.



- 13 -
45.       Of the components to be financed from other sources: (a) planting
materials are expected to be procured under contract with private firms and
research stations; (b) other inputs for nurseries would be procured by WSTEC;
(c) contracts for buildings would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding
advertised locally; and (d) the aerophotographic survey would be contracted
by LSD.
Disbursement
46.       Disbursements from the EEC credit would be made retroactively for
90% of the initial road construction costs. Disbursements from the IDA credit
would be made against appropriLate documents on the basis of: (a) 100% of the
foreign exchange cost of fert:Llizer, chemicals and equipment; (b) 42% of the
cost of the IDA-financed port.Lon of field development; (c) 70% of the cost of
studies, monitoring and evaluation, and preparation of a second phase; and
(d) 60% of civil works for roads (after the EEC credit has been fully disbursed).
Only in special circumstances where it is considered essential for expediting
disbursement, land clearing operations would be financed on the basis of
certificates of expenditures, and documentation for such expenditures would be
retained by WSTEC and made available for inspection to supervision missions.
Disbursement:s are expected to be completed by June 30, 1986.
Accounts and Audits
47.       Auidits would be carried out by the Government's Audit Office which
is performing well. Assurances were obtained that the participating agencies
would maintain separate project accounts and that these, together with
WSTEC's audited project and agency accounts, would be furnished to IDA within
six months of the close of each fiscal year (January 1 - December 31) (Section
4.01 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Production and Marketing
48.       Tncremental production on WSTEC's estates would begin in
project year four. Over a period of more than 20 years after the completion
of the project, the improved planting materials and husbandry would increase
production of copra fourteenfold, and of cocoa and coffee about sixfold.
Yields from village plantings would be about 75% and 65% of WSTEC yields for
copra and cocoa, respectively. Taro yields are estimated to be 7.25 MT/ac
for the first year and 4.5 M[T/ac for the second year based on past and
present average yields in the country.
49.       Practically all the incremental project production is expected to
be exported. Annual incremental tree crop production at full development in
year ten would amount to 3,500 MT of copra, 1,400 MT of cocoa and 120 MT of
coffee. The increased tree crop exports would have no impact on world market
prices, given their relativiely small size. Maximum incremental taro production
in year four would be about 11,000 MT, all of which would be exported. Coconuts
would be marketed initially as copra, but later as coconut oil once the WSTEC



- 14 -
coconut oil mill is operating efficiently. Cocoa and coffee would be processed
in WSTEC facilities. Taro would be packed and exported by WSTEC to new
markets being developed in Hawaii and on the West Coast of the United States,
where 40,000-60,000 Western Samoans live. The improved coastal road in
Savai'i would reduce transport costs.
50.       The Bank forecasts relatively stable copra prices at US$495/MT through
1990, declining slowly thereafter. Cocoa prices are forecast to decline
steadily to US$0.58/lb through 1990 and to continue a slow decline in the
1990s. The price of Robusta coffee is expected to improve slowly and reach
US$1.18/lb by 1990. Farm-gate prices in 1990 are estimated as 85%, 90% and
85% of prices f.o.b. Apia for copra, cocoa and coffee, respectively. These
relatively high farm-gate prices are due to the high quality of WSTEC
processing standards, short transportation distances, absence of middlemen
and small port handling charges. The taro price is estimated at US$0.09/lb
at farm gate based on recent price levels.
Financial Impact and Cost Recovery
51.       WSTEC's project cash flow shows a cumulative deficit of US$3.4 mil-
lion by 1988, diminishing substantially thereafter until 1994, by which time
net surpluses are expected to begin accumulating. At December 31, 1977,
WSTEC's reserves amounted to US$5.1 million. Given this and, most importantly,
the expected annual net profits of about US$1-1.5 million in the period
1978-85, and assuming no new major capital investments, WSTEC should be able
to finance the currently planned investments through 1988. At the village
level, a typical 3-acre family holding under coconuts would show an incremental
income of more than US$450 per annum, due to copra yields five times as high
on the average as those of traditional plantings. Assuming no changes in
home consumption (valued at US$1,300 per family per annum) and off-farm income
(estimated at US$60 per family per annum), the projected cash income increase
would raise beneficiaries' per capita income from all sources from US$247 to
about US$325 - or somewhat above the US$290 poverty line - after loan repay-
ments. The Government's contribution of US$2.1 million for the project by
1985 would be recovered after six years and would be followed by sustained
increased revenues, even assuming no increases in present rates of taxes and
duties.
52.       All estate and on-farm investment costs would be recovered from
WSTEC as loan repayments and from participating villages as short-term loan
repayments for taro, and either through cess and export duties or through
loan repayment for permanent tree crops. The estimated loan is US$1,250 at
10% interest repayable over 20 years, including 5 years of grace, for an
average three-acre family holding. About half of the project expenditures
(for nurseries, technical assistance, coastal road improvements, monitoring
and evaluation, aerophotographic survey, village in-depth studies and pre-
paration of a second development phase) would benefit village smallholders
in this and subsequent development stages. Given the low income levels of
villagers and the difficulty of apportioning costs among villages, the
Government would not attempt to recover these costs directly but would
recover them at a compound 8% rate of interest mostly through export duties.



- 15 -
Benefits
53.       The project would result in substantially increased production of
taro, copra and cocoa. Since coffee production is consumed locally at
present, the incremental project production of about 120 MT per year would
open up exports for the first itime in Western Samoa. An additional project
benefit would be the increased standardization and quality control of copra,
cocoa and coffee processing un,der WSTEC management leading to a wider accep-
tance of these products. Increased production and exports of copra, cocoa and
coffee would benefit WSTEC. Also, about 1,500 subsistence farm families
would benefit mainly by marketing up to 11,000 MT of taro (valued at about
US$2.0 million) per year by the fifth project year. The project would create
full-time employment for about 600 workers in land clearing and field main-
tenance operations. Since women play an important role in the harvesting of
taro and of permanent tree crops, the project would endeavor to assist women
as much as men in its training and extension activities. This would be
facilitated by WSTEC's policy of providing equal opportunities to men and
women for recruitment, training and promotion.
54.       The project's overall economic rate of return is estimated at 13.5%
over a 25-year period. For individual crops, rates are estimated as 13%
for coconut, 13.5% for cocoa aLnd 14.5% for coffee; these rates include the
costs and benefits of taro interplanting. The two most significant project
variables are the amount of marketable taro and shipping costs.  For instance,
if taro production is 50% lower than anticipated, the economic rate of return
would be 11.5%; if input shipping costs are 50% lower, the rate would be
17.5%. However, the economic rate of return would most likely remain between
11.5% and 15.5%, which is sat:Lsfactory, especially given the pilot nature of
the project.
Risks
55.       The project presents substantial risks of an institutional and
sociological nature as it is the first major, coordinated attempt at agri-
cultural development in Western Samoa. Project design attempts to minimize
these risks by phasing the input of resources to match the capability of the
agencies involved and the response of the villagers. WSTEC's primary role is
the introduction of a new technology package, which villagers could gradually
incorporate into their production methods. However, a substantial institu-
tional risk remains due to possible government delays in obtaining
planting mat:erials, managerial weaknesses in WSTEC, and uncertainty regard-
ing changes that affect the traditional village structure and villagers'
motivations.
56.       Another major risk concerns export of the project's incremental taro
production, which depends on WSTEC's success in opening up taro consumption
centers among Western Samoans living in Hawaii and on the West Coast of the
United States. Indications are that these Samoans retain their preference for
taro as their main source of bulk carbohydrates.



- 16 -
Environmental Impact
57.       The areas to be developed under the project are presently under
primary or secondary forest in WSTEC estates and additionally under old
coconut trees in villages. The project would prevent uncontrolled shifting
cultivation in highly erodable undulating terrain by replacing existing
forests, scrub and old trees with permanent tree crops and cover crops in a
stable, long-lasting, agricultural system which will preserve soil and other
ecological conditions.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
58.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between Western Samoa and
the Association, the draft EEC Special Action Credit Agreement between
Western Samoa and the Association as administrator of the EEC Special Action
Account, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V,
Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately. The draft Development Credit Agreement
follows the general pattern of Development Credit Agreements relating to
agricultural projects. Special conditions of the project are listed in
Section III of Annex III.
59.       Special conditions for effectiveness of the IDA Credit Agreement
would be that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the EEC
Special Action credit have been met. Special conditions of effectiveness of
the EEC Special Action Credit Agreement would be that all conditions precedent
to the effectiveness of the IDA credit have been met.
60.       I am satisfied that the proposed IDA credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association, and that the EEC Special Action
credit would comply with the criteria established by the Agreement of May 2,
1978 between the Association and the Ehropean Economic Community.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
61.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credits.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by I.P.M. Cargill
Washington, D.C.
August 28, 1979



- 17 -
ANNEX I
Page 1 of 4
WESTERN SAIOA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
91PUERINCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED APJAGES
LANID AREA (THOUSAND SQEM.) IwEsnus SAMOA                                       - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
TOTAL               2.8                                                     SANE        SAE       NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL        0.7                                  MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME        INCOIME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b       REGION /e   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   140.0       190.0      360.0            450.6       430.3       926.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       76.0        113.0      160.0            371.1      2tŽ.'        730.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)        0.11        0.14       0.15
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 19.2          21.3       23.1             27.4        24.6        49.0
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                        ..
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                        39.0         50.0       54.0            154.8       45.3         44.6
PER SQ. EM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    157.0         200.0      214.0           566.7       149.0        140.7
POPULATION AGE STRIICTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          48.0         47.4       41.0            tl.3        45.2         41.3
15-64 YRS.                          48.9         49.9       56.0            54.9        51.9         55.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    3.1          2.7        3.0              3.3        2.8          3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               3.0          2.4        1.2              2.4        2.7          2.4
URBAN                               6.2          3.5        3.1              4.3        4.3          4.5
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)         ..        44.6       35.0             30.2       39.4         31.1
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)         ..         7.7        6.7              5.3        11.7         9.2
CROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                ..          3.2        2.4              2.1        2.7          2.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..          ..         ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MAPRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..         ..            34.1        13.2         34.7
FOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)             ..         98.0       88.0           106.2        99.6        104.4
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCEINT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   102.0           ..      100.0           104.1        94.7        105.0
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           55.4           ..       52.7            57.4        54.3         64.4
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           ..          ..         ..            16.9        17.4         23.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATS        5.0         5.0        2.0              4.8       11.4          8.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)        ..        63.0       68.0             61.1       54.7         60.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                               ..        43.0       40.0             46.6       68.1         46.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..        17.0       43.0             21.9       34.4         60.8
URBAN                                ..         86.0      100.0            46.2        57.9         75 .7
RURAL                                 ..          ..       23.0            12.8        21.2         40.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..        84.0       99.0             28.4       40.8         46.0
URBAN                                ..        100.0      100.0             65.0       71.3         46.0
RURAL                                 ..        80.0       99.0             14.7       27.7         22.5
POPULATION PER EHYSICIAN               ..       2880.0    2920.0           3790.5      6799.4       2262.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON           ..       730.0      620.0           1107.4     1522.1       1195.4
POPULATION PER FJOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                 ..       220.0      240.0            613.3      726.5        453.4
URBAN                                ..           ,,      110.0           203.6       272.7        253.1
RURAL                                ..           ..      350.0           1110.3     1404.4       2732.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..           ..       18.5             23.9       27.5         22.1
HOUSING
AVERACE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                5.8         5.1         ..              5.2        5.4          5.3
UTRBAN                               ..          5.9         ...                        5.1          5.2
RURAL                                            4.9                                    5.5          5.4
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..          1.5         ...                          .1.9
UIRBAN                               ..          3.4         .                .          .            .
RURAL                                                3- 1' '   '    '                                2.65
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINCS)
TOTAL                                *.         18.8         ..               .-       28.1         50.0
RURNAL                                          65.8                                   45.1         71.7
RURAL_..    8.7                                    9.9         17.3



ANNEX I
- 18 -                                                    Page 2 of 4
WESTERN SAMOA - SOCIAL IIDICATORS DATA 51EET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AYERAGES
SThRN  ~~~           - HOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
SA    MHzBl      EXrE IUCHER
MOST RECENT      GEOGRAFHIC    INCQEZ       DICOttE
1960 lb     1970 /b ESTIlATE lb        REGION |c   GROUP |d    GROUP le
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                121.0         91.0         ..             97.9       82.7        102.5
MALE                    ..           ..         ..            98.7        87.3        108.6
FEMALE               127.0         88.0        ..             97.4        75.8         97.1
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  10.0        39.0         ..             42.2        21.4        33.5
MALE                    ..           ..         ..            46.7        33.0         38.4
FEMALE                 8.0        42.0         ..             40.9        15.5         30.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (t OF SECONDARY)        ..          1.0       2.0             12.5         9.8         11.5
PUPII.-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            34.0         28.0       27.0             32.5         4.1        35.8
SECONDARY                           20.0        22.0         ..             25.8        23.4        22.9
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCFNT)           ..        97.4/f    97.8              84.1        54.0        64.0
CONSUIMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPVLATION                           5.0         6.0        8.7              6.1         9.3        13.5
RADID RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPUlATION                         27.0         55.0       59.0             84.4        76.9       122.7
TV RECEIVERS PER TIIOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..          0.3        1.2             22.4        13.5        38.3
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST') CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     ..          ..         ..             24.2        18.3        40.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            3.0       1.9              3.6         2.5          3.7
LABOR FOPCE
TOTAL LABOR hORCE (TllOtlSANDS)       28.0        37.9       38.2
FPLMALR (PFRCENT)                     ..        14. 1      16.7             36. 7      29.2         25.0
AGRICULTUkr, (PERCENT)              69.0        66.9       61.2             54.6        62.7        43.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                    ..         7.2        7.8             16.3       11.9         21.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                   ..          ..         ..             40.7        37.1        33.5
HALE                                    ..          ..         ..             49.9        48.8        48.0
FEltALE                                 ..          ..         ..             31.0        20.4         16.8
ECONOtMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               2.0          1.8       1.7              1.1         1.4          1.4
I_CO5_ DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVAITE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          ..         ..             14.9        15.2        20.8
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..            ..         ..             46.8        48.2        52.1
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSCHOLDS       ..          ..         ..              6.2         6.3         3.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          ..         ..             16.8        16.3        12.6
POVERTY TARrET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..            193.1       241.3       270.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..            128.7       136.6       183.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..            136.8       179.7       282.5
RURAL                                ..           ..         ..             96.8       103.7       248.9
ESTI.ATED PO"ULATION BELOW ABSOiUTE
POVERTY INCOSE l.EVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..          ..         ..             32.0        24.8        20.5
RLRAI.                               ..           ..         ..             52.5        37.5        35.3
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjssted gro.p averages for each indicator are population-eighted geoetrtic ceans. excluding the extreme
values of the in,dicator and the most populated country tn each group. CDverage of cowitries am5o.g the
fndicators depends on a.ailability of data aind is not uniform.
/b    U,less otber,.se noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961: for 1970, between 1969
.nd 1971; and for Most Recenit Esci-ate, betwen- 1974 and 1977.
/c    Fact Asla & Pacffic;   /d  Low-r Middle Incore ($281-550 per capita, 1976).  /e  Intermediate Middle Income
(S551-1135 per capita., 1976);   /f  1966.
May, 1979



- 19      -
ANNE I
UZDHri2 OFNrLmn&rs                                                                                  Page  3  of  4
Notes:  Although the dote are dose  fre oure  genraly judged the sct eothoritetive set reliable, it shold olso be soled that they ma  net he i-trt-
tionaIly cmperebi  boosue. of the lack of etedardlsed deieuitioee end  eecapto coed by different  -totmntia  in tlleotieg the data.  The date era, stoeotheleaa.
use ful to des= ibe order  of ,egslsde. iodiosto  trend., and ohraterietioa cetain  -J-o  difference   betee  toentr,i".
The adjusted oro.u . arxr-e fo  oath indicator cr0 populatiesreegbted   aS.ootrit ease   eatldie  the eete    rolae of the indicator. otoh. meet popolated
cutry_ t    eac.h grop.le  to. l:ath f date, group enrges of oIl itadt.tatr   for Capitol farplta Ol  ftp-rter  ant Of iditators  f   ...ee  to meter end encrtet
diaposel, Nosor,lo-   ditrihutien  end Povert  for other countr  grussepptai                            ihted ge-trl   sen  othobt ...laeem  of the etr    value  and
It  rltioavraes  f  ss indioslo  to  no ,e.  The...        rse   r  saeycefla  ero taet _ of "eotadd'-olae  shm                             ersthe vat-    f 
lodioato  0t a tinean   h  cu,tred   fasarme
LANOT AREA (thouta-d 09   t)aoa   oeteadiesiteon   fe.ltian   - tets.hesed
Ttl-T.tluf c  oe   -mprie tog lad urea sod ielao,d  Iat,r,                             =gj  -  m~e  of people (total, uh,anral                    redby  erta tie-
7A7i_ltuosl - Mo., -r-cectie otmt  of agioultro_ are  usd teepor..rily                      p-a   s  eoetgeof their respeotiro  popsiati-oa..-ttot  diapoeal1
or po.teacetly for cops,pttte ,%1     narket sod kiltohee gardoe o-  to                   sayioud th  oolol,ad dispoosl, aith or ~tuthout trsatoot, of
lie  fslloo.                                                       ~~~~~~~h-.a eacreta cod wee- bta y eel-b-hoo    yeto  on the use of pit
prlvi.e  end etiler loata11ettoa.
CAP PER CAPITA (UOO) - ((NP Per c-pt. c   e  nt t a   oott ebtk prct                        Poewlotiu  por rhiosecia   - Population dioidd by tobret  f prootictog physt-
caoloe    y san  -oveetoe.  athod ue Wol  IskuIa            _7-l  slf              oesqnified free andicel school at ooioersiy level.
INAC. 1970, sod 1977 dots.                                      ~~~~~~~Ponl.tilo  pqr  oeeiao can-  - PopulattIo  dviyded by .-eber of pr-aotioig
-ale eod fanalo grad oca  ure    pr-oti-al nos,   an...d selteet.t nuse..
ENERGY CONASUMPTION PER CAPITA   A-cooa  o-n9captioo of o-toseolo  ec.rgy  coal            Poulstion por hoerita1 bed - totel. urbee.so  rurs   - Popuatt    fotetl,
ord  igote.petolean,cotre  ga  arthyto-,noooaraedgrobersl          rbao, cod trura) divided by their respeotive o-tshrohaptlbd
el_ccivtt) to kilugra-  uf coal eqooa1eoc Per oapita; 19h0, 1970                        a-alblsh   in public aed private general and epetialisd hospital end re-
co2   d 1976 deco.                                                                         habilitetin   Hetr . gopitaleerese .tabllsheoot  permaeeoy  toaffsf by
POPLATION AND1 VITAL STATISTICS                                                             at least on  phye ioiao.  latabliah-ote  providing potioolplly custodial
Total oou..ci... old-year fe      Aio         . - 0   f July 1; 1960, 1970, - d             :tare  arent incloded.  fR..  boepiosle. heo-er, inood  healt  co-d sdt-
lAW  data.                                                        ocl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ cm tare not peenaostly staffed by a phyeioa   (hut by * medi-1lae
-uter ruolatton (Iroceot of ctatl1  - Racio of u-hat to total population;                   ieteno, oue., idife,  to.  onioh offe  in-petle-t sctnoodtaioo end
dlffer_o  defioftiona. of  .hrra ..       ay a ffectt ooparability of dete               provide a limIted rege of tedloal facilities.
-.nogco...tri-t,  lAk0, 19 70 ord 1915 dat.-                                           Adeiaeio  ear hoerita1 bed - Total  nuber of adisoato or disohargee
PoultonPofcloti                                                                      free heepitals dioidad by the tuseher of beds.
Pou .to    in fer lIft - Curran  popuIoton pr jettione are base.d"o
1975 total popclation bytg   t  tnedtht gol ity and fertility                        PM±fli2
rece.   Prjectoc pramter    o   otlt   ae botprh cof 3 levels                    grereat aiee of  h..ehud   ta        a  're  htcebid  -toa. urbo.  sod rursl -
toolg  ieep-oao   thrhtcesIgct   onr'   pe  cpita                                A    . hoshold* oo.oisa of a group ot  -ndlud ehohr    iuo   urtars
bon   rvl,td female life top-oteoy  oabiieg at 7.1 y-r.ad theirmto teals.                                    boarder or lod-  may or   y nor bs iOntuded Ii. the
Tho porntoret for fertility  'are also have 3 Iecela aeotn               deolr           houae.hold for etarietical porposee.
lv zertlicy acordin  co Ittoes leel ardpaat fnily panningPe---erc  onbr o  treot  tsr roan - total. urba. and rural - AVerege nmber
fur.a ..r ..Each conri    tch,   t  gndoeo these7         A  tebttl                    of2 personaperra   nal  urbo,,cod rural onnpied oonoeotio.a. Idoel1iogs
of -oaiyad fortitiy crodo for projooinpupss.reatiiv_.Ooeloecold   onpt e t,strutue  an   tnuOd                                                                   pate.
uicce  Oo clch roo it  qual  o thedeathree,ood atot the age.t              Covntoa  de.:g:lh  lcriiytolvng-    orea   poropnag  of,
genricio  of _une      _repece   iceif  -oaotly.  The Itatiotery~ Population        EDUCATION
tior.oset c.tout-do  the beala of the prjectd oheraterite  of,the                      kdiueted enrolmet ratios
popletot  v te yar  OOt ed   tert  of delieof fatlt   ie                          rnr   col    oa.nt  and fos1l    G Iroe  total. male and fta1e enroll-
torelacne   Iroel.veto  all a. g                                                                        t the primary levl1a  paroecaa  frepoi.trsr
Irretiay 'tt        tacoIit leached - The vee  shno Stacil...ry Pup4l-                   echoo-.      popltos  noral  loue               hiIdreo  egedf bm-iltear  but
ft. ovtir  hat1been reahed.                                                              adjuotod fo'r'difll fert  egthe  fpiayeuatt  for conrs                      ith
Pooulati-o d-nicy                                                                          urvre   ducaoioo etoletmy soteedIff porcot titos sat  pupils  r
Ptr to. Ito. - rid-vee  populrloc- per uqoere ktlavt-  (1ff he-taref                      hbo1 or shov  the official echoolage
of tora. aura.                                                                          fIol-d,r  echoo  -  gtotl. nle  -ed fenle - Ceeputd at above; secodary  ducs-
Pet t.  lo.   sIiclurlad - Cvp.Ctd ae ohov. for agriulcura1 land                          tin  eq .r..t eat fou.ryer  ofepovdpimary iartto;procidee
unv                                                                                   gnero1 vocationl,orte the  traintg  lotueo                  for pupils .te.a.ll  of
-ooultiocutcructu.e (pertertl  - Children fl-l4 yaar I  corking-aig1  1                          17yaso    -g:oropdeeore..aar   ge-raily ..moluded.
(05-AL -cero, ad rectired 115 yeara and over) eo per-staga  of mid-                    Voaitlerlot   eret o   a drf    -voaiona  toatitutiaeitolude
year tlpopulation  _IA, 1970 ttd 1977 data.                                               technical, iodoetrie1, or other pr ogress   hih operate iodepeodstlyora
_oualnaothraeercr I-ttal - Atnnuol groth rates of rtatl                             deparen-t. of  -eoodary ioetitutiane
mi-erpopulations  for 1950-, lAA?,ad  N17.Puel-tea..heor -ta- trnr..sd seodsry - Total erudeete arolled It
pettltlenaroeth rte fertec) -urhd I  goulgot   an    fuhr                        prinory and .eoondary levels dividnd by n-b-r  of to..therei  th.cre
pupltiov   fu   95-19       9610 0,an l0tfl                                              poodiog levels.
'or0itt'. tacoP. er ..t.u.ed. -l-cnul lIvethircha per th-o...od of                   Adult literacy rate  tertet) - Literate adults  fable to red and eritela
'rio-year  pou -to    lIht. 19107 9rd1977 doaa perc..notge of tote1 adult populaio  aged 15 years antdover.
Crdedet.reto(or .h.sad 1oru  deatha per rho...aod of mid-
vee   population   Ik, 196  7f sod 1977 data.                                       CfN22nTld
tr tarrrduclrrte-Avrsgeonhbrofdoughtereooa                      II hoer          Paeeour osr  (rer couoend  porltionl - Pas... g-er t cor  capriaa- otor.cr
ither tona   reprod- tisprid i   h   netc                  reaeogt                     soaring I... char eIght poreone     dcolude         1 a ......t  h-arsa  and military
tpe-ific  fortity  rer.uoel  fleyaroeegeediogtin 19601,                                  veoe.
1970., ad 1975.                                                                       Radio roIyrre  (peo tboueood ooou,iafion   - All cypee of reo..loVre for radir
fonilo  _lrorca        terote.  -tnua  (tho...u.d.)a"- nu I  ubeu of                       br:oedoete to ~general.public per thouaerd of ppultion;  -roldee uti .....ed
pccecor  of hiuth-cocr-I deoloet under acopice  of  _aiocal fet_ly                     rootietItIoutries  od in yoere ohen regiatretIn  of radio ecte  -a  ft
pluno  pogrn                                                                        effect'data for recet year- cay notb hecparabletioneeoecto--troe
F-vilyoloi-.ec(erot o   aredu                         f - Porergi  of                     ahotoi dIbaeig
varriod  -o-n of oild-borogae-           1-4ytos   ho At hiuth-cotrol                  T   eeora(e 1nad  ouaio  hO  ecivers  for hrodcattasnro
fOot- coo ts11 taried   -0  It sate age group.                                           puhlic per thout..ndpouainecldeolined  TO  eevr   eto
Itriu  uod In Ye_    ha   eieroo   of T   rewei   fet
'000 A1D NOTARITIlOb                                                                     Nvetepraorurcloio          p- thoued..       ua.o..Ihnstovroeirua
lod-o of fod -rdu-tio- err  tri         (I hA6g-71 s If   -  loden of pot -aplt.            ticc of "daily gen..r-1  oto rert ceopeper' defined  eaperiodical publi-
acul -rducio  of elI toe,! -ordtt.Pouto    olode   ee-ndito, devoted pri.noilp  to reodnIttr      r.1  Ie o...tiderad to
ford sod it 0-  -alda  yer hania. .Cur-ditia-coe  prinay Ruoce                           hr "doily' if It opp.. t.  least fou   ieoek
(e.g. oug-rcae i-eteo   fsco(uIO00eil   rdcoacotioo                                    Ctn   ou   atedance ret oaiint.   ye                 ae   on. d the toehr of tickott
rec. cffee  ed te  ate  oc uddl.  bggregatepreutiorof ea..Icr~                    od duricg the y..., includiefag eoeot.t drIve-it tinece   sod etbile
Ishtdon  aiolI overg  prduce.r price oeighte..uio
Per corita curtly of clre   leret f oulaor                      -Conputed ftn
c-egy oquivalert of vet fot'd eple   avilbl  to cou..try per -apico                     OA ptRci
per dt.  vetlalo epplis coprite donestic producio,Lupntelse                 ''iT"T       -o  f-ros (th-aeedsl - Eooni-ally active paron,    ldiog armed
aopoots   ad.h choge  Ic nor, A.Nt  uPp'ies  _olode n.s_            ee,eI    d           forcee end onsployad hot seclu.ding hoa,i-oe, etodeeta, etc.Dlfii-
quavitietuea.d it food Prrt..elog, codlossi  di ihcc .Es                                 tine  ir   ... va .to   tTIotre eeeo  toapareble.
Iuirereotaoe-reeeImted  hrF,ad 1           on phailgis  nede fo.r nor-           F-femal fperoeetl - F-1el   :labrfreepeooaeo to.,tal Ishor.foce
_a  aotIivl  and health  oon,.ideri_eoirrcse,t.1ta            l enpreur,boy            Aerio-lcuro  foref-Lbofoeit  feiog   foety, huning adfishing
-,ighto.  age aod se  die-i  tutoaof Popultion  ao            1loig1   e.                o   eoatg    fttllbrfre
-ovt fur  -ute at hot-dnold leve.                                                      Iod.ety l-e.roeto   - Labor force I. mioiog. contrucion, ma-at,igad
Per -acica suolv of orutei  'gra-  nor day) - prteit concet of Pcr                         .1eotricity,  ater and gao e  pororocage of ltre1 labor force.
capIto vet otpply of food pt,r day.  Nrt euPPlyof ford In defined ac                   Particioti2n raelrog)-ta,sl,enfses-Ptipninr
abov.   teuireencefur  Ll    riocla  -acbliehed by USDA prrvidr, for-tvt   ae  aecastda t oa,ml,ndfaelbrfrcs
minoa    elaceof 601 g-e   of total proroin Per day end 20  -rea                      peottae   oftoal  ml  ad fooale pcpolatin of eil ages raspecriueiy;
of  tIsa  so d Pu lee pr-eri, or  hbith 10 grom  ehould be animl pu.oti.                 lAkI,      . o9fan  t197   ae    bet r1inporopcoraerfet
Thes  etaodarda ore lIr   chat. thote of 75 greet of total pro "i und                     "D    ,7    d17    ..              h.     .IO.priit.               -tf.t
07crneof  -Iu  proceir maanavrge for rho o-rd, proprod  y                          ge _een ictor  vfroppIco,adln  tiA rn. vfo   sia
PAP to the Third coul  Food Su.-.y.                                                      oraPm  na ionlt ot
1-   .ppl, ft    ~ .i..1 ..d p.l. - Pr-i. -ppy offfoodaE-i  dce-d.nc. ratio -ROoio of popolacton   nd-r 15 aod 65 sod ove  to
Per--oo   ft_ o oel eurl  frlov aie  od rue P-   Prtensupl   f  oo                         he labor forco iv age group of 15-h4 ...ara.
Child foce- 1-49   -     Itaityrtc fort thouo-d)  1-tts  d..h h.P.,ch   ''               COt4E DISTRIBUTION
sod  voggroup 1-4  trc, to  hlve   in  hbio             g     _ roP;.fo  ..o.t         P-rc-..n of r t.vt  Ic o-  (huth in  -ah and kiod,  rrie   by  ickh-t 5
d'r_  "'. t.bl...                        .....perceo,  ichent 20 p--cot. p-orrt 20 percent  and poor-ot 40 pe-cr
'fEACTO                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~of ic_ctehodo
l.f .........o. at birth fva.... .A- Aerg  non           of pe-r  of life  r-tiv
boa   l-th, l9Al, 1970. -vd 1917 dtc.,                                          fOOEiTY TufiET DNOOt
Lcs,nro  torc  Iot-  -fouad,.iAou-1 d-athe ofifv-nr                            Otinit.d absolut   ovry tcaolvl(Ull pre  canto)  - c -s and rurlI
ou   rr ofacertoord II foAic                                                      bs-l-t  poverty inton   Iro1 is thet Iocon         _ lee  heo  ahic h a otnie.i
Aoet  cufe oue    teon  of P.ul  co:-uoi.ub.eod rual1-                                or -tttOnally adoqoote diet pl- -trtentIl non-fond r-quireneto  It out
ci racr .tPply  fivcfudnscerd.  -urf-eo-r- or uct-ated tot                          Estimate,dreaieovrotcnlul p4-11  re  ca'titl   u.b. and ru-ai1
oort.tavnood Aeer  uch  ',  hat Pr-  pru,,tced hore hot  trrg,cra   eltv   povrt   iv  lvel it oc-thiod  It toeper to"Ical
_o uo  oy  el     it .e..ar   of .th rirrop_ Otppt ltout                          ph.valcne                 ...econr.   taIneinde-toe   Cm- the trAro
20r, utu   hunafote  a,' he-oid-rd at boing  ithiv  ..at.ahI                          occtoucd pvoulutionb. belo -euoot  roo-tr  ioca           1- Iri (ettot,-ura -        nd
ooe'fo t'oc.  Irua   avI         teooobieoceo          -1udcmP.,orle -t of  popoletlinr-rhas-d  .u..fl.chrar   'hoftP-ucr'
'c f:''r'feoooc'co  teoueld.d   o   mot   po
rt cvcoP... ~ftOtieaoo f, thi-u the fanily'u vecr  Eed'icovonic endcotllescvit
tcvont   oeocc  cdPrvec lnoceurc,c:



ANNEX I
20  -                                                  ?g  4 of4
COUNTRY DATA - WESTERN SAMOA
AREA                             POPULATION (1977)                        DENSITY
2,840 sq km                                153 (thousand)                      54 per sq km
Net rate of growth:  0.71 (1971 to 1976)
POPULATION CHARACTERISTICS (1976)                           HEALTH
Crude birth rate (per 1,000)                - 36.9           Population per physician              - 2,920
Crude death rate (per 1,000)                -  6.7          Population per hospital bed            -   240
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births) - 39.9/a
EDUCATION                                                   ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (1971)
Adult literacy rate                - 97.81                  X of population - urban - 861
Primary school enrollment          - 912                    1 of population - rural -
ACCESS TO PIPED WATER (1971)                                NUTRITION
2 of population - urban - 22.3                              Calorie intake as 1 of requirement    - 100.0
- rural -  2.3                             Per capita daily protein Intake (gms) -  52.7
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1977: US$360 /b
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1976 (Currcnt prices)           GOVERNMENT FINANCE
WS$ mln
USS Mln        2                                                     1977
GNP at market prices /b          50.0        100.0        Current receipts                           17.7
Exports of goods                  4.3          8.6        Current expenditures                       13.0
Imports of goods                 18.9         37.8        Current surplus                             4.7
Capital expenditures                      15.6
External assistance & other (net)         10.9
MONEY. CREDIT AND PRICES                   1970   1971   1972   1973   1974   1975    1976          1977
(Million WS$ outstanding at end period)
Money and quasi-money                       3.8    4.1    4.7    6.1    7.1    7.5         9.2      10.9
Bank credit to public sector                ...   -0.5    0.5    1.1    1.2    0.5         0.1      -0.8
Rank credit to private sector               ...    2.0    2.6    2.9    4.1    3.8         5.9       7.2
(Percentages or Index Numbera)
Consumer price index (1971 - 100)          95.6  100.0  108.8  135.0  159.6  158.2   180.4    196.2
Annual percentage change in:
Consumer price index                        2.9    4.6    8.8   24.1   18.2   -0.8    14.0           8.8
Bank credit to public sector                ...    ...      -   227.1    4.9  -58.3   -80.0   -900.0
Bank credit to private sector               ...    ...   29.7   10.7   42.3   -7.3    55.3          22.0
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                              MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1975-77)
1975    1976   1977 /c                                     US$ mln      1
(US$ million)
Exports of goods              2.9      4.3     9.5               Copra                     4.2       43.3
Imports of goods             14.2    18.9    26.9                Cocoa                     4.1       42.3
Bananas                   0.1        1.0
Trade balance               -11.3   -14.6   -17.4                Timber                    0.2        2.1
Taro                      0.4        4.1
Services (net)                0.7      1.1     1.6               Other                     0.7        7.2
Net transfers                 4.4      7.1     9.7                    Total                9.7      100.0
Balance on current account -6.2    -6.4    -6.1
EXTERNAL PUBLIC DEBT, DECEMBER 1978
Net MLT borrowing /d          5.0      3.1     2.3                                                 US$ *ln
Other capital (net)           1.5      2.6     6.1               Public debt, incl. guaranteed    36.8
Increase in reserves (-)   -0.3       0.7    -2.3
DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1977 /e        2
Gross reserves (end year)   3.5        3.8     5.4
Public debt, incl. guaranteed        8.6
RATE OF EXCHANGE
1972   1973   1974   1975   1976   1977    IBRD/IDA LENDING. FEBRUARY 1979  IDA
(USs million)
WS$1.OO - US$   1.481  1.635  1.649  1.585  1.255  1.271   Outstanding & disbursed                   4.2
US$1.00 - WS$   0.675  0.612  0.606  0.631  0.797  0.787   Undisbursed                               0.2
Outstanding, incl. undisbursed    4.4
/a  1974.
T;   Eatimates are tentative, as there are no national income accounts.
7c  Estimated.
/d  Includes errors and omissions.
/e  Ratio of debt service to exports of goods and nonfactor services.
Note:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during
the period covered.
...    Not available.
April 2, 1979



- 21 -
ANNEX 11
Page 1 of 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN WESTERN SAMOA
A. STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS (as of June 30, 1979)
Amount in US$ Million
Credit                                        (Less Cancellations)
Number   Year  Borrower        Purpose        IDA         Undisbursed
535    1975  Western Samoa  Highways         4.4           0.15
Total                                 4.4
of which has been repaid              -
Total now outstanding                 4.4
Amount sold                             _
of which has been repaid              -
Total now held by IDA                 4.4
Total undisbursed                                    0.15
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of June 30, 1979)
None
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
Credit No. 535:  First Highway Project; US$4.4 Million Credit of
March 19, 1975; Effective Date: April 17, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The construction work on two project roads is being carried out
by the Government's semi-autonomous Special Projects Development Corporation
(SPDC). In the iEirst two years of project implementation (1975/76) progress
was slow, but measures taken in mid-1976 to eliminate land acquisition problems
have resulted in significantly improved progress in 1977. The first project
road was completed in mid-1977 and the second road in mid-1978. The only
remaining work, oDn a separate contract for a major bridge, is substantially
completed with only few minor items to be finished. Total project costs are
estimated to be close to the appraisal estimates.



- 22 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
WESTERN SAMOA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project;  one and one half years
(b)  Project prepared by:  The Government and IDA
(c)  First presented to IDA:  December 1977
Identification/preparation mission: May 1978
(d)  Departure of appraisal mission:  October 1978
(e)  Completion of negotiations:  June 1979
(f)  Estimated date of effectiveness:  December 1979
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Conditions of effectiveness:
(i)  Special conditions of effectiveness of the IDA credit would
be that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
EEC Special Action credit have been met (para. 58); and
(ii) Special conditions of effectiveness of the EEC Special Action
credit would be that all conditions precedent to the effective-
ness of the IDA credit have been met (para. 58).
(b) Other special conditions:
(i)  During the project period, WSTEC would not start any new
activities, expand substantially any of its existing activi-
ties, or appoint a new general manager without prior consulta-
tion with IDA (para. 36);
(ii)  The Government would provide for the transfer of research
and extension responsibilities back to DOA beginning in
project year three at the discretion of the Steering Commitee.
The Government would also take the necessary action to enable
DOA gradually to take over nurseries, research and extension
activities from WSTEC. The Steering Committee would also
coordinate seed multiplication, research and extension activities
among DOA, WSTEC and RCTA (para. 37);



- 23 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(iii)  The Government would obtain IDA's agreement before approving
the terms of reference and appointing the specialists and the
consultants (para. 39);
(iv)  The Government would make arrangements satisfactory to IDA to
ensure financing for the tree crop development. Financing should
be arranged before disbursements for village tree crop
plantings are made under the project. Village taro plantings
and WSTEC's marketing activities would be financed by villagers
and through short-term credit by the Government (para. 43);
and
(v) Participa,ting agencies would maintain separate project accounts
and these together with WSTEC's audited overall accounts would
be furnished to IDA within six months of the close of each
fiscal year (para. 47).






172 40'                                        172 20'                                                                                         17140r
WESTERN SAMOA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FoIeaIeIs                                                                                             -        PROJECT ROADS tMPROVEMENTS
FaJeSutX  ,5>ui    -  0 j   1    Valip.ul    w                                        PREVIOUS PROJECT ROADS(First Highway Project CR 535 WSO)
au \                        6--'0c  S   /  ?  o__g_g_                                                                 PAVED ROADS
IMPROVED ROADS
u                                                                              .. ......... UNIMPROVED ROADS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  NMROE  OD
Ie, < X g  .>  '   \  a  - =    =  PLANTATION ROADS
n,., e.ition ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~----FERRY
Falr   A LELIMA   ,M,S AiliDi/, V A  I' I                                                                                             RIVERS
7 S3 V   AAAA   Y[:- ESTATE AREA
13040'                                                                                                                                                                                                      130W
SalaX   /    /   I  \   /tT0 10  20        30
fv  f   /LATA  \,    \           eloioga                                                                       KILOMETERS
0                      10                     20
Go<t   z*£-t   tei -SatuoPr    " ' . .                                                                   MILES
N                                  Meliet2  FlF  M   Ftal
j',iss,otehtrfwmdrWeldsdrnhe teffo    tts55                                       Apolims IsIand       M.        irf|os
hoondeee shos so    h.sse do  s  erl.s  the pelt f the WedS 655k sod, utouloo                                                     o~sd   *IP
tomab-sod.-M. eh... h P -al shaeptefvf,mVrmvno6mmo Mno Island'                                                                                        , 1Pd V.alri>Sllll
tfhccite,ant' jofetsrtht uds. the2C lega                                                                        Vatpa We ofal pe tiapatata or bs esdereteo               - ,FL
172 040'                                       17220
Saconecs  U. S. A.
t <_>,!KQORE JAPAN                                                                                                                                   U        L U               -           T'
CHINAo
19TAIWAN                      H~~~~~~~~~~~~AWAII                                                                                                    alOl.l40'  hO  isSisaa s
NORTr PAciFIC OCEAN          1tHnolhlo                   -14°eC'
,,PHILIPPINES
UA~
AItNEA                     t
IND4ESIA       EWGI.IINE
p5~ol   WESTERN SAMOa                                                                             South   Paclfi c   Oce an
FIJI   .~~~~~  AH  I-
FIJI F   ltt   sCOOK ISLANDt
AUSTRALIA
<  v?  tS         c ist    ~SO/JTII PACIFIC OCEAN                                                                                                                                                    _
h\-  ,JSvdttey  4 27NEWZEALAD                                                                    172000                                          171040e                                    y 
Auc'               ZELAN



