The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19543
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(Credit 2418-UG)
June 30, 1999
Private Sector and Finance
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its content may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       Uganda Shillings (U Sh)
US$1.0              Uganda Shillings 1455
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
July 1-June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BOU              Bank of Uganda
CPI              Consumer Price Index
DO               Development Objective(s)
EFMP             Economic and Financial Management Project
EFMP II          Second Economic and Financial Management Project
ICB              International Competitive Bidding
ICBP             Institutional Capacity Building Project
IDA              International Development Association
IP               Implementation Progress
iS               Information Systems
IT               Information Technology
GOU              Government of Uganda
GDP              Gross Domestic Product
FSAC             Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
FY               Fiscal Year
MoF              Ministry of Finance
MFEP             Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
MoFPED           Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development
MoLG             Ministry of Local Government
MPS              Ministry of Public Service
OAG              Office of the Auditor General
PPAs             Priority Program Areas
SAC I            First Structural Adjustment Credit
TA               Technical Assistance
UCS              Uganda Computer Services
URA              Uganda Revenue Authority
Vice President                             Callisto Madavo
Director                                  James W. Adams
Acting Sector Manager                      David Cook
Team Leader                               Gaiv Tata
Team Members                              Nelson Ofwono, Joseph Kizito



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(Credit 2418-UG)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface                                                                      i
Evaluation summary                                                          ii
Part I: Project implementation assessment
A.    Introduction                                                    1
B.    Background                                                      1
C.    Statement/evaluation of objectives                              1
D.    Achievement of objectives                                       3
E.    Major factors affecting the project                             11
F.    Project sustainability                                          12
G.    Bank performance                                                12
H.    Borrower performance                                            13
I.    Assessment of outcome                                           14
J.     Future operation                                               14
K.    Key lessons learned                                             14
Part HI: Statistical annexes
Appendices
A. Mission's aide-memoire
B. Borrower contribution to the ICR
C. Borrower's comments on the ICR
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(Credit 2418-UG)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Economic and Financial
Management Project in Uganda, for which Credit 2418-UG in the amount of SDR 22 million
(US$29 million equivalent) was approved on August 4, 1992 and made effective on October 26,
1992.
The credit will close on June 30, 1999 which is the original closing date. The credit is
almost fully disbursed'. Co-financing for the project was provided by Austria; Denmark;
Sweden; the Netherlands; Norway and the United Kingdom.
The ICR was prepared by a team consisting of Gaiv Tata, AFTPI and Nelson Ofvwono and
Joseph Kizito, AFMUG. Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final
supervision/completion mission in November 1998. The borrower contributed to preparation of
the ICR by preparing its own evaluation of the project and commenting on the draft ICR.
SDR 6, 116.63 remains to be disbursed and will be disbursed against eligible expenditures
incurred prior to June 30, 1999.






ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(Credit 2418-UG)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
i. With a per capita income of US$330 (FY1997), Uganda remains one of the poorest countries
in the world. Over the thirteen years that the National Resistance Movement Government has
been in power there has, however, been a significant improvement in the country's economic and
financial management as compared to the chaotic period prior to 1986. The improvements in
economic performance began to be particularly notable during the period after 1992 during which
time the Bank continued its support through the First, Second and Third Structural Adjustment
Credits. Technical assistance support was provided through the Economic and Financial
Management Project (FY1993), the Institutional Capacity Building Project (FY1996 onwards)
and preparation of a Second Economic and Financial Management Project (proposed FY2000).
Project Objectives
ii. The objectives of the Project were to: assist the Borrower to further enhance institutional
capacity building in key governmental ministries and agencies; deepen and extend financial work
in the financial and economic areas; and support the Borrower to attain the key objectives of its
structural adjustment efforts. Given that the project provided Technical Assistance support for
the implementation of the policy objectives stated in the First Structural Adjustment Credit, the
project can be considered as important for the Bank's Country Strategy at the time.
iii. There are two fundamental problems with the statement of development outcomes: imprecise
statement of objectives and difficulty in translating the stated objectives into development
outcome indicators. Given these problems with the stated objectives, it was considered necessary
to construct outcome indicators against which to judge the project's development impact. The
outcome indicators - not necessarily in order of priority - which would have been utilized would
have been: (a) increased budgetary allocations to sectors/themes identified as priority sectors for
the Government; (b) improved financial management including more timely preparation and
auditing of Government accounts; (c) improved quality and timeliness in macro economic and
poverty data; (d) increased levels of Government revenues; (e) improved functioning of Bank of
Uganda (BOU) especially with regard to capabilities for Government cash management functions;
and (f) improved service delivery resulting from civil service reform.
Implementation Experience and Results
iv. Approximately US$ 33.9 million was expended during project implementation; of this
US$30.3 million was provided from the IDA credit and US$3.6 million was provided from
Government counterpart funds. IDA funds were utilized for Technical Assistance and training



iii
(US$17.90 million), office equipment and vehicles (US$6.33 million), civil works (US$4.61
million) and operating costs (US$1.48 million). The project has been implemented within the
timeframe expected with funds having been disbursed slightly ahead of schedule.
v. The assessment is that project satisfactorily achieved its development objectives. The Table
below compares actual achievements as compared to the restated objectives.
Development Objectives (DO) and    Indicator: start     Indicator: end      Components         % of       IP         DO Rating
Indicators (I)                     project              project             contributing to DO   project    Rating
cost
DO: Increased budgets for priority                                          Central Budget      11%       U           Satisfactory
sectors                                                                     Local Budget         3%        S
I: Budget allocations to Priority  I: 20.9%2            I:25.4%0            Economic             8%        S
Program Areas (PPAs) including                                              Recovery Program
salaries for primary school teachers                                        Building 4         3%          S
Subtotal           30
DO: Improved financial management                                           Treasury             5%       U           Satisfactory
including more timely preparation                                           Auditor General      5%        S
and auditing of Government                                                  UCS                 11%       U
accounts                           I: Backlog of 4      I: Audited          Building             8%/O      S
I: Audited Government accounts     years                accounts upto       Subtotal           29%
previous FY
DO: Improved quality and timeliness                                         Statistics          11%        S          Satisfactory
in macro economic and poverty data
Il: Scope and coverage of national  Il: Limnited (e.g.  Il: Increased
economic statistics                CPI only Kampala    scope and
I2: Household surveys              based)               frequency (e.g.
I2: Last survey     CPI for 5 towns)
conducted in        I2: Surveys
1988/89             conducted
annually from
1992/93 onwards
for 4 years
DO: Increased levels of Government                                          URA                  8%        5          Satisfactory
revenues
I: Percentage of GDP               I:6.8% of GDP        I: 11.4% of GDP5
DO: Improved capabilities for                                               BOU                  6%       U           Unsatisfactory
Goverinment cash management
functions
I: Reduced float of cheques        I: Unknown           I: Unknown
DO: Improved service delivery                                               MPS                  9%        S          Satisfactory
resulting from civil service reform6    FY1992/93       FY 1997/98
II: Number of civil servants       11:214,232           II: 124,664
12: Wage bill                      I2: US$52.2          i2: US$222.4
million             million___________________
2Measured as a proportion of total recurrent and GOU-flnded development expenditures. Base year is FY
95/96 which is the first year for which data on primary teacher salaries is separately available. The PPA
concept was first used in FY94/95.
3Budget for FY 98/99.
4The refurbished building houses the Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development and the
office of the Auditor General. The costs of the building component have been split 50:50 between the two
development objectives on an arbitrary basis
5 Provisional estimate for FY 97/98.



iv
vi. The project's sustainability is uncertain. The Government continues to receive support from
various donors for its core economic and financial management functions. However, the
sustainability of human resources/capacities built up in the civil service is dependent on: the
Govemnment continuing to increase general wage levels to take into account the inflation which
has occurred since the establishment of the "living wage" calculations; and providing better
compensation for key technical skills (primarily accountants and information system specialists).
On the latter issue, after several years of delay, the Government is making a credible attempt at
reviewing the pay structure. However, until this key action is implemented, sustainability while
probable remains uncertain.
vii. Key factors affecting project implementation. There were three central factors: staffing
policies, information systems changes and decentralization. First, the design of the project -
especially with regard to training and other forms of capacity building - assumed the presence of
staff (either those already on board or to be recruited). In fact, the implementation of civil service
reform substantially impacted on this assumption since there was considerable retrenchment
which reduced existing numbers of staff and since salaries for qualified professionals remained
well below market levels, staff continued to leave the civil service and could not be easily
replaced due to a broad hiring freeze. Second, the Government did not have an implementable
information systems/ information technology strategy or standards and did not have institutional
structures for managing the formulation and monitoring of such standards. As a consequence,
there was both a strategic error (the Government attempting to develop its own information
systems with scarce in-house expertise instead of purchasing from the market) and a
tactical/sequencing error (i.e. purchasing hardware and operating system software before the
specifications for the application software were developed and the software selected). Third,
decentralization resulted in considerable changes in central and local government responsibilities
and, hence, had fundamental implications on the nature of administrative systems (especially
information systems) which were to be designed under the project.
viii.Bank's Performance. The Bank's performance was satisfactory during project identification
and preparation. During appraisal, the Bank's performance was unsatisfactory as the team did not
reduce the size and scope of the Government proposals. Further, the team was lacking skills in
information systems development, architecture/construction and fiscal management - all of these
were areas of major expenditure under the project. During supervision the Bank's performance
was only marginally satisfactory. While the Bank did supervise the project with sufficient
frequency, specialist staff were lacking especially in information systems and construction
supervision during key phases of the project. Further, the Bank used three different Task
Managers for project supervision and changed supervision responsibilities among these Task
Managers four times.
6   No direct measurements of Govemment service delivery have yet been made in Uganda; improved
efficiency imputed from lower level of civil servants and higher levels of wage bill. These were the
two outcome indicators which were commonly utilized in Uganda at the time.
7   As of December 1997.



v
ix. Borrower's Performance. Performance of the Borrower during identification, preparation
and appraisal was unsatisfactory. The project was largely prepared by consultants which, in some
cases (e.g. URA business plan and civil service reform program) took into account the input of
their counterparts. However, in the early stages of development, there was clearly no "ownership"
of the project by senior Ministry of Finance officials. Negotiations were delayed because the
borrower raised concems at that late stage regarding the substantial levels of Technical Assistance
incorporated into the project. Borrower perfonmance and ownership of the project post-
negotiation significantly improved. This resulted from a new management team which took over
in the core implementing agency - the Ministry of Finance and Planning (MFEP) - after project
negotiations had occurred. The ministry's technical leadership became the "champion" of the
economic reform program and saw the central role that the project would have in its
implementation. This leadership and ownership of the project lasted despite constant changes in
the institutional structure at the MFEP. The Govemment's performance in implementing the
project was satisfactory. However, the Government did not institute institutional arrangements to
co-ordinate the linkages between the various reforms until November 1997.
x. Overall, based on the project's development outcomes and sustainability ratings, the project is
assessed as having satisfactorily achieved its development objectives.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
xi. Most importantfindings. The findings relating to technical assistance/long-term advisory
support are that it was extremely difficult to ensure consistent quality of advisory support and that
the work of technically skilled advisors was "owned" by the counterparts. Where these two
conditions were met and counterparts were available, there was a credible capacity built (e.g. in
the budget and macro-economic policy departments) and the functions are largely carried out
today by Ugandans. Where counterparts were not available (e.g. in Treasury), there was a
propensity for advisors to get drawn into the operational work due to absence of staff. Finally, it
is questionable whether for some key positions requiring professional qualifications, there will be
a sufficient number of counterparts until the current pay structure is substantially changed. In
recognition of this fact, the MoFPED took the pragmatic step of appointing two of the consultants
- who are professionally qualified accountants - into line positions. The approach is a practical
stop-gap measure but if the pay structure is not improved, this contracting out arrangement will
have to be continued for extended periods of time with cost and financing implications. The other
important finding relates to information systems and technology, where in the absence of an
information systems/technology strategy and active management and monitoring of standards,
rapid changes in information technology are rendering current equipment obsolete. Given the old
nature of the existing information systems, the Government's investments in systems and
technology have a limited life span and substantial new investments are needed fairly soon.
xii. Lessons. First, in the absence of significant pay reform which will allow the Government to
hire and retain professionals (accountants and information systems staff) into the civil service, it is
questionable whether sustainable capacity building efforts can be undertaken or whether staff in
whom capacity has been built will remain with the civil service. Second, an information
systems/technology strategy and standards and institutional arrangements for continuous
management and monitoring are necessary. Given the substantial decentralization program, these
institutional arrangements need to ensure consistency across both central and local governments.
The strategy formulated needs to deal realistically with existing constraints (e.g. making



vi
substantial use of outsourcing if there are problems with hiring professionals within the
Government), ensure that appropriate sequencing of actions is undertaken (e.g. developing general
systems architecture before specific system requirements are developed) and instituting
appropriate safeguards (e.g. separating system design/supervision contracts from software/
hardware acquisition contracts. The Government has taken this lesson into account in the design
of the Second Economic and Financial Management Project. Third, the management of complex
programs and co-ordination of several reform programs (civil service reform, decentralization and
expenditure management reform) should be institutionalized within the existing Government
structure. Utilizing projects as the fora for such co-ordination may not be the optimal solution.
Further, appropriate sequencing of activities across the various reforms are required to be
managed in a co-ordinated manner. The Government has incorporated this lesson into the design
of institutional arrangements for the Public Service Reform 1997-2002 Programme. Fourth, in the
case of capacity building projects, a much closer linkage needs to be made between the
availability/recruitment of counterpart staff within the Government, the recruitment of advisors
and the acquisition of office equipment to get full productivity out of the advisor/counterpart
teams.
xiii. Future Operations. The activities which commenced under EFMP are being continued
under different projects. Civil Service Reform is being continued under the Central Government
Capacity Building component of the Institutional Capacity Building Project since August 1995.
Support to the Bank of Uganda is continuing through the Financial Markets Assistance Project
which has been recently approved by IDA's Board. Finally, key areas in expenditure management
reform are expected to be supported by the follow-on operation - the Second Economic and
Financial Management Project.






PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Introduction
1.    With a per capita income of US$330 (FY1997), 8Uganda remains one of the poorest
countries in the world. Over the thirteen years that the National Resistance Movement
Government has been in power there has, however, been a significant improvement in the
country's economic and financial management as compared to the chaotic period prior to 1986.
Between 1987-91, the World Bank provided support through two structural adjustment credits
(First and Second Economic Recovery Credits) and two technical assistance credits (Second and
Third Technical Assistance Projects). The improvements in economic performance began to be
particularly notable during the period after 1992 during which time the Bank continued its support
through the First, Second and Third Structural Adjustment Credits. Technical assistance support
was provided through the Economic and Financial Management Project (FY1993), the
Institutional Capacity Building Project (FY1996 onwards) and preparation of a Second Economic
and Financial Management Project (proposed FY2000).
B. Background
2.    In the early 1990s, macro economic stabilization had not yet been fully achieved as high
inflation prevailed and sustaining the supply response was still a challenge. The Government
sought the World Bank's assistance - through the First Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC I) - in
deepening the structural adjustment program by stimulating private sector-led growth and
improving the effectiveness of the Government. In parallel, and to support the aims of SAC I,
the Government began preparing the Economic and Financial Management Project. Initially,
EFMP and SAC I processing were closely related. SAC I was appraised in April 1991 while
EFMP was appraised in April 1991 with a post-appraisal in July/August 1991. 9 However, while
SAC I was negotiated in October 1991, negotiations for EFMP which were scheduled for
November 1991 were delayed. SAC I went on to be approved by the Board in November 1991
and became effective in January 1992 before EFMP negotiations were held in March 1992.
EFMP Board approval was obtained on August 4, 1992 and the credit became effective on
October 26, 1992.
C. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
3.    Statement of Objectives and Importance to the Bank's Country Strategy. The objectives
of the Project were to: assist the Borrower to further enhance institutional capacity building in key
governmental ministries and agencies; deepen and extend financial work in the financial and
economic areas; and support the Borrower to attain the key objectives of its structural adjustment
efforts. 10 Given that the project provided Technical Assistance support for the implementation
of the policy objectives stated in SAC I, the project can be considered as important for the Bank's
Country Strategy at the time.
8  Per Annex D of OP3.10 dated June 1998.
9  Earlier steps in the EFMP project cycle consisted of the project concept which was identified in July
1990 and pre-appraisal in Nov-Dec, 1990.
10 From Development Credit Agreement dated September 22, 1992.



2
4.    Clarity and Realism. There are two fundamental problems with the statement of
development outcomes: imprecise statement of objectives and difficulty in translating the stated
objectives into development outcome indicators.
5.    Imprecise Statement of Objectives. The objective is a general statement that project
outputs (deepening and extending financial work in the financial and economic areas) would lead
to both achievement of short-term development objectives (supporting the Borrower to attain the
key benchmarks under SAC I) and long-term development objectives (assisting the Borrower to
further enhance institutional capacity building). There is no precise definition of expected
outcomes in the main programs supported (i.e. expenditure management, revenue management
and civil service reform).
6.    Stated objectives are not readily translatable into development outcome indicators. It is
unclear from the project preparation documentation whether SAC I benchmarks were expected to
be the measure for progress on short-term objectives. Further, the indicators defined in project
documentation focused largely on achievement of project outputs or process improvementsl .
Only one out of all the indicators relates to achieving development outcomes.
7.    Given the above problems with the stated objectives, it was considered necessary to
identify the types of outcome indicators against which to judge the project's development impact.
However, to prevent a retrospective bias from creeping into the assessment, no specific qualitative
or quantitative targets were established and the evaluation compared changes in the indicators
between the start and completion of the project. The outcome indicators - not necessarily in order
of priority - which have been identified include: (i) increased budgetary allocations to
sectors/themes designated as priority sectors for the Government; (ii) improved financial
management including more timely preparation and auditing of Government accounts; (iii)
improved quality and timeliness in macro economic and poverty data; (iv) increased levels of
Government revenues 12; (v) improved functioning of BOU especially with regard to capabilities
for Government cash management functions; (vi) improved service delivery resulting from civil
service reform.
8.    Evaluation of Project Complexity. To achieve the wide range of development outcomes
discussed above, the project included twelve components which were implemented by seven
institutions - Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning; Ministry of Public Service; Ministry of
Local Government; Ministry of Defence; Auditor General; Uganda Revenue Authority; and Bank
of Uganda. During preparation, the complexity of the project was assumed as necessary given
the complexity of the processes which were being reformed and the need for co-ordination across
the reforms. However, this evaluation has concluded that this rationale was only partially correct.
While it was necessary (and critical) to co-ordinate the reforms of the various different processes
(revenue management; expenditure management; planning and budgeting; economic/social
statistics; and payroll/personnel management) included under the project, it was not necessary as a
corollary to include all of these reforms within the same project. The evaluation is that the
" Anmex 9 to the Technical Annex which accompanied the Memorandum of the President for the
project.
12  This is the only outcome indicator provided in Annex 9. It reads "revenues raised increased to 12%
GDPby 1993/94 and 15% by 1996/97"



3
expectation that the project would become the forum for the policy and implementation co-
ordination to occur did not materialize. The establishment of institutional arrangements which
would co-ordinate the various reforms (and projects supporting the reforms) began to occur only
half-way through the implementation of the successor project to the EFMP (i.e. the Institutional
Capacity Building Project) and during the preparation of the Second Economic and Financial
Management Project.
9.    Implementation complexity was further increased during project implementation by the
addition of six co-financiers (Austria, Denmark, Netherlands, Norway, Sweden and the United
Kingdom). However, all six co-financed only the civil service reform component and provided
retrenchment funds to the Government which paralleled the technical assistance funding provided
through the credit. Despite the complexity, the project remained fairly responsive to changes in
borrower circumstances and development priorities.
10.   Risks. Even during the design and project preparation phase, the project had been
identified as a complex and risky project. These concems were raised during intemal Bank
review meetings held at the time of project preparation. There were two principal risks identified
in the project's Appraisal Report and in the intemal review meetings: inability of the Government
to manage a complex project and inability of the Bank to supervise such a complex project.
Assessment of both of these issues is covered under relevant sections below; in summary, the
Government managed implementation risks well but its co-ordination of activities across reform
programs was poor and the Bank's performance during supervision was only marginally
satisfactory.
D. Achievement of Objectives
D]. Assessment of Outcomes
11.    The assessment is that project satisfactorily achieved its development objectives. This
assessment incorporates earlier assessments made in the Implementation Completion Report for
SAC 1 13. The evaluation in the Table below compares the actual achievements under various
components as compared to the restated objectives.
13    Report No: 16797 dated June 23, 1997. The report assesses that there were satisfactory outcomes
on three of the proposed outcome indicators for EFMP i.e. on revenue management, on expenditure
management and on civil service refornL The caveats are that: the SAC I assessment does not isolate EFMP
contributions to the achievement of development objectives and the assessment applies only to the early
phases of EFMP since SAC I became effective in December 1991 and was closed in July 1994.



4
Development Objectives (DO) and    Indicator: start    Indicator: end     Components          % of       IP         DO Rating
Indicators (1)                     project             project            contributing to DO   project    Rating
cost
DO: Increased budgets for priority                                        Central Budget      11%        U          Satisfactory
sectors                                                                   Local Budget         3%        S
1: Budget allocations to Priority  I: 20.9%14          I:25.4%0s          Economic             8%        S
Program Areas (PPAs) including                                            Recovery Program
salaries for primary school teachers                                      Building 16
Subtotal           8%         S
30%
DO: Improved fnancial management                                           Treasury            5%        U          Satisfactory
including more timely preparation                                          Auditor General     5%        S
and auditing of Government                                                UCS                 11%        U
accounts                           I: Backlog of 4     I: Audited          Building            8%        S
I: Audited Government accourts     years               accounts upto       Subtotal           29%
previous FY
DO: Improved quality and timeliness                                        Statistics         11%        S          Satisfactory
in macro economic and poverty data
Il: Scope and coverage of national  II: Limited (e.g.  I1: Increased
economic statistics                CPI only Kampala    scope and
based)              frequency (e.g.
CPI for 5 towns)
12: Household surveys              I2: Last survey     I2: Surveys
conducted in        conducted
1988/89             annually from
1992/93 onwards
for 4 years
DO: Increased levels of Government                                        URA                  8%        S          Satisfactory
revenues
I: Percentage of GDP               I: 6.8% of GDP      I: 11. 4% of GDP17
DO: Improved capabilities for                                              BOU                 6%        U          Unsatisfactory
Government cash management
functions
I: Reduced float of cheques        I: Unknown          I: Unknown
DO: Improved service delivery                                              MPS                 9%        S          Satisfactory
resulting from civil service reform ,s   FY1992/93     FY 1997/98
Il: Number ofcivil servants       I1:214,232           II: 124,664
I2: Wage bill                      I2: US$52.2         I2: US$222.4
milhon              million
14 Measured as a proportion of total recurrent and GOU-funded development expenditures. Base year is
FY 95/96 which is the first year for which data on primary teacher salaries is separately available. The
PPA concept was first used in FY94/95.
'5   Budget for FY 98/99.
16   The refurbished building houses the Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development and
the Office of the Auditor General. The costs of the building component have been split 50:50 between
the two development objectives on an arbitrary basis
17   Provision estimate for FY 97/98.
18   No direct measurements of Government service delivery have yet been made in Uganda; improved
efficiency imputed from lower level of civil servants and higher levels of wage bill. These were the
two outcome indicators which were commonly utilized in Uganda at the time.
19   As of December 1997.



5
12.   There were two difficulties in making the above assessment which relate to segregating
the impact of EFMP and identifying how changes in project outputs affected development impact.
13.   Segregating Impact of EFMP. EFMP financing was often provided to the same
ministries and departments concurrently with other predecessor and successor IDA projects 20
and other donor projects (principally UNDP funded and IDA executed projects, other UNDP
projects and projects funded by the UK Government). While this extremely rational and co-
operative behavior among donors did support the Government's programs, it makes evaluation
very difficult. As an example, the Chief Technical Advisor for Civil Service Reform was funded
by the UK Government but key operating costs of his office support arrangements were funded by
IDA. The evaluation has not attempted to segregate the impact of EFMP and as long as it
contributed even partially to a particular activity, the development outcome (or lack thereof) has
been attributed to EFMP.
14.   Improvements Achieved Despite Unsatisfactory Implementation Progress. The evaluation
above shows some instances where Development Objectives have been satisfactorily achieved
despite Unsatisfactory Implementation Progress at the component level. This is a reflection of the
reality that over the period of the project Uganda's macro performance, increasing allocations to
priority sectors and improved timeliness in preparation of accounts point to a satisfactory
development outcome which has made Uganda the subject of much "best practice" discussion in
Bank and other donor led fora. However, these improvements occurred despite non-
accomplishment of some key budget and financial management process and information system
deliverables as a consequence of which those components have been rated as unsatisfactory on
implementation progress. What should be noted is that when systemic changes did not
materialize, the Government responded by making better use of existing information systems and
changing existing processes to use enhanced participation as a method of addressing information
constraints - utilizing inputs provided by EFMP. This shift allowed for positive progress in
outcomes although to a lesser degree than would have occurred if the original project outputs had
been delivered.
D2. Implementation Experience
15.   Implementation experience with the twelve components under parts A through D of the
project is described below linking the development objectives and the components.
D2. 1 Components associated with Budgeting Development Objective
16.   Central Budget Component (US$5.1 million). The objective was to strengthen MFEP's
central planning and budgeting capability through a pilot program to introduce conceptual reforms
in five ministries including greater policy orientation and improvements in the budget cycle and
linkages. In addition, a budgetary/logistical systems reform program for the Ministry of Defence
was to be developed and implemented. Implementation experience has been unsatisfactory. A
combined pilot program for budget/treasury reform was designed but never implemented due to
20 Third Technical Assistance Project, Institutional Capacity Building Project and the proposed Second
Economic and Financial Management Project



6
problems in the procurement process. Instead individual consultants were hired as macro and
planning advisors and improvements focused largely on incremental improvements to budget
process and strengthening budget activities in MFEP. Comprehensive improvements in budget
procedures and budget codification/ classification did not occur. The Ministry of Defence study
was undertaken but the report has not been provided to IDA. Status of its implementation
therefore is unknown.
17.   Local Budget Component (US$0.9 million). The objective was to implement a pilot
program for budget reform in six selected local authorities. As the Government's decentralization
program advanced substantially, the Government began designing a Local Government Capacity
Building component under the IDA Institutional Capacity Building Project. The EFMP local
budget component was, hence, refocused on key activities in expediting the adoption of new
organizational structures by local governments; and meeting immediate training needs to improve
financial and operational management. Implementation experience with the redesigned
component was satisfactory.
18.   Support to the Economic Recovery Program (US$2.6 million). The objective was to
strengthen Govemnment's capability to conduct studies and undertake policy analysis and improve
implementation capacity in support of its economic recovery program. This was to be achieved
through a program of studies, policy analysis, and technical assistance and through funding the
return of qualified Ugandans working overseas. As in prior projects (Third Technical Assistance
Project), this component was left undesigned in content but with clear ground rules on the process
to be followed in approving activities to be funded during implementation. Implementation
experience has been satisfactory. Several Technical Assistance activities were funded and
substantial amounts of ad hoc overseas training was funded mainly for organizations other than
MFEP (with the President's Office and Ministry of Justice benefiting the most).
19.   Refurbishment of the MFEP and Treasury buildings (US$5. 0 million). The original
objective was to have secure premises and to ensure that the old Ministry of Finance building
would be made ready for the introduction of technology at the desks of civil servants. However,
after the two Ministries were merged into the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning and the
total number of staff to be accommodated increased substantially, favorable consideration was
given to refurbishing the old Treasury building which was adjacent to the MoF building but not
being utilized since it had been seriously damaged during the civil war. This substantially
increased the expenditures over the appraisal budget. Implementation experience was
satisfactory with civil works procured in accordance with IDA procurement procedures. The
building was completed at a slight (less than 10 per cent) overrun and a slight delay in completion
time.
D2. 2 Components Associated with Financial Management Development Objective
20.   Treasury Department (US$1.5 million). The objective was to strengthen the Treasury
Department's accounting, inspectorate and internal audit functions by introducing new accounting
systems and procedures and improving staff performance through training. Implementation
experience has been unsatisfactory. As noted earlier, the comprehensive budget/treasury reform
was not implemented. Instead individual long-term advisors were hired for accounting, internal
audit, external debt and treasury inspectorate functions. There was some success in establishing
new positions for internal auditors, improving external debt management, introducing a treasury
inspectorate manual and designing an accounting training program. The key problem was that the



7
changes in accounting processes did not happen and very few staff were trained since substantial
retrenchment took place in the accounting functions as part of the civil service reform program
between project design and implementation.
21.   Office of the Auditor General (OAG) (US$1.8 million). The objective was to strengthen
the capability of the OAG in audit-planning, documentation and techniques and improving its
training program. The activities to be implemented included comprehensive training,
improvement in audit documentation and support to regional offices. Implementation experience
has been satisfactory. Two advisors were hired: for training and preparation of an audit manual.
Several training courses were held for the audit staff; these were assessed as having improved the
skills of staff. The training program also built up capacity in the audit department to conduct
future training. Study tours undertaken through the project with another government have
resulted in continuing Government to Government support. Upcountry auditors were assisted in
undertaking their assignments with vehicles, office equipment and allowances.
22.   Uganda Computer Services (UCS) (US$4.] million). The objective was to strengthen
MFEP's financial information system. This was to be achieved by increasing the number of
computer specialists at UCS; developing an in-house training course for new and current staff,
introducing competitive tenns of service to attract and retain staff; developing and modifying
computer software; and providing Ugandan consulting firms access to training for an appropriate
fee, if necessary, to enhance local skills. Implementation experience has been mixed and overall
is judged unsatisfactory. On the positive side, new hardware and relational database management
software were purchased and the current operating costs of the system (i.e. lease/maintenance
costs and computer paper) were funded. However, the number of staff employed at UCS
decreased due to the retrenchment which occurred under the Civil Service Reform program and
attrition which resulted as the terms of service offered to staff continued to remain substantially
below market. Some training was provided to UCS staff but the new database management
software acquired has not been utilized for developing new application software since in-house
capabilities to program in this software are extremely limited. UCS did provide substantial
training in basic computing skills (on personal computers) to users in the Ministry of Finance,
BOU and URA.
D2. 3 Statistical Development Objective
23.   Statistics Department Component (US$3.7 million). The objective of this component was
to improve the Statistics Department's survey and analytical work. This was to be achieved
through improvements to the consumer price index, national accounts, extemal trade, immigration
and tourism, statistical data base and business surveys. Implementation experience has been
satisfactory.
D2. 4 Revenue Development Objective
24.   Uganda Revenue Authority Component (US$2.5 million). The objective of this
component was to strengthen URA in accordance with an organizational structure and financial
plan and improve its revenue and trade monitoring system. Implementation experience has been
satisfactory. The project financed the expatriate Commissioner General of the URA, the Customs
and Value Added Tax information systems and overseas and local training for several URA staff
in key skills. Two key activities were not funded. First, civil works expenditures were not
financed as planned because URA rented space instead. Second, several key Technical



8
Assistance positions were funded by the UK Government which provided substantial parallel
financing to this component.
D2.5 Cash Management Development Objective
25.   Bank of Uganda (US$2.0 million). The objective of the component was to strengthen
BOU's: management and information and accounting systems; debt monitoring and foreign
exchange management systems; analytical capacity in its research department; and general
management and human resources skills. The component was designed prior to the availability of
US$ 10 million of Technical Assistance funds under the Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
(FSAC). As the FSAC commenced implementation, Part C of the project funded principally three
things: the restructuring study, improvements in MIS including the Integrated Accounting System
and repatriation of returning expatriate Ugandans to the Bank. Implementation experience has
been unsatisfactory. While the BOU restructufing has been implemented and most of the
returning expatriate Ugandans continue to work in the central bank providing it with much needed
skills, the key objective of improving flow of financial information (especially with regard to cash
management) from the Bank of Uganda to the Treasury, has not been achieved since the
Integrated Accounting System software funded under the component has not been put into
operation.
D2. 6 Civil Service Reform Development Objective
26.   Ministry of Public Service (US$3.0 million). The objective wasto assist MPS in
implementing the civil service reform program. Implementation has been satisfactory. Ministerial
and district institutional structures were developed; a personnel information system was
developed and remains in operation for civil service payroll management; the office of the Chief
Technical Advisor for Civil Service Reform was supported; administrative arrangements were set
up and run successfully for a substantial retrenchment program (US$19 million) which was
fimded by six donors and administered by IDA.
D2.7 ProjectManagement
27.   Project Administration Component (US$1.7 million). The objective of this component
was to manage procurement, disbursement and financial management for the project. The
implementation experience has been satisfactory. Procurement of high cost items and ICB
requirements was largely sub-contracted to UN OPS. A full-time management/ financial advisor
provided support during the first two years of project implementation. An assessment of financial
management procedures during the preparation of the ICR indicated that this aspect of project
management was well managed during implementation.
D2.8 Reallocations across components
28.   There were significant re-allocations across components to meet emerging needs which
were discussed and agreed between the Government and IDA especially in the context of the
project's Mid-Term Review. Given that the project expenditure categories were specified not by
component but mainly by expenditure items, it was not necessary for the Government and IDA to
agree to formal changes in the Development Credit Agreement.



9
29.   Component budgets increased due to: actual expenditures exceeding appraisal estimates
(Uganda Computer Services and Central Budget component); increased scope of work (Ministry
of Finance building component); and activities being supported for much longer time horizons
than initially planned (Statistics and Ministry of Public Service components). Reallocations
occurred largely from those components which were experiencing implementation delays
(Treasury comp6nent) or where alternative sources of funding (in the case of Bank of Uganda
from the Financial Sector Adjustment Credit and in the case of the Uganda Revenue Authority
from the UK Government) had become available. This, however, meant that these latter
components often did not achieve outputs in line with the Project Implementation Plan. This is
less of an issue given the evaluation approach than would have been the case if the assessment had
been comparing expected component outputs with actual outputs.
D3. Cost Analysis
30.   Approximately US$ 33.9 million was expended during project implementation; of this
US$30.3 million was provided from the IDA credit and US$3.6 million was provided from
Government counterpart funds. IDA funds were utilized for Technical Assistance and training
(US$17.90 million), office equipment and vehicles (US$6.33 million), civil works (US$4.61
million) and operating costs (US$1.48 million). The project has been implemented within the
timeframe expected with funds having been disbursed slightly ahead of schedule.
31.   Technical Assistance and consultants. Approximately US$8.0 million (or 45%) ofthe
TA is associated with turnkey contracts managed by an UN implementing agency; these contracts
resulted in the financing of long-term foreign and local consultants but also resulted in purchase
of equipment and financing of operating costs and the totals for TA need to be understood with
this caveat. An additional $4.68 million (or 26%) of the TA was for funding long-term advisory
contracts - primarily expatriates but also including returning expatriate Ugandans and local
consultants. A further US$1.8 million (or 10%) was for consultant assigmnents with specific
outputs (e.g. contract for Bank of Uganda management information system, design/supervision
consultants for the Ministry of Finance building rehabilitation and preparation of ministerial
restructuring reports in MPS).
32.   The key evaluation issue relates to the extent to which the long-term advisors built
capacity. The performance was mixed and there are several lessons to be learned. First, it was
extremely difficult to ensure consistent quality of advisory support. This occurred despite the
Government formally interviewing the highest evaluated candidates. Second, even where the
advisory support was technically skilled, there was a question of "ownership" of the advisors; the
counterparts had to believe that their management perceived the advisors to be an integral part of
the institution. Where these two conditions were met (i.e. skilled advisors and ownership) and
counterparts were available, there was a credible capacity built (e.g. in the budget and macro-
economic policy departments) and the functions are largely carried out today by Ugandans.
Where counterparts were not available (e.g. in Treasury), there was a propensity for advisors to
get drawn into the operational work due to absence of staff. Also, it is questionable, whether for
some key positions requiring professional qualifications, there will be a sufficient number of
counterparts until the current pay structure is substantially changed. In recognition of this fact,
the MoFPED took the pragmatic step of appointing two of the consultants - who are
professionally qualified accountants - into line positions. The evaluation endorses this approach
as a practical stop-gap measure but highlights the risks that if the pay structure is not improved,



10
this contracting out arrangement will have to be continued for extended periods of time with cost
and financing implications.
33.   Office Equipment and vehicles. Approximately US$2.6 million (or 41%) ofthe
expenditures undertaken from this category were in the Uganda Computer Services. The bulk of
the expenditure incurred under the UCS component consists of: (i) during the initial phase of the
project financing leasing of mainframe equipment which was technologically obsolete but
required until the Government transitioned to new equipment; and (ii) subsequently, purchasing
new client server equipment at a cost of around US$1 million in 1994. This equipment too while
probably appropriate at the time of its purchase, is now technologically obsolete given rapid
increases in capabilities which have occurred in the last five years. 21 The evaluation is that the
investments in technology - while necessary at the time - will need to be repeated again given the
rapid shift in technology.
34.   Civil Works. All of the expenditures were on one civil works contract which has been
discussed under the Ministry of Finance building rehabilitation component. The evaluation
indicates that the construction is functional and that the building is technology capable.
Consideration needs to be given to leveraging this resource base by looking more broadly at the
technology needs of the MoFPED and increasing use of basic capabilities (email, etc.).
35.    Training. Almost US$2.3 million (or 66%) of the training was undertaken overseas. The
only two components which had significant levels of local training was the local government
component and the Auditor General's office; both components were successful in training larger
numbers of participants due to the lower per capita costs. Almost US$1 million was for funding
overseas training in the context of the ERP component. While the courses supported were within
the subject areas of economic and financial management, the contribution of this training to the
core objectives of the EFM Project is questionable since there was no coherent strategy behind the
training program adopted, overseas training was largely approved on an ad hoc basis and key
beneficiaries included the Office of the President and the Ministry of Justice.
36.    In general, it is important to note that overseas training - in addition to its obvious
benefits in enhancing staff skills - has increasingly become a motivational tool and a way to allow
staff to supplement their meager wages. This propensity has increased with the abolition of
payment of staff salary supplements and sitting allowances by IDA as of July 1995 on the grounds
that the Government had reached a "living" wage for civil servants by that date. In reality, the
"living" wage calculations are dated by several years and even with the relatively low inflation in
Uganda are inadequate for middle level civil servants living in Kampala. Hence, the only way
whereby managers in the civil service can provide additional income to their staff is either by staff
travelling to the field (and collecting day or ovemight travel allowances) or by going overseas
(and collecting per diems). The perverse nature of these incentives is that in order to adequately
pay staff, the staff need to be away from their desks. This is not just an EFMP specific problem
21  As an example, the 1994 servers' capabilities are (hard disk) storage capacity of 4 gigabytes, memory
(RAM) of 64 megabytes and processing (clock) speed of 40 MHz. In 1999, these storage and
memory capabilities are available in a personal computer with a processing speed greater by 7-10
times (300-400 MHz). Further, prices are dramatically lower with PCs of these specifications
available for less than US$1,000 in the US.



11
but is pervasive across the IDA portfolio 22and, possibly, affects all donor funded activities. Pay
reform which will address general pay levels - in addition to the issues of paying for professionals
raised earlier - needs to address this issue as well.
37.    Operating Costs. IDA's contribution towards operating costs was only US$1.48 million
at a ratio of 20%. One of the key expenditures financed was payment of salary supplements to
Ministry of Finance staff until June 1995 when, as discussed earlier, such payments were
discontinued. It is the view of the senior management of the Ministry of Finance that such
payments were central to the improvements in the core economic and financial functions of the
Government. The evaluation team endorses this finding based on its own review but it is also
clear that the payments caused other problems such as behavior of ministries participating in the
process whose staff did not receive such supplements, affordability problems, exit strategy
problems, etc. Once again, this points to pay reform issues as a central part of the agenda if the
behavioral improvements initiated under this project are to remain sustainable.
E. Major Factors Affecting the Project
E. I Factors not generally subject to government control
38.   Performance of the Bank. As noted earlier, the Bank's performance is rated as
satisfactory during identification and preparation, unsatisfactory during appraisal and marginally
satisfactory during supervision and is discussed in the section on Bank Performance (Section E).
E 2 Factors generally subject to government control
39.    Staffing policies. The design under Part A of the project - especially with regard to
training and other forms of capacity building - assumed the presence of staff (either those already
on board or to be recruited). In fact, the implementation of Part D of the project i.e. civil service
reform substantially impacted on this assumption. First, there was considerable retrenchment
which reduced existing numbers of staff. Second, despite rapid increases in overall salary levels,
salaries for qualified professionals remained well below market levels and staff continued to leave
the civil service. Third, a broad hiring freeze was put into place until the ministerial restructuring
process would be completed. This meant that it was extremely difficult to either replace staff who
left the civil service or to hire new staff to meet agreed program levels. This inconsistency
between the civil service and economic/financial management reforms had a substantial
detrimental impact on the latter.
40.   Information systems/technology management. During the implementation of EFMP, the
Government faced the shortcoming that it did not have an underlying information systems and
technology implementation strategy on the basis of which the EFMP acquisitions were made.
There was also no institutional arrangement in place to manage the IS/IT acquisitions across the
Government or to become the locus for Government-wide thinking and agreement on these
critical issues. This problem was exacerbated by: the revolution in information technology - steep
decreases in prices and sharp increases in performance as discussed earlier required active
management on the Government's part; and decentralization which necessitated consistent
approaches in central and local governments. In the absence ofthese pre-requisites, a project
22  Assessment of Capacity Building Activities in the IDA Portfolio in Uganda - December 1998.



12
committee (Computer and Information Systems Advisory Committee) was set up to manage this
process but it did not function effectively. This committee become moribund and a User Group
was established with a narrow focus on existing financial management systems. In the absence of
a managed strategy, new hardware and new database management software were purchased but
these have not led to new software applications. This resulted from both a strategic error (the
Government attempting to develop its own information systems with scarce in-house expertise
instead of purchasing from the market) and a tactical/sequencing error (i.e. purchasing hardware
and operating system software before the specifications for the application software were
developed and the software selected).
41.   Impact of decentralization ofservice delivery to local governments. While
decentralization was an evolving agenda at the time of project preparation - and hence a small
component on local government budgeting included under EFMP - the considerable changes in
central and local government responsibilities which came into effect as a result of the December
1993 Local Govermment Statute, the October 1995 Constitution and the March 1997 Local
Government Statute were not foreseen during project preparation. The decentralization program
has had fundamental implications on the nature of administrative systems (especially information
systems) which were to be designed under the project.
F. Project Sustainability
42.   A key factor in assessing sustainability is the continued support which the Government
continues to receive from various donors for its core economic and financial management
functions. It is clear that without the substantial and continued donor support, these functions
would not be financially sustainable. However, given the firm availability of financing or
Technical Assistance support provided by donors, financial sustainability is ensured. With regard
to the sustainability of human resources/capacities built up in the civil service, the assessment is
that this is dependent on: (i) the Government continuing to increase general wage levels to take
into account the inflation which has occurred since the establishment of the "living wage"
calculations; and (ii) providing better compensation for key technical skills (primarily accountants
and information system specialists). If these issues are not addressed, it is likely that this in-house
capacity may dissipate reducing project sustainability. On the latter issue, after several years of
delay, the Government is making a credible attempt at reviewing the pay structure. However,
there will continue to be difficulties in implementing the new pay structure. Hence, while there is
a reasonable probability of project sustainability until suitable changes in compensation have
actually been implemented, the project's sustainability rating has to be shown as uncertain.
G. Bank Performance
43.   Identification, Preparation and Appraisal. During the initial phases of project
identification, the Bank's performance was satisfactory. The project was closely linked with the
preparation of the First Structural Adjustment Credit and team composition consisted largely of
macro economists. During the preparation phase, the Bank's performance continued to remain
satisfactory as the team composition and leadership was expanded to include institutional
development expertise, financial sector staff and accounting training expertise. During appraisal,
the Bank's performance was unsatisfactory. The appraisal team did not reduce the size and scope
of the Government proposals. Further, it was lacking skills in information systems development,
architecture/construction and fiscal management - all of these were areas of major expenditure



13
under the project. Finally, the team depended largely upon the evaluation of the advisors in place
in the Govermnent under earlier Bank/donor funded projects which did not result in an arrns
length appraisal of the project.
44.   Supervision. The Bank's ability to supervise this complex project - both from the
perspective of supervision resource requirements and skills - was an issue identified during
project preparation. Consequently, specific staff were identified as being responsible for
supervising each components. Despite this the Bank's supervision performance can be rated as
only marginally satisfactory. On the positive side, the Bank did supervise the project with
sufficient frequency. On the negative side, the Bank's supervision was undertaken largely by the
Task Manager without much specialist inputs and with three notable deficiencies. First, specialist
staff who had been identified for supervision rotated to other assignments and replacements were
not identified. Second, a key specialization - information systems specialist - was only
introduced into project supervision almost two years into implementation having not been present
during preparation; by this stage, major acquisitions of both systems and hardware were
completed and the specialist focused on supervising these contracts. Third, while the Task
Manager supervised the building construction intensively, architectural/design supervision skills
were brought in only for an ex-post evaluation when the construction was completed. These
problems were further exacerbated by the Bank using three different Task Managers for project
supervision and changing supervision responsibilities among these Task Managers four times.
H. Borrower Performance
45.   Identification, Preparation and Appraisal. Performance of the Borrower during
identification, preparation and appraisal was unsatisfactory. The project was largely prepared by
consultants which, in some cases (e.g. URA business plan and civil service reform program)
reflected the input of their counterparts. However, there was clearly no "ownership" of the project
by senior Ministry of Finance officials. Negotiations were actually delayed because the borrower
raised concerns regarding the substantial levels of Technical Assistance incorporated into the
project. Borrower perfonnance and ownership of the project post-negotiation improved
significantly. This resulted from a new management team which took over the core
implementing agency - the Ministry of Finance and Planning (MFEP) - which was formed out of
a merger of two separate ministries i.e. the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economic
Planning . The ministry's technical leadership became the "champion" of the economic reform
program and saw the central role that the project would have in its implementation. This
leadership and ownership of the project lasted despite constant changes in the institutional
structure as the MFEP was divided into two ministries (Ministry of Finance and Ministry of
Planning and Economic Development) in July 1996 and re-merged into the Ministry of Finance,
Planning and Economic Development in May 1998.
46.   Borrower Performance During Implementation. The risk identified during preparation
was that the project was complex for the Government to manage due to the number of
components, the linkages across components and the limited capacity within the Government.
The Government's performance in implementing the project was satisfactory; project
management remained unchanged throughout although there was a substantial number of changes
in Government managers implementing specific components. The key deficiency was that, as
noted earlier the Government did not institute institutional arrangements to co-ordinate the
linkages between the various reforms which were being supported under the project until



14
November 1997. At that time, when the Government commenced its Public Service Reform
1997-2002 program, it finally institutionalized the management of the three reforms (i.e. civil
service reform, financial management reform and decentralization) into a coherent public service
reform agenda.
I. Assessment of Outcome
47.   Overall, based on the project's development outcomes and sustainability ratings, the
project is assessed as having achieved its development objectives.
J. Future Operation
48.   The activities which commenced under EFMP are being continued under different
projects. Specifically, Part D of the project (i.e. Civil Service Reform) is being continued under
the Central Government Capacity Building component of the Institutional Capacity Building
Project since August 1995. Part C of the project (Bank of Uganda) has been operating in parallel
with the technical assistance component of the Financial Sector Adjustment credit - which is now
closed. With the completion of FSAC, a follow-on operation (Financial Markets Assistance
Project) has been approved by IDA's Board. Part B of the project (Uganda Revenue Authority) is
no longer receiving direct support from IDA but is receiving support from the UK Government
and, given that URA is substantially funded from the Government budget, continues to receive
funding from the Government. Finally, key areas funded under Part A of the project (specifically
Statistics, Treasury, Budget and UCS) are expected to be supported by the follow-on operation -
the Second Economic and Financial Management Project.
49.   Given the above circumstances, it was not considered appropriate to prepare a separate
operational plan for the entire EFMP project. It was agreed with the Government that the Project
Implementation Plan for the Second Economic and Financial Management Project which is to be
appraised in the first semester of FY2000 would constitute the operational plan. With regard to
the other parts of the project, it can be noted that various follow-on activities are already under
implementation or project implementation plans for follow-on projects would constitute the
operational plan for those parts of EFMP.
K. Key Lessons Learned
50.   In the absence of significant pay reform which will allow the Government to hire and
retain professionals (accountants and information systems staff) into the civil service, it is
questionable whether sustainable capacity building efforts can be undertaken or whether staff in
whom capacity has been built will remain with the civil service. The Government is currently
addressing pay reform issues as part of a broader job evaluation study. Until this is successfully
completed, under EFMP II, a transition strategy is being adopted which will inter alia, include
financing of Ugandan professionals in line positions on a contract basis as local consultants. This
would be a stop gap arrangement and is not expected to be sustainable in the long-term; it should
be treated as a complementary measure and is a not a substitute for fundamental pay reform.
51.   Information systems and technology initiatives need to be implemented within the
context of a Government-wide Information Systems/Information Technology Strategy. There
also need to be institutional arrangements in place which are involved with strategy formulation,
standard setting and ensuring consistency. Given the substantial decentralization program, these



15
institutional arrangements need to ensure consistency across both central and local governments.
The strategy formulated needs to deal realistically with existing constraints (e.g. making
substantial use of outsourcing if there are problems with hiring professionals within the
Govenmment), to ensure that appropriate sequencing of actions is undertaken (e.g. developing
general systems architecture before specific system requirements are developed) and instituting
appropriate safeguards (e.g. separating system design/supervision contracts from software/
hardware acquisition contracts). The Government has incorporated the above lesson into the
design of EFMP II. A study is expected to commence shortly which will address Government
wide IS/IT standards (in the context of Fiscal Management Systems); develop a common
classification system for central and local government fiscal management; and assist the
Government in purchasing a budgeting/accounting system.
52.   Complex multi-component projects do not increase the likelihood that inter-linked reform
programs will be better co-ordinated as a result. The management of complex programs and co-
ordination of several reform programs (in the case of Uganda these were civil service reform,
decentralization and expenditure management reform) should be institutionalized within the
existing Government structure. Such a structure should be utilized not only for policy co-
ordination but to ensure that prioritized list of activities are developed within each project (or
program) and, where the program is linked with other programs, to ensure that the
prioritization/sequencing is consistent across all programs (e.g. pay reform issues in the Civil
Service Reform are resolved before an expenditure reform program requiring skilled financial
professionals commences). The Government has established such a co-ordination mechanism in
November 1997 as part of its Public Service Reform 1997-2002 Programme. The mechanism
consists of a Cabinet-level Subcommittee; a Permanent Secretary level group and a co-ordinating
committee of project managers. The Permanent Secretary level group meets on a quarterly basis
to brief interested donors on progress.
53.   In the case of capacity building projects, a much closer linkage needs to be made between
the availability/recruitment of counterpart staff within the Government, the recruitment of
advisors and the acquisition of office equipment to get full productivity out of the
advisor/counterpart teams. If advisors are hired in the absence of counterparts, they are likely to
undertake operational work and little or no capacity building occurs. Hence, recruitment of
advisors should occur in parallel with or after the recruitment of the counterparts. Similarly,
acquisition of office equipment (especially computers which are subject to rapid technological
obsolescence) and vehicles should be undertaken on a piecemeal basis so that equipment is
acquired as needed. While bulk purchase may result in significant price gains (especially from
Intemational Competitive Bidding), these are offset if the equipment arrives but is not optimally
utilized due to lack of counterpart staff or advisors.



PART I: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
Substantial    Partial    Negligible   Not
applicable
A. Achievement of objectives
Macro policies                                                            X
Sector policies                                                           X
Financial objectives                                                      X
Institutional development                        X
Physical objectives                X
Poverty reduction                                                         X
Gender issues                            _                                X
Other social objectives                                                   X
Environmental objectives                                                  X
Public sector management                         X
Private sector development                                                X
Other (specify)                                                           X
Unlikely          Uncertain
B. Project sustainbility                                               X
Highly satisfactory    Satisfactory  Deficient
______                                 (~~~~~~~~~~~~~L)  (U)
C. Bank performance
Identification                                          X
Preparation assistance                                  X
Appraisal                                                              X
Supervision                              .__            X
Highly satisfactory    Satisfactory  Deficient
(X)
D. Borrower performance
Preparation                                                            X
Implementation                                         X
Covenant compliance                                    X
Operation (if applicable)
Highly         Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory    Hily
satisfactory                                    Unsatisfactory
__  m           ) .X m                  
E. Assessment of outcome                          X



17
Table IA: Summary of Assessments for
Part A: Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development
Substantial    Partial    Negligible    Not
applicable
A. Achievement of objectives
Macro policies                                                         X
Sector policies                                                        X
Financial objectives                                                   X
Institutional development                       X
Physical objectives               X
Poverty reduction                                                      X
Gender issues                                                          X
Other social objectives                                                X
Environmental objectives                                               X
Public sector management                         X
Private sector development                                             X
Other (specify)                                                        X
Likely           U_i               Uncertain
B. Project sustaility                                                X
Highly satisfactory    Satisfactory  Deficient
(X)~~~~~~~~~
C. Bank performiance
Identification                                        X
Preparation assistance                                 X
Appraisal                                                            X
Supervision                                            X
Highly satisfactory    Satisfactory    Deficient
(X)
(X-)
D. Borrower performance
Preparation                                           X
Implementation                                        X
Covenant compliance                                   X
Operation (if applicable)
Highly        Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory   Highly
satisfactory                                   Unsatisfactory
m_____        (X              X                 m              I
E. Assessment of outcome                       X



18
Table 1B: Summary of Assessments for
Part B: Uganda Revenue Authority
Substantial    Partial    Negligible  Not
applicable
A. Achievement of objectives
Macro policies                                                         X
Sector policies                                                        X
Financial objectives                                                   X
Institutional development                       X
Physical objectives                                                    X
Poverty reduction                                                      X
Gender issues                                                          X
Other social objectives                                                X
Enviromnental objectives                                               X
Public sector management                        X
Private sector development                                             X
Other (specify)                                                        X
=Unlikely          Uncertain     |
B. Project sustainability  =         elX               e _
Highly satisfactory    Satisfactory  Deficient
(X)
C. Bank perfon-nance__________
Identification                                       X
Preparation assistance                               X
Appraisal                                            X
Supervision                                          x
Highly satisfactory    Satisfactory  Deficient
(X)
x           _   _ _ _ _  _
D. Borrower performanee
Preparation                                           x
Inmplemnentation                                      X
Covenant compliance                                   X
Operation (if applicable)
Highly        Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory    Highly
satisfactory                                   Unsatisfactory
E. Assessment of outcome                        X



19
Table IC: Summary of Assessments for
Part C: Bank of Uganda
Substantial    Partial    Negligible    Not
applicable
mXJ          mX)   m-19 m()
A. Achievemetnt of objectives
Macro policies     _                                                   X
Sector policies                                                        x
Financial objectives                                                   X
Institutional development                                , X
Physical objectives                                                    X
Poverty reduction                                                      X
Gender issues                                                          X
Other social objectives                                                X
Environmental objectives                                               X
Public sector management                                  X
Private sector development                                             X
Other (specify)                                                        X
Likely           Unlikely          Uncertain
B. Project sustainability                           X
Highly satisfactory    Satisfactory  Deficient
(X)~~~~~
C. Bank performance
Identification                                        X
Preparation assistance                                X
Appraisal                                                            X
Supervision                                           x              ____
Highly satisfactory    Satisfactory  Deficient
D. Borrower performance
Preparation                                           X
Implementation                                                       X
Covenant compliance                                   X
Operation (if applicable)
Highly        Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory   Highly
satisfacto y                                   Unsatisfactory
E. AsmXe f                    X                 m
E. Assessment of outcome                                       X



20
Table ID: Summary of Assessments for
Part D: Ministry of Public Service
Substantial    Partial    Negligible   Not
applicable
mX)           m)   m                   X)
A. Achievement of objectivesX                                          _
Macro policies                                                          X
Sector policies                                                         X
Financial objectives                                                    X
Institutional development                       X
Physical objectives                                                     X
Poverty reduction                                                       X
Gender issues                                                           X
Other social objectives                                                 X
Environmental objectives                                                X
Public sector management         X
Private sector development                                              X
Other (specify)                                                         X
*                   | Likely          | ~~~~~~~~~Unlikel   Uncertain    l
I                   I (X)             I ~~~~~~~~~~~(X)9  I (X) 
B. Project sustainability       |                                  f UnerXai
Highly satisfactory    Satisfactory  Deficient
!_ (X))                             (x)
C. Bank perforance 
Identification                    X                   _
Preparation assistance            X
Appraisal                         X
Supervision                       X                   _
Highly satisfactory    Satisfactory  Deficient
(X)~~~~~~~~~
D. Bor-rower performance
Preparation                                            x
Inmplemnentation                                       x
Covenant compliance                                    X
Operation (if applicable)                               .       .
Highly        Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory    Hgly
satisfactory                                    Unsatisfactory
__ _  m__     X (Pm
E. Assessment of outcome                        X



21
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits 1
Loan/credit title            Purpose             Year of      Status
approval
Preceding operations
Third Technical Assistance  Technical Assistance  1988       Closed
Project
First Structural Adjustment  Adjustment          1991        Closed
Credit
Following operations
Second Structural Adjustment   Adjustment        1994        Closed
Credit
Institutional Capacity Building  Technical Assistance  1995  Ongoing
Project
Third Structural Adjustment    Adjustment        1997        Ongoing
Credit
Second Economic and         Technical Assistance  NA         Under preparation
Financial Management Project  I    _I_I_I
1 Includes projects in the same sector/subsector as this project and adjustment operations
with related objectives.



22
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle   Date planned              Date actual/
latest estimate
Identification (Executive                          July 1990
Project Summary)
Preparation
Appraisal                                          April 1991
Negotiations                                       March 1992
Board presentation                                 August 1992
Signing                                            September 1992
Effectiveness            September 1992            October 1992
Midterm review                                     May 1995
Project completion       December 1998             December 1998
Loan closing             June 1999                 June 1999



23
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY93  FY94   FY95   FY96  FY97  FY98   FY99
Appraisal estimate         1800    4100   9910   14500  21500  26700   29000
Actual                     3713   11469  18899  23071  26534  29153   30332
Actual as % of estimate    206%   280%   191%   159%   123%   109%    105%
Trust Fund Disbursements
(US$ thousands)
Donor        TF No        Original     Actual       Date of final
Amount       Amount       disbursement
Austria      26145        2970         3268         May 23, 96
DANIDA       26146        2542         2826         Nov 3, 98
Netherlands  26147        3986         4760         May 10, 96
SIDA        26148         3102         3276         June 8, 95
UK           26149        3189         2893         July  7, 94



24
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key implementation indicators in SAR/President's Report          SAR     Completed
Est.    (Yes/No)
Component Al. Statistics Department
1. Introduction of price index based in 5 towns                 12/92    Yes
2. Revision of GDP                                              1993    Yes
3. Production of I10 table                                      1993    Yes
4. Introduction of harmonized classification system             1993    Yes
5. Publication of business surveys                              1994    Yes
6. Department fully operational under Ugandan management        9/95     Yes
Component A2. Uganda Computer Services
1. Full complement of staff hired and retained                           No
2. Development of appropriate training                           6/93    Yes
3. Procurementlinstallation of new equipment                     12/93    Yes
4. Development/refinement and operation of payroll and general           No
accounting systems
5. Development and operation of system linking budget plan and budget    No
expenditure with revenue raising/availability
Component B2. Budget Reform
(a) Central Agencies
1. Use of new program classifications                           5/94     Yes; partial
2. Classifications computerized                                  5/94    Yes; partial
3. EAU absorbed into Budget Department                           12/92   Yes
4. Line ministry personnel have attended training                12/93    Yes
5. Improved budget cycle                                         12/94   Yes
6. Improved budget document                                              Yes
7. Improved expenditure prioritization in line with PER          5/93    Yes
recommendations
(b) Local Authorities                                                    
1. Completed analysis of current capabilities in selected sites  6/93    Yes
2. Development of appropriate training for staff                 12/93    Yes;
modified
3. Staff attendance at training                                  1994    Yes
4. Refinement of current system                                  1994    No
5. Use of refined system                                         5/95    No
B3. Civil Works
1. Development of detailed contract documents leading to refurbishment   1995    Yes
activities and completion by 1995
2. Installation of secured and fully operational computing equipment  6/93  Yes
3. Reorganization of physical staff layouts                      6/93    Yes
B4. Treasury Department
1. Completed review of departmental functions leading to development    3/93  Yes



25
Key implementation indicators in SAR/President's Report          SAR     Completed
Est.    (Yes/No)
of customized training courses
2. Reformulated debt monitoring operation, fully operational    6/93     Yes
3. Local trainers trained                                        9/93    No
4. Courses run for approximately 500 staff                       9/93-    No
9/95
5. Use of performance based evaluations and training in promotion  6/93  No
criteria
6. Revised manual for accounting procedures, reflecting new budget  6/94  No
classification
7. Staffed regional offices                                      6/94    Yes
B5. Auditor General's Office
1. Complete view of OAG internal processes leading to development of   3/93  Yes
customized training course
2. Established link with overseas training institution           3/93    No
3. Production of audit manual                                   4/93     Yes
4. Training completed for OAG staff                              9/94    Yes
5. Regions staffed and operating                                 9/94    Yes
B6. Project Office
1. Timely execution of project activities related to accounts, procurement,  Yes
component implementation
2. Provision of quarterly reports/yearly work plans to PCC/IDA           Yes
3. Timely replenishment of SA and project accounts                       Yes
B7. Uganda Revenue Authority
1. Fully staffed organization                                    12/92    Yes
2. Revenues raised increased to 12% GDP by 1993/94, 15% by 1996/97        Yes; partial
3. Fully operational computerized revenue systems linked to UCS and  12/97    Yes
BOU
B8. Bank of Uganda
1. New organization structure effected                           12/92    Yes
2. Procurement/installation of new computing hardware            12/93    No
3. Accounts produced quarterly and yearly within 3 months of end FY  12/93    No
4. Use of uniform general ledger system                          12/93    No
5. Use of computerized systems producing management information  12/94   No
Cl. Ministry of Public Service
1. Development of detailed 5 year plan for Civil Service Reform  12/92    Yes
2. Yearly training programs managed centrally for key skills     6/94    Yes
3. Development and use of computerized personnel records system  6/94    Yes
4. Promotions linked to performance based assessments            6/94    No
5. Skilled personnel able to undertake key elements of the reform  6/93  Yes
programs



26
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Not Applicable
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Not Applicable
Project funds expended for short- and long-term Technical Assistance contributed
towards implementation of project activities and did not finance stand-alone studies.



27
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate     Actual/latest
(US$M)                 estimate(US$M)
Item                      Local Foreign  Total  Local Foreign  Total
costs  costs           costs  costs
Part A. Ministry of Finance,
Planning and Economic
Development
(i) Statistics Department  1.0   0.9       1.9  0.5    3.2        3.7
(ii) Implementation of ERP    1.4   2.1    3.5   0.3    2.3       2.6
(iii) Government Computing   2.2   0.3     2.5   1.8    2.3       4.1
and UCS
(iv) Central budgeting and  1.5   0.9      2.4   2.8    2.3       5.1
planning
(v) Local Administration   0.4   0.7       1.1   0.6    0.3       0.9
budgeting
(vi) Building Refurbishment   1.4   0.6    2.0   0.0    5.0       5.0
(vii) Treasury Department  1.9   2.4       4.3   0.9    0.6        1.5
(viii)AuditorGenerals      0.5   0.8       1.3   0.7    1.1        1.8
Office
(ix) Project Office        0.4   0.2       0.6   1.0    0.7        1.7
SubtotalPartA  10.7   8.9      19.6   8.6   17.8      26.4
Part B - Uganda Revenue    1.7   3.1       4.8   0.0    2.5       2.5
Authority____                                           _ _ _ _  ____
PartC-BankofUganda         1.3   2.8       4.1   0.3    1.7       2.0
Part D - Ministry of Public    0.9   0.8   1.7   1.3    1.7       3.0
Service
CONTINGENCIES              1.7   1.1       2.8                   NA
TOTAL                    16.3  16.7      33.0   10.2  23.7       33. 9
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate (US$M)            Actual/latest estimate(US$M)
Item         Local costs   Foreign     Total       Local     Foreign   Total
costs                   costs     costs
IDA          12.3          16.7        29.0        6.6       23.7      30.3
Domestic      4.0           0.0         4.0         3.6        0.0      3.6
contribution
TOTAL      16.3          16.7        33.0        10.2      23.7      33.9



28
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not Applicable



29
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
UGANDA
Economic and Financial Management Project
Agreement   Section   Covenant  Present  Original              Revised          Description of covenant        Comments
type        status    fulfillment     fulfillment
date            date
DCA           5.01(a)   4            C         Effectiveness                    US$200,000 by end of first
I_________                       two FYs
5.01(b)   5           CD        Effectiveness                    Appointment of CISAC,
services manager and
systems manager
5.01 (c)  5           C         Effectiveness                     Chairman and members of
Project Coordination
Committee and Project
Administrator appointed
3.01(b)   4           CP                                          Total of US$4 million by
end of project
4.01      1           CD                                          Audited accounts and SOEs
(a), (b)
and (c)
Covenant types:
1 = Accounts/audits; 2 = Financial performance/ revenue generation from beneficiaries; 3 = Flow and utilization of project funds; 4 = Counterpart funding; 5 =
management aspects of the project or executing agency ; 6 = Enviromnental covenants; 7 = Involuntary resettlement; 8 = Indigenous people; 9 = Monitoring, review, and
reporting; 10 = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9; 11 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation; 12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral
policy/ regulatory/ institutional action; 13 = Other
Present status: C = covenant complied with; CD = complied with after delay; CP = complied with partially; NC = not complied with



30
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Indicate any significant lack of compliance with an applicable Bank Operational Manual
statement (OD or OP/BP): Not applicable.



31
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned               Revised               Actual
Stage of project cycle   Weeks   US$         Weeks    US$         Weeks US$000
Preparation to appraisal                          _                31.9   77.6
Appraisal                                                          31.0   80.3
Negotiations through                                                19.4   50.0
Board approval
Supervision                                                       109.4  333.2
Completion                                                          5.5   25.6
TOTAL                                                          197.2  566.7
For comparison purposes, all Bank resources have been consistently estimated on direct
cost basis.



32
Table 13: Bank Resources: Mssions
Stage of      Month  Number   Days  Specialized  Performance          Types of problems
project cycle  /year   of        in    staff skills  rating'
persons   field  represented
2
IP      DO
Through                                             N/A      N/A      N/A
appraisal
Appraisal                                           N/A      N/A      N/A
through
Board
approval
Supervision    3/93    1         NA    E, F         S        S
_  7/93    1          NA    P             S       S
2/94    1         NA    P            HS       HS
7/94    1         NA    P            S        HS
11/94   1          NA    P            HS      HS
X  5/95   4          NA    A, I, F, P    HS      HS
11/95   4          NA    A, F, I, P    HS     HS
2/96   1          NA    P            HS      HS
5/96   1         NA    P             S       HS    _
10/96   1          NA    P            S       HS
2/98   1           7    P            S       S
Completion    11/98   3          10    A, 0, F      S        S
NA: Not available. Number of days in field not available for missions prior to the new
supervision information system.
N/A: Not applicable.
2   Specialized staff skldls: A= Accounting & Accounting Training; E= Economist; F= Financial Analyst;
1= Information Systems; O= Operations Officer, P= Public Sector Management
3  Ratings: HS = Highly Satisfactory; S= Satisfactory; U= Unsatisfactory; HU= Highly Unsatisfactory
4   Implementation problems:



APPENDIX A
ICR MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE



UGANDA Economic and Financial Management Project
Final Supervision and Implementation Completion Report Mission
AIDE MEMOIRE
1.    An IDA mission consisting of Joseph Kizito, Nelson Ofwono and Gaiv Tata
undertook the final supervision of the above project and initiated preparation of an
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) between November 9-20, 1998. Discussions
were held with the Permanent Secretary/Secretary to the Treasury and other
representatives of the Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development;
Ministry of Public Service; Ministry of Local Government; Ministry of Defence; Uganda
Revenue Authority; Office of the Auditor General; and Bank of Uganda. Several co-
financiers of the project (Austria, Norway, Sweden and the United Kingdom) were also
separately briefed. The mission would like to thank the EFMP Project Office for the
support provided especially for the detailed financial information which was provided in
a quick and timely manner for the mission's review. This Aide Memoire provides an
initial review of the achievement of project objectives, actions necessary for project
closure and completion of the ICR.
Background
2.    The EFM Project had two overall objectives: (i) to increase and improve the
quantity, quality and timeliness of key financial data underpinning decision making
through the introduction of new systems, procedures, equipment and skill levels at the
then Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning, URA and BOU; and (ii) to assist the
Ministry of Public Service in implementing important elements of the civil service reform
program.
3.    The project consisted of twelve components (i) strengthening of the Statistics
Department; (ii) support to the Economic Recovery Program; (iii) strengthening of
Uganda Computer Services (UCS); (iv) Central Government budget reform; (v) Local
Government budget reform; (vi) support to the Treasury; (vii) refurbishment of the
Ministry of Finance headquarters; (viii) support to the Auditor General; (ix) support to
the Uganda Revenue Authority (URA); (x) support to the Bank of Uganda (BOU); (xi)
support to the project office; (xii) support to the Ministry of Public Service.
4.    The project plan of US$33 million was expected to be financed from an IDA
credit of SDR 21.2 million (US$29 million equivalent) and Government of Uganda
(GOU) contributions of US$4 million.
Preliminary Assessment
5.    Development Outcomes. The project outcomes were satisfactory. Between the
start of the project in late 1992 and its close in late 1998, the Government's ability to
manage the economy on the basis of available economic and financial information has
improved significantly and the first phase of the Civil Service Reform program has been
implemented. However, this positive assessment has not led to a higher preliminary



-2-
rating because the project did not deliver key outputs in the budget, treasury, UCS and
Bank of Uganda components identified in the project appraisal documents. These outputs
related to substantial improvements in processes and information systems. The
improvements which have been accomplished have, therefore, been achieved within the
context of current procedures and information systems and are more limited.
6.    Sustainability. The activities financed under the project focused largely on
improving the existing planning, budgeting, financial management and monitoring and
evaluation activities within the Government. Support provided under the project has led
to improvements in planning (monthly Consumer Price Indexes, macro-economic
modeling, Budget Framework Paper preparation and the Public Investment Plan
preparation), cash flow management (institution of a monthly release system) and
revenue collection (introduction of Value Added Tax and Customs systems). These
improvements are expected to be sustainable. The financial sustainability of these
activities is expected to come from Government funding and continued donor support.
The donor support includes current and planned IDA support (the Institutional Capacity
Building project and the proposed Second Economic and Financial Management Project)
and other donor support (including support from the Department for International
Development - United Kingdom to the Auditor General and a proposed DFID project on
accountability).
7.    Financing Plan. As of November 1998, IDA financing provided was US$30.3 12
million and GOU counterpart fund contributions stood at US$3.3 million. In addition,
IDA also administered grants provided by donors (Austria, Denmark, the Netherlands,
Norway, Sweden and the United Kingdom) amounting to US$19.0 million for
retrenchment funds.
8.    Component- Wise Preliminary Assessments.
Achievement of         Sustainability
Development Objectives
Yes        No          Yes        No
Statistics Department
Economic Recovery
Programme
Uganda Computer Services             i      
Central Budget
Local Budget



-3-
Achievement of         Sustainability
Development Objectives
Yes        No          Yes         No
Building Refurbishment
Treasury              
Auditor General
Project Office                                    not rated
Uganda Revenue Authority    T1
Bank of Uganda                          T           T
Ministry of Public Service    i 
The preliminary assessment that the four components rated as not having achieved
development objectives will be sustainable is based on the fact that these activities are
expected to continue receiving donor support as noted earlier in para 6. Similarly, the
project office's sustainability is not rated since it was established specifically for the
purpose of co-ordinating project implementation.
Next Steps: Project Closing and Preparation of the ICR
9.    The mission agreed with the Government that:
(a)   The Government will prepare its own evaluation (borrower assessment) as
specified in the General Conditions of the project. The borrower's
assessment would evaluate: (i) whether and how the project achieved its
objectives; (ii) factors that affected project implementation; (iii) the
overall project outcome and sustainability; (iv) evaluate IDA perforrnance;
(v) evaluate Government and counterpart's own performance; and (vi)
review key lessons learned. Government agreed to submit its Completion
Report to IDA for review by December 15, 1998;
(b)   IDA will begin preparing an ICR which will assess whether and how the
objectives of the project have been achieved as well as review project
design and implementation. IDA will send its draft ICR for Government
review by December 31, 1998;



-4-
(c)   Government will provide its comments on IDA's draft ICR by January 30,
1998.
10.   During the completion mission, an assessment of the financial management
procedures under the project commenced. This review is expected to be completed by
December 15, 1998 and its findings will be included in the draft ICR provided for
Government's comments.
11.   Operational Plan. Given the capacity building nature of the project and the
proposed follow-on operation (the Second Economic and Financial Management Project
EFMP II), the mission agreed with the Government that the Project Implementation Plan
for EFMP II would be utilized in lieu of the Operational Plan. A draft of the Project
Implementation Plan was provided to the mission and comments thereon will be provided
to the Government by December 15, 1998.
12.   Project Closing. Given the small amount of funds left under the IDA credit (SDR
14,651.35), the Government and IDA agreed to initiate actions to close the credit account
by December 31, 1998.
Signed on behalf of the mission
Gaiv Tata
Team Leader, EFMP
November 20, 1998



-5-
Distribution:
Permanent Secretary/Secretary to the Treasury, Ministry of Finance, Planning and
Economic Development
Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Local Government
Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Public Service
Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Defence
Office of the Auditor General
Governor, Bank of Uganda
Austrian Regional Bureau for Development Co-operation
British High Commission
Embassy of Denmark
Embassy of the Netherlands
Embassy of Norway
Embassy of Sweden
IDA Resident Representative
IDA Task Team



APPENDIX B
BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR






1
PROJECT EVALUATION BY THE BORROWER
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
1.0.  INTRODUCTION
This report outlines an assessment of the project objectives, design and
implementation and operational experience. It also outlines an evaluation of the
borrower's own performance during the implementation of the project and an
evaluation of the World Bank's performance during project implementation.
2.0.  PROJECT OBJECTIVES
The objectives of the project were:-
(a) to assist the borrower to further enhance institutional capacity building in
key government ministries and agencies;
(b) deepen and extend financial and economic analysis in the agencies that
manage the economy and
(c) support the borrower to attain the key objectives of the Structural
Adjustment efforts.
The project consisted of the following parts, which were subject to such modifications as
the Borrower and the Association agreed from time to time:-
PART A:    MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND ECONOMIC PLANNING
1. Improvement of the Statistics Department's Survey and analytical work through
training and the acquisition of vehicles and equipment.
2. Strengthening the borrower's capability to conduct studies and undertake policy
analysis and improve implementation Capacity in Support of the Borrower's
Economic Recovery Program.
3. Strengthening the financial information system of the MFEP through (a) acquisition,
installation and maintenance of computers; (b) acquisition, implementation and
maintenance of computer software packages; (c) training; and (d) acquisition of
vehicles and office equipment and (e) Civil works and refurbishment of existing
facilities.



2
4. Strengthening MPED's central planning and budgeting capacity through training and
the acquisition of vehicles and office equipment.
5. Implementation of a pilot program for budget reform in selected local administrations
through training and acquisition of equipment and vehicles.
6. Strengthening the Treasury Department's accounting, inspectorate and internal audit
functions through training and the acquisition of computer equipment, vehicles and
office supplies.
7. Strengthening the capability of the Office of the Auditor General in audit-planning,
documentation and training through the acquisition of computers and vehicles.
8. Strengthening MFEP's project management capability.
PART B:    UGANDA REVENUE AUTHORITY
Strengthening URA, including its revenue and trade monitoring system,
through civil works, training and acquisition of equipment.
PART C:    BANK OF UGANDA
Strengthening BOU's (i) management and information and accounting
systems; (ii) debt monitoring and foreign exchange management systems;
(iii) analytical capacity in its research department; and (iv) general
management and human resources through training and the acquisition of
office equipment.
PART D:    MINISTRY OF PUBLIC SERVICE
Strengthening the MPS's capability to implement the borrower's Civil
Service reform program through training and the acquisition of
equipment.
3.0.  STRATEGIES FOR ACHIEVING THE OBJECTIVES
In order to achieve the objectives of the project, a Project Co-ordination
Committee (PCC) chaired by the Pennanent Secretary/Secretary to the Treasury
and comprising of representatives of BOU, MPS, UTRA and other MFEP officials
was formed. This PCC co-ordinated the implementation of all components of
the
Project. The PCC met regularly to approve the work program of each project
component and to review, co-ordinate and take appropriate measures concerning
the implementation of all components of the project. In addition to the PCC, a
Central Information Systems Advisory Committee (CISA) was formed with the



3
responsibility for the Borrower's overall approach to computerization and
guidance on and view of financial information systems.
The two committees PCC and CISAC made policy decisions relating to the
implementation of various activities under the project but actually left the actual
implementation to the various component managers.
4.0. PROJECT ACHIEVEMENTS
The project has by and large achieved its major objectives.
The following is a summary of achievements by component.
PART A:    MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND ECONOMIC PLANNING
COMPONENT:-
1.   Improvement of the Statistics Department's survey and analytical work through
training and acquisition of vehicles and equipment;
On the whole, the project lead to improvements in the availability of data for
planning purposes particularly over the life time of the project. Also a number of
staff have been trained in various statistical techniques. What is not clear is
whether or not the improvements so far made are sustainable. A number of high
quality supervisory staff have left the Department lately [some retired while
others found "better" employment]. This recent occurrence is likely to undermine
the Department if its status as a Bureau is not instituted in a timely fashion.
2.    Strengthening the Borrower's capability to conduct studies and undertake policy
analysis and improve project implementation capacity in support of the
borrower's economic recovery program:-
This particular sub-component was very useful. It provided resources necessary
for financing unforeseen needs at the time of project preparation. It provided
funding for returning expatriate Ugandans, training, and technical assistance.
This component achieved sustainable objectives.
3.    Strengthening MFEP's financial information systems through (a) acquisition,
implementation and maintenance of computer software packages; (b) training and
(c) acquisition of vehicles and office equipment and (d) civil works and
refurbishing of existing facilities:-
Some of the sub-components of this component were highly successful while
others were not. For example the refurbishment of the MFED's building is a
great achievement but the acquisition of new computer equipment and software
has not been put to optimal use. The continuous exodus of trained staff because



4
of poor remuneration in the UCS has eroded the possible success of this
component the availability of equipment and software notwithstanding.
4.    Strengthening MFEP's central planning and budgeting capability through training
and the acquisition of equipment and vehicles.
This component was not a success. Maybe this is why a successor project [EFMP
II] should provide financing because the planning and budgeting processes are
still fragile. Moreover, even the recently introduced decentralization necessitates
changes to the planning and budgeting systems and procedures:-
5.   Implementation of a pilot program for budget reform in selected local
administrations through training and the acquisition of equipment and vehicles:-
This sub-component also failed to achieve its objectives in the same way planning
and budgeting reforms at the level of Central Government failed.
6.    Strengthening the Treasury Department's accounting, inspectorate and internal
audit functions through training and the acquisition of computer equipment,
vehicles and office supplies:-
The Department has had some of its sections strengthened over the project life but
it is not clear of the achievements are sustainable because of lack of qualified
accountants to take over the role of current Advisors. Also, there has been a
problem caused by the "freeze" on Civil Servant recruitment. The recruitment
freeze was imposed by the Ministry of Public Service some years back. The
provision of computers and computer software has improved the accounting
functions especially in debt management using the DMFAS.
7.    Strengthening the capability of the office of the Auditor General in audit-
planning, documentation and training plus the acquisition of computers and
vehicles: -
The office of the Auditor General benefited immensely from its training
programmes and preparation of the audit manual.
8.    Strengthening the MFEP's project management capability:-
This sub-component provided the financing for the project management structures
such as the project office, the project Co-ordination Committee (PCC) and the
Central Information Systems Advisory Committee (CISAC). The funding was
for both training (local and foreign) as well as equipment and recurrent expenses.
Project management ability has been achieve.



5
PART B:    UGANDA REVENUE AUTHORITY COMPONENT:-
By far, the Uganda Revenue Authority (URA) benefited most from the EFMP.
First, it had just been created when the EFMP becomes effective. The project
helped the URA through its teething problems by providing technical assistance,
equipment, vehicles, computer hardware and software etc. The VAT system was
funded, initially, under the project and so was the ASYCUDA System for
customs. The sustainability of these systems is possible because the URA has
well-qualified and fairly well remunerated staff. The equipment is also fairly
new. No wonder the URA has year after year collected bigger revenues as a
percentage of GDP.
PART C:    BANK OF UGANDA COMPONENT
The Bank of Uganda Component has not achieved its objectives. A lot of
funds have been expended on out-souring a software package that is still
wanting in several respects. As if this was not bad enough, the Bank of
Uganda intends to procure another software package off the shelf and
ignore the IAS software on which it has already expended about
US$760,000.00.
PART D:    MINSTRY OF PUBLIC SERVICE COMPONENT
This component has achieved the objectives it was intended to. The
Ministry was able to carry out a number of short-term studies and
implement the on-going Civil Service reform in conformity with the agreed
time-tables. Donor funds provided for financing of retrenchment costs
were also utilized in a timely fashion which means that the provision of
necessary equipment and technical assistance directly and indirectly helped
the reform. The Civil Service reform program will be a sustainable
program because of the Government commitment to Civil Service reform.
5.0.  PROJECT COST/ACTUAL EXPENDITURE
The project was estimated to cost US$52 million financed as follows:-
IDA US$30 million; Uganda Government US$4 million; ODA #Stg.2 million,
Netherlands NLG7,500,000, Austria ATS 35,000,000, Denmark DKK
16,750,000, Sweden SEK 25,000,000 and Norway NOK 13,000,000. Actual
expenditure to-date has been contributed as follows: IDA 30.312 million and
Government of Uganda US$3.3 million. The other donor contributions have been
provided as pledged. The actual expenditure differs from the estimated
expenditure because, one, in the case of IDA the exchange rate between the US$
and the SDR fovoured the borrower [i.e. IDA credits are denominated in Special



6
Drawing Rights (SDR)] and two, in the case of Uganda Government,
Government failed to provide all resources necessary as Government
contribution.
The detailed costs of the project by component is attached in ANNEX I.
6.0.  BANK PERFORMANCE
On the whole, IDA's performance, in providing advice and guidance on project
implementation, was excellent. However, this particular project has had at least
four (4) different Task Managers. The changes in Task Management required
each of those Task Managers to study and understand the conceptual framework
of the project which sometimes gave rise to delays in providing "no objections"
or other actions that were required from the Bank side.
The turnover of Task Managers notwithstanding, the frequent visits by the Task
Managers provided opportunities for Government and IDA to discuss any
difficulties that were hindering project implementation and provide needed
solutions. The supervision missions also provided assistance at component level.
Component Managers were able to interact with the supervision missions and get
their components moving.
7.0.  BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
Being a fourth IDA Technical Assistance project in Uganda since the
early 1980'S, Implementation was not so much complex of demanding. The
earlier Technical Assistance programmes had provided the experiences necessary,
for managing a typical technical assistance project. Nevertheless, lack of
knowledge about procedural matters in the use of funds caused temporary
impasse between some component managers and the project office, at least
initially. Over the time, particularly with the helped of the Task Managers,
everyone got to understand their role and project implementation was smooth. A
few more problems need mention. The central budget component was not
successfully implemented because of lack of knowledge of procurement
procedures in some Government Departments [IGG's office]. There was delay in
the procurement of civil works for the MoFED buildings because Ministry of
Housing did not know the applicable procurement procedures. The Ministry of
Defence Sub-component was not fully implemented because of confidentiality of
the consultant's report. The use of UNOPS, though efficient in the procurement
of goods and services, provided little information for accounting purposes. This
was largely because UINOP kept information at the headquarters in New York.
These shortcomings are few and did not cause serious project implementation.
Therefore the borrower's performance was, in the borrowers view, satisfactory.



7
8.0.  LESSONS LEARNED
8.1..  It is clear that in order or sustain achievements of the project further assistance is
required especially in budgeting, accounting and statistics.
8.2.  Knowledge of IDA procedures in the use of project funds is very necessary for
accelerating project implementation.
8.3.  Changing Task Managers too often jeopardizes project implementation. It should
be avoided were possible.
8.4.  The issue of ownership addressed through the early involvement of
Stakeholders/beneficiaries can help accelerate project implementation.
Stakeholders should be involved in project preparation. This helps some
implementation aspects.
8.5.  The use of technical assistance does not necessarily lead to capacity building.
This is true in some of the Government agencies where Advisors were used.
9.0.  CONCLUSIONS
The Economic and Financial Management Project [EFMP] has considerably
enhanced the capacities of the Government Agencies that manage the economy
viz. Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development, Bank of Uganda
and Uganda Revenue Authority. In order to sustain the achievements made in
these institutions, further assistance will need to be provided in selected areas. In
addition, the Civil Service Reform programme has benefited immensely from the
project. Without donor assistance the reform would not have been possible,
particularly the financing of the retrenchment packages.
In view if the foregoing, Government is grateful to the donors who provided funding for
the project.






APPENDIX C
BORROWER'S COMMENTS ON THE ICR






f.iupI"ono:   MJnI l                  .        .Minitfry of Finanfce.
232.370W   Jp                                        Pltnning & Ecoflon
.K=pa 234tOW9 (10 lInu)                                      DevOlopmonW ,
D.          cof..   l                                                  P .0. Box 8147,
In cW cornmpdepLondann
In uz.wb ru5b ef1 qu   __o_ - _            - ,ganda.
nEREPUBUC OF UGANDA
*Apr' 2.0. 1999-
' 4r.J;itrne W, *AcTmins
*c O;inhy    'dr iii r t r g:suil:t
, lic Wforl'd iRank'
Ltr,4j.: . Fe..,
N   -ari -Ri  -'
Dcar Mr. Adams
RE1T' - lUGANDA  C,ONOMICANb Ir1NANCQAL LIANA'1 :Mm Nr Pi}OJIr,CI liR, AI"T
tMPLENATION COMPLETT()N REPQLOT (TC. 
I havcjustreccived yours ofMarh 19, 1999 in which vtyu rcqucstcui.ror my crvninicnLs cn ili,cud,t
(CR andl for t6ovemrn'cnts contribution to the ICR.   -
J-l? t., Hiav no prruticul;ar conincnis on thic dr.il as it pr:entits a rair view proI mict implrenicrntaLion
ind achicvcnmcnt n rilc projcct ohjectivcs. Sccrmidly. I lnlvc- altacitPcG."(ovcrnnicisltj coritnintiioft'-o
-tIC trd ivh0 Nc dr.rfl I taiderTsfd ndy ssi1ti.:c sIi;in..d with 1k* I ;n,k. ;Ittirfl;'. I iIwIrnzuiaf  lj
of today. contributed US$ 357 mnillioti and will continue to co11filiIutc ftir fic nc.t thre.e-moniths.
'iluis mcans that Govcrnniicrt contribuLion will l-: vcry ncm-r tlhc ; Cgreccd-U. 31.73 niillirnn k' lhc tc!Ri
orllc prujectl nit (e nd oiune i 1t).
Lahly- we are unable to gct thle reFurbishment's cost pcr square fibot fironm th.' C'rtnullnts-hasc
the Quanlily Surveyor camnoL be reacihcd ininicdlatcly. rlhc Consultant has proniiscd t1- rfiiiW65is
wvithh th ' irrormation nonethcless. We slmil red.y iTe iniormiation ct dte Task Ma.n iger= Sooiqn-
it is rnadc avaislable for thc purpose of completing paragerap1h 19. It cwould aiso lhc ILscriAu tsl si
this raragroph 19 that ttic Civil Works wcre prrocured in accuixtancc  It DA 1i)Ai pnxurcnitnt
proccdures.
'Yours:rsinc'rely
F. luntusirme-N4utebile
l'c1112fc111 $fiicrel y/S;cectcaryj lolhc re.Turcty: 



