Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
AGREEMENT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2418 UG
Agreement
between
THE GOVERNMENT OF SWEDEN
Economic and Financial Management Project
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
for
the Administration of Certain Funds
to be made available by
THE SWEDISH INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
Dated May 18, 1994
AGREEMENT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2418 UG
AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT between the GOVERNMENT OF SWEDEN (Sweden) represented by the SWEDISH 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY (SIDA) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) to provide for the administration, by the Association, 
of certain funds to be made available by Sweden to the Republic of Uganda (Uganda).
WHEREAS: (A) the agreement, dated May 18, 1989, between Sweden and the 
Association provides the framework for cofinancing of development projects by the 
parties thereto;
(B)
Sweden wishes to make available to Uganda a grant not exceeding twenty 
five million Swedish kroner (SEK 25,000,000) (the Grant) to assist Uganda in financing 
its Civil Service Reform Programme under Part D of the Economic and Financial 
Management Project (the Project) referred to in the Development Credit Agreement 
(Credit 2418-UG) dated September 22, 1992 between Uganda and the Association; (the 
Development Credit Agreement); and
(C)
SIDA wishes that the proceeds of the Grant should be incremental to the 
proceeds of the Development Credit Agreement and extended for the same purposes by the 
Association pursuant to the Development Credit Agreement.
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to administer the Grant upon the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Section 1.01. The Association, as Administrator on behalf of SIDA, shall review 
and approve requests submitted by Uganda to finance the reasonable costs of goods and 
services required during the execution of its Civil Service Reform Programme under 
Part D    of the Project in accordance with the relevant provisions of Schedule 1 to 
the Development Credit Agreement. 
Section 1.02. The Association, as Administrator on behalf of Sweden, shall have 
the sole responsibility for the supervision of the Project.
Section 1.03. The Association shall exercise the same care in the discharge of 
its functions under this Agreement as it exercises with respect to the administration 
and management of its own affairs and shall have no further responsibility to Sweden 
in respect thereof.
ARTICLE II
Section 2.01. (a) For the purpose of this Agreement, SIDA shall deposit the 
Grant amount of twenty five million Swedish kroner (SEK 25,000,000) into the 
International Development Association's Cash Account "T" (No. 89501-00225) which is 
maintained with Sveriges Riksbank (the T-Account). When making deposits, SIDA shall:
(i)
instruct Sveriges Riksbank to:
(A)
advise the Association's Cash Management Department as to 
the amount received; 
(B)
specify it is for the Economic and Financial Management 
Project (Project No. 26148);
(C)
specify the date of the deposit; and
     (ii)
FAX a copy of any payments instructions to Sveriges Riksbank to 
the Office of the Trust Funds Administrator in the Association 
utilizing FAX No. 202-477-3056.
(b)
The funds in the T-Account shall be freely exchangeable by the 
Association with other currencies as may facilitate their administration.
Section 2.02. The Association shall disburse from the         T-Account such 
amounts as, from time to time, shall be needed to meet the reasonable costs of goods 
and services financed, or to be financed, pursuant to Section 1.01 of this Agreement. 
Such disbursement shall be effected on the basis of withdrawal applications for 
eligible expenditures submitted by Uganda to the Association, in accordance with the 
Association's normal procedures for withdrawal of proceeds of credits made by the 
Association.
Section 2.03. In order to assist the defrayal of the costs of administration and 
other expenses incurred by the Association under this Agreement, the Association may 
invest and reinvest the Grant funds pending their disbursement and retain for its own 
account an amount equal to two percent of the Grant. All remaining income, less the 
cost of the external audit referred to in Article III, Section 3.01. (b), shall be 
refunded to SIDA.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1994, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify Uganda of such 
later date.
ARTICLE III
Section 3.01. (a) The Association shall maintain separate records and accounts 
in respect of the funds in the T-Account disbursed by the Association pursuant to the 
provisions of this Agreement.
(b)
Promptly after all funds made available under this Agreement have been 
disbursed from the T-Account to Uganda, or upon termination of this Agreement, the 
Association shall cause such records and accounts to be audited and certified by the 
Association's external auditors and shall furnish the report of such audit by said 
auditors to SIDA. The cost of such audit shall be met from the investment income 
Page  3
earnings.
ARTICLE IV
Section 4.01. SIDA and the Association shall consult from time to time at the 
request of each other on all matters arising out of this Agreement.
Section 4.02. The Association shall keep SIDA informed of the progress of the 
Project. To that end, the Association shall furnish to SIDA all relevant progress, 
performance and assessment reports related to the Project.
Section 4.03. The Association shall inform SIDA of any forthcoming major 
missions and meetings in connection with the Project and shall afford representatives 
of SIDA the opportunity to participate in such missions and meetings.
Section 4.04. The Association shall inform SIDA of any proposed significant 
modification to the Development Credit Agreement and shall afford SIDA a reasonable 
opportunity to exchange views with the Association before effecting any such 
modification.
ARTICLE V
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon signature and, subject 
to the provisions of this Article, shall continue in effect until December 31, 1994 or 
until all funds made available under this Agreement have been disbursed from the 
T-Account to Uganda and all other formalities incidental thereto have been completed.
Section 5.02. If at any time it appears to either party that the purposes of 
this Agreement can no longer effectively or appropriately be carried out, this 
Agreement may be terminated at the initiative of such party on ninety (90) days notice 
in writing.
Section 5.03. Upon termination of this Agreement, unless the parties agree on 
another course of action, any funds of SIDA held hereunder by the Association shall be 
returned to SIDA, and the Association's administration shall be considered terminated.
ARTICLE VI
Section 6.01. The Swedish International Development Authority, SIDA, shall be 
competent to represent Sweden for the application of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. This Agreement may be amended only by written agreement of the 
parties hereto.
Section 6.03. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand, mail, fax, cable or telex to 
the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party's 
address hereinafter specified or at such other addresses as such party shall have 
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. The 
addresses so specified are:
For Sweden:
Swedish International Development
  Authority
S-105 25 Stockholm
Sweden
Telephone:
8-728 51 00
Telex:
SIDA 11450
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Page  4
Washington, D.C.  20433
USA
Telex:
197688 (TRT)
248423 (RCA)
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned duly authorized hereto, have signed this 
Agreement.
GOVERNMENT OF SWEDEN
By /s/ Carin Norbert
Date:
May 18, 1994
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Francisco Aguirre-Sacasa
Date:
May 10, 1994
