Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
NORWEGIAN GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2418 UG
Agreement
for
the Administration of Certain Funds
to be made available by the
THE NORWEGIAN AGENCY FOR DEVELOPMENT COOPERATION
REPRESENTING THE GOVERNMENT OF THE KINGDOM OF NORWAY
in Conjunction with the Economic and Financial
Management Project
(Civil Service Reform)
in the
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
Dated January 5, 1995
NORWEGIAN GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2418 UG
AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 5, 1995, between the  NORWEGIAN AGENCY FOR DEVELOPMENT 
COOPERATION, REPRESENTING THE GOVERNMENT of the KINGDOM OF NORWAY ("Nor-way") and the 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the "Associa-tion") to provide for the 
administration by the Association of certain funds to be made available by Norway to 
the Republic of Uganda ("Uganda").
WHEREAS (A) the Agreement dated March 9, 1994, between Norway, the International 
Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the Association provides the framework for 
cofinancing of development projects by the parties thereto;
(B)
Norway wishes to make available to Uganda a grant in the amount of 
thirteen million Norwegian Kroner (NOK 13,000,000) (the "Grant") to assist Uganda in 
financing part of the termina-tion costs associated with either forced or voluntary 
retrenchment of civil servants or contracted Government employees required during the 
execution of Uganda's Economic and Financial Management Project (the Project);
(C)
Norway wishes that the proceeds of the Grant be incre-mental to the 
Credit extended for the same purposes by the Associ-ation to Uganda pursuant to the 
Development Credit Agreement No. 2418 UG, dated September 22, 1992, between Uganda and 
the Associa-tion (the "Development Credit Agreement"); and
WHEREAS, the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to administer the Grant upon the terms and con-ditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
Section 1.01. The Association, as Administrator on behalf of Norway, shall enter 
into such agreement or agreements with Uganda, as it may deem appropriate but 
consistent with the terms and con-ditions of the Development Credit Agreement 
(excluding the debt service provisions thereof) for the purpose of assisting in the 
financing of the termination costs to retrenched civil servants or contracted 
Government employees ("the termination expenditures"). Such agree-ments with Uganda 
shall, inter alia, provide that the proceeds of the Grant may be withdrawn by Uganda 
to finance expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in 
respect of Termination Expenditures. The agreements shall also provide that the 
amounts to be withdrawn need not be repaid and shall bear no interest or other 
charges. A copy of each such agreement shall be furnished by the Association to 
Norway.
Section 1.02. The Association, as Administrator on behalf of Norway, shall have 
the sole responsibility for the supervision of the Project.
Section 1.03. The administration and enforcement of any pro-visions of any 
agreement entered into between Uganda and the Association for the purposes of this 
Agreement shall be handled solely by the Association, and the Association specifically 
reserves the right, at its discretion and without notice to Norway, to exer-cise, 
refrain from exercising or waive any rights under such agreement or to modify any 
provision thereof provided, however, that, before suspending the right of Uganda to 
make withdrawals of funds under such agreement, the Association shall inform Norway 
and afford Norway a reasonable opportunity for consultation with the Association.
Section 1.04. The Association shall exercise the same care in the discharge of 
its functions under this Agreement as it exercises with respect to the administration 
and management of its own affairs and shall have no further responsibility to Norway 
in respect thereof.
ARTICLE II
Section 2.01. (a) For the purpose of this Agreement, Norway shall, deposit an 
amount of thirteen million Norwegian Kroner (NOK 13,000,000) into the International 
Development Association's Cash Account 'T' (No. 0629.05.35-636) which is maintained 
with Norges Bank (the "Trust Account").
(b)
The funds in the Trust Account shall be freely ex-change-able by the 
Association with other currencies as may facili-tate their administration.
Section 2.02. The Association shall disburse from the Trust Account such amounts 
as from time to time shall be needed to meet Termination Expenditures financed or to 
be financed pursuant to Section 1.01 of this Agreement. Such dis-burse-ment shall be 
effected on the basis of withdrawal applica-tions for eligible expenditures submitted 
by Uganda to the Associ-ation in accordance with the Association's procedures for 
with-drawal of proceeds of credits made by the Association.
Section 2.03. In order to assist in the defrayment of the costs of 
administration and other expenses incurred by the Association under this Agreement, 
the Association may invest and reinvest the funds in the Trust Account pending their 
disbursement to Uganda, and may retain for its own account the income from any such 
investment or reinvestment: (a) up to an amount equal to 2 percent of the Grant; and 
(b) an amount required to cover the cost of audit referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of 
this Agreement. The balance of the income from any such investment in excess of 2 
percent and the cost of audit shall be credited to a separate account and may be used 
for such purposes as the Association and Norway shall agree.
ARTICLE III
Section 3.01. (a) The Association shall: (i) maintain separate records and 
accounts in respect of the funds in the Trust Account disbursed by the Association 
pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement; (ii) cause such accounts and records to 
be audited and certified by the Association's external auditors for each fiscal year 
that funds shall remain in the Trust Account and shall furnish to the report of such 
audit by said auditors to Norway.
(b)
Promptly after all funds made available under this Agreement have been 
disbursed from the Trust Account or upon termination of this Agreement, whichever is 
the earlier, the Asso-ciation shall furnish to Norway a final report and a financial 
Page  3
statement on the Trust Account together with an opinion of the Association's external 
auditors on such statement. The cost of such audit shall be paid from the investment 
income referred to in Section 2.03 above.
ARTICLE IV
Section 4.01. Norway and the Association shall consult from time to time at each 
other's request on all matters arising out of this Agreement.
Section 4.02. The Association shall keep Norway informed of the progress made in 
the implementation of the Project. To such purpose, the Association shall furnish to 
Norway all relevant progress performance and assessment reports relating to the 
Project.
Section 4.03. The Association shall inform Norway of all forthcoming major 
missions and meetings in connection with the Project and, subject to the consent of 
Uganda, shall afford represen-tatives of Norway the opportunity to participate in such 
missions and meetings.
Section 4.04. The Association shall inform Norway of any proposed significant 
modification to the Development Credit Agree-ment and shall afford Norway a reasonable 
opportunity to exchange views with the Association before effecting any such 
modification.
ARTICLE V
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall become effective as of the date first above 
written and, subject to the provisions of this Article, shall continue in effect until 
all funds made available under this Agreement have been disbursed from the Trust 
Account to Uganda.
Section 5.02. If, at any time it appears to either party that the purposes of 
this Agreement can no longer effectively or appro-priately be carried out, the 
Agreement may be terminated at the initiative of such party by a ninety (90) days' 
notice in writing.
Section 5.03. Upon termination of the Agreement, unless the parties agree on 
another course of action, any agreement or portion thereof entered into by the 
Association, as Administrator on behalf of Norway, shall be transferred to Norway and 
any funds or other property of Norway held hereunder by the Association shall be 
returned to Norway, and the Association's administration shall be considered 
terminated.
Section 5.04. This Agreement shall be considered terminated if the Association 
has not entered into such agreement with Uganda referred to in Section 1.01 within 
ninety days following the effectiveness of this Agreement pursuant to Section 5.01 of 
this Agreement, and the funds shall be returned to Norway in accordance with Section 
5.03 above.
ARTICLE VI
Section 6.01. This Agreement may be amended only by written agreement of the 
parties hereto.
Section 6.02. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable or 
telex to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such 
party's address hereinafter specified or at such other addresses as such party shall 
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. The 
addresses so specified are:
For Norway:
NORAD
PB 8034 Dep.
0030 Oslo 
Norway
Cable address: 
Telex:
Page  4
NORAD-N 76548 
NORAD-N
Oslo
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS 197688 
(TRT)
Washington, D.C. 
248423 (RCA)
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned duly authorized thereto, have signed this 
Agreement.
THE NORWEGIAN AGENCY FOR DEVELOPMENT
  COOPERATION REPRESENTING THE GOVERNMENT
  OF THE KINGDOM OF NORWAY
By /s/ Sverre Melsom
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Jean-Louis Sarbib
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
