Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
DANISH GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2418 UG
Danish Grant Agreement
(Economic and Financial Management Project)
between
THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of Grant Funds
Provided by the
MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS OF DENMARK
Dated August 11, 1994
DANISH GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2418 UG
DANISH GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 11, 1994, between THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA (hereinafter 
referred to as the Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION, acting as 
Administrator (hereinafter referred to as the Administrator) of a Grant provided by 
THE MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS OF DENMARK (hereinafter referred to as DANIDA).
WHEREAS the Recipient has requested the assistance of the International 
Development Association (the Association) and DANIDA in the financing of the civil 
service reform program (the Program) referred to in Part D of the Project (the 
Project) described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement for Credit Number 
2418 UG dated September 22, 1992, between the Recipient and the Association (the 
Development Credit Agreement);
WHEREAS in consideration of the above-mentioned request, DANIDA agrees to 
provide such assistance and has agreed to open a trust account and deposit therein an 
amount not exceeding sixteen million seven hundred and fifty thousand Danish Kroner 
(DKr 16,750,000) (hereinafter referred to as the Danish Grant) and has, pursuant to an 
Agreement dated May 26, 1994, between DANIDA and the Association (hereinafter referred 
to as the Administration Agreement), appointed the Association as Administrator of the 
said Trust Account for the purpose of providing assistance to the Recipient;
WHEREAS the Association, as Administrator as hereinbefore mentioned, has agreed 
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing to extend the Danish Grant to the Recipient 
upon the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the 
"General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, 
dated January 1, 1985, with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth 
herein, subject, however, to the following modifications thereof:
(a)
the term "Association", whenever used in the General Conditions, means 
the International Development Association acting as Administrator of the Danish Grant 
pursuant to the provisions of the Administration Agreement except in the phrase 
"member of the Association" in Sections 2.01 (5), 4.02 (b) and 6.02 (e);
(b)
the term "Development Credit Agreement", whenever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement;
(c)
the term "Credit", whenever used in the General Conditions, means the 
Danish Grant hereunder;
(d)
the term "Credit Account", whenever used in the General Conditions or in 
this Agreement, means the Account opened by the Association in its books in the name 
of the Recipient to which the amount of the Danish Grant is credited;
(e)
Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04, 3.05, 4.01, 4.02, 4.03, 4.06, 6.05, 7.01, 8.01 
(a), 12.02 and 12.05 of the General Conditions are deleted;
(f)
the term "Borrower", whenever used in the General Conditions means the 
Recipient;
(g)
in Section 6.02 of the General Conditions the term "Association" shall 
also include the Association acting in its own capacity; and
(h)
Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
"(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date, or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the 
Association, the Recipient shall prepare and furnish to the Association a 
report of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably 
request, on the execution of the program referred to in the Preamble to the 
Danish Grant Agreement, the performance by the Recipient and the Association 
of their respective obligations under the Danish Grant Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Danish Grant".
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions, the Preamble to this 
Agreement and the Development Credit Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth and the term "Danish Kroner" means the currency of Denmark.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. (a) The Administrator agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the 
terms and conditions herein set forth or referred to, a grant in an amount of sixteen 
million seven hundred fifty thousand Danish Kroner (DKr 16,750,000).
(b)
Promptly after the effectiveness of this Agreement, the Administrator 
shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Credit Account, and pay to 
itself, an amount equivalent to Danish Kroner 335,000, for the defrayment of the costs 
of administration incurred by the Administrator under the Administration Agreement.
Section 2.02. The remaining amount of the Danish Grant may be withdrawn from the 
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development 
Credit Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the 
Program.
Section 2.03. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and services required for the Program and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Danish Grant shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 
to the Development Credit Agreement.
Page  3
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999, or such later date as the 
Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the Recipient 
of such later date.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, Article 3 and 
Schedules 2 and 3 to the Development Credit Agreement are hereby incorporated into 
this Agreement with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein.
ARTICLE IV
Effectiveness; Termination; Representation
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon signature.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Recipient and the 
Administrator hereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Development Credit 
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms.
Section 4.03. The representative designated in Section 6.01 of the Development 
Credit Agreement shall be the representative of the Recipient for the purposes of 
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.04. The addresses specified in Section 6.02 of the Credit Agreement 
shall be the addresses specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 4.05. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development Credit 
Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Transfer of Rights and Obligations
Section 5.01. In accordance with the Administration Agreement, the rights and 
obligations of the Administrator under this Agreement may be transferred to DANIDA. 
The Recipient accepts and agrees that, upon notice by the Administrator to the 
Recipient to that effect, DANIDA shall, ipso facto, from the date specified in such 
notice, be substituted in all rights and obligations of the Administrator under this 
Agreement as if DANIDA had been an original party to this Agreement, without any 
further action or formality being required on the part of any party, and from such 
date the Administrator shall cease to have any rights or obligations as a party under 
this Agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their representatives 
thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year 
first above written.
THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
By /s/ Paul Mukasa-Ssali
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
  as ADMINISTRATOR on behalf of the
MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS OF DENMARK
Page  4
By /s/ Stephen M. Denning
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
