Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2418 UG
            (Economic and Financial Management Project)
                              between
                      THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                     Dated September 22, 1992
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2418 UG
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated September 22, 1992, between THE REPUBLIC OF
UGANDA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
Page  2
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (b)   "MFEP" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance and
Economic Planning;
      (c)   "MPS" means the Borrower's Ministry of Public Service;
      (d)   "BOU" means the Bank of Uganda, the Borrower's central
bank;
      (e)   "URA" means Uganda Revenue Authority;
      (f)   "Project Account" means the account referred to in
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement; and
      (g)   "Sub-Account" means each of the accounts referred to
in Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
this Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
twenty-one million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 21,200,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   For the purposes of the Project, the Borrower may with
the approval of the Association, open and maintain Sub-accounts in
a commercial bank with authorized allocations to be withdrawn from
time to time from the Special Account. The terms and conditions of
the Sub-accounts, the authorized allocation for each Sub-account
and the specific purpose thereof, shall be satisfactory to the
Association and shall include appropriate protection against set-
off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of,
the Sub-accounts shall, mutatis mutandis, be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Page  3
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date
and at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied from the next date in that year
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such
places as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on each April 1 and October 1
commencing October 1, 2002 and ending April 1, 2032. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on April 1,
2012 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product
per capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded
$790 in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii)
the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank
lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and
after due consideration by them of the development of the
Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice
the amount of each such installment not yet due until the
principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so
requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such
modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in
the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an
annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided
that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not
change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned
repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
Page  4
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through
MFEP, MPS, BOU and URA with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative and financial
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
      (b)   The Borrower shall for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in a bank satisfactory to the Association, until
the completion of the Project, a Project account and maintain
therein at the commencement of each quarter, (i) the Uganda
Shillings equivalent to two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000)
for the first eight quarters, and (ii) thereafter for the
subsequent eighteen quarters the Uganda Shillings equivalent of at
least one hundred thirty-three thousand dollars ($133,000) per
quarter, for a total amount, in the aggregate during the period of
the Project, of the Uganda Shillings equivalent to four million
dollars ($4,000,000).
      (c)   Without limitation upon the provisions of
paragraph (a) of this Section and except as the Borrower and the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out
the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set
forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                  for the Special Account, for each fiscal year
                  audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Association;
            (ii)  furnish to the Association, as soon as
                  available, but in any case not later than six
                  months after the end of each such year, a
                  certified copy of the report of such audit by
                  said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                  as the Association shall have reasonably
                  requested; and
            (iii) furnish to the Association such other
                  information concerning said records, accounts
                  and the audit thereof as the Association shall
                  from time to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
Page  5
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                  accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                  records and accounts reflecting such
                  expenditures;
            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the
                  Association has received the audit for the
                  fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from
                  the Credit Account was made, all records
                  (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
                  and other documents) evidencing such
                  expenditures;
            (iii) enable the Association's representatives to
                  examine such records; and
            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                  report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                  by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 5.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
      (a)   The Borrower has opened and established the Project
Account and deposited therein the initial amount of the Uganda
Shillings equivalent to $200,000;
      (b)   The Borrower has appointed the central information
systems advisory committee, a services manager and a systems
manager for Part A of the Project pursuant to paragraph 9 of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the Borrower has appointed the Chairman and the
members of the Project Coordination Committee and the Project
Administrator pursuant to paragraphs 1 and 2 of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement, respectively.
      Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance and Economic Planning
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance and Economic
              Planning
            P.O. Box 8147
            Kampala
Page  6
            Uganda
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  FINSEC                    61170
                  Kampala
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                    197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA),
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                              82987 (FTCC)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
                  THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
                  By /s/ J.S. Mayanja Nkangi
                                         Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Works:                                     100%
     (a) under Part A          1,400,000
         of the Project
     (b) under Part B            700,000
         of the Project
(2)  Vehicles, office                           100%
     equipment, in-
     cluding computers
     and software, and
Page  7
     furniture:
     (a) (i)  under Part A 1,  1,690,000
              and A 3 through
              A 8 of the
              Project
         (ii) under Part A 2
              of the Project     180,000
     (b) under Part B            620,000
         of the Project
     (c) under Part C            440,000
         of the Project
     (d) under Part D             90,000
         of the Project
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(3)  Consultants'                               100%
     services and
     training:
     (a) (i)  under Part A 1,  5,530,000
              and A 3 through
              A 8 of the
              Project
         (ii) under Part A 2   2,330,000
              of the Project
     (b) under Part B          1,670,000
         of the Project
     (c) under Part C          2,500,000
         of the Project
     (d) under Part D            700,000
         of the Project
(4)  Incremental                                30% of local
     Operating Costs:                           expenditures
     (a) (i)  under Part A 1,    860,000
              and A 3 through
              A 8 of
              the Project
         (ii) under Part A 2      10,000
              of the Project
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
     (b) under Part B            160,000
         of the Project
     (c) under Part C             10,000
         of the Project
     (d) under Part D            130,000
         of the Project
(5)  Unallocated               2,180,000
                              __________
Page  8
         TOTAL                21,200,000
                              ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower; and
      (b)   the term "incremental operating costs" means
expenditures in respect of fuel, repair and maintenance of
vehicles financed under the Project, rentals of office/training
space, telephone, fax, salary, travel and shipping allowances.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and (b)
expenditures under (i) Category (1) (a) unless the Borrower has
appointed an implementing agency, under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association, pursuant to paragraph 11 of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; (ii) Categories (2) (a) (i), (3) (a)
(i) and (4) (a) (i) unless MFEP has: (A) adopted a work plan,
satisfactory to the Association, pursuant to paragraph 5 (c) of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and (B) has hired a procurement
expert and a project accountant for the office of the Project
administrator pursuant to paragraph 2 of Schedule 4; (iii)
Categories (2) (a) (ii), (3) (a) (ii) and (4) (a) (ii) unless the
Permanent Secretary/Secretary to the Treasury MFEP has furnished
the Association with a written request, including the rationale,
for funding requirements pursuant to paragraph 5 (b) of Schedule 4
to this Agreement; (iv) Categories (1) (b), (2) (b), (3) (b), and
(4) (b), unless URA has adopted an organizational structure
satisfactory to the Association, pursuant to paragraph 16 of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; (v) Categories (2) (c), (3) (c) and
(4) (c), unless BOU has adopted a work program pursuant to
paragraph 17 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and (vi) Categories
(2) (d), (3) (d) and (4) (d) unless MPS has appointed the chief
technical advisor pursuant to paragraph 18 of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to: (a) assist the
Borrower to further enhance institutional capacity building in key
govern- mental ministries and agencies; (b) deepen and extend
financial work in the financial and economic areas; and (c)
support the Borrower to attain the key objectives of its
structural adjustment efforts.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
1.    Improvement of the Statistics Department's survey and
analytical work through training and the acquisition of vehicles
and equipment.
2.    Strengthening the Borrower's capability to conduct studies
and undertake policy analysis and improve implementation capacity
in support of the Borrower's economic recovery program.
3.    Strengthening MFEP's financial information system through
(a) acquisition, installation and maintenance of computers; (b)
acquisition, implementation and maintenance of computer software
packages; (c) training; and (d) acquisition of vehicles and office
equipment; and (e) civil works and refurbishing of existing
facilities;
Page  9
4.    Strengthening MFEP's central planning and budgeting
capability through training and the acquisition of vehicles and
office equipment.
5.    Implementation of a pilot program for budget reform in
selected local administrations through training and the
acquisition of equipment and vehicles.
6.    Strengthening the Treasury Department's accounting,
inspectorate and internal audit functions through training and the
acquisition of computer equipment, vehicles and office supplies.
7.   Strengthening the capability of the Office of the Auditor
General in audit-planning, documentation and techniques and
improving its training program through training and the
acquisition of computers and vehicles.
8.    Strengthening MFEP's Project management capability.
Part B:     Uganda Revenue Authority
      Strengthening URA, including its revenue and trade
monitoring system, through civil works, training and the
acquisition of equipment.
Part C:     Bank of Uganda
      Strengthening BOU's: (i) management and information and
accounting systems; (ii) debt monitoring and foreign exchange
management systems; (iii) analytical capacity in its research
department; and (iv) general management and human resources
skills, through training and the acquisition of office equipment.
Part D:     Ministry of Public Service
      Strengthening MPS's capability to implement the Borrower's
civil service reform program through training and the acquisition
of equipment.
                             *   *   *
      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1998.
                       SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.    Goods to be procured through international competitive
bidding shall be exempted from pre-shipment price inspection by a
third party.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in
Uganda may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
Page  10
1.    (a)   Civil works, and (b) furniture and equipment estimated
to cost less than the equivalent of $100,000 per contract, up to
an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $3,950,000,
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding with public bid opening, advertised locally,
in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.    Items estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $50,000
per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of comparison of price quotations from a list of at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association. The aggregate price of
contracts so awarded shall not exceed the equivalent of $250,000.
Part E:    Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist MFED, MPS, URA and BOU in carrying out
the Project pursuant to Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Borrower
shall employ consultants and experts whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants and experts
shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
Project Coordination
1.    A Project coordination committee (PCC), which shall be
chaired by a representative of MFEP, and comprise representatives
of BOU, MPS, URA, and such other officials as the Chairman may
designate from time to time, shall be responsible to coordinate
Page  11
the implementation of all components of the Project.
      PCC shall meet: (a) at least once in each year of Project
implementation to approve the work program of each Project
component; and (b) on a quarterly basis, to review, coordinate and
take appropriate corrective measures, as required, for the proper
implementation of the Project.
2.    A Project administrator, with the assistance of support
staff, will provide administrative support for Project activities
including the administrative aspects of: (i) recruitment and
employment of experts who are residents of Uganda and short-term
consultants; (ii) procurement of goods and services; (iii)
preparation and pre-sentation of withdrawal applications from the
Credit; (iv) the operation and management of the Special Account
and the Project Account; (v) preparation of accounts and audits
thereof; (vi) furnishing periodic reports to the Association
pursuant to paragraph 3 of this Schedule; (vii) assisting managers
of Project components in the preparation of yearly work plans; and
(viii) providing secretariat assistance to PCC. MFEP will appoint
a procurement specialist and a financial specialist to assist the
Project Administrator in the operations of the Project.
3.    The ministry or agency responsible for implementing each
component of the Project shall prepare and submit to the Chairman,
PCC, quarterly and annual reports on Project implementation,
summarizing progress achieved, difficulties encountered and
recommended remedial action. A consolidated Project implementation
report shall be furnished to the Association by the Project
Administrator.
4.    The Borrower and the Association shall, not later than two
years after the Effective Date of the Development Credit
Agreement, carry out a comprehensive review of Project
implementation. The Borrower, shall implement such corrective
measures, satisfactory to the Association, as may be recommended
as a result of the review.
Part A of the Project
5.    (a)   While the Permanent Secretary/Secretary to the
Treasury, MFEP shall have overall responsibility for the
implementation of Part A of the Project, the heads of the various
units of MFEP and other agencies shall be responsible for
implementing the various sub-components of Part A of the Project.
      (b)   The Permanent Secretary/Secretary to the Treasury,
MFEP, will furnish the Association with written requests for use
of funds from the proceeds of the Credit to assist the Borrower to
implement its economic recovery program pursuant to paragraph 7 of
this Schedule. Such requests should identify whether assistance is
required for equipment, technical assistance for studies or
implementation activities, and training, in-country or abroad.
      (c)   MFEP shall promptly furnish to the Association a work
plan for the implementation of Part A of the Project including:
(i) terms of services for computer specialists and adequate
provision for participation of Ugandan consulting firms in the
training programs pursuant to paragraph 8 of this Schedule; and
(ii) the appointment of (A) the technical experts for Central
Budgeting pursuant to paragraph 12 of this Schedule, (B) the
experts and the preparation of a detailed work program for the
pilot program pursuant to paragraph 13 of this Schedule, (C) two
training experts for the Treasury Department pursuant to paragraph
14 of this Schedule, (D) two audit specialists/trainers for the
Office of the Auditor General, pursuant to paragraph 15 of this
Schedule, and (E)  appointment of a suitable implementing agency
for the Statistics Department pursuant to paragraph 6 of this
Schedule.
Statistics Department
Page  12
6.    MFEP shall prepare the Statistics Department's detailed work
program on the consumer price index, national accounts, external
trade, immigration and tourism, statistical data base and business
surveys with the assistance of an implementing agency,
satisfactory to the Association.
Assistance to Economic Recovery Program
7.    In order to strengthen the Borrower's capability to plan and
implement its economic recovery program, MFEP shall carry out a
program of studies, policy analysis, and technical assistance,
satisfactory to the Association and shall undertake to fund the
return of qualified Ugandans currently working overseas.
Government Computing and the Uganda Computer Services
8.    In order to strengthen the Borrower's overall financial
information systems in MFEP, URA, MPS and BOU, MFEP shall manage a
comprehensive program to strengthen the capability of the Uganda
Computer Services (UCS) and to ensure the Borrower's ability to
respond to the various strategic, planning, training, systems
development and support needs. As part of this program, MFEP shall
develop a work plan, satisfactory to the Association, to (a)
increase the number of computer specialists needed at UCS, (b)
develop an in-house training course for new and current staff, (c)
introduce competitive terms of service designed to attract and
retain staff, (d) develop and modify computer software in Uganda
for use by UCS, and (e) provide Ugandan consulting firms access to
training for an appropriate fee, if necessary, thereby enhancing
local skills.
Organizational Structure
9.    The responsibility for the Borrower's overall approach to
computerization and guidance and review of financial information
systems, shall be vested in a central information systems advisory
committee (CISAC). The terms of reference for CISAC as well as the
composition of CISAC shall be satisfactory to the Association. In
order to strengthen UCS's organizational structure, UCS will
appoint a systems manager and a services manager whose
qualifications shall be satisfactory to the Association.
10.   Implementation of the various systems/organizational areas
for: (a) revenue department operations; (b) Government accounts;
payroll/personnel systems; and (c) budgeting systems will be led
by separate teams under the direct responsibility of the
appropriate management at URA, UCS and the Budget Department of
MFEP, respectively.
11.  In order to: (a) implement the refurbishment of the MFEP and
Treasury buildings; (b) increase staff productivity; and (c)
enhance computer usage in accordance with an implementation plan
satis- factory to the Association, the Borrower shall appoint a
duly qualified managing agency to supervise assessment of physical
infrastructure and furnishing needs, and implementation of civil
works and furnishings needs. The terms and conditions of
employment of this organization shall be satisfactory to the
Association.
Central Budgeting
12.   In order to strengthen MFEP's central budgeting functions,
MFEP shall carry out a pilot program to introduce conceptual
reforms, in five ministries of the Borrower, including policy
orientation, budget cycle and linkages, computerization and
training, with the assistance of a macroeconomic advisor and
budget specialist, short-term consultants specialized in program
analysis, systems analysis, expenditure monitoring and control and
costing.
      The Deputy Secretary to the Treasury (Budget) shall be
responsible for the implementation of the pilot program.
Page  13
Local Administrations Budget Reform.
13.   In order to assist local administrations to realize
appropriate prioritization in local expenditures consistent with
the Borrower's national development policy and to establish a
system of expenditure monitoring and control, the Borrower will
carry out a pilot program in six local authorities including Jinja
Municipal Council, Masaka Municipal Council and Mbarara Municipal
Council and three other local authorities selected by the Borrower
in accordance with criteria satisfactory to the Association. The
pilot program will be based on a detailed work program, developed
from a pre- liminary study, satisfactory to the Association. The
Permanent Secretary/Secretary to the Treasury, MFEP together with
the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Local Government, will be
responsible for implementing the pilot program.
Treasury Department
14.   In order to strengthen the Treasury Department's capability
to introduce new accounting systems and procedures and provide
timely and accurate accounts, the Borrower will carry out a
program to improve the overall performance of the accounting staff
through in-service training including strengthening of the
Treasury's Inspectorate and Internal Audit functions. This program
will be implemented under the supervision of the
Commissioner/Treasury Officer of Accounts, with the assistance of
two training experts supported by short-term consultants
specializing in internal audit and public debt.
Office of the Auditor General
15.   In order to strengthen the Office of the Auditor General's
capability to introduce appropriate audit techniques and provide
effective service to the Borrower and its various ministries and
agencies, the Office of the Auditor General will carry out a
comprehensive training and reform program, including improvement
of its audit documentation and organization structure, computer
auditing, value-for-money auditing and its regional offices.
Part B of the Project
16.   The Borrower shall take such measures as shall be necessary
to appoint a duly qualified head and other department heads for
URA in accordance with an organizational structure and financial
plan satisfactory to the Association.
Part C of the Project
17.   In order to improve its accounting system and the provision
of data needs for macroeconomic management, including balance of
payments, external debt and general management information, BOU
shall develop a work program which shall be satisfactory to the
Association.
      The Deputy Governor, BOU, with the assistance of a
management implementation team shall be responsible for
implementation of the work program.
Part D of the Project
18.   The Permanent Secretary, MPS, shall be responsible to
implement Part D of the Project with the assistance of: (a) an
implementation committee, whose experience, qualifications and
terms of reference shall be satisfactory to the Association; and
(b) a technical assistance team which shall be headed by a chief
technical advisor and include short- and long-term experts whose
terms of reference shall be satisfactory to the Association and
the Implementation Committee to be established under (a) above.
                           SCHEDULE 5
Page  14
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1
through 4 set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount of
$2,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited
into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount
of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                  requests for deposits into the Special Account
                  at such intervals as the Association shall
                  specify.
            (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                  the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                  the documents and other evidence required
                  pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                  payment or payments in respect of which
                  replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
                  such request, the Association shall, on behalf
                  of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
                  Account and deposit into the Special Account
                  such amount as the Borrower shall have requested
                  and as shall have been shown by said documents
                  and other evidence to have been paid out of the
                  Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
Page  15
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions
of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized
in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence
as the Association may request, or (B) deposit into the Special
Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the
Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refundto the Association 
such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association,
refund to the Association all or any portion of the funds on
deposit in the Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the
Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
