Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
AGREEMENT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2418 UG
Agreement
for
the Administration of Certain Funds
to be made available by the
THE MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS OF DENMARK
in Conjunction with the Civil Service Reform
Component of the Economic and Financial Management Project
in the
THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
Dated May 26, 1994
AGREEMENT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2418 UG
AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 26, 1994, between THE MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS OF 
DENMARK (hereinafter referred to as DANIDA) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(hereinafter referred to as the Association) to provide for the administration, by the 
Association, of certain funds to be made available by DANIDA to the Republic of Uganda 
(hereinafter referred to as Uganda).
WHEREAS, DANIDA wishes to make available to Uganda a grant in an aggregate 
amount of sixteen million seven hundred and fifty thousand Danish Kroner (Kr 
16,750,000) (hereinafter referred to as the Grant) to assist Uganda in the financing 
of the Civil Service Reform Component Part D of the Economic and Financial Management 
Project (hereinafter referred to as the Project);
WHEREAS, DANIDA has requested and the Association has agreed, to administer the 
Grant in conjunction with the Credit made by the Association to Uganda under the 
Development Credit Agreement entered into between Uganda and the Association on 
September 22, 1992 (hereinafter referred to as the Development Credit Agreement);
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Section 1.01. The Association, as administrator on behalf of DANIDA, shall enter 
into such agreements with Uganda as it may deem appropriate but consistent with the 
Page  2
terms and conditions of the Development Credit Agreement (excluding the debt service 
provisions thereof) for the purpose of assisting in the financing of Part D of the 
Project. Such agreements with Uganda shall, inter alia, provide that the proceeds of 
the Grant withdrawn by Uganda need not be repaid and shall bear no interest or other 
charges.
Section 1.02. The Association, as administrator on behalf of DANIDA, shall have 
the sole responsibility for the supervision of the Project and shall keep DANIDA 
informed of the progress of the Project. Before sending missions to review the 
progress of the Project, the Association shall inform DANIDA on the timing of such 
missions so as to enable DANIDA to participate and to exchange views on the results of 
such missions.
Section 1.03. The administration and enforcement of any pro-visions of any 
agreement entered into between Uganda and the Association for the purposes of this 
Agreement shall be handled solely by the Association, and the Association specifically 
reserves the right, at its discretion and without notice to DANIDA, to exercise, 
refrain from exercising or waive any rights under such agreement or to modify any 
provision thereof, provided, however, that before suspending the right of Uganda to 
make withdrawals it shall inform DANIDA and afford DANIDA a reasonable opportunity for 
consultation with the Association.
Section 1.04. The Association shall exercise the same care in the discharge of 
its functions under this Agreement as it exercises with respect to the administration 
and management of its own affairs.
ARTICLE II
Section 2.01. For the purpose of this Agreement, DANIDA shall deposit the Grant, 
in an amount of Danish Kroner sixteen million seven hundred and fifty thousand (Kr 
16,750,000) into the Association's Cash Account "T" (No. 7345-1) which is maintained 
with Danmarks Nationalbank (hereinafter referred to as the T-Account). When making 
payment, DANIDA shall instruct Danmarks Nationalbank to advise the Association's Cash 
Management Department: (i) as to the amount received; (ii) that it is from DANIDA for 
the Economic and Financial Management Project in Uganda (Project No. 26146); and (iii) 
the date of the deposit. In addition, when requesting Danmarks Nationalbank to pay, 
DANIDA will send a copy of the deposit instruction by Fax to the Office of the Trust 
Funds Administrator of the Association utilizing Fax No. (202) 477-3056.
Section 2.02. The Association shall withdraw from the         T-Account such 
amounts as, from time to time, shall be needed to meet the reasonable cost of services 
financed or to be financed pursuant to Section 1.01 of this Agreement, such 
withdrawals to be effected through the normal disbursement procedures of the 
Association.
Section 2.03. In order to assist in defrayment of the costs of administration 
and other expenses incurred by the Association under this Agreement, DANIDA shall pay 
the Association an administrative fee of 2% of the Danida Grant.
ARTICLE III
Section 3.01. The Association shall:
(a)
be allowed to commingle the funds received from DANIDA with other trust 
fund assets and to invest and reinvest the funds in the T-Account pending its 
withdrawal pursuant to Section 2.02 of this Agreement, and shall maintain separate 
records and ledger accounts in respect of the funds disbursed by the Association 
pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement;
(b)
return the balance in the T-Account including any investment income 
earned, less the cost of the external audit referred to in (c) below, relating to the 
grant contribution from DANIDA upon Project completion;
(c)
cause such accounts and records to be audited and certified by the 
Association's external auditors at the completion of disbursement of the funds 
received from DANIDA; and
(d)
furnish the report of such audit by said auditors to DANIDA immediately 
after the completion of the Project. The costs of such audit shall be paid out of the 
investment income earnings.
ARTICLE IV
Page  3
Section 4.01. DANIDA and the Association shall consult, from time to time, at 
the request of either party, on all matters arising out of this Agreement and on other 
matters of common interest to them in the administration of the T-Account or the 
carrying out of the Project.
ARTICLE V
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall become effective as of the date first above 
written and, subject to the provisions of this Article, shall continue in effect until 
the entire proceeds of the Grant have been withdrawn.
Section 5.02. If at any time it appears to either party that the purposes of 
this Agreement cannot effectively or appropriately be carried out, this Agreement may 
be terminated at the initiative of such party on ninety days' (90 days) notice in 
writing to the other party.
Section 5.03. Upon termination of this Agreement, unless the parties agree on 
another course of action and except for the amount retained by the Association in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.03 hereof, any funds, including any 
accrued interest on such funds or other property of DANIDA held hereunder by the 
Association shall be returned to DANIDA, and the Association's administration shall be 
considered terminated.
Section 5.04. Promptly after termination of the Agreement, the Association shall 
furnish to DANIDA a final report and a financial statement of the T-Account, together 
with an opinion of the Association's external auditors on such statement.
ARTICLE VI
Section 6.01. This Agreement may be amended only by written agreement of the 
parties hereto.
Section 6.02. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or facsimile to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other addresses as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For DANIDA:
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs
   of Denmark
Asiatisk Plads 2,
1448 Kobenhavn K
Denmark
Cable address:
Telex:
ETRANGERES
31292
Kobenhavn
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA)
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned duly authorized thereto have signed this 
Agreement.
Page  4
THE MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS OF DENMARK
By /s/ Geert Aagaard Andersen
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Francisco Aguirre-Sacasa
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
