Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
DUTCH GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2418 UG
Dutch Grant Agreement
(Economic and Financial Management Project)
between
THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of Dutch Funds
Provided by The
MINISTER FOR DEVELOPMENT COOPERATION
OF THE NETHERLANDS
Dated August 2, 1994
DUTCH GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2418 UG
DUTCH GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 2, 1994, between THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA (the Grantee) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION acting as Administrator (the Administrator) 
of the Dutch Grant (as hereinafter defined) provided by the Minister for Development 
Cooperation of the Netherlands (the Minister).
WHEREAS the Grantee has requested the assistance of the International 
Development Association (the Association) and the Minister in the financing of the 
civil service reform program (the Program) referred to in Part D of the Project (the 
Project) described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement Number 2418 UG, 
dated September 22, 1992, between the Grantee and the Association (the Development 
Credit Agreement);
WHEREAS the Association has granted a Credit for this purpose on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement;
WHEREAS the Minister wishes to make available to the Grantee a grant in the 
amount of seven million five hundred thousand Dutch guilders (f.7,500,000) (the Dutch 
Grant) to assist the Grantee in carrying out the Program on the terms and conditions 
hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by an exchange of letters, dated December 1, 1993 and December 6, 1993, 
respectively, between the Minister, the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the Bank) and the Association, the Minister has requested the 
Association, and the Association has agreed, to administer, inter alia, the Dutch 
Page  2
Grant in accordance with the provisions of the arrangements between the Bank, the 
Association and the Minister, dated December 11, 1986 (the Arrangements); and
WHEREAS the Grantee acknowledges that the financial assistance extended to the 
Grantee under this agreement (the Dutch Grant Agreement) shall be considered part of 
the bilateral development aid extended by the Government of the Netherlands to the 
Grantee;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (the General Conditions), 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement, subject, however, to the following 
modifications thereof:
(a)
the term "Association", whenever used in the General Conditions, means 
the International Development Association acting as Administrator of the Dutch Grant 
pursuant to the Arrangements, except in the phrase "member of the Association" in 
Sections 2.01 (5), 4.02 (b) and 6.02 (e);
(b)
the term "Development Credit Agreement", whenever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement;
(c)
the term "Credit", whenever used in the General Condi- tions, means 
"Dutch Grant" extended to the Grantee under this Agreement;
(d)
the term "Credit Account", whenever used in the General Conditions shall 
be amended to read, "Dutch Grant Account";
(e)
Section 4.01 shall be modified to read:
"Withdrawals from the Dutch Grant Account shall be made in 
dollars; provided, however, that if the expenditures to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Dutch Grant have been paid in another currency, 
the Administrator shall, at the request of the Grantee and at the time 
of withdrawal from the Dutch Grant Account, purchase such currency with 
the proceeds of such  withdrawal".
(f)
in Section 6.02, the term "Association" shall also include the 
International Development Association acting in its own capacity;
(g)
Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
"(c)
Not later than six months after the Closing Date,  or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Grantee and the 
Administrator, the Grantee shall prepare and furnish to the 
Administrator a report of such scope and in such detail as the 
Administrator shall reasonably request, on the execution of the program 
referred to in the Preamble to the Dutch Grant Agreement, the 
performance by the Grantee and the Administrator of their respective 
obligations under the Dutch Grant Agreement and the accomplishment of 
the purposes of the Dutch Grant";
(h)
Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04, 3.05, 4.01, 4.02, 4.03, 4.06, 6.05, 7.01, 8.01 
(a), 12.02 and 12.05 are deleted; and
(i)
the term "Borrower", whenever used in the General Conditions, means the 
Grantee.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions, the Preamble to this 
Agreement and the Development Credit Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth, and the terms "Dutch guilders" and "f." mean the currency of the 
Netherlands.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Page  3
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to extend to the Grantee, on the terms 
and conditions herein set forth or referred to, a grant in an amount of seven million 
five hundred thousand Dutch guilders (f.7,500,000).
Section 2.02. The proceeds of the Dutch Grant may be withdrawn from the Dutch 
Grant Account for expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of the goods required for the Project in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement, as 
such Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement between the Grantee and 
the Administrator.
Section 2.03. (a) Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, contracts 
for goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Dutch Grant shall be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit 
Agreement.
(b)
If the Administrator shall have reasonably determined that the 
procurement of any item is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to 
in paragraph (a) above, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Dutch Grant, and the Administrator may, without in any way restricting 
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Administrator under this 
Agreement, by notice to the Grantee, cancel such amount of the Dutch Grant as, in the 
Administrator's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which 
would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Dutch 
Grant.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999, or such later date as the 
Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the Grantee of 
such later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, Article III and 
Schedules 2 and 3 of the Development Credit Agreement are hereby incorporated into 
this Agreement with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein. 
It is  understood that all references to the "Association" in said Sections are 
references to the Association acting as Administrator of the Dutch Grant under this 
Agreement, and all references to the Credit and the Credit Account are references to 
the Dutch Grant and the Dutch Grant Account, respectively, and all references to the 
Borrower shall be deemed to be references to the Grantee.
ARTICLE IV
Representation; Transfer of
Rights and Obligations
Section 4.01. The Minister of Finance and Economic Planning of the Grantee shall 
be the representative of the Grantee for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Grantee:
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
P.O. Box 8147
Kampala, Uganda
Cable address:
Telex:
FINSEC
61170
Kampala
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Page  4
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA)
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
Section 4.03. In accordance with the Arrangements, the rights and obligations of 
the Administrator under this Agreement may be transferred to the Minister. The Grantee 
accepts and agrees that, upon notice by the Administrator to the Grantee to that 
effect, the Minister shall, ipso facto, from the date specified in such notice, be 
substituted in all rights and obligations of the Administrator under this Agreement as 
if the Minister had been an original party to this Agreement, without any further 
action or formality being required on the part of any party and, from such date, the 
Administrator shall cease to have any rights or obligations as a party under this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Effectiveness
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall become effective as of the date first above 
written and shall continue in effect until the Dutch Grant has been fully disbursed 
and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled their obligations hereunder.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their representatives 
thereto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year 
first above written.
THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
By /s/ Paul Mukasa-Ssali
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
   as Administrator of Dutch Funds
   Provided by The
MINISTER FOR DEVELOPMENT COOPERATION
OF THE NETHERLANDS
By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
Regional Vice President
Africa
