Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY                                     Report No.  10640-PNG
Report No.: 10640-PNG   Type: (SAR)
1itle: EDUCATION DEVELOPMIENT PROJECT
uAuthor: REFE. WILLIAM
Ext.:f1210 Room:E9 033 Dept.:ASTPH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
EDUCATION DEVELOPNT PROJECT
OCTOBER 6, 1992
Country Department III
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
nt has a restricted distributiont antd rtyseb ticsed without World BakBtOia ..
thi        duie. it  otns m'



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currenc: Unit - Papua New Guinea Kina (K)
US$1.00 = KO.95
(September 1992)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January i - December 31
ACADEMIC YEAR
January - December
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB        -           Asian Development Bank
CHE        -           Commission for Higher Education
CODE       -           College of Distance Education
DOW        -           Department of Works
ESR        -           Education Sector Review
ICB        -           International Competitive Bidding
LCB        -           Local Competitive Bidding
NDOE       -           National Department of Education
NHEP       -           National Higher Education Plan
NHS        -           National High School
NTP        -           National Training Policy
PCC        -           Project Coordinating Committee
PCR        -           Project Completion Report
PEOF       -           Program in Education for Overseas Funding
PETT       -           Pre-employment Technical Training
PHS        -           Provincial High School
PIP        -           Public Investment Program
PIU        -           Project Implementation Unit
PPAR       -           Project Performance Audit Report
PNG        -           Papua New Guinea
REU        -           Research and Evaluation Unit
SOE        -           Statements of Expenditure
UPE        -           Universal Primary Education
UPNG       -           University of Papua New Guinea



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .iii
I.    ISSUES AND POLICIES IN THE EDUCATION SECTOR . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
A.    Introduction  .1.........  ...  ...  ...  ...  .    . .
B.    Issues ........................... . 2
C.    Policies and Plans  .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
D.    Bank's Experience in Education  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
E.    Donor Assistance to Education ................ . 18
II.   THE   PROJECT   .  .  .  .   .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .   .   .  .   .  .  .   .  .  19
A.    Origin of the Project . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
B.    Project Rationale and Objectives  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
C.    Project Description . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
III.  PROJECT COSTS. FINANCING AND IMPLEMENTATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
A.    Costs    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .   24
B. Financing .27
C.    Project Management and Implementation .28
D. Environmental Impact .34
E. Impact on Women .34
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS .34
A.    Benefits   .    .   .   .    .   .   .   .   .    .   .   .   .   .   .    .   .    .   .    .   .    .    .   .   .    .   .  34
B.    Risks ....................34
V.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ..34
This report is based on the findings of a preappraisal mission which visited
Papua New Guinea (PNG) during November 1991 and an appraisal mission
consisting of Messrs. W.E. Rees (task manager), M. Turner (consultant), and
Ms. R. Montague (architect) which visited PNG during February 1992. Peer
reviewers were Mr. T. 3chmidt (SAlPH) and Ms. L. Dove (ASTPH). The project
was endorsed by Mr. Clifford Gilpin, Chief, EA3PH, and Mrs. Marianne Haug,
Director, EA3.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
Page No.
TABLES IN TEXT
3.1   Summary of Project Costs by Component . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
3.2   Summary oi Project Costs by Category of Expenditure . . . . . . 26
3.3   Financing  Plan    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 28
3.4   Project Expenditure by Procurement Category . . . . . . . . . . 31
ANNEXES
1.   Structure of the Education System
2.   Enrollments by Education Level
3.   Education Recurrent Expenditures
4.   Provincial Recurrent Expenditures Per Student
5.   Program in Education for Overseas Filancing - Summary
6.   Donor Assistance to Education
7.  Appointment of New Staff
8.  Technical Assistance and Fellowships
9.  Action Plan for Implementation of the Policy Studies
10.   Project Expenditure by Year and Purpose
11.   Summary of Project Costs
12.   Implementation Schedule
13.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
14.   Selected Documents Available in the Project File
MAP: IBRD No. 24164



-iii-
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Proiect Summary
Borrower:                 Independent State of Papua New Guinea
Amount:                   US$35 million equivalent
Terms:                    Repayable in 20 years including 5 years of grace at
the Bank's standard variable interest rate
Proiect Description:      The overall objective of the project is to assist the
Government to implement its education sector policies
and investment plans. More specifically, the project
would: (a) increase access to upper secondary
education through expanding enrollments in grades 11
and 12 and in the business studies course and through
repair of school facilities (baseline cost, US$19.1
million); (b) improve educational quality through
expanding the supply of textbooks, strengthening
school inspection and guidance and improving school
libraries (baseline cost, US$21.5 million); and (c)
strengthening institutional management through the
appointment and training of regional planning and
management advisors and policy studies to develop
strategies to improve the cost-effectiveness of
education, increase edutcational opportunities for
girls and strengthen teacher education (baseline
cost, US$0.9 million).
Benefits and Risks:       The project would lead to an increase in grade 12
graduates thereby easing the shortage of entrants to
higher education, especially with regard to females.
The project would also assist in improving the
quality of education through the provision of teacher
support, improved planning, textbooks and other
relevant inputs. Policy and planning would also be
strengthened in relation to female participation in
education, teacher education and the cost
effectiveness of the education system. In view of
the involvement of the provincial education divisions
in implementing parts of the project, the major risk
concerns the local capacity to implement the project
satisfactorily. This potential risk would be reduced
through the operation of the Project Coordinating
Committee and the establishment of a well-staffed
Project Implementation Unit (PIU) which would include
an experienced project coordinator.



-iv-
Project Costs:                                   Local      Foreign   Total
-------US$ million-------
Incree.sing access                                 9.1       10.0       19.1
Improving quality                                  5.3       16.2       21.5
Strengthening institutional management             0.6        0.3        0.9
Project management and evaluation                  0.6        0.3        0.9
Baseline Cost                                15.6      26.8       42.4
Contingencies:
Physical                                     1.0        2.2        3.2
Price Increase                               2.8        2.9        5.7
Subtotal                                     3.8        5.1        8.9
Total Project Cost aL                       19.4       31.9       51.3
a/ Includes local taxes estimated at US$670,000 equivalent.
Financing Plan:                                  Local      Foreign   Total
-------US$ million-------
Government                                        16.3         -        16.3
IBRD                                               3.1       31.9       35.0
Total                                       19.4       31.9       51.3
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY                    1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998
--------------US$ million--------------
Annual                      2.4    4.7   10.1   11.0    5.8    1.0
Cumulative                  2.4    7.1   17.2   28.2   34.0   35.0
Economic Rate of
Return:                    Not applicable
MAP: IBRD No. 24164



PAP-uA NEW GUINEA
EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. ISSUES ANP POLICIES IN THE EDUCATION SECTOR
A. Introduction
1.1       The expansion of modern education in Papua New Guinea (PNG) began
only about three decades ago as the country started to move towards self-
government and independence. This relatively late start is reflected in the
low educational status of the population in general and of the workforce in
particular. The national literacy rate is estimated at only about 45% and
among citizens in formal employment, almost a half have less than a primary
education, only about a quarter have completed primary or have had some
secondary education, about a fifth have completed lower secondary school,
about 4% have a full secondary education and a mere 1% have a university
degree. The underdeveloped state of PNG's human resources constitutes one of
the major constraints to the country's development and the shortage of trained
and educated citizens has led to the continued reliance on substantial numbers
of expatriates (currently about 17,000) to fill managerial and technical
positions.
1.2       Nevertheless, since independence was achieved in PNG in 1975,
progress has been made in expanding education at the primary (grades 1-6) and
lower secondary (grades 7-10) levels.l/ During the period 1975-90, primary
enrollments increased from 238,000 to 413,000 or at about 3.8% p.a. and lower
secondary from 27,500 to 53,100, an increase of 4.5% p.a. Gross enrollment
ratios also have shown steady growth from 56% of the primary age group in 1975
to about 73% in 1990 and for the lower secondary age group from 12% to 16% in
the same period. Enrollment patterns have shown considerable improvement for
girls whose enrollment grew from 37% to 44% of total enrollments. at the
primary level during 1975-90 and from 30% to 39X in the lower secondary
schools. Enrollments at the upper secondary level (grades 11-12) have more
than doubled to 1,970 since independence but from the low base of about 850 in
1975. However, this trend tends to obscure the fact that upper secondary
enrollments were fairly stagnant through most of the 1980s and this had a
retarding effect on enrollments in higher education especially in the
universities, which have averaged around 3,900 equivalent full-time students
in recent years.
1.3       The expansion of the education and training system has been
support-d by relatively generous budgetary allocations since independence,
with the sector receiving consistently around 15-20% of the recurrent budget
which represents about 5-6% of GNP. This has placed PNG among the leaders in
countries at comparable levels of development in terms of educational
investments and on a par with some of the richer countries of Asia. However,
the relatively high level of budgetary support has been necessary to finance a
high-cost education system which is due mainly to generous student/teacher
I/   See Annex 1 for a cbhrt depicting the structure of the education system in PNG and Annex 2 for
enrollments by education level.



-2-
ratios, large-scale provision of student boarding and high teacher salaries.
The latter are a crucial determinant of overall costs in a labor-intensive
activity like education.91 The high expenditure/high-cost relationship has
inevil:ably led to PNG's educational achievements being considerably below
those of Asian countries in general.3/ Nevertheless, although the overall
level of budgetary support for education has benn relatively generous, annual
allocations have reflected a lack of uniformity in the Government's support
for the sector. In the decade following independence, education was given a
high priority and this was reflected in budgetary expenditures on education
which averaged around 19-20% annually. In the mid-eighties, a new Government
gave lower priority to education and annual  .d.1getary allocations to education
fell to around 17%. The present Government has again raised education's
priority and has attempted to susta. increased resource flows to the sector.
However, recent economic constraints have made this difficult and education's
share of the budget has !3pttled at around 16% (Annex 3).
1.4      Accompanying the expansion of education in recent years have been
problems of quality which have arisen at all levels of the system. Although
assessing educational quality in the PNG context raises special problems, not
least of which is the tendency to compare local standards with those of richer
and more advanced neighbors, there is nevertheless a widespread belief that
the quality of education in PNG is low. In addition, the internal efficiency
of the system is low while unit costs are among the highest in the region.
There is also a need to improve equity in the provision of education and
training, especially in relation to opportunities for females. Planning for
the expansion and improvement of education is made more difficult by the
division of responsibilities betwaen the national and provincial governments.
In general, the provinces are responsible for primary, lower secondary and
vocational education while the national government is responsible for
curriculum development at these levelq and for all aspects of upper secondary
education, the technical colleges and nongraduate teacher training. The
priority given to education varies between provinces with the result that
resource allocations, and consequently educational outcomes, differ between
provinces. These issues are dealt with in more detail below together with an
assessment of the poli_ies the Government has formulated in response to the
issues.
B. Issues
1.5       Access and Relevance.  Over the past decade enrollments in primary
schools have increased at nearly 4X p.a. (para 1.2) This has slowly raised
the gross enrollment ratio to 73% of the 7-12 years age group, although this
figure is rendered less meaningful by the substantial number of overage
students enrolled in grades 1-6. The rate of growth of the 7-12 years age
VJ  Primary teacher salaries in PNG are 6.8 times per capita GNP compared with 2.6 times for 14 Asian
countries. The figure for secondary teachers in PNG in 10.0 compared with 3.3 for Asia. J.P. Tan
and A. dingat, Educational Develomnent in Asia: A Comiarative StudY Focusuins on Cost and Financing
Iasues, World Bank, October 1989. p. 65, Table 3.5.
V/  Tbid. p. 9, Table 1.1.



.3-
group is uncertain due to inadequate census data, but has been estimated at
around 2.8X p.a. Thus. primary enrollments are growing only marginally faster
than estimated population growth, which puts the achievement of universal
primary education (UPE) well beyond the target date of 2000. At the lower
secondary level, enrollments have increased at around 3.9X p.a. during the
1980s.  The gross enrollment ratio was only 16% in 1990.  This low rate of
increase has resulted from the inability of the system to raise the key
transition rate of students between grade 6 and grade 7. The rate actually
declined from 37% in 1981-82 to 351 in 198Q-89. Thus, about two-thirds of all
gr-de 6 leavers are forced out of the system on completion of the primary
cycle.  At the other end of the lower secondary cycle, only about 35X of grade
10 leavers are accepted for entry tc grade 11 in the national high schools
(NH!) or to other post-secondary institutions, cauaing another major forceout.
"hus, the pyramid of access to educational opportunity is very narrow in PNG
aind is reflected in the low level of educational achievement in the population
in general (para 1.1).
1.6       On current trends in PNG, out of every 100 students who enroll in
grade 1, fewer than 2 will graduate from grade 12 due to dropout and forceout
along the education path. Therefore, the basic question to be answered in
education is--education for what? This follows from the inherent tension in
the education system between the need to educate a relatively small number of
individuals for employment in the formal sector of the economy and the need to
impart to the great majority of students the knowledge, skills and attitudes
necessary for economic and social life in the non-formal, mainly rural,
sector. Education requirementa for the formal sector are academically
oriented and are being increasingly inflated as employers and higher education
institutions seek better educated entrants. Non-formal employment, while
placing less emphasis on specific levels of education, nevertheless requires
adequate achievement in numeracy and literacy. Thus, PNG faces the difficult
situatien of trying to meet two different educational objectives and recently
proposed structural changes in the education system (para. 1.26) are aimed at
addressing this issue.
1.7       Enrollment Disparities.  Significant disparities continue to exist
in enrollment rates among provincns. These tend to reflect historical
experience, with those provinces wiiich had early contact with church missions-
-the original providers of education--being still the most advantaged while
the provinces which had later contact are still lagging behintd. Thus
enrollment levels are considerably higher in the Islands and coastal Papuan
provinces than in the H.'ghlands. In 1990, gross enrollment rates in primary
education ranged from almost 1001 in Manus to 64X in the Southern Highlands.
The pattern is similar at the lower secondary level in the provincial high
schools with gross enrollment rates ranging from 341 in Manus to less than 121
in Enga. The long term trend in enrcllment rates is one of steady improvement
especially in the disadvantaged provinces which have achieved substantial
increases in enrollment rates ove -ne past decade. On current trends, this
improvement is likely to be sustained. The major problem to be faced is
retention and the need to deal with high dropout rates (para. 1.10).
1.8       Gender disparities also exist in the school system and become more
marked at each successive level. In 1990, females accounted for 441 of
enrollments at the primary level, 391 at lower secondary and 291 at upper



.4-
secondary. This pattern is reflected in higher education where the overall
female enrollment rate is 32%.  However, this pro?ortion is exaggeratod by
enrollments in the nursing, technical and teachers' colleges where females
comprise 73%, 48% and 40%, respectively. On the other hand, female enrollment
is only about 15% in bachelors' degree courses in the universities. These
trends reflect societal attitudes which traditionally have devalued the need
for educating females. Although these attitudes appear to be changing, as
evidenced by higher growth rates for female than male enrollments in primary
schools, gt ls are still leaving school at disproportionate rates as they
progress through the system.'
1.9       Ouality.  The quality of education at all levels in PNG has been
debated frequently in recent years. Discussion has focused on the prevailing
standards of education and whether or not they are declining. The debate has
also addressed the issue of how to define and apply standards which are
appropriate to PNG rather than to mora advanced countries. The debate
continues, but in one respect at least, there is widespread belief that many
school leavers are inadequately prepared to undertake further education and
training or to perform effectively in the modern sector workforce. Poor
quality and low student achievement are endemic to the education system at all
levels. The causes of poor quality are familiar from many other developing
countries and include inadequately prepared teachers, insufficient supply of
learning materials, lack of effective management and leadership in the schools
etc.11 In PNG, as budgets tightened in recent years, two particular problems
emerged which have had a :significant effect on reducing educational quality.
First, the supply of textbooks, which are one of the greatest contributors to
educational quality, has not been maintained. Following completion of the
Primary and Secondary Projects, which had substantial textbook components,
funds were not available to keep up the flow of textbooks to the schools with
resulting negative effects on classroom learning. Second, poor scchool
maintenance has also reduced quality. Malfunctioning water and sewage systems
lead to health hazards and school closings, which results in loss of learning
time. Poorly maintained buildings, especially teacher housing, reduce the
morale of students and teachers, with negative effects on education
quality.hW External factors also reduce quality and achievement such as
frequent absences from the classroom due to the needs of home and family,
school closures due to local law and order problems, poor health and nutrition
4/   A recent study concluded that the three most important factors affecti , the enrollment and retention
of girls in primary schools were: parental attitudes towards the stt.;s of women and the cost-
effectiveness of educating girls; the teacher's level of skill and professionalism and the ability to
create a stimulating learning environment; and the girl's level of motivation and her vision of her
role, status and potential. L. Yeoman, Factors Affectina the Enrollment and Retention of Girls in
Pavua New Guinea Communitv Schools, EU/DOE, November 1985.
~/   For province-level views on quality issues see: M. Gibson and S. Weeks, Im rovina Education in the
Western Province, Research Report No. 64, DER/NRI, June 1990; and G. Vulliamy, School Effectiveness
and Provincial Hish Schools in Papua New Guinea, Report No. 57, ERU/UPNG, October 1987. The latter
report relates to provincial high schools in West New Britain.
6/   Poor maintenance also reduces access to schooling. Although no reliable data exist, anecdotal
evidence, e.g., in the local press, indicates that school closings due to the breakdown of facilities
are quite common.



-5-
status especially among primary school students, etc. The problem of poor
quality which develops in the primary schools becomes c_..ulative as it is
transmiPted upwards through the system with negative effects on secondary and
higber Aducation.
1IO       Efficiency.  Many of the factors mentioned above which impair the
quality of education also influence the decisions of students to drop out oz.
school. This is reinforced by the low level of student achievement itself
which leads to difficulty in meeting academic standards, especially in higher-
level courses, and subsequent dropout. Thus low internal efficiency, as
manifested in high dropout rates, is found at most levels of the education
system. In primary education, 45% of the entering class ..rop out before
completing grade 6 and the rate haL been increasing each year. In lower
secondary schools, the dropout rate is about 33% over the cycle and has
remained fairly steady in recent years. In contrast, the dropout rate at the
upper secondary level is only 3% which reflects the rigorous selection of
entering students. In higher education and training, attrition rates are high
in many institutions reflecting inadequate academic preparation especially in
English, mathematics and science. For example, program attrition rates reach
50-70% in the universities, and in the nursing and allied health colleges,
attrition rates of 30-50% are not uncommon.
1.11      In contrast to low levels of internal efficiency in higher
education, external efficiency is high. This is to be expected to some extent
because many higher-level institutions are run by government departments and
the majority of their graduates are targeted for departmental employment.
High employment levels would also be expected given the general scarcity of
citizens with higher education. This is borne out by a tracer stuAdy of 1987
graduates of the University of Papua New Guinea (UPNG) which showed that
nearly 80% were in employment immediately after graduation or were intending
to pursue further study. Over 90% of the employed were in jobs relevant to
their training.11 However, the situation elsewhere is less clear. About
one-third of the graduates of pre-employment technical training programs do
not find employment, although there is also evidence of significant shortages
of skilled manpower in the private sector. For the grade 10 graduates of the
lower secondary schools, which number about 10,000 annually, only about 35%
gain places in upper secondary and higher education and the rest enter the
labor market. Although employment data are unreliable, even the more
optim:.stic estimates show that the growth of wage employment in the 1980s was
less than 2% p.a. Nevertheless, there is little firm evidence of significant
unemployment among grade 10 school leavers. This ..ay mean that leavers are
enteriig the non-formal sector, or that "capital-<-epening" is taking place
witb better educated workers replacing the less well-educated.
Z/  For a full discussion of in-school and out-of-school factors affecting dropout see: M. Bray,
Drorning Out of Community Schools: The Extent. the Causes and Possible Rem(%dies, Report No. 49,
ERUWUPNG, August 1984.
ADB, Higher Education and Human Resource Develonment in Papua New Guinea, 1987, p. 151.



-6-
1.12      Inadeguate Canacity in I1igher Education.  Seventeen years after
independence, PNG's low level of human resource development 3tands out as one
of the major constraints to the country's social and economic advancement. In
the post-independence period, the education and training system has been
unable to meet the demand for skilled and educated personnel, with the result
that despite long-standing policies of localization, the modern sector
workforce is still heavily dependent on expatriates to fill a broad range of
managerial and technical positions. A major constraint that has restricted
the capacity of the higher education system to meet the demand for highly
trained personnel has been the inability of the secondary schools to supply
adequate numbers of graduates at grades 10 and 12 with sufficient academic
achievement to enter higher level courses. Outputs from grade 10 in recent
years (about 10,000 p.a.) have been adequate in quantitative terms t"' meet the
needs of certificate and diploma programs in the higher-level educatffn and
training institutions. The bottleneck at this level has been qualitative.
Fewer than half of the grade 10 graduates have achieved a sufficient level of
academic performance to meet the minimum requirements of the institutions.
Consequently, the institutions have been reluctant to enroll students who do
not meet minimum standards with the result that there is considerable under-
enrollment in a number of them. Some institutions have tried to make up the
shortfall by recruiting grade 12 graduates but the severe scarcity at this
level has offered little scope for success.
1.13      For grade 12 outputs from the national high schools, the problem is
both quantitative and qualitative. The expansion of upper secondary schooling
has been restricted in part by the shortage of high-quality grade 10 entrants
but also by the desire to avoid educated unemployment. This cautioua approach
to expanding enrollments, when combined with the rising demand from employers
for the direct employment of grade 12 graduates, has greatly reduced the flow
of qualified entrants to higher education. Employers in both the public and
private sectors are increasingly recognizing grade 12 as the minimum
educational level for employment in clerical, secretarial and mid-level
technical positions. At the same time, quality deficiencies in grade 10
graduates have led some government departments to try to raise entry levels to
grade 12 for training courses which have traditionally sought grade 10
entrants, e.g., the community teachers' colleges. This rising demand has put
increasing pressure on the relatively modest pool of grade 12 graduates which
numbers only about 950 p.a. The problem of quality is less acute among
entering students in the national high schools, as might be expected, since
entrants to grade 11 are drawn from the top 10-15 of grade 10 graduates.
Nevertheless, the high turnover rate of the largely expatriate teachir,g staff
(401 p.a.) and a heavy curriculum load for which even the best grade 10
students are relatively poorly prepared, combine to reduce student achievement
levels. Thus after two years of intensive education, many grade 12 graduates
are not well-equipped to enter the more rigorous courses in higher education.
This is especially evident in the universities where high attrition rates are
common, particularly in math/science-based courses.
1.14      Planning and Coordination.  The division of responsibility for the
school system between the provincial and national governments makes planning
and coordination of education more difficult (para. 1.4). This is a problem
intrinsic to a decentralized system in which the provinces have one set of
responsibilities and the national government a different set. Under such a



-7-
system, coordination between the two levels becomes vital and consequently,
two coordinatirg mechanism* have been established, namely, the Conference of
Ministers of Education and the Senior Officers Conference. Unfortunately,
these bodies meet only occasionally and have not served as useful forums for
policy discussion and as guides to education planners. Although education
planning has been given considerable emphasis in PNG and received considerable
impetus under the Pr'.mary Education Project (Credit 1087-PNG/Loan 1934-PNG),
momentum has not been sustained with the result that very few trained
education planners are now employed. This lack is particularly acute in the
provinces. Furthermore, the National Education Board and the Provincial
Education Boards, which have overall responsibility for national and
provincial education plans, have not been effective in the planning field and
consequently there are at present no up-to-date operational plans in existence
to guide longer-term educational development.2/ The result of
decentralization is that it is difficult for national education authorities to
set overall priorities and goals with the expectation that the provinlces will
meet them. Provinces have their own priorities, which often reflect local
social pressures, and allocate resources accordingly (para. 1.18).
1.15      Although the situation is changing, planning for the development of
higher education and training still doos not exist in any meaningful sense in
PNG. This is largely the result of the highly fragmented riature of the system
in which 55 institutions are under the authority of more than two dozen
government departments and other public and private agencies. Fragmentation
in the management and delivery of higher education leads to an inherent
inflexibility in the system which precludes development of the basic tools for
planning. Under these conditions, it is difficult to specify overall
objectives for higher education, allocate resources and measure progress in
achieving these objectives. The different administering authorities tend,
understandably, to define their objectives in terms of the narrow focus of
their own needs. Since resources are allocated according to these different
sets of objectives, the development of a "higher education" budget has not
been possible. Evaluation criteria which would measure progress towards
improving quality, relevance and efficiency sector-wide also do not exist.
Moreover, although higher education is supposed to serve the manpower needs of
the economy, there is no effective mechanism for measuring these needs and
relating them to the enrollments and outputs of the higher education
institutions.
1.16      The above situation led for a number of years to calls for the
rationalization of the higher education system but in the face of bureaucratic
inertia and departmental self-interest, little was achieved. However, in the
1980s, the cost effectiveness of higher education came under increasing
scrutiny as budgetary constraints tightened. Consequently, an important first
step towards reform and rationalization was taken in 1983 with the
establishment of the Commission for Higher Education. The CHE has an advisory
role which includes advising the Government on the allocation of budgetary
2V   P.C. Russell, Management of the Education System in Panus New Guinea, World Bank/UNESCO, February
1987. The exception is the recently drafted Enra Six Year Education Plan 1992-97. Its
implementation status is not clear at this stage.



-8-
resources to institutions and policies regarding the award of scholarships
within PNG and overseas. It also administers the National Tertiary
Scholarship Scheme. However, CHE has no direct responsibility for the
operations of individual institutions and thus cannot compel them to conform
to its recommendations. The influence of CHE, as it currently exists, is thus
potential rather than real. A second step was recently undertaken with the
approval of the Natiotal Higher Education Plan (NHEP). This contains a number
of recommendations which would strengthen the planning and coordination of
higher education including an expanded role for CHE (para. 1.31).
1.17      Education Expenditures.  As noted previously (para. 1.3), the
education system has received relatively generous resource allocations in
recent years but due to the high cost of providing education in PNG,
educational achievements have not been commensurate with the level of resource
provision. The expansion of enrollments (para. 1.2) has been accompanied by
increases in recurrent budgetary expenditures in current terms. Although the
increase has been erratic from year-to-year (Annex 3), overall expenditure on
education in current terms expanded at 5.2% p.a. during 1985-91. Expenditures
on primary and secondary education by NDOE and the provinces increased at
about 6.0% p.a. in this period in contrast to expenditure increases on higher
education of 3.5% p.a. Total education expenditure as a proportion of the
national budget has declined from 18.1% in 1985 to 16.1% in 1991 although the
proportion has remained largely constant at just over 16% during 1988-91. The
latter reflects the present Government's attempt to maintain education
expenditure levels in the face of increasing overall budget constraints.
Education expenditures as a proportion of GDP also show a somewhat erratic
pattern declining overall from 6.5% of GDP in 1985 to 6.2% in 1991 but falling
to 5.6% in 1988 and peaking at 6.6% in 1990. However, in real (constant 1985
kina) terms, a different picture emerges. Increases in recurrent expenditures
on primary and secondary education averaged only about 0.5% p.a. during 1985-
91 and expenditures for higher education declined in real terms at -1.7% p.a.
during the same period. Total expenditure on education declined in real terms
by -0.2% p.a. during 1985-91.
1.18      Recurrent expenditures per student reflect these trends.  In primary
and lower secondary education, per student expenditures in current terms
increased from K 254 in 1985 to K 300 in 1991 (Annex 3). In constant 1985
terms this represents a decline from K 254 to K 227 in the same period. In
view of the preponderance of salaries in the education budget (over 90%), this
decline in real expenditures has impacted mainly on the supply of teaching
materials and textbooks and on the maintenance of school buildings. Such
trends will clearly reinforce declining quality in the education system. Per
student expenditures on primary and lower secondary education in the provinces
also reflect these trends (Annex 4'. Moreover, provincial per student
expenditures also emphasize the di ferent priorities placed on education by
the provinces. Education expenditures per student in 1990 ranged from K 163
in Enga to K 298 in the Gulf while averaging K 204 in 19 provinces. In
constant 1985 terms, real per student expenditures declined by -4.2% p.a. in
the provinces during 1985-90. Within this trend, only four provinces had real
increases (in the range 1-2% p.a.) during the period. In current terms,
provincial education expenditures increased at 0.7% p.a. during 1985-90.



.9-
1.19      Costs and Financing of Higher Education.  The fragmented nature of
higher education has resulted in many institutions enrolling relatively few
students. Thus the system has not been able to benefit from economies of
scale. Fifteen nursing schools have an average enrollment of only 64, eight
teachers colleges, 206, and seven primary industry colleges, 85. Four
university campuses enroll only about 3,900 equivalent full-time students.
With low enrollments and relatively generous staffing levels, student/staff
ratios are also low, averaging around 8:1 in the nursing schools, 12:1 in the
teacher's colleges, 6:1 in the primary industry colleges and 8:1 in the
universities. There is still heavy dependence on expensive expatriates,
especially in the two universities, where they account for about 60% of the
academic staff. Furthermore, there is extensive underutilization of
facilities throughout the system. This has resulted in part from an early
expansion of institutional capacity to meet the anticipated strong demand for
high-level personnel in an independent PNG, combined with an inadequate flow
of graduates from the secondary schools to fill the places ir. the
institutions. High attrition rates have also reinforced the underutilization
problem. It has been further exacerbated in recent years, particularly in
those institutions serving mainly the public sector, by declining demand for
trainees as departmental recruitment has been cut and layoffs instituted in
response to budgetary constraints.
1.20      These factors have given PNG one of the highest-cost higher
education systems in the developing world.I.V Moreover, high cost levels
are made higher by generous student subsidies. Cost sharing in the system is
almost nonexistent and student subsidies increase with the level of training.
In vocational centers, fees account for about 5% of unit costs; in the
technical and teachers' colleges there are no fees and students receive a
stipend. In the universities, fees are paid by the government and a higher
stipend is paid to students. Bonuses are paid to scholarship holders who
achieve academic distinction. Public subsidization of higher education is
near total. The high cost/low enrollment combination also results in one of
the largest expenditure gaps between levels of education in the developing
world. A student-year of technical education costs 25 times as much as a year
of primary education and 10 times ;he cost of a year of lower secondary
schooling. One student-year at university costs 53 times as much as a year in
primary school and 5 times as much as one year of upper secondary schooling.
Apart from a strong commitment to training by the larger enterprises and a
modest involvement in the apprenticeship scheme, cost sharing with the private
sector is negligible. Smaller, enterprises have little incentive to invest in
training. In the face of widespread skill shortages in the labor market,
employers face high mobility among skilled workers and this reduces the return
to any investment in training. Furthermore, although employers have access to
the public sector training institutions, they have reservations about the
quality of the product. This is illustrated by the modest use that employers
have made of the technical colleges and the apprenticeship scheme whose
programs have a strong private sector orientation.
1LV  Unit operating cost in higher education as a percentage of per capita GNP is nearly 7 times as high
in PNG an the average for 14 Asian countries. Tan and Mingat, op. cit., p. 60. Table 3.2.



-10-
1.21      In-Service Training.  In-service training is widespread in the
public sector although lack of data precludes the development of a more
precise picture of in-service training efforts. The large departments with
extensive field services such as Education and Agriculture, have specialized
institutions for in-service training. Other departments seem to have less
formal approaches to in-service training but appear to be equally committed to
raising the performance of their employees through training. Little is known
about the quality of in-service training but it is generally thought to be
quite low due to lack of resources and competent trainers. Planning and
coordination are also weak but this situation should begin to improve with the
implementation of the National Training Policy (NTP - para. 1.33). Data on
in-service training in the private sector are also scarce. However, it is
clear that there ig a strong commitment to training among the large firms
especially in mining, banking and commerce, and numerous examples of
successful training programs exist.11' Large firms have the resources to
train their employees and can offer them attractive career opportunities which
help to build company loyalty and reduce labor turnover.  On the other hand,
the commitment to training among smaller firms is much weaker because they
lack the resources and the incentives to invest in training.  Although tax
deductions exist for apprenticeships and for trainees in approved
institutions, this incentive is weakened by the high turnover among skilled
workers. W It is too early at this stage to determine the effect of the
recently introduced training levy on private sector training efforts.
C. Policies and Plans
1.22      In the past, any attempt to analyze education policies in PNG was
difficult because of the lack of a comprehensive statement of education
policies and priorities which reflected a national and provincial consensus on
educational development. Policies were set out in a number of annual planning
and budget documents and were addressed in periodic studies under the auspices
of NDOE. While the NHEP and the NTP provided a policy/planning framework for
higher education and in-service training, such a framework was lacking in
relation to the formal school system. There was a piecemeal approach to
formulating education policies with the result that they always seemed to be
in a state of flux. This situation resulted largely from the failure of the
policy and planning bodies to take a leadership role (para. 1.14). However,
the situation has recently improved with the completion of the Education
Sector Review (ESR) by NDOE. The ESR provides a review of policies and
strategies for the long-term development of primary, secondary, nonformal,
vocational/technical and teacher education together with cost estimates of
some of the proposals. It also analyses the major problems in education such
as high dropout rates, low female enrollment and retention rates, weak
planning and management, poor teacher quality, etc. and makes recommendations
to address these problems.
1J/ See for example, Post Courier, Supplement, Training - Buildinx for the Future, Auguat 29, 1989, pp.
15-28.
W    P.A. McGavin, The Labor Market in Panua New Guinea: A Survey and Analvasl, IRA, Port Moresby,
September 1986.



-11-
1.23      For many years the Government has given priority to increasing
access to primary education to achieve UPE by 2000. This policy remains in
place but the goal of UPE is receding in the face of only modestly increasing
enrollments and high dropout rates. Thus for the policy to be successful,
annual increases in enrollments must rise and dropout rates decline. The
former requires an expansion of physical capacity and an increase in the
supply of trained teachers. The ESR points out that primary education is a
provincial responsibility and provinces vary in their commitment to expanding
primary education. It recommends as a solution the reintroduction of the
Provincial Primary Education Fund to provide tied grants to the provinces to
establish primary schouls.1W Following past policies, resources for
primary school expansion should continue to be directed towards the
disadvantaged provinces, i.e., those whose overall and female enrollment rates
are below the national average. This will ensure that over time, enrollment
disparities by province and gender will be erased. Urgent attention also
needs to be given to the supply of teachers from the community school teacher
training colleges and this is highlighted in the ESR. With the introduction
of the additional thiru year to the training cottrse in 1991, there will be no
graduates in 1992 and a reduction of about one-third in future outputs from
current capacity. Furthermore, the wastage rate among community school
teachers is around lOZ p.a. The teacher requirements for replacement of
wastage and to cover enrollment increases are already well in excess of
teacher supply--l.243 against 545, respectively, in 1993 acco.rding to ESR
estimates. Thus the teacher supply issue has to be addressed as a crucial
component of the strategy for achieving UPE.
1.24      The ESR, although identifying problems of auality in primary
education, does not propose any specific strategies to alleviate the
situation. Qualitative improvement requires a combination of inputs - the
recruitment of more highly trained teachers, an improved and more relevant
curriculum, adequate supplies of educational materials and higher standards of
school management. The Government is proposing to address these issues
through the five-year Community Education Phase 2 project estimated to cost K
13.0 million. The project includes a number of components that address the
needs outlined above such as in-service teacher training, overseas training of
administrators, textbooks and teaching materials, equipment, etc. Raising the
quality of education and increasing its relevance will also contribute to
raising the internal efficiency of primary education by reducing dropout
rates. Achieving the latter will be difficult because of the complex nature
of the problem. Dropout is caused by socioeconomic factozs beyond the
influence of the schools as well as by internal factors (para. 1.9). The ESR
emphasizes boredom and a sense of lack of achievement as important causes of
dropout. It recommends that the first three years of schooling should be
taught in the local vernacular to anchor education in the village environment
and make it more relevant to students and their parents. It also recommends
that repeating grades be allowed, to prevent students being promoted beyond
their achievement levels thereby losing confidence and dropping out. However,
the ESR also recognizes that the causes of dropout are diverse and recommends
13/  The Provincial Primary Education Fund was introduced successfully under the Bank-assisted Primary
Education Project and focused on raising primary enrollments in disadventaged provinces. It lapsed
following project completion.



-12-
that each province draw up enrollment retention programs relevant to their
particular circumstances.
1.25     Government policy towards the exRansion of secondary education has
been ambivalent. While recognizing that relatively few Papua New Guineans
have had the opportunity to pursue secondary education to grade 10 and that
there is a general dearth of educated citizens, concern has also been strong
regarding the lack of employment opportunities and the concomitant problem of
educated unemployment. Current policy calls for increasing the transition
rate between grades 6 and 7 from 3rX at present to 50% over the next decade.
This would imply an annual enrollment increase of 5.6% p.a.14W compared with
the growth of 3.9% p.a. achieved during the 1980s. The ESR calculates that to
meet this growth 144 new high schools would need to be constructed and 1,952
new teachers trained. The requirement for new schools could be reduced by
expanding the capacity of existing schools, introducing double shifts in urban
schools and reducing the number of boarding places. Teacher requirements
could be reduced by raising the present quite generous student/teacher ratio
of 26:1. To offset this, however, replacement of teacher wastage of about 9%
p.a. would be necessary. Present plans call for the construction of seven new
lower secondary schools by 1995 which would add about 3,000 places to student
capacity. This may reflect current budgetary constraints but is well below
the construction level required to meet the planned enrollment growth.
Therefore urgent attention should be given to the expansion of existing
schools, double shifts and reduced student/teacher ratios.
1.26     Hovever, structural changes recommended in the ESR would change
radically the above situation.IW Extending the primary cycle to grade 8
would solve the grade 6 forceout problem whereby two-thirds of grade 6
graduates leave the system (para. 1.5). Apart from the implications of a
longer primary cycle on achieving the already receding goal of UPE, the grade
6 forceout problem would be merely postponed for two years. This would have
some advantage in terms of student maturity but may not be a better use of
resources than focusing on raising the throughput from grade 6 to grade 7 from
35% to 50%, as currently planned, and maximizing the number of grade 7
entrants who can complete the lower secondary cycle and graduate from grade
10.
1.27     There is widespread recognition that expansion of upper secop4ary
education in the national high schools is one of the highest priorities a a
prerequisite for expanding higher education, especially the universities.
Current policy calls for the transition rate between grades 10 and 11 to
14/  This figure assumes a steady primary gross enrollment rate of about 73X and is therefore
conservative. Using the same assumption, 7,100 additional places would be needed in each of grades
7-10 to accomnodate a 50X transition rate to grade 7.
1_/  Proposed structural changes call for 9 years of basic education comprising 3 years of elementary
education (preparatory through grade 2) to be offered in village elementary schools and taught in the
vernacular. This would be followed by 6 years of primary educ&'.on (grades 3-8), two years of lower
secondary (grades 9-10) and two years of upper secondary education (grades 11-12). Lower secondary
schools would offer strong vocational options. Primary and secondary education would be taught in
English.



-13-
increase from the present 10% to 25% by 2000. This implies an enrollment in
the NHS system of about 5,000 with outputs of around 2,400. Present plans
call for the construction of five new national high schools with a capacity of
1,900 places. This would increase total capacity in the NHSs to around 4,000
and provide outputs of nearly 2,000. This is a feasible target in terms of
the likely availability of qualified entrants from grade 10 and the likely
availability of teachers. At present about 56% of the staff in the NHSs is
expatriate and possible canstraints on recruiting expatriates under present
employment conditions must be recognized. Another issue is the cost of
constructing a national high school. The Government has recognized that the
existing design for a NHS is too expensive and cheaper alternatives must be
found if planned expansion is to be affordable. A lower cost design has been
developed and will be used in construction of the proposed new NHSs. In
addition, the ESR proposes other lower-cost alternatives such as day schools
in urban areas and the addition of facilities for grades 11 and 12 to existing
provincial high schools, as the only affordable way to achieve the long term
plan of extending grades 11 and 12 to each province to achieve total outputs
of 5,000 p.a. The proposed project would finance the first day NHS and the
first additions of grades 11 and 12 to two provincial high schools.
1.28      The large number of expatriates occupying professional and
managerial positions is one indicator of the inability of the universities to
meet the demand for high level personnel. The failure of the universities to
expand in recent years has been due partly to lack of qualified entrants but
also due to stagnation in the real level of financial support to the
universities over the past decade.16' Current policy, under the NHEP, calls
for at least a 50% increase in the numbers of graduates by 1999. About 770
graduates were produced Fy the two universities in 1990 and plans call for an
annual output of at least 1,150 graduates by the end of the decade. This is a
relatively conservative target, but is consistent with likely availability of
qualified grade 12 entrants. To ensure this outcome or preferably to exceed
it, the universities will need to reduce dropout rates, improve discipline and
reduce incidents of disorder on the campuses.
1.29      The question of the mix of graduates, the NHEP leaves to the
universities themselves. While there is widespread acceptance in PNG that the
universities should give priority to supplying the highly-trained personnel
required to support the country's development efforts, adequate guidance has
not been given to the universities on overall manpower needs so that
enrollments can reflect these needs. National manpower assessments and rate
of return studies have been produced but methodological weaknesses have
reduced their impact. However, the situation is beginning to improve with the
establishment of the Human Resources Planning Branch in the Department of
Finance and Planning. This should be fully staffed as a uatter of priority
and its work quickly focused on overall employment issues, skill needs
analysis and the linkages between labor market needs and the education system.
Current concern for a more rigorous treatment of rate of return issues will
reinforce employment and skills analyses. W
1L6/  Conrad Blyth, Government Expenditure in Panus New Guinea: Human Canital FormatM.., IRA, Port
Moresby. March 1991, p. 14.
_2/ See for example, T. Curtin, The Economics Of Public Investment in Education in Panua New Guinea.
UPNG, Occasional Paper No. 1. Port Moresby, 1991.



-14-
1.30      NDOE recognizes substantial shortcomings in education Dlanning which
have arisen following promising initiatives under the Primary Education
Project. The Education Act (1983) requires that a national education plan and
provincial plans be formulated and implemented. This has never been achieved,
partly due to lack of policy guidance from the Government and the National and
Provincial Education Boards but also due to a lack of planning expertise in
NDOE and especially in the provinces. There is a clear need for an explicit
and detailed statement of education policies by the Government and the
translation of these policies into national and provincial plans. The ESR
provides a coherent statement of education policies which should provide
appropriate guidance for education planners to proceed with the formulation of
plans. However, the problem of lack of planning expertise remains. The ESR
calls for the training of provincial planning staff and the preparation of
provincial education plans. It also recommends that the ESR itself should
become the basis of a national education plan.
1.31      In higher education planning, the recently-approved National Higher
Education Plan provides a framework for transforming the present fragmented,
expensive and inefficient system of higher education into a more rational,
better-managed and cost effective system more responsive to meeting PNG's
high-level manpower needs. The NHEP calls, inter alia, for: (a) the
restructuring of higher education into a system with fewer institutions, more
economically viable in size; (b) the development of a national higher
education budget under the auspices of the Commission for Higher Education;
(c) reform of the system of student financing to ensure a closer fit between
student performance and assistance and to improve equity and efficiency; and
(d) establishment of professional institutes to control standards in teacher
education, technical education and primary industry training. The CHE will be
responsible for the implementation of the NHEP and, in order to play this
role, it will be strengthened under an Asian Development Bank (ADB) project
(para. 1.42).
1.32      Some actions have already been taken under the NHEP.  Rationaliza-
tion of primary industry training is underway with the proposed transfer of
Vudal Agricultural College and Bulolo Forestry College to the University of
Technology. An agricultural training institute is to be converted into a
national high school. The study on student financing has been completed and
is at present under consideration by the Government. Its major recommendation
is that students be responsible for payment of fees in higher education with
free tuition available only to those of outstanding academic merit. The study
also recommends that stipends to assist in covering living expenses should be
paid to individuals rather than to the institutions, work-study programs and
student loans schemes be developed and a private market in student
accommodation be encouraged. CHE has formulated a higher education budget
covering the universities and the other higher education institutions which
previously were the responsibility of the government departments. This has
now been formalized as an annual exercise and gives CHE the authority to
advise the Government on the resource needs of higher education. Also
contributing to improved planning in higher education has been the



-15-
establishment of the Human Resources Planning'Branch in the Department of
Finance and Planning (para. 1.29).
1.33      The vital co-.tribution of in-service training to improving the
productivity of employees has been recognized through the introduction of the
National Training Policy in 1989. Under the NTP, all public agencies and
private firms are required to produce rolling three-year training plans which
cover recruitment, training and localization proposals. These plans are
reviewed by the Department of Personnel Management (public sector) and the
Department of Labor and Employment (private sector) which are being
strengthened under the Public Sector Training Project (Loan 3290-PNG) to
improve their capacity to promote, coordinate, monitor and evaluate in-service
training. The NTP has also established the National Training Council which is
responsible for advising the Government on training pVlicies, priorities and
resource requirements. This advice will be based on analyses of the three-
year training plans. The NTP also calls for the strengthening of the
Administrative College to play a pivotal role in in-service training in the
public sector. In addition to providing a wide range of skills courses, the
College will provide executive development courses and place more emphasis on
research, curriculum development and the training of trainers.
1.34      Summary Assessment.  The Government's present policies and plans for
the education sector are, in general, relevant to the major issues being faced
in education. In some areas, such as the expansion of upper secondary and
university education, they reflect a pragmatic view of what can be achieved in
the face of budgetary and implementation constraints. However, in other areas
(UPE and lower secondary expansion) the targets are unrealistic in terms of
the time scale for achievement and the likely availability of teachers and
budgetary resources. Throughout the ESR, there is clear recognition that the
quality and relevance of education must be improved and the inputs necessary
to achieve this have been identified. However, it must be recognized that
such issues as quality improvement are not susceptible to quick solutions and
require sustained efforts over the long term. The Government also recognizes
that the efficiency of the education system must be raised. This will require
a much stronger commitment to planning in the school system to ensure that
resources are allocated more efficiently to achieve physical expansion targets
and qualitative improvements. In higher education, planning has gained
momentum from the initial efforts to implement the NHEP but its full
implementation in the long term will depend upon strong leadership from CHE.
To provide this, CHE will need to be strengthened well beyond its current
capacity.
1.35        Underlying all this is recognition that PNG's educational
achievements fall well below countries at similar stages of development and
that no country has pursued successful development without adequate investment
in its human resources. The Government has given high priority to education
and is trying to maintain adequate resource flows in the face of difficult
macroeconomic conditions and tight budgetary constraints. Donor agencies can
help to sustain these efforts by placing a similarly high priority on the
development of education and allocating assistance accordingly. The
preparation of the ESR and the recently completed Program in Education for
Overseas Funding (PEOF) provide the initial guidance in this effort. The PEOF
covers a wide range of needs in education and is summarized in Annex 5. It



-16-
comprises a large number of projects covering expansion and quality
improvement in primary, secondary and vocational education. Projects are
included for strengthening regional planning, curriculum development and
teaching materials, school maintenance, teacher support services, etc. The
aim of the PEOF is to provide guidance for the donor community in making
decisions on external assistance to education. The total program cost is
estimated at around K 261 million over the period 1992-99. Clearly, a program
of this magnitude will requiLre long-term support from donors. Donor programs
are at present fully committed and there is little scope in the short term for
donors to begin picking up components of the program. Nevertheless, donors
have emphasized education as a priority and they should use the program to
guide their long-term assistance to education.
1.36      For its part, NDOE should move beyond the ESR, whi-ch provides a
policy framework and some useful operational guidance, to draw out some of the
strategic issues which run through the education system. These issues - such
as female education, teacher shortages, cost effectiveness - are common to all
levels of education and need to be treated tnematically. This process has
already started with NDOE's working group on teacher issues and will continue
under the proposed project, which will finance further policy studies related
to the education of females and the cost effectiveness of education. NDOE
also needs to move towards specific planning exercises which will link needed
investments in capacity expansion with quality improvement issues, teacher
supply, etc. This is the logical next step in moving beyond the analysis of
issues and policies contained in the ESR. The Government must also come to
grips with the long-term resource needs for education.18/ The priority for
educational expansion is now widely accepted. But it will be costly. Every
effort should be made to make the current system more cost effective through a
more efficient deployment of teachers and better organization of classes,
rationalization of institutions, etc. It should also be recognized that
education is highly labor intensive and that plans for expansion of teacher
supply must be linked to issues of teacher remuneration. There is a strong
case for increased allocations of resources to education anH fear investments
would bring greater returns. However, the case for additional resources would
be greatly strengthened if clear attempts are being made to ir,crease
efficiency and contain costs within the system.
D. Bank's ExRerience in Education
1.37      The Bank's lending strategy in the education and training sector has
been consistent with the Government's priorities and has been supported by
four lending operations. The first (Credit 661-PNG in 1976) focused on
strengthening training for middle and higher level personnel in agriculture,
health, teacher training and technician training for industry. The project
performance audit report (PPAR No. 5126, June 1984) concluded that while
project implementation was satisfactory, enrollment and employment targets
IJ/  Although the ESR provides cost estimates for its recommendations in a number of areas (e.g.. for
primary and secondary school expansion), there is no attempt to cost the entire set of
recommendations in the ESR. Thus there is no clear picture, at this stage, of the total long-term
resource implications of the ESR.



-17-
were not reached due primarily to changing skill requirements and the lack of
qualified secondary school entrants to the training courses. These outcomes
indicate that project design should have paid greater attention to estimates
of human resource requirements and the likely level of outputs from the
secondary school system. In the case of technician training, inadequate
attention was given to the relative lack of incentives for employers to
release and pay trainees and to the opportunity cost of training to the self-
sponsored trainees. Nevertheless some success was achieved in the teacher
training component. Although output targets were not achieved, the actual
outputs did lead to a substantial replacement of expatriate teachers in the
provincial high schools with a concomitant reduction in recurrent costs.
1.38      The second project (Credit 1087-PNG/Loan 1934-PNG in 1981) assisted
in strengthening management of the education system, improving quality in
primary education through curriculum development and expanding textbook
supply, strengthening student assessment and teacher training and expanding
primary schooling in under-served provinces. The Project Completion Report
(PCR No. 8968, August 21, 1990) for the project indicates that enrollment
targets were exceeded and substantial progress was made in reducing enrollment
disparities among provinces. However, the project was not successful in
improving retention rates. Localization of staff in the teacher training
colleges was improved and substantial numbers of personnel were trained in
various fields of educational development. Textbooks were produced in record
volumes but there were problems in ilistributing the materials. The PCR
concludes that institution building related to the strengthening of
curriculum, examinations and project monitoring and evaluation was successful
and sustainable. The project's contribution to institutionalizing planning
procedures represented a first step in what must be a long-term process.
However, this achievement was weakened by the drift of trained planning
personnel into other fields of education. Project management was highly
satisfactory.
1.39      The third project (Loan 2395-PNG in 1984), which was recently
completed successfully, responded to the need to expand secondary education
and improve its quality. The draft PCR (May 15, 1992) indicates that
enrollment expansion targets were met in the secondary schools and targets for
the supply of textbooks and learning materials were exceeded. However, a
problem arose in relation to retention of textbooks in the classrooms.
Although the reason is unclear at this stage, significant numbers of books
disappeared from classrooms. The teacher upgrading component was generally
successful, although there was under-enrollment in one diploma course. A
fourth project (Loan 3290-PNG in 1991) is assisting in the implementation of
the National Training Policy and financing overseas fellowships for training
in key policy, planning and technical areas not currently available in PNG.
Project implementation has been slowed by a number of changes in the top
management of key departments being strengthened under the project. This has
adversely affected the working of the Project Coordinating Committee which has
not provided effective support to project management. Top departmental
management has now been stabilized and project implementation is regaining
momentum.
1.40      Although only three projects have been completed in the education
sector in PNG, the Bank's lending has probably had more influence on



-18-
educational development that the small number of operations might imply. The
primary and secondary education projects have had some sector-wide impact on
improving management, planning and the quality and relevance of education, and
are contributing to the development of a more efficient and cost-effective
education system. This impact has been reinforced by sector work on the
financing of education (Report No. 6767-PNG, June 1987) which the Ministry of
Education has described as a valuable input to policy formulation. A similar
contribution has been made by the extensive treatment of human resource issues
in recent country economic reports (Report Nos. 7121-PNG, April 19, 1988,
9396-PNG, May 1, 1991 and 10319-PNG, March 31, 1992). The Bank has been asked
by the Government to take the lead role among donors in the education sector.
The Bank has responded through recent sector work, noted above, and it will
continue to provide analyses of sector issues and policies and reviews of
resource allocations recommended in the annual budget and PIP documents. It
is expected that the Bank's views will be disseminated to other donors by the
Government. Future Bank lending in education will be consistent with the
policies and priorities approved by Government.
E. Donor Assistance to Education
1.41           A number of donors have been actively assisting education in
recent years (Annex 6V. An important focus of this assistance has been to
provide overseas education and training opportunities in fields that are not
adequately served in PNG. Assistance has also been provided to strengthen in-
country training in priority areas such as agriculture, forestry and
fisheries. Support has also been given to secondary education through
provision of overseas study awards aimed at increasing the supply of well-
educated secondary graduates. Australia has provided broad-based support for
overseas study ranging from undergraduate and graduate degree programs to
short-term job attachments. Substantial support is also being given to
raising the quality of community teachers' college lecturers. Continued
future support is planned for these areas. New Zealand has provided
assistance for overseas training and for secondary education. Emphasis has
also been placed on upgrading training in key primary industry sectors namely
agriculture, livestock and forestry. The general education sector has been
supported through the school journals project and the non-formal education
project. Future plans call for continued assistance in these areas.
1.42      Japan has assisted fisheries and language training in the past but
at present is focusing its priority for human resource development on the
provincial hospitals development program. Japan has been requested to provide
future assistance for the development of the NHSs. China has agreed to
finance most of the construction of two new NHSs. The United States has
assisted the development of science education through radio and also provided
support for technical education and training in health and agriculture..
Limited assistance will be provided in some of these areas in future years.
The Commission of the European Communities is a recent, and potentially major,
donor to the education sector. Substantial support for the maintenance and
rehabilitation of secondary school and university buildings is available in
1992 and further longer term assistance to the universities is planned. The
ADB has assisted technical education and plans two further technical and
vocational education projects. ADB assistance is also planned for the
institutional strengthening of the two universities and CHE. The project is



-19-
expected to finance staff development programs and strengthen management of
the three bodies. The capacity to plan, monitor and evaluate higher education
development will also be strengthened in CHE.
II. THE PROJECT
A. Origin of the Proiect
2.1       The Government requested the proposed project during discussions
with the Bank in December 1990. This request had its origin in the
Government's proposal in 1989 that the Bank take the lead role among donors in
the education sector. A mission identified and started preparation of the
project in July 1991. The project was preappraised in November 1991 and
appraised in February 1992.
B. Project Rationale and Objectives
2.2       The low level of educational achievement in PNG continues to act as
a major constraint to the country's development. In response, the present
Government is giving high priority to expanding and improving the quality of
education. In the face of increasingly difficult macroeconomic conditions,
resource constraints have tightened and the Government has been barely able,
in recent years, to maintain a constant real level of recurrent budget
allocations to the sector (para. 1.17). NDCE's recurrent budget estimates for
1992 are projected to increase in real terms by abuut 5% although its share of
the 1992-96 Public Investment Program is substantially lower than in the
previous PIP. It is important to maintain momentum in support for education
in the face ,of the critical need for human resource development. Project
design has also provided an opportunity for the Bank to play a leadership role
in encouraging NDOE to prepare a coherent statement of educational policies
and strategies (the ESR) and for the preparation of an education investment
program (the PEOF). These activities will provide guidance to donors where
they claimed it did not exist before and should result in a more rational
approach to supporting the development of education.
2.3       The basis for the design of the proposed project is the Program in
Education for Overseas Funding, which was prepared by NDOE as a guide to the
donor community for identifying assistance to the education sector. The PEOF
focuses on issues of access, relevance and quality improvement and identifies
specific investment needs in primary, secondary, vocational and non-formal
education. Total investment n-eeds in the PEOF are estimated at US$261 million
during the period 1992-99. The proposed project would comprise seven
components which NDOE has defined as the highest priorities in the PEOF,
together with a policy studies component. The overall objective of the
project is to assist the Government to implement its education sector policies
and investment plans through assistance for increasing access, improving
quality and strengthening institutional management. More specifically the
project aims to: (a) increase access to upper secondary education through
expanding enrollments in grades 11 and 12 and in the business studies course
and through repair of school facilities; (b) improve educational quality



-20-
through expanding the supply of textbooks, strengthening school inspection and
guidance and improving school libraries; and (c) strengthen institutional
manageu.ent through the appointment and training of regional planning and
management advisors and carry out policy studies to develop strategies to
improve the cost-effectiveness of education, increase educational
opportunitie3 for girls and strengthen teacher education.
C. Project DescriRtion
Increasing Access
2.4       Expansion of Upper Secondary Enrollments (estimated baseline cost
US$10.8 million). The Government's priority for expanding enrollments in
grades 11 and 12 in a more cost-effective way (para. 1.27) would be assisted
through the construction, furnishing and equipping of a day NHS in the Gerehu
suburb of Port Moresby and the addition of facilities for grades 11 and 12 in
two provincial high schools (Hoskins and Malala). Gerehu NHS would have an
enrollment capacity of 500 of which half would be females.19' The PHS
extensions would each have a capacity of 250 with 50% of places reserved for
females. Thus total additional enrollment capacity in grades 11 and 12 would
be 1,000, which represents a 50% increase over present NHS enrollments.
Adequate numbers of qualified grade 10 graduates, including girls, would be
available to fill the entering grade 11 class scheduled to start in 1994.
Additional teacher requirements would be 40 comprising 28 for the NHS and 12
for the PHS extensions. It is estimated that 50% of teacher requirements
would be expatriate.  Current efforts to recruit expatriate teachers are
hiLghly successful and therefore teacher recruitment for the project schools is
not expected to pose problems.LO Land is available for the PHS extensions.
The site for the Gerehu NHS has been tiansferred to NDOE.
2.5       Development Maintenance (estimated baseline cost US$8.0 million).
Grants for development maintenance (e.g., for upgrading school water systems,
toilet and washing facilities) would be provided during the four project years
to the provincial high schools, national high schools, vocational centers and
College of Distance Education (CODE) centers. The vocational centers and CODE
centers would be provided directly with maintenance grants and those for the
NHSs would be channelled through the Department of Works (DOW). Funds for the
PHSs (about 85% of the total) will be provided through maintenance offices and
accounts to be established in each province. W Provinces which establish
this maintenance system would be fully in charge of allocating maintenance
funds. In order to avoid delay in the allocation of maintenance grants in
provinces in which maintenance systems are not yet operational, NDOE would
identify school maintenance needs and allocate funds directly to the recipient
19/  This compares with a female enrollment rate of 29Z in the NJS system as a wbole.
20/  A summary of new staff to be appointed under the project is given in Anne- 7.
21/  The model for establishing this system is the one which is currently operating successfully in the
Central Province.



-21-
schools. The main incentive for provinces to establish the maintenance system
is that it gives provincial authorities full control of maintenance operations
rather than having then determined by national authorities.
2.6       Certificate of Business Studies (estimated baseline cost US$0.3
million). This certificate program is offered by CODE and aims at improving
the skills of small business operators and office workers. The part-time
course, which is regarded as a crucial activity for strengthening the small
business sector, covers business communications, office procedures, business
English and mathematics, and book-keeping. The project would finance stages 2
and 3 of the program. Stage 1 has been offered over the last few years but
lack of resources prevented completion of stages 2 and 3. There has been a
strong demand for Stage 1 even though there has been no possibility of
advancing to Stage 2. Enrollment in Stage 1 is currently 540. The project
would finance the writing, editing and printing of course material for stages
2 and 3 and the purchase of two personal computers and a laser printer.
Course structure has already been determined and qualified writers and editors
are available.
Improving Ouality
2.7       Textbook SUDly and Development (estimated baseline cost US$16.2
million). Textbooks are issued free in PNG, a policy that is justified in a
country in which 80X of the population lives in rural areas, 50X of the
population are subsistence dwellers and school fees are relatively high (K50 -
K(300 p.a. depending upon grade). The project, which would continue assistance
in the supply of textbooks provided under the Primary and Secondary Education
Projects, would finance the resupply of existing textbooks and related
teaching materials (baseline cost US$11.2 million) for community schools and
PHSs. The project would also finance the development and distribution of new
or revised textbooks to reflect ongoing curriculum changes (US$2.2 million).
In the past, experience has shown that lack of funds for transport and storage
has been a major cause of late-arrival or non-arrival of books and materials
at provincial centers and schools. The project would thus include funds
(US$2.0 million) for distribution, storage and security of books and
materials. Curriculum development would be strengthened through the financing
of a curriculum development coordinator, writers' fees, workshops, trialling
and evaluation (US$0.8 million). Terms of reference for the coordinator have
been agreed. During negotiations, the Government agreed to appoint the
coordinator by March 31, 1993. Experience under Loan 2395-PNG (para. 1.39)
showed retention of textbooks in the classrooms to be a problem. The project
would therefore finance a pilot program to address the issue of book retention
and security. The program, to be implemented during 1993-95, would include
training in materials management, care and storage.
2.8       Inspection and Guidance (estimated baseline cost US$2.7 million).
Inspectors and guidance officers provide advisory, evaluation and counselling
services to all schools on a regular basis. The project would strengthen the
system and raise the quality of services through the financing of training,
salaries, housing and transport for 11 additional inspectors and 5 additional
guidance officers. These officers, for whom new positions must be created,
would allow the present level of service to be maintained in schools with
rapidly expanding enrollments and upgrade services where they are currently



-22-
inadequate. During .iegotiations, the Government agreed to create additional
positions for five inspectors and two guidance officers by September 30, 1993
and make appointments to these positions by January 31, 1994; create
additional positions for three inspectors and one guidance officer by
September 30, 1994 and make appointments to, them by January 31, 1995; and
create additional positions for three inspectors and two guidanoe officers by
September 30, 1995 and make appointments to them by January 31, 1996. Housing
is an important element of the component and would allow officers to be posted
outside the major housing markets. A total of 25 houses would be constructed
under the project - 16 for the newly recruited officers, 6 for officers
already appointed but lacking housing and 3 for officers to be recruited in
1998, the year following project completion. All houses would be built on
land owned by existing educational institutions. Standard designs are
available for the houses. Transport in the form of vehicle hire would be
financed over 4 years to ensure that the officers have the mobility to visit
regularly all the schools under their control. A staff development program
would also provide the opportunity for 24 serving officers to undertake three-
month overseas attachments to study advisory, evaluation and guidance
practices. W A schedule for the attachments has been agreed.
2.9       Library Grants (estimated baseline cost US$2.6 million).  A library
development plan, which was drawn up in 1983 and updated in 1989, aims at
establishing new libraries and improving existing ones so as to strengthen
literacy development in the community schools and broaden access to knowledge
at the secondary level. In support of this, .he project would finance grants
to develop libraries in community schools, PHSs, vocational schools and CODE
centers. Only about 25X of the 2,600 community schools currently have
libraries. Almost all 135 PHSs and 20 CODE centers have libraries but most
are understocked. None of the 110 vocational centers has a library. Grants
would be channelled to schools through the National Library which identifies
suitable materials for the different types of schools and procures the
materials. The National Library also distributes these materials to the
schools. Grants to community schools and PHSs would be on a matching kina-
for-kina basis in order to ensure continued community involvement in providing
funds for library development. Full grants would be made to vocational
schools to assist them in establishing new libraries and to CODE centers to
permit them to expand their libraries to support adult communities in general,
in addition to servicing distance education students. To place the library
development program on a sound basis and to assist in implementation of the
grant program, the project would also finance the employment of two library
advisors and a support librarian to be located in the National Library.
During negotiations, the Government agreed to create the first position of
library advisor'and fill it by April 30, 1993 and to create positions for the
second library advisor and the support librarian and fill them by April 30,
1994. Terms of reference for the advisors have been agreed.
Strengthening Institutional Management
g/  A su*mary of training fellowships and technical assistance Is given in Annex 8.



-23-
2.10      Regional Planning and Management Advisors (estimated baseline cost
US$0.6 million). There is widespread recognition that the planning and
management capacities of the provincial education divisions need
strengthening. This would permit provincial education plans to be drawn up
and implemented, strengthen financial management and improve phystcal
implementation capacity. Regional planning advisors were introduced under the
Primary Education Project but the program lapsed when the follow-up Bank
project was cancelled by the Givernment.  The proposed project builds on
previous experience. It wousld finance a special advisor on planning and
management for 3-1/2 years and three regional advisors. The special advisor
would train, supervise and support the regional advisors and prepare planning
and management manuals. Terms of reference for the special advisor have been
agreed. During ..egotiations, the Government agreed to employ the special
advisor by June 30, 1993. Terms of reference for the regional advisors have
been agreed. The regional advisors would undertake a one-year associateship
under the special advisor followed by formal university training overseas.
Houses for two of the advisors would be financed under the project. The
project would also finance vehicle hire, personal computers and required
office materials for the advisors. A schedule for the appointment and
training of the advisors has been agreed. Since new positions would be
required for the three regional advisors, the Government agreed, during
negotiations, to create the first position by September 30, 1993 and fill it
by January 31, 1994. Similar actions would be taken for the remaining
advisors to be appointed in 1995 and 1996. To ensure that the full bene.-its
would be gained from the advisor program, the three regional advisors would
occupy their positions for an appropriate period of time after completion of
training.
2.11      Policy Studies (estimated baseline cost US$0.3 million).  The ESR
analyses problems and presents recommendations for their alleviation in
community, secondary, vocational, technical, teacher and nonformal education.
The ESR also throws up several key strategic problems, sometimes implicitly
rather than explicitly, which cut across the education subsectors. These need
to be analyzed further, policies proposed for their solution and strategies
developed to implement these policies. It is proposed that studies be carried
out on the following topics:
(a) Female participation in education. Female enrollment rates decline
rapidly at successive levels of education. Policies/strategies need
to be developed and implemented which would lead to increased access
and improved retention of females at all levels of schooling;
(b) Cost effectiveness of education. PNG has one of the highest-cost
education systems in the developing world. There are a number of
factors intrinsic to PNG (geographical dispersion of population,
need to employ expensive expatriates, high internal wage/cost
structure, etc.), which explain part of the high cost problem.
However, there are options available to reduce unit costs and
policies and strategies need to be developed which would address
such issues as appropriate student/teacher ratios, need for student
boarding and possible alternatives, classroom utilization rates,
multigrade teaching, etc.



-24-
(c) Teacher education. If targets for enrollment expansion are to be
met, the present inadequate teacher education capacity must be
addressed. Policies need to be developed to expand training places
and also to address issues of recruitment, posting and retention,
optimal teacher/student ratios, terms of employment, etc.
The studies would be undertaken by task forces comprising NDOE staff assisted
by consultants, financed under the project, in accordance with an agreed
action plan (Annex 9). During negotiations, the Government agreed to carry
out the studies and implement their recommendations according to the action
plan.
III. PROJECT COSTS. FINANCING AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Costs
3.1       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$51.3 million
equivalent. The estimated cost by project component is summarized in Table
3.1 and by category of expenditure in Table 3.2. (Detailed project costs by
year, purpose and component are given in Annexes 10 and 11.)



-25-
Table 3,1: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT
K million            USS million       Foreign as
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total X of total
Increasing access:
Upper secondary
expansion             4.4    5.9   10.3    4.6    6.2   10.8          57
Development
maintenance           4.2    3.4    7.6    4.4    3.6    8.0          45
Certificate of
business studies      0.1    0.2    0.3    0.1    0.2    0.3          74
Subtotal             8.7    9.5   18.2    9.1   10.0   19.1         52
Improving quality:
Textbook supply and
development           3.4   12.1   15.5    3.5   12.7   16.2          78
Inspection and
guidance              1.3    1.2    2.5    1.4    1.3    2.7         47
Library grants          0.4    2.1    2.5    0.4    2.2    2.6          86
Subtotal             5.1   IL4   20.5    5.3   16.2   21.5          75
Strengthening institu-
tional management:
Regional advisors       0.3    0.2    0.5    0.3    0.3    0.6          47
Policy studies          0.2    0.1    0.3    0.3    0.0    0.3          22
Subtotal                    Q.,  O3        0.6    0.3    0.9        38
Project management and
evaluation              0.6    03             0 6    0.3    0.9         31
Baseline cost       14.9   255                   26.8   42.4        63
Contingencies:
Physical                0.9    2.1    3.0    1.0    2.2    3.2          69
Price increase          2.6    2.9    5.5    2.8    2.9    5.7          52
Subtotal            3 5    5.0    3. 38    51            8.        57
Total project cost/a    18.4   30.5   48.9   19.4   31.9   51.3           62
/a Includes local taxes estimated at US$670,000 equivalent.



-26-
Table 3.2: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
K million            US$ million          X
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total Foreign
Civil works:
Schools/housing           2.6    4.8    7.4    2.7    5.1    7.8        65
Development maintenance  4.2    3.4    7.6    4.4    3.6    8.0         45
Subtotal               6.8    8.2   15.0    7.1    8.7   15.8       55
Equipment, books, educa-
tional materials and
delivery                  3.2   15.3   18.5    3.4   16.0   19.4        82
Furniture                   0.2    0.2    0.4    0.2    0.2    0.4        35
Technical assistance:
Project support         ' 0.5    0.2    0.7    0.5    0.2    0.7        34
Capacity building         0.2    0.1    0.3    0.2    0.1    0.3        35
Policy development        0.1    0.1    0.2    0.1    0.1    0.2        20
Subtotal               0.8    0.4    1.2    0.8    0.4    1.2       32
Overseas fellowships        0.0    0.2    0.2    0.0    0.2    0.2        94
Local training and
workshops                 0.4    0.1    0.5    0.5    0.1    0.6        20
Related salaries            2.2    0.9    3.1    2.3    1.0    3.3        29
Student costs               0.5    0.1    0.6    0.5    0.1    0.6        20
Incremental operating
costs                     0.8    0.1    0.9    0.8    0.1    0.9        20
Baseline cost         14.9   25.5   40.4   _5.6   26.8   42.4       63
Contingencies:
Physical                  0.9    2.1    3.0    1.0    2.2    3.2        69
Price increase            2.6    2.9    5.5    2.8    2.9    5.7        52
Subtotal               35    5.0       .     3.8    5.    89        57
Total project cost/-a      18.4   30.5   48.9   19,.4   31.9   51.3       62
Ia  Includes local taxes estimated at US$670,000 equivalent.



-27-
3.2       Baseline costs are estimated at September 1992 prices.  Civil works
costs are based on the latest DOW estimates. Equipment and furniture costs
were based on detailed lists drawn up and.on prices currently being paid for
similar items. Equipment, books and educational materials imported under the
project would be exempt from duties and taxes. Duties on imported
construction materials average about 9%. Overseas training was estimated at
K18,000 per year with local training and workshop costs varying depending on
the type of training being given. Salaries, office expenses, student costs
and travel costs were based on standard allowances. The estimated costs of
expert services are based on unit costs of similar services and activities in
programs currently being implemented in PNG.
3.3       Project costs include a contingency allowance for unforeseen
physical conditions and for estimated price increases. Physical contingencies
are estimated at 10% for civil works for schools and housing, equipment and
furniture and at 5% for all other categories cxcept for the library grants
where no physical contingencies are provided. Price increase contingencies
were estimated on the basis of the implementation schedule (Annex 12) and on
expected annual price increases of 5.5% annually for local costs and 3.7%
annually for foreign costs. Accordingly, total contingencies represent about
21% of baseline costs and aggregated price increases about 13% of baseline
costs plus physical contingencies.
3.4       The foreign exchange component of US$31.9 million (about 62% of
total estimated project costs) has been calculated on the basis of the
following estimated foreign exchange percentages: civil works for schools and
housing--65%; development maintenance funds--45%; equipment, books,
educational materials and printing--90%; furniture--35%; overseas fellowships-
-90%; expatriate consultants recruited locally--40%; local delivery of books
and educational materials, local consultants and salaries, local training and
workshops, local travel, student costs and office expenses--20%.
B. Financing
3.5       The proposed Bank loan of US$35.0 million equivalent would finance
about 70% of total estimated project costs (excluding about US$670,000
equivalent of estimated taxes), including 100% of the foreign exchange cost of
the project (US$31.9 million) and 16% of the local cost of the project (US$3.1
million). (See Table 3.3 below).



-28-
Table 3.3: FINANCING PLAN
(USS million)
Government    IBRD     Total    IBRD share
(X)
Civil works                             6.3        11.5      17.8         65
Equipment, books, educational
materials and delivery                2.2        19.5      21.7         90
Furniture                               0.5                   0.5          0
Technical assistance                     -           1.4      1.4        100
Overseas fellowships                     -          0.3       0.3        100
Local training and workshops            0.6           -       0.6          0
Related salaries                        3.9           -       3.9          0
Student costs                           0.7           *       0.7          0
Incremental operating costs             1.2           -       1.2          0
Unallocated                             0.9          2.3      3.2         72
Total                       16.3         35.0     51.3          68
Recurrent Expenditures
3.6       The project wouLd g&-aerate incremental recurrent expenditures
related mainly to salaries, stv4ent costs for the new NHS and the PHS
extensions, library grants and~ cransport for inspection, guidance and planning
staff. When fully operational, the project's recurrent expenditure
requirements would amount to K2.9 million p.a. which is equivalent to about
1.8% of the total budget appropriation for NDOE and the provincial education
divisions in 1992. This additional expenditure should be accommodated by
Government without difficulty.
C.  Proiect Management and Implementation
3.7       Overall responsibility for coordinating project implementation would
rest with a Project Coordinating Committee (PCC). A similar committee
successfully coordinated the Primary and Secondary Education Projects. The
Secretary for Education would chair the PCC and the Deputy Secretary would be
a member. Other Departments, to be represented by their Secretaries or their
nominees, would include Works and Finance. The project would be implemented
by existing line agencies at national and provincial levels. The Curriculum
Development Center would handle the re-issue and distribution of textbooks and
learning materials and the development of new materials. The National Library
would administer the library grants, CODE would be responsible for
establishing the certificate of business studies program and the DOW would
implement the construction components, including the new national high school
and the extensions to the two existing PHSs, as well as development
maintenance at the four existing NHSs. Maintenance offices would be



-29-
established in each province to handle the development maintenance grants for
the provincial high schools (para. 2.5) while the CODE and vocational centers
would manage their own development maintenance funds. NDOE's Research and
Evaluation Unit (REU) would be responsible for evaluation of the project and
task forces would be established by the Secretary for Education to undertake
the two policy studies.
3.8       Project implementation would be the responsibility of the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) within NDOE's Policy, Planning and Budget Division.
The PIU existed previously to implement Bank and ADB projects but following
completion of recent projects, most staff were absorbed elsewhere in NDOE.
Only the position of civil works manager currently exists and this will form
the nucleus of the reconstituted PIU. An experienced officer has been
appointed to the position. New positions in the PIU for a project
coordinator, procurement manager and maintenance manager have been approved by
the Department of Personnel Management within NDOE's manpower ceiling for
1993. Agreement was reached during negotiations to fund these positions in
the 1993 budget and that staff would be appointed to fill them by March 31,
1993. Agreement was also reached during negotiations to create the position
of project accountant, fund it in the 1994 budget and fill it by March 31,
1994. In view of the priority being given to education by the donor
community, a rising volume of project activity is likely to eventuate and NDOE
will face an increasing demand to implement additional projects. The PIU must
be able to expand to meet these responsibilities in due course. The
Government has indicated that the PIU would be responsible for implementing
all future donor-assisted projects within NDOE and that its staffing and
budgetary resources would be increased in line with this task.
3.9       Two regional implementation workshops would be held in each year
during 1993-96. The Bank would supervise the project twice yearly around
March and September coinciding as far as possible with the preparation of the
semi-annual progress reports (para. 3.16). A mid-term reviei- of project
implementation would take place around September 1994. Regional average
coefficients would be applied for allocating resources to project supervision.
Overall implementation issues would be handled by the task manager, assisted
by an architect for civil works and procurement activities.
3.10      Previous implementation experience offers several major lessons of
relevance to the design of the proposed project. First, textbook production
must be accompanied by efficient procedures for the timely distribution of the
books. The proposed project recognizes that while arrangements for the
physical distribution of textbooks are adequate, past experience has shown
that lack of significant funding has delayed distribution. The project
therefore allocates to distribution activities about 13X of the funds for
textbook provision. Second, textbooks tend to disappear from classrooms. To
address this issue, the project would include a pilot program aimed at
providing solutions to book retention and security problems. Third, planning
activities are greatly weakened if trained planning staff are not retained in
key planning positions. Project design therefore specifies that the planning
advisors, to be trained under the project, would be retained in their
positions for an appropriate period of time. Fourth, effective implementation
depends upon strong project management arrangements. Project design would
replicate the arrangements used for the successful implementation of previous



-30-
education projects and would consist of a high-level PCC and a well-staffed
PIU assis@;ed by evaluation officers from the REU to monitor ongoing
implementation activities .W
Status of Project Preparation
3.11      A list of the textbooks and learning materials to be re-issued has
been drawn up and publishers will be contacted in the near future in order to
schedule the reprinting planned for 1093. The DOW will also be officially
contacted by NDOE and requested to arrange for the design and construction of
the new national high school and the extensions to the existing PHSs.
Standard designs exist for the NHS buildings but some modest modifications
will be necessary for the administration and library blocks. The NHS site has
been transferred to NDOE and the site plan has been prepared. A draft
contractor prequalification questionnaire for the new NHS, and the schedule
for bidding and construction and draft bid documents for the new NHS and the
PHS extensions are under preparation.  Detailed equipment lists for the new
NHSs and the PHS extensions have been drawn up and costs estimated.  The          ,
provinces have already been notified about the need for them to establish
maintenance offices in order to participate in the development maintenance
scheme, and several have responded favorably. Terms of reference for the two
policy studies have been agreed.
Procurement
3.12      Procurement arrangements are shown in Table 3.4 below:
_41   PNDO's performaze in Implementing previous projects has been highly satisfactory. in contrast to
absorptive capacity problems which have delayed project implementetion in other sectors In PRG.



-31-
Tab.le :3.4;  PROJECT EXPENDITURE BY PROCUREMENT CATEGORY
(US$ million)
Total cost
Procurement method                 including
Category of expenditure    ICB      LCB      Other LA    NBF      contingencies
Civil works:
Schools/housing           5.3     3.2      1.0                       9.5
(3.4)   (2.1)    (0.6)                    (6.1)
Development maintenance           1.0       8.5                      9.5
(0.7)    (5.5)                    (6.2)
Equipment, books,
educational materials
and delivery              4.0     2.7      16.6                     23.3
(3.6)   (2.4)   (14.9)                   (20.9)
Furniture                                                0.5           0.5
(0.0)        (0.0)
Technical assistance                          1.5                      1.5
(1.5)                    (1.5)
Overseas fellowships                          0.3                      0.3
(0.3)                    (0.3)
Local training and
workshops                                              0.6           0.6
(0.0)        (0.0)
Related salaries,
student costs, incre-
mental operating costs                                 6.1           6.1
(0.0)        (0.0)
Total       LA       6.9     27.9        7.2          51.3
(7.0)   (5.2)   (22.8)       (0.0)       (35.0)
Note:  Figures in parentheses include contingencies and are the amounts to be
financed by the Loan.
NBF - not Bank-financed.
Includes international and local shopping, direct contracting or purchase,
purchase through Government Stores and Supply, selection of consultants
following Bank Guidelines, selection of fellows using existing Government
administrative procedures, reprinting of books under existing contracts
and force account for minor civil works.



-32-
3.13      The contract for construction of the new national high school near
Port Moresby (estimated value, US$5.3 million) would be awarded on the basis
of international competitive bidding (ICB). Contracts for the extensions to
the two PHSs (estimated value, US$2.6 million) would each be awarded on the
basis of local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Contracts for construction of the houses (estimated value, US$1.6 million)
would also be awarded on the basis of LCB. However, in remote areas where
local contractors do not operate, houses may be constructed by DOW force
account through hiring local day labor for the period necessary to complete
the construction, up to an aggregate total value of US$1.0 million. Contracts
for upgrading at the NHSs under the development maintenance component (para.
2.5) (estimated value, US$1.0 million) would be awarded on the basis of LCB.
Other development maintenance construction (estimated value, US$8.5 million)
representing very small works (average contract, US$30,000) would be procured
by the beneficiary institutions in accordance with local regulations and with
approval from the DOW or the provincial maintenance officer. Because of the
small size, full LCB would not be justified, and contracts would be awarded to
qualified contractors after comparing at least three quotations. Contracts
expected to cost less than US$40,000, however, may be procured by direct
contracting, subject to an aggregate total of US$4.0 million. If no local
contractors are available, this construction would be carried out by force
account.
3.14      The bulk of the textbooks and educ.ational materials to be provided
under the project (estimated value, US$13.7 million) would be reprinted by
placing additional orders under co-publishing agreements with overseas
publishers which are already in place. These contracts were awarded under a
previous education project following Bank Guidelines. Publishing and printing
of the textbooks and materials being developed under the project (estimated
value, US$2.9 million) would be awarded on the basis of ICB, while all
distribution and delivery contracts for services within PNG (estimated value,
US$2.5 million) would be awarded on the basis of LCB procedures acceptable to
the Bank. Library books and computer sof-ware (estimated aggregate value,
US$2.8 million) would be procured through direct purchase after negotiating
for discounts with the publishers or their authorized distributors. Equipmert
items for the new NHS, the extensions to the PHSs and the business studies
program would be grouped in packages estimated to cost US$100,000 or more
(estimated value, US$1.1 million) and awarded on the basis of ICB procedures
while miscellaneous items which cannot be so grouped (estimated value, US$0.2
million) would be awarded on the basis of LCB procedures acceptable to the
Bank. Goods manufactured in PNG and bid under ICB would be granted a margin
of preference of 15 percent of the CIF price of imported goods or the
prevailir% customs and import duties, whichever is lower. Miscellaneous
equipment items not exceeding US$50,000 in value and subject to an aggregate
total of US$0.1 million, could be procured through prudent shopping on the
basis of competitive price quotations from at least three suppliers, eligible
under Bank guidelines. Furniture would be financed and procured by the
Government using its own procedures. Specialists would be selected in
accordance with Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants.
3.15      Prior review by the Bank of bidding documents and contract award
recommendations would be required for all contracts for civil works,
equipment, books and educational materials expected to cost more than



-33-
US$100,000 equivalent. It is anticipated that all contracts awarded as a
result of ICB would be above this limit. Thus about 20 percent of the total
value of this procurement under the project would be subject to prior review.
Other contracts would be subject to selective post-review.
Disbursements
3.16      The proposed loan of US$35 million equivalent would be disbursed
over a period of five years (Annex 13). The disbursement schedule is based
largely on the implementation schedule and on past experience with the NDOE
(para. 3.9), and, as a result, is somewhat ahead of the disbursement profile
for projects in all sectors in PNG. Disbursements are expected to be
completed by the December 31, 1997, closing date and would be made against the
following categories of expenditure: (a) civil works--65X of expenditures;
(b) equipment, books and educational materiais including delivery--100% of
foreign expenditures for directly imported equipment, books and educational
materials, 100l of local expenditures (ex-factory cost) for locally
manufactured items, and 85% of expenditures for locally procured equipment,
books and educational materials and for delivery; and (c) technical assistance
and fellowships--l00X of total expenditures. Full documentation would be
required by the Bank to support withdrawal applications for all technical
assistance and overseas fellowships and for all other contracts above
US$100,000 equivalent. Disbursements for civil works, equipment, books,
educational materials and related delivery contracts below US$100,000
equivalent, would be made on the basis of itemized statements of expenditure
(SOEs). The documentation for SOE expenditures would be retained by the PIU
and made available for review as requested by visiting Bank missions.
3.17      To facilitate disbursements, a special account would be established
and maintained in US dollars at the Bank of Papua New Guinea. The initial
deposit would be in the amount of US$2.4 million to cover project expenditures
for the next four months, and would be used to make payments in all categories
of less than US$240,000 equivalent, for both local and foreign expenditures.
All other expenditures above this amount could be submitted directly to the
Bank for payment. Replenishment of the special account would be made on a
monthly basis or whenever the available balance in the account drops below 50%
of the authorized initial deposit, whichever occurs first.
Accounts. Audits and ReRorting
3.18      The PIU would establish a separate account for all project
expenditures, to be maintained in accordance with sound accounting practices.
Project accounts iould be audited in accordance with Bank guidelines. Within
nine months of the end of the Government's fiscal year, the Bank would be
presented with an audit report of such scope as the Bank may reasonably
request, including a separate opinion by the auditor on disbursements against
certified SOEs. The PIU would also monitor progress in project implementation
and submit semi-annual reports to the Bank around March and September each
year.



-34-
D. Environmental Impact
3.19      The project would not have any adverse impact on the environment.
The development maintenance component would have a strong focus on the
rehabilitation of school water supply and sewage systems which have often
deteriorated badly in recent years. Thus the project would contribute to a
healthier environment for school communi ies and reduce waste pollution.
E. ImDact on Women
3.20      The project would provide expanded opportunities for the enrollment
of girls in grades 11 and 12 which in turn would increase the number of girls
qualified for entry to the universities. At present, female enrollment in the
national high schools is only 29X and the new day NHS and extensions to the
two PHSs would have 50X female enrollment. The additional 500 places for
girls would be equivalent to an increase of 88X over the 1990 female
enrollment level. The policy study on female education would review the
impediments to the educational advancement of women, propose appropriate
policies and implement these policies according to an acceptable action plan.
The policy study, by focusing on the particular needs of women, would lead to
enhanced educational opportunities for them in the longer term.
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
4.1       The project would lead to an increase in grade 12 graduates thereby
easing the shortage of qualified entrants to higher education, especially with
regard to females. The project would also assist in improving the quality of
education through the provision of teacher support, improved planning,
textbooks and other relevant inputs. Policy and planning would also be
strengthened in relation to female participation in education and the cost
effectiveness of the education system. In addition to the benefits to be
derived from Bank financing, the project design process encouraged the
preparation of detailed statements of education policies, strategies and
investment needs which are available to guide the future education investment
decisions of the donor community.
B. Risks
4.2       In view of the involvement of the provincial education divisions in
implementing parts of the project, there is some risk regarding local capacity
to implement the project satisfactorily. This potential risk would be reduced
through the operation of the PCC and the establishment of a well-staffed PIU
which would include an experienced project coordinator.
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.1       The Government has agreed to the following:



-35-
(a) appoint the curriculum development coordinator by March 31, 1993
(para. 2.7);
(b) create additional positions for five inspectors and two guidance
officers by September 30, 1993 and make appointments to these
positions by January 31, 1994; create additional positions for three
inspectors and one guidance officer by September 30, 1994 and make
appointments to them by January 31, 1995; and create additional
positions for three inspectors and two guidance officers by
September 30, 1995 and make appointments to them by January 31, 1996
(para. 2.8);
(c) create and fill the first position of library advisor by April 30,
1993 and create positions for the second library advisor and the
support librarian and fill them by April 30, 1994 (para. 2.9);
(d) employ the special planning advisor by June 30, 1993, create the
position for the first regional planning advisor by September 30,
1993 and fill it by January 31, 1994. Carry out similar actions for
the remaining two regional advisors to be appointed in 1995 and 1996
(para. 2.10);
(e) carry out the policy studies and implement their recommendations
according to the action plan (para. 2.11); and
(f) fund positions in the 1993 budget for the project coordinator,
procurement manager and maintenance manager, and fill these
positions by March 31, 1993. Create the position of project
accountant, fund it in the 1994 budget and fill it by March 31, 1994
(para. 3.8).
5.2       Subject to the above conditions, the project constitutes a suitable
basis for the Bank loan of US$35 million equivalent to Papua New Guinea for a
term of 20 years, including 5 years of grace at the Bank's standard variable
intereit rate.



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Structure of the Education System
Provitncial High Schools
Universities
~~~~~~~~~~~High Sdmol  itas_
Other Post-SecondaCerifiate
Comnnjnity Schoods C*fia
Tchnical CouRges
College of External Studies
Vocational <o
tCerters
Employment
Minimum
Age    7      8      9      10    11    12               13    14                 15     16                17     18                 19    20    21
1     I      I    - I      I      I               I      I                 I       I                I      I                  I      I      I
'6to 12 weeks over a 2 to 4 year period.
apus142s~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 37 -                      AEX 2
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Enrollments by Education Level
(1990)
Level                           Total               Female                X Female
Primary
Grade 1                      99,166              44,907                   45.3
2                      82,795              36,720                  44.4
3                      69,515              30,908                  44.5
4                      60,985              26,638                  43.7
5                      52,766              23,179                  43.9
6                      47.862              20.,85                  43.6
Subtotal                    413,089             183,204                   44.3
Lower Secondary
Grade 7                      16,366               6,392                   39.1
8                      14,542               5,711                  39.3
9                      11,893               4,646                  39.1
10                     10.288               3.798                  36.9
Subtotal                     53,089              20,547                   38.7
UDRer Secondary
Grade 11                      1,006                  286                  28.4
12                        962                 283                  29.4
Subtotal                      1.968                  569                  28.9
TOTAL                       468,146             204,320                   43.6
Higher Education/a
Universities,&                3,967                  774                  19.5
Technical Colleges            1,489                  721                  48.4
Teachers Colleges             1,645                  660                  40.1
Nursing Schools                  826                 604                  73.1
Para-Medical Colleges           291                  128                  44.0
Primary Industry Colleges       593                   56                   9.4
Other                           467                   46
TOTAL                         9,278               2,989                   32.2
ta  Data are for 1989.
Lb   Enrollments are equivalent full-time student units.



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Education Recurrent Exgenditures
(K million)
Growth Rates
1985-91
1985     1986        1987        1988       1989       1990      1991         Nominal    Real
Primary/Secondary
Provincial              26.6       24.2       26.6       29.0         33.6      40.5       37.0          5.7        0.4
NDOE                    74.5       78.4        86.4      94.4        102.4     102.5      106.2          6.1        0.7
Higher Education          55.5       55.9        549       52,5         580       60.9       68.2          3.5       -1.7    1
Total                156.6      158.5      167.9      175.9        194.0     203.9      211.4          5.2       -0.2    X
National Budget          863.8      920.2       971.8   1,092.0      1,188.3   1,250.0   1,310.0           7.2        1.7
Education as  Z           1X.1       17.2        17.3      16.1         16.3      16.3       6.1
GDP                    2,421.9   2,550.0    2,831.1   3,140.9        3,013.7   3,095.0   3,3t9.0           5.8        0.4
Education as  X            6.5        6.2         5.9       5.6          6.2       6.6        6.2
Primary/Secondary
Expenditure per Student
Current Kina         254.2      246.8      266.7      281.0        294.8     299.6        n.a.
1985 Kina            254.2     234.7       241.5      241.3       238.8      226.8        n.a.
Sources:  Estimates of Revenue and Expenditure.  Bank of Fapua New Guinea (inflation and GDP data).



- 39 -
ANNEX 4
PAPUA NEU UTNA
EDUCATION DEVELOPtENT PROJESCT
progincial Recurrent LRenditures -er Studnt
(Kina)
Province    1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990 ann. av. g-.
nom. real
Western      226.4  232.8  244.4  272.1  278.4  275.3  4.0  -L.1
Gulf         219.3  221.9  246.7  259.3  263.2  297.6  6.3   1.L
NCD          198.6  196.5  203.8  202.0  235.4  199.6  0.1  -4.8
Central      208.0  202.0  214.9  221.6  226.0  189.8 -1.8  -6.6
Milne Bay   186.5  190.2  207.2  220.4  223.2  217.4  3.1  -1.9
Oro          183.0  199.0  218.9  203.3  210.2  224.1  4.1  -0.9
southern Highlands
155.1  1S35.8  211.4  236.4  225.7  197.7  5.0  -0.1
Eastern Highlands
146.1  161.2  184.1  190.0  206.7  207.9  7.3   2.1
Simbu        216.6  186.9  200.2  205.9  199.0  27P.5  4.5  -0.5
Western Highlands
211.3  190.4  199.8  202.3  204.2  179.6 -3.2  -7.9
Enga         220.0  206.1  208.4  239.3  248.5  162.9 -5.8 -10.4
Morobe       175.0  180.1  190.4  197.1  192.7  199.9  2.7  -2.3
Madang       192.2  171.4  183.1  l90.9  197.2  181.3 -1.2  -6.0
West Sepik  222.4  228.1  241.6  267.4  254.1  258.0  3.0  -2.0
East Sepik  164.8  175.5  189.1  193.4  202.9  208.7  4.8  -0.3
Manus        206.1  206.1  247.4  260.9  311.9  290.6  7.1   1.9
New Ireland 208.8  218.1  238.5  243.8  300.5  247.7  3.5  -1.6
East &ew Britain
222.7  218.2  234.0  239.4  239.3  244.8  1.9  -3.1
West New Britain
189.8  198.6  227.3  227.1  247.4  261.9  6.7   1.5
North Solcmons
177.0  185.1  201.0  194.7  208.8   n.a. n.a.  n.a.
Total        197.1  198.0  214.2  226.1  233.0  204.4  0.7  -4.2
Source: Provincia1 Departumncs of Education



PAPUA NEW GUINE
EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Program in Education for Overseas Funding-Summary
(K'000)
1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999   TOTAL
Access
Upper Secondary            2446    3814    6822    8791   11483   12827    8436    6304   60923
Lower Secondary            6798    6221    4482    3148    1615    1590    1611    1610   27075
Community Schools          3576    3598    3923    4261    4515    4789    5087    5408   35157
Maintenance                4205    4512    4522    4505    4298    2686    2768    2851   30347
Vocational Education         89      577     849    1146    1463    1685    1961    2262   10032               o
Literacy                   1835    2419    2365    2660    2759    2857    3003    2915   2081l
Oual_tv and Relevance
Teacher Support             673      682    1059    1099    1392    1369    1384    1286    8944
Library                     604      580     612     627      672     709      754     769    5327
Planning & Management       578      653     541     547       77     125       98     126    2745
Curriculum & Materials   11086    8031    9178    7583    9078    6378    3945    1393   56672
Other Csaital Works
Capital Works                -       861     138     148      148     148       10      10    1463
Programme Management        292      211     251     231      231     231      231     231    1909
TOTAL                     32182   32159   34742   34746   37731   35394   29288   25165   261407
Un



- 41 -                                              ANNEX 6
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
EDUCATION SECTOR PROGRAM
Donor Assistancg to Education/a
Donor                      Up to 1991            1992             1993                1994
Australia
Community Teachers College                     2047                480            510                   376
Lecturers Program
Overseas Training Awards                        10,940            3 150          3,525                 6.469
Secondary Education Awards                      3 818             3.746            125
Student Subsidies/Charges                       3.745               300
Nedical Training                                 1.487
New Zealand
Agriculture Education and
Extension                                       339               112            224                   336
Overseas Study Awards                             486               644            694                   694
Transitional Training Unit                        294
Vtilage Livestock Training                          56              1Z0             64                    25
Forestry Training                                  34               140            224                   510
School Journals Project                            66               235            263                   291
Agricultural Bank Training                          19               45             67                    45
Non-formal Education                               33                               28                    56
Secondary Education Awards                          15               84            126                   126
Other                                               2               157            151                   151
Jasan
Fisheries Training                              1.700
Language Training                                 710
UPNG Equipment                                    330
United States
Radio Science Education                         4 028
Technical Education                              1.563
Health and Development                          2,179
Support h
Agricultural Training                              98
Other                                              98
European Commission
School Buildings                                 1.270            4.500
Maintenance
Universities                                    1960             5.700         19,600/L
UNICEF
Primary Education                                                   143            143                   665
Non-Formal Education                                                380            380                 1 4250
TOTAL                         37.317           19.936          26.124               11.169
/a Date relate to identifiable education and training assistance. A nrAber of donor assisted projects contain
training conponents which cannot be separately identified from total project costs and consequently they
have not been included in this Annex.
Lb Includes some assistance scheduled for 1992 and 1993.
c  Figures are from 1993-96.
la   Figures are for 1994-97.
Note: ADB is also plenning a universities proJect (US$30 million),
Technical nd Vocational Education 11 (US$20 million) and
Technical and Vocational Education III (USS15 million).



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Aioointment of New Staff
r   -            .
Bak  FCY        1993  1      1994        1995        1996      1997    I 1988
|                                      |~~~~~~~~~~~~ Bank  FY  |1993 | 1994  1 995    |    1996   |1997    |1988 
|    Increasing  access:                            I            I   I  I  I  I  I   I  I  I    I  I  I  I  I    1  1  1    1  1  1    1  1  I
Upper secondary expansion:                     I            I   I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  ,   I  I  I   I
New NHS staff:                               I            IIlIIIIIIIIIII1IIIIIIII
14 Expatriate                              I           I   I  I  |  |  |  |  (8) |-|-||  |+-|-|-I-+-i-+-- -
I  I   I  I  I  I  I  I~~~~ I  I  I     (6) 
14  National                                                                  O I  |    |    |    |    |    |    (8)  |    |     |    |    |    |    |- |    |    |    |    |- |    |
(6)    -
PHS extension staff:                         I            Il             III                              II              l
6 Expatriate                                           I   |         I(4) 1- f-|-| --i-(2) |         +   -+- |    - |-+---I-
I  I   I  I  I  I  I  I~~~~ 1 I  I     (2) 
6 National                                                                 1 I   I  I  I  I  I  I  (4)1  1   1  1-+  -I---+------i---I
1           11       11                      I 5  |  |  |  |  |      (2) I*-   1*-I-+--I-i-1*-211
|Improving quality:                                 |            1   |I || 
| Textbook supply and                          I                                          iii
development-expatriate
curriculum development coordinator         I                                         |
Inspection and guidance:                       I           I  IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
16 New inspectors and guidance officers  |             |    |     (7)1  |  |  |
I .111111 |   |   |  |  |          (4) I      -- +I- I+                           I
10 Keyboard operators                                                         O I   I  I  |  I  |  I  (5) I-1-+- |-I-+-I-F-+-t-+-I-|-+
i  I        I   I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I  (5)   I- -I-I +I    I -I-I  I-I    I I
2 Part-time guidance officers (equiv.)   II   I |                 (2)1 |- |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |-|-|-|  |-|  |-|  |
Library grants:
Library advisor
Library advisor                                        II  I  I  I  I  I -I-       I-I +I-I-I-I-t-I-I             - I I-I-I
Support librarian                          I           I   I  I  I  I  I
Strengthening institutional management:          I            I      I  I  I  I      I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I
3 Regional advisors                        I           I   I  I  I                                                           |
I                                   I          ~~~~~~~~~~~I   I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I-I-I-+    I-+-1  11-1-1-1-1-1-1
I                                   t         ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~I IIt  I  I  II   I I   I  I  I                               
I   I |   |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |    |   Completion  date>  |    |    |    |    I
!           I !   !  !  !  !  !       os!n!d!t!-Closing date  !-     !  !->!  !



- 43 -                                ANEX 8
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Technical Assistance and Fellowshins
Fellowshios
Consultant staff-montha  No. of        Overseas study
Foreign      Local    candidates   period each    Total
---(staff-months)----
Increasing access:
Certificate of business
studies:
Writing                                     11
Editing/formatting                           3
Subtotal                                14
Improving quality:
Inspection and guidance                                  24                3         72
Curriculum development
coordinator                     48
Strengthening institutional
management:
Special planning advisor          42
Regional planning advisors                                2               24         48
Policy studies:
Female education                 4           8
Cost effectiveness               4          12
Subtotal                   S            20         2                           48
Project management
Total                                  1302                                   120



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
ZDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ACTION PLAN FOR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE POLICY STUDIES IN EDUCATION
GOVERlNMENT'S     WPLEMENTATION
DECISION ON            OF
AGREEENT ON   ESTABLISHMENT       STUDY TO      STUDY TO BE         STUDY         RECOMMENDATIONS
TOR FOR       OF WORKING       COMMENCE       COMPLETED    RECOMMENDATIONS   TO COMMENCE BY:
STUDY                STUDIES BY:      GROUPS BY:         BY:             BY:              BY:
Female                September        January          March          August          December            March
participation in         1992            1993            1993            1993             1993              1994
education
Improvement in        September        February         April         September        February             May
cost                    1992             1993            1993           1993             1994               1994
effectiveness
Teacher               September         March            May           October           March              June
education                1992            1993            1993            1993           *1994               1994
Note: Each study will include a timetable for the implementation of its recommendatidns.



- 45 -                                ANNEX 10
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Expenditure by Year and Purpose
Total cost
Base cost (K million)           K         US$
1993    1994    1995    1996   million  million
Increasing access:
Upper secondary
expansion                0.7     5.3      2.6      1.7     10.3      10.8
Development
maintenance              1.9     1.9      1.9      1.9      7.6       8.0
Certificate of
business studies         0.0     0.1      0.1      0.1      0.3       0.3
Subtotal             2.6      7.3      4.6     3.7      18.2      19.1
Improving quality:
Textbook supply and
development              2.7     6.4      3.8      2.6     15.5      16.2
Inspection and
guidance                 0.4     0.5      0.8      0.8      2.5       2.7
Library grants             0.6      0.6     0.7      0.6      2.5       2.6
Subtotal             3.7      7.5      5.3     4.0      20.5      21.5
Strengthening institu-
tional management:
Regional advisors          0.1      0.1     0.1      0.2       0.5      0.6
Policy studies             0.3       -       -        -        0.3      0.3
Subtotal             0.4      0.1      0.1     0.2       0.8       0.9
Project management and
evaluation                    0.3      0.2     0.2      0.2       0.0.9
Baseline Cost        7.0    15.1    10.2       8.1      40.4      42.4
Contingencies:
Physical                   0.5      1.3     0.7      0.5       3.0      3.2
Price increase             0.4     1.6      1.7      1.8       5.5      5.7
Subtotal             0.9      2.9      2.4     2.3       8.5       8.9
Total project cost         7.9    18.0    12.6    10.4       48.9      51.3
Foreign exchange           4.9    12.4      7.7      5.5      30.5     31.9



0UICAIPI DCVE142IUW  UOEC
a_rw  d Irofroncots
aqolpsmut. books, eductatinal                         Toehotvl                                                                     lncriertal
m_ t  ;ala and delivory                           assistace                                      olr .uItL  Copts
Ctldl MONU                      olawst                                Forolgn     Local      oversee       local               r_                  ?r .2IJ
Schoolsl nosWnlOecet       qpip- .doctalonl                                speIlF-  special-   fello-    tral ing A   Local  tLial.    nudeat    tramn-    office                  701*1
ogtsln    laintenac@      moat       aterials    olIlwvrp    Furnitura      lUt.        lst.        hips      workshops    stall   staff     t coat       Port   *upens       0      us000 US6O0
Ilflcrusnq saccess       '
upr    eomf  mopaOslo           3.1 0         -          1,100        -           -           330            -          -           -            -          730   I,200       570        -           130     10,320  10,30
Dwropenet w.satoomse              -         7,S20         -           -           -            -             _          -           _            -          -       -          -         -            -       7,520   8.000
CortilloAte of buInss            -            -             30        220         -            -             -          70                -           -         -         -         -                 -         300     310
studies
Subtotal             iEo        7 C20        1, 11          u         -            Ut            -          Ll           -           -          zin   in           m5         -            t     11.249 1i14J
Improring qallty:
lesthool suppl sd                       -                  20      12,740       2,330                             - -2                                      I"      I"         -         so          20      15,460  13,220
i"actlon and guidon "           , 130         -            so        -            -            G0                                  140          30          $30     -          -        500          70      2,140   P.630
Library grant                    -            -                    2.350          -                                                 -           30          Ito     -          -         _           _        2.4tO   2.620
Subtatal                                               is,           1.9            So           -                                              m .u  l    7 C   inu  -      in     -            20 ttO 21 i0
It.   Lhelaq Imstltstloo
.eat, qino nsa titto
a   dlsor                         so          -            to       -             -                         210         -           70          -            O      -          -         T0          -         130    510
policy studl-                                             -                       -                         -          200          -                       -                            t-  -  lo   -          320     330
subtotal                                        1 -   i   i           - _           _1t                                 12    '    -                     -          -        i            -         2       299
Project esuqemt aad                -            -           -         -             -            -                                               AM 220  -  i  -      -          -         -           -          no     i        I
v"salstloo
Sgeil me coat   7-U             1in           420      15.32        139            in           SIn         int        12          2124570  73            0                2      0             405440 SL
Cost Ingeoclee,
PhysIcal                         740          330         120       3,300         loo          40            40         20          10          30           00     17         IS        30          n0       3.000   3.11J
Ptice lacrss                     900        1.100         130       1.600         290          50           too         30          30          s0          340  * 300        130       220          so       1.470   5.140
Subtotal            J.19           3   1        1w2m    1.53          1      29                 in U        12          59          ini         sAD     An         in        ini          82      Li      Ai-Ot
btotl project c.l   25 0             1.300        JAlt    ALM             2 0           4 50         La                                  320   5     &M90  Ion                                        43. 30 ILIA0
7btF ptoe<:ttt e4@  0 .350400 7 p0ne w o ono Ie o1



PAPUA l   GUINEA
EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Imolementation Schedule
C_          1993  |      94           995|1996   |  199T | 198
Bank  FV    t993     1994        1995         1996       1997       1988
Increasfng access:
Upper eccndary expenfson
New Nos:
Construct ion---    -S                                                      -----
Equipping  nd furnfshing                               _  _ _  _ _ _
PHS extension:
Construction---                                                             -
Equipping and furnishing_
Developtsnt maintenance - PHSU/NHSs                       _  _ _  _  _  _      - _  _  _       _  _  _
Certificate of busine   studies:
Uriting, editfing, formatting-----                                          ------
Equipment procurement
improving quality:
Textbook suppty and delivery:
Re-is ue   of   existing   m terials                     -   _  _  _  _  _  _  _     _   _   _   _   _   _   _
Development and Isaue of new nmterials                               _ _  _  _ _ _   _  _        - _   _
Book retention pitot program                                 -    --    -        ----
Materiale officers and curriculum workshops       =         _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _            -  - _
Inspection and gufdance:
Construction and furnishing of houses:
For new inspectors/glufdane officers                                                                  
For existing fnspector/sgufdance offfcers                                      ----                 
Overses attachments                                     _  _         _ _  _
Keyboard operators training workshops                                _ _  _  _    _  _ _
Library grants                                          _ :   _                                : _I
0 13
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 1 _ _ _ _ _~~~~0
* 
1%X



Implementation Schedule
CY        1993        1994        1995       1996       1997      1988
Bank  FY   1993      1994        1995         1996       1997       1968
Strengthening institutional management:
RegionaL advisors:
Construction and furnishing of houses
Equipment procurement
FeLtowiships-                                                                          -    ---
special advisor-----
Housing for NDOE officers - construction
and lumnishing                                                                
Policy studies
Project management and evaluation                            -
Copetion  ate
Closing d_g
Ge
0~



- 49 -
AhEX 13
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Disbursements
Amount per       Cumulative      Disbursement
IBRD Fiscal Year              Semester      Amount    (Z)       Profile /a
and Semester                -- (US$ million) --                   (X)
1993
2                        2.4          2.4        7           0
99_4
1                        1.4          3.8       11           3
2                        3.3          7.1       20           6
1                        4.3        11.4        33          14
2                        5.8         17.2       49          22
1996
1                        6.0        23.2        66          34
2                        5.0        28.2        81          46
1997
1                        3.3        31.5        90          54
2                        2.5         34.0       97          66
1998
1                        1.0         35.0      100          74
23  Latest standard disbursement profile for all sectors in PNG dated June
1992.
Lk Initial deposit into special account.



50 -                              ANNEX 14
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents Available in the Project File
A.   Regorts and Studies Related to the Sector/Subsector
A-1 Education Sector Review, NDOE, 1991
A-2 A Proposal for a Program in Education for Overseas Funding, NDOE, October
1991
A-3 Papua New Guinea, Structural Adjustment, Growth and Human Resource
Development, IBRD, May 1, 1991
A-4 Papua New Guinea, Competitiveness, Growth and Structural Adjustment,
IERD, March 31, 1992
B.   Reports and Studies Related to the Project
B-1 A Program in Education for a World Bank Loan, NDOE, 1991
B-2 Issue of Relevant Textbooks, NDOE, March 2, 1992
B-3 A Project in Education for Papua New Guinea, A.K. Neuendorf, April 1992
C.   Selected Working Papers
C-1 Detailed Cost Tables



MAP SECTION



i                                                  M A NV U S                                                                                                                            PPAPUA NEW  GUI N EA
---               -------------------                                                                                                    N                                         EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
N  E W       Ri E        A  N  D0   Ne NotinaEl High School
5Wn  IR       L     NDxButs,ion To Provnicial High School
I      i..:iOnQ       4~~~~~~~5*~~                     ____ ~~Moin Roads
I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tPorts
sm    r  c k    !         e                                                                   t  International Airport
-                       ~~~~~~~~ Capital
w  E s                                                                                                        IRELAND                     0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Towns
ct E   8 | - p~- _____1____________ ___-____ Mountuinous Areoss
Rivers
P    K                                                                         ---------------- ------                                                        District Boundaries
ui~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'                                                                                                                             -International Boundaries
Z                                                                                                        W E_ _-   I   j  /  )  /  weST  N E W   B R / r A I N
i                                                                                                                                    >~,I B'UGAINVALN G
N -r                                                             E BRIAI                                                                             /        0
t           lX            >                       /~~NN    Bul IIo I0 B f                                                                                                                                   CHIOISEuL
! z<+  S  If  R     x\t >0 jNW    rea         |         ~ XA            1                   S    l }O  r> oF/    nS 01  e0                                1    -,                          s,
! >                                                                                              I  <\          ------
I                 /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~           
>             I          FAsr NE                                                                                                                     N E W    8  R   B A         N
t   X    Fs4w   |   hp _\ | A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Olol 
i r r G I J l i l / S         -  -  -  -  -  -  -   - -c   -    -                                             - - - - - - - i
,:ic"2nlwrnon                                                GUt  F        I                       I  i                 br                              4- vedSw
~~~~~~,,  fl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  -  TO                                                 t       - - - - -            - - - - -            - - - - - -         
p                    <~~~~~~~ 
\)   ti>   !   11  I  coro/  isev . l.MEN   1  S  r1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IDpT.  oA.5IT   uo
.  o0                                                                                                                                                           Ic '-'-'-'-'-'-'-'-'-'-'-'-'   '-'-'-'-'-'-'-'-'- - -'-'-'-'-'- - - '-'-'-'-'-M E'-'- - - - -a



