Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24376
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-35370)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 35.0 MILLION
TO THE INDEPENDENT STATE OF
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
FOR AN
EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
June 28, 2002
Human Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 22, 2002)
Currency Unit =  Papua New Guinean Kina (K)
K 1.00 = US$ 0.2693
US$ 1.00 = K 3.713
FISCAL YEAR
January 1   . December 3 1
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AD B                        Asian Development Bank
AusAID               -       Australian Agency for International Development
CODE                        College of Distance Education
CSTB                 -      Central Supply and Tenders Board
D O W                        Department of Works
ESR                         Education Sector Review
ICR                  -       Implementation  Completion  Report
IIEP                        International Institute for Education Planning
PEOF                        Program in Education for Overseas Funding
PIU                  -      Project Implementation Unit
QAG                          Quality Assurance Group
RMPA                 -      Regional Management and Planning Advisor
UN D P                      United Nations Development Program
UNESCO                      United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization
Vice President:  Jemal-ud-din  Kassum
Country  Director:  Klaus Rohland
Sector Director:  Emmanuel Y. Jimenez
Task Team Leader:    Alfonso de Guzman



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data
2. Principal Performance Ratings
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry                 2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                    7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                    20
6. Sustainability                                                                        2 4
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                         25
8. Lessons Learned                                                                       29
9. Partner Comments                                                                       30
10. Additional Information                                                               32
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                      33
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                      35
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                      38
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                      39
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                      41
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                         42
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                     43






Project ID: P004392                                          |Project Name: EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT
Team Leader.: Alfonso F. de Guzman                            TL Unit: EASHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                            Report Date: June 28, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: EDUCATION      DEVELOPMENT                        LIC/TF Number: CPL-35370
Country/Department.  PAPUA NEW GUINEA                                        Region: East Asia and Pacific
Region
Sector/subsector: ES . Secondary Education
KEY DATES
Original             Revised/AC tua I
PCD:    05/02/1991                               Effective:  1 0/31/1993         12/01/1994
Appraisal: 01/16/1992                                    MTR: 09/15/1994              03/18/1996
Approval:   12/08/1992                                Closing: 12/31/1997            12/31/2001
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: INDEPEDENT STATE OF PNG/TBD
Other Partners.  National Library, Department of Works, Provincial Works Divisions
STAFF                  Current                                     At Appraisal
Vice President.       Jemal-ud-din Kassum                          Gautam Kaji
Country Manager:       Klaus Rohland                               Marianne Haug
Sector Manager:        Emmanuel Y. Jimenez                          Clifford Gilpin
Team Leader at ICR.    Alfonso de Guzman                           William  Rees
ICR Primary Author.    David Klaus
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: U
Sustainability: HUN
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: U
Borrower Performance: U
QAG (if available)         ICR
Quality at Entry:                           S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3. 1 Original Objective:
The overall objective of the project was to assist the Government to implement its education sector policies
and investment plans through assistance for (a) increasing access. (b) improving: quality, and (c)
strengthening institutional management. The mention of "education sector policies" was a reference to the
Education Sector Review (ESR) of 199 1, which had been carried out mainly by Papua New Guineans with
technical assistance provided by the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization
(UNESCO). Bank staff working on Papua New Guinea at that time were closely engaged in the dialogue
on how Papua New Guinea's education sector might be improved and reformed and had encouraged the
Government and UNESCO to undertake the ESR. The ESR provided a coherent statement of the Papua
New Guinea's educational policies and strategies. The mention of "investment plans" was a reference to
the Program in Education for Overseas Funding (PEOF), a document prepared by the Department of
Education as an outgrowth of the Education Sector Review and as a guide to the donor community for
identfying assistance to Papua New Guinea's education sector. Both documents provided guidance and a
rational approach to supporting the development of education in Papua New Guinea for donors (who had
claimed that a coherent approach had not previously existed) as well as for the Government.
The Education Sector Review had determined that the education system in Papua New Guinea was
characterized by high costs per student, by international standards, and disappointing results: low
enrollment rates, high dropout rates, low quality, and an unsuitable curriculum. Data showed that (a) some
30% of children never enrolled in school; (b) of the children who did enter primary school, almost half
dropped out before they reach Grade 6; (c) of those who did complete primary education, only about a third
continued to secondary school; (d) less than 1% of the age group attended the upper secondary level
(Grades 11 and 12); and (e) the curriculum was critically lacking in relevancy to the needs and realities of
Papua New Guinea's society and economy. There was therefore a need to increase access both at the lower
level of the education system-to achieve universal basic education-and at the upper level of the
system--to train leaders who could manage the country politically and economically. There was also a
need to improve quality and relevance, both so that schoolchildren would learn more and so that they would
be less likely to drop out. Finally, there was a need to improve the management of the education system,
which 15 years after Independence was still heavily dependent upon expatriates.
In view of this situation, the Government began developing a vast and comprehensive National Education
Reform. Although the details of the Reform were worked out over a period of several years, the major
elements of the Reform were already clear at the time of project preparation and appraisal. Among the
proposals made in the early 1990s and eventually adopted were (i) the achievement, over time, of universal
basic education of nine years (a Preparatory Year and Grades 1-S) through the introduction of
village-based, village-constructed and village-maintained elementary schools for Kindergarten and Grades 1
and 2, taught in local languages, to be followed by six years of primary school, Grades 3-8; (ii) a doubling
in the number of places available at secondary school (Grades 9-12); and (iii) a major revision of the
curriculum throughout the system. Under a 1995 law, the responsibility and resources for delivering many
education services was to be devolved to the provinces and districts. The project was intended to support
these Reforms.
Specifically, the project aimed to (a) increase access to (i) upper secondary education, through expanding
enrollments in Grades 11 and 12, (ii) business education, by developing a new business studies course to be
offered through correspondence, and (iii) secondary, vocational, and distance education, through repairing
school facilities; (b) improve educational quality through (iv) expanding the supply of textbooks, (v)
-2 -



strengthening school inspection and guidance, and (vi) improving school libraries; and (c) strengthen
institutional management through (vii) the appointment and training of Regional Management and Planning
Advisors (RMPAs), (viii) carrying out policy studies in critical areas of the education sector, and (ix)
developing a national capacity to implement donor-funded projects in the education sector.
3.2 Revised Objective:
In September 1994, a volcano erupted at Rabaul in East New Britain Province, and volcanic ash gradually
covered the city. In response to the Government's urgent request to donors for assistance, the Bank, rather
than developing a new, separate Loan, agreed that as-yet-undisbursed funds from four Bank Loans to
Papua New Guinea would be used to provide infrastructure which had been destroyed by the volcanic
eruption and the subsequent ash. In March 1995, the Loan Agreement for the Education Development
Project was amended to include the construction, furnishing, and equipping of new education facilities and
the extension of existing education facilities in the Gazelle Peninsula of East New Britain Province to cater
to those students whose schools had been destroyed in the eruption or covered by volcanic ash. The sum of
US$ 5 million of the original Loan of US$ 35 million was reallocated for this purpose.
3.3 Original Components:
The project covered a wide range of levels, subsectors, and activities in Papua New Guinea's education
sector. The loan was designed to benefit primary-level education, secondary-level education, vocational
education, business education, and distance education as well as education planning and management. It
included civil works, equipment, furniture, fellowships, and technical assistance for both project
implementation and policy studies. Originally, the project was also to include a higher education
component, but this was dropped when the Asian Development Bank (ADB) expressed interest in assisting
Papua New Guinea in the higher education sector.
Increasing; Access
(1)     Expansion of Upper Secondary Enrollments. At the time the Education Development Project was
developed, Papua New Guinea had only four schools in the whole country, all boarding schools, which
were designated National High Schools and which offered upper-secondary education (Grades 11 and 12).
In 199 1, the Government's policy was to expand Grades 11 and 12 by building five new National High
Schools over a six-year period, starting in 1992 with the construction of two schools, one in the Gerehu
suburb of Port Moresby and the other in the Markham Valley of Morobe Province.  The Department of
Education was also considering the 'topping up" of Provincial High Schools, i.e., adding Grades 11 and
12 to existing schools which previously had offered only Grades 7-10. This component was therefore to
consist of (a) the construction, furnishing, and equipping of the new National High School for day students
in the Gerehu suburb and (b) the addition of facilities for Grades 11 and 12 to two Provincial High Schools
at Hoskins in West New Britain Province and Malala in Madang Province. Half of the new places created
in all three schools were to be reserved for females, of which there were an adequate number of Grade 10
graduates.
(2)     Development Maintenance. Grants for development maintenance (e.g., for upgrading classrooms,
dorrnitories, mess halls, water systems, electricity, and sewerage systems) were to be provided to the
Provincial High Schools (offering Grades 7-10), the four National High Schools (offering Grades 1 1- 12),
Vocational Centers (offering vocational training after Grade 6), and provincial College of Distance
Education (CODE) Centers (offering Grades ;7- 10 through correspondence).
(3)     Certificate of Business Studies. This program, offered by the College of Distance Education, aims
-3-



at improving the skills of small business operators and office workers and covers business communications,
office procedures, business English and mathematics, and bookkeeping. Before project inception, CODE
offered Stage 1 but lacked the resources to complete Stages 2 and 3. The component was to include the
writing, editing, and printing of course materials for Stages 2 and 3 and the purchase of two personal
computers and a laser printer.
Irn     geQ Rgality
(4)    Textbook Supply and Development. The Bank's second and third loans for education in Papua
New Guinea, both in the 1980s, had provided huge volumes of textbooks to primary- and secondary-level
schools throughout Papua New Guinea. By 1993, many of these needed to be replaced. In addition, the
reforms in education suggested by the Education Sector Review of 199 1 implied the rewriting of virtually
all textbooks to make them more relevant to Papua New Guinea's needs and realities and to accommodate
the introduction of the use of indigenous languages in early basic education. It was recognized at the outset
that the Reform could not be introduced everywhere in the country all at once and that therefore some parts
of the country would need new materials reflecting the Reform curriculum whereas others would continue
to use the existing materials, albeit updated. This component, therefore, was to continue the Bank's
assistance for textbooks provided under the two earlier projects by financing (i) the resupply of existing
textbooks and related teaching materials for primary- and secondary-level schools and (ii) the development
and publishing of new or revised textbooks to reflect the on-going changes in curriculum.  Since lack of
funds for transport and storage of books had been a major cause of late arrival or non-arrival of books in
the schools, the Loan also included funds for the distribution, storage, and security of books and materials.
Curriculum development was to be strengthened through the financing of a Curriculum Development
Coordinator (who would take the lead in preparing a plan for the development, publishing, trailing,
procurement, and distribution of new and old textbooks), writers' fees, workshops, trialing of textbooks,
and evaluation. Finally, the project was intended to include a pilot program to address the issue of book
retention and security, to be implemented in the beginning years of the project and to include training in
materials management, care, and storage. Given the country's rapid expansion in enrollments and the fact
that most of the books supplied in the 1980s were obsolete or had worn out.  More than half of the Loan
was designated for this component, which was expected to supply Papua New Guinea with textbooks at
both the primary and secondary levels.
(5)     Inspection and Guidance. Inspectors and guidance officers are supposed to provide advisory,
evaluation, and counseling services to all schools on a regular basis. With the steady expansion in
enrollments which had occurred in Papua New Guinea, the ratio of inspectors and guidance officers to
schools, teachers, and students had steadily declined, with an accompanying decline in the frequency of
school visits and level of service. This project component was to include the creation of new positions for
11 additional inspectors and 5 additional guidance officers and their training, housing, and transport. The
housing component was to include 25 houses: 16 for the newly recruited officers, 6 for officers already
appointed but lacking housing, and 3 for officers to be recruited following project completion. The
component was also to include a staff development program, to provide the opportunity for 24 serving
officers to undertake three-month overseas attachments to study advisory, evaluation, and guidance
practices.
(6)     Library Grants. At project inception, 75% of Papua New Guinea's primary-level schools did not
have libraries. Almost all of the Provincial High Schools and CODE Centers had libraries, but they were
understocked. None of the 110 Vocational Centers had a library. This component was to channel grants
through the National Library, which would identify, procure, and distribute suitable materials to the
different types of schools. Grants were to be provided to the primary-level schools and the Provincial High
-4-



Schools on a matching basis, i.e., the school would provide one half of the funds and the project the other.
Full grants were to be made to the Vocational Schools and the CODE Centers. The project was also to
include the employment of two library advisors and a support librarian in the National Library to assist in
this program.
Strengthenin. Institutional Management
(7)     Regional Management and Planning Advisors. Although an Education Sector Review had been
completed in 1991, at the time the project was being prepared, it would be five more years before a
National Education Plan was developed and approved. Meanwhile, it was recognized that the education
planning capacity at the provincial and district levels would need to be improved if the ambitious reform
agenda was to be carried out. In particular, it was recognized that each province would need to prepare a
Provincial Education Development Plan and that few of the provinces had the capacity to prepare these
plans on their own. This component was therefore to include (a) a special advisor on education
management and planning and (b) three regional education management and planning advisors. The special
advisor was to train, supervise, and support the regional advisors and prepare education management and
planning manuals. The posts for the regional advisors were to be created under the project. Once
appointed, the regional advisors were to undertake a one-year associateship under the special advisor,
followed by formal university training overseas. The component was also to include houses for two of the
advisors, vehicle hire, personal computers, and office materials for the advisors.
(8)     Policy Studies. The Education Sector Review was comprehensive but obviously could not deal
with all the issues of Papua New Guinea's education sector at that time. This component was to consist of
three studies analyzing key strategic problems, recommending policies to solve them, and developing
strategies to implement the policies. The three topics to be studied were (i) female participation in
education, to develop and implement policies, and strategies leading to increased access and improved
retention of females at all levels of schooling; (ii) the cost-effectiveness of education, to develop policies
and strategies (e.g., increased student-teacher ratios when they become unreasonably low in the upper
grades; alternatives to boarding; classroom utilization rates; multi-grade teaching; teacher deployment;
regrouping of classes; etc.) to reduce Papua New Guinea's very high unit costs of education; and (iii)
teacher education, to develop policies and strategies for the massive increase in the teaching force necessary
to cope with the increase in enrollments foreseen under the Education Reform. The last study was to
examine not only the inadequate teacher education capacity but also such issues as recruitment, posting,
retention, optimal student-teacher ratios, terms of employment etc.
(9)    .Proiect Implementation Unit. The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) was a component of the
project and is shown as such in the project cost tables. A PIU had existed previously to implement Bank
and ADB-assisted projects, but following the completion of projects around 1990, most staff had been
absorbed elsewhere in the Department of Education. The newly constituted PIU was to consist of a project
coordinator, a procurement manager, a maintenance manager (for the Development Maintenance
component), and a project accountant. It was foreseen that the PIU would not only implement the
Education Development Project but also expand to meet the increasing demand for project implementation
services engendered by the new projects foreseen in the Program in Education for Overseas Funding. At
the time of project preparation and appraisal, the Government had indicated that the PIU would eventually
be responsible for implementing all future donor-assisted projects within the Department of Education and
that its staffing and budgetary resources would be increased in line with that task.
3.4 Revised Components:



In keeping with the revised objective (Section 3.2), the project description was expanded in 1995 to include
the construction, as needed, of primary- and secondary-level schools to replace those destroyed during the
volcanic eruption in the District of Rabaul in East New Britain Province, including provision of equipment,
furniture, books, teaching materials, and other related materials. In line with the project's objective of
expandinp access, the Bank offered to fund the development of course materials for Grades 11 and 12 to be
offered by CODE through Distance Education. In line with the project's objective of strengthening
institutional management. (i) the CODE component was expanded beyond the initial provision for two
computers and a printer to include computer equipment and facsimile machines at all 20 provincial CODE
centers as well as e-mail connectivity, (ii) the Library Grants component was expanded to include the
provision of a computer to the National Library, (iii) the Inspection and Guidance component was
expanded to include the provision of office equipment for the Inspection and Guidance headquarters in Port
Moresby and for the provincial offices, (iv) the Regional Management and Planning Advisors component
was expanded to include computers for all the District Education Offices and training in their use, and (v)
the Bank agreed to finance office equipment and technical assistance (expatriate Project Coordinator;
accounting and procurement services) for the Project Implementation Unit.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Project preparation began as the previous World-Bank-assisted education project in Papua New Guinea
was ending, and lessons drawn from its implementation were reflected in project design. The project's
objectives derived directly from the Education Sector Review of 199 1 (para. 3. 1), which had reviewed the
policies and strategies of the education sector as a whole, had analyzed the major problems in education,
and had made recommendations for dealing with the problems. The project's components derived directly
from the Program in Education for Overseas Funding (PEOF) and were, in fact, the components which the
Department of Education had defined as the highest priorities within the PEOF. Terms of reference had
been agreed for the Curriculum Development Coordinator, the Special Advisor on Education Management
and Planning, the three Regional Education Management and Planning Advisors, the Library Advisors and
Support Librarian, and the staff of the Project Implementation Unit.  Detailed terms of reference had also
been prepared and agreed for the three policy studies. Schedules for the appointment and training of the
Regional Management and Planning Advisors, the library staff, and the Project Implementation Unit had
been developed and agreed. Procurement documents for civil works, goods (textbooks etc.), and technical
assistance used in previous Bank-assisted education projects were available and would, it was assumed,
continue to be used in the new project.
In retrospect, however, it is clear that the project design was overly complex and ambitious for a country
where past donor-assisted projects had been coordinated and implemented primarily by expatriate
specialists and where local capacity for management, accounting, and procurement were limited. It is also
clear in retrospect that it was most unrealistic to expect that the project could be implemented in only four
years.



4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective.
Except for enrollment increases in Grades 11 and 12, no specific indicators were developed during
appraisal. A supervision mission in September 1993 (following Loan signing but before Effectiveness)
developed a list of possible indicators (most of them process indicators) and suggested that they be used to
monitor project progress. But it was not until mid-1996, during the 'retrofitting" of project objectives
within the Bank's East Asia and Pacific Region, that thirteen specific indicators were adopted, seven of
them to measure inputs and processes (i.e., progress in Project Implementation) and six of them to measure
project impact (i.e., progress towards Development Objectives). These indicators are set forth in Annex 1
and discussed below.
Increasing Access
As a result of the project's Upper Secondary component, access in upper-secondary education (Grades 11
and 12) was supposed to increase by 1,500 students, or 76% over the baseline of 1,965 in 1992. In fact,
by 2001, enrollments in upper secondary more than tripled, reaching 8,552 students, or 335% over the
baseline. Most of this increase, however, is not due to the project component, even though the project
schools were completed successfully and are fully enrolled. Papua New Guinea originally envisioned that
five new schools with Grades 11 and 12 would be built. This approach was then changed to favor the
approach of adding Grades 11 and 12 to existing schools where theretofore had been offering Grades 7
through 10. In fact, both occurred, and enrollments in Grades 11 and 12 have increased at a much faster
rate over the last decade than anyone had expected at project inception. The objective of increasing access
in upper secondary, then, was achieved and highly satisfactory. This component had also had the
objective, however, of increasing enrollments for females in upper-secondary education. In 2000, the
percentage of females in Grades 11 and 12 was only  36%, a disappointing result, albeit an improvement
over the figure in 1992, which was only 29%.,
The quantitative impact of the Development Maintenance component on increasing access is not known.  It
is known, however, that schools chose to use these funds strategically, to repair, rebuild, or refurbish
facilities such as dormitories, mess halls, water supply, electricity, and sewerage without which many of
them could not have remained open. Similarly, civil works undertaken at all of the provincial
distance-education centers allowed them to function effectively, providing courses in Grades 7 through 10
in the mid-I 990s to about one third of the total enrolled in these grades. Much more could have been
achieved through this component if more government counterpart funds had been budgeted and made
available for it. Enrollments in lower secondary education also increased dramatically over the decade,
almost tripling, from 64,870 in 1992 to 175,175 in 2000. Here also, however, this massive increase in
enrollments was due not so much to the project as to the Education Reform, under which Grades 7 and 8
were increasingly added on to the country's community schools (Grades 1 through 6) and detached from the
Provincial High Schools (until then, Grades 7 through 10), which allowed the Provincial High Schools to
offer more Grade 9 and 10 classes as well as adding on Grades 11 and 12. The objective of increasing
access in secondary education of all sorts (upper secondary, lower secondary, vocational centers, and
distance education) can nevertheless be said to have been achieved and satisfactory.
The objective of increasing access to business education through distance learning has not been achieved.
Although materials are available for Stages 2 and 3 of the Certificate of Business Studies, only, 9 people
are presently enrolled in Stage 2, and no one is presently enrolled in Stage 3. As mentioned above, a couple
- 7 -



of courses in Stage 3 are not yet available, and probably people are reluctant to begin taking the available
courses until they are assured that they will be able to complete the course and acquire the Certificate.
Enrollments in business education via correspondence may also be low because of the availability today of
numerous private-sector offerings in urban areas which had not existed during project preparation and
appraisal ten years earlier. Still another factor may be lack of awareness of the existence of the course.
The objective of increasing access to business education, therefore, has not yet been achieved and at present
is unsatisfactory.
Improving Ouality
The first indicator developed in 1996 for measuring whether the project was having an impact on the
quality of education in primary-level education was the mean scores in English and mathematics of children
taking the Grade 6 examination. Although the examination was used mainly to select those children who
would proceed on Grade 7, not as a tool to evaluate student learning. It was hoped, nevertheless, that the
mean scores would show an upward trend (improvements in learning), reflecting the increasing availability
of textbooks and library books and the growing supply of school inspectors, who, by providing more
guidance and counseling to schoolteachers, would make them better at teaching.
Even in wealthier countries, there are problems of comparing test results from year to year when each year
the tests have different questions, albeit of comparable difficulty. In Papua New Guinea, to complicate
matters, the Education Reform was being introduced during the same years that project implementation was
taking place. Children in some parts of the country were starting their education in their mother tongues
and then bridging to English, under a curriculum which had been overhauled to make it more relevant to the
country's needs and realities. Children in other parts of the country where the Reform had not yet been
introduced were being taught only in English from the beginning under the old curriculum. Moreover,
enrollments were growing rapidly, bringing into the system children in remoter parts of the country and
putting stresses on teacher and classroom capacity. These factors also had an impact on the test results.
Finally, many schools where the Education Reform had been introduced and where all children finishing
Grade 6 could proceed automatically to Grade 7 quit giving the Grade 6 examination, such that results
from recent years are not nationwide. This last factor, however, may have made the test results more
comparable over time, since only children still studying under the old system would be among those tested.
Ali things considered, however, it is very difficult to conclude anything at all from the test results.
Another proxy indicator of education quality developed in 1996 was the cohort completion rate in lower
secondary education (Grade 7 through 10 under the old system). If education quality had improved, then
fewer children would drop out, and more of those starting Grade 7 would stay in school through Grade 10.
Here also, however, the Education Reform intervened. Under the old system, those entering Provincial
High Schools in Grade 7 were guaranteed a place through to Grade 10. Under the Education Reform,
however, children entering Grade 1 can proceed automatically through to Grade 8-but then are tested,
with only a proportion of them continuing on to Grade 9. Thus the cohort completion rate in 2000 (the
number enrolled in Grade 10 in 2000 as a percentage of the number enrolled in Grade 7 in 1997) was only
6 1%, compared to 67% in 1992. Nevertheless, given that some of those completing Grade 8 in 1998 had to
sit for a selection examination for Grade 9, a completion rate of 61% is satisfactoiy.
The inputs which were supposed to have an impact on education quality are easier to measure than are the
outcomes. One indicator developed in 1996 was the supply of textbooks in primary education, where
100% would mean that every child had a complete set of textbooks. The project provided almost 3 million
textbooks. Concurrently, Australia provided some books for Grades 1, 2, 7, and 8. The calculation is not
as straightforward as might be desired, since some books are meant to be shared by a class. In addition,
-8-



the definition of 'primary" has changed: before the Reform, community schools included Grades 1 through
6, but now basic education consists of elementary schools (a Preparatory Year and Grades 1 and 2) and
primary schools (Grade 3 through 8). With these factors taken into consideration, and assuming that all the
books provided under the project actually reached the schoolchildren, Papua New Guinean children in
primary-level education now have about half: of the books they should have, ideally, (Students in
secondary-level education benefited far less from the project, however.) Although the project's impact was
definitely positive, the overall impact, in terms of the original objective, was unsatisfactory.
Another input indicator related to education quality was the ratio of teachers per inspector in lower
secondary education. The baseline figure in 1992 was 120 to 1. Through the creation and filling of 11 new
posts, this ratio was supposed to drop, allowing each inspector additional time to mentor and evaluate
teachers. In fact, given the rapid increase in enrollments over the last decade, the ratio has risen to about
157 teachers per inspector, even with the creation and filling of 8 new posts. This project component can
not, then, have had a positive impact on education quality and must be judged unsatisfactory.
A final input indicator related to education quality was the percentage of all schools with new or improved
school libraries. The National Library estimates that the subsidized book program benefited over 65% of
primary-level schools, about 90% of secondary-level schools, about 90% of the provincial CODE
(distance-education) centers, and about 80% of the vocational centers. Given that most primary-level
schools, CODE centers and vocational centers had little or nothing at the beginning of the project, this
outcome is satisfactory.
Strengthening Institutional Management
The output indicator developed in 1996 to measure the objective of strengthening institutional management
in the education sector was the number of Provincial Education Divisions having produced an acceptable
provincial education development plan. By the end of the project, all 20 provinces had done so, and some
of the first ones to be produced were being updated. The plans are of variable quality, and not all have yet
been approved by their respective Provincial Executive Council, but all provide the general framework for
expansion and improvement of education in Papua New Guinea for the next five years.  The achievement of
this objective, due not only to the project but to the Institutional Strengthening Project sponsored by the
Australian Agency for International Development (AusAID), is satisfactory to highly satisfactory.
One input indicator to measure progress towards strengthening institutional management in the education
sector was the number of regional education planners recruited and trained. The target was three-but
since two of the original RMPAs have since been promoted or otherwise left, two additional ones have also
been recruited and trained. So this target was surpassed and was satisfactory.
The other input indicator to measure progress towards strengthening institutional management in the
education sector was the number of action plans prepared on selected topics. The target was three studies,
as described below. Although all three studies were carried out, only one action plan was developed. So
this target was not achieved and is unsatisfactory.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Increasing; Access
(1) Expansion of Upper Secondar= Enrollments. The implementation of this component is rated highly
satisfactory, albeit not as originally foreseen. Although the Loan was approved on December 8, 1992, the
-9-



Loan Agreement was not signed until July 1, 1993, and the Loan Agreement did not become effective until
February 1, 1994, over a year after Board approval.
The Government meanwhile had begun discussions with the Government of Japan in 1992, before Board
approval, about the possibility of Japanese funding for the new National High School in Gerehu. In July
1993, given the delay in Loan effectiveness, the Government of Papua New Guinea signed a Memorandum
of Understanding with Japan to build the school. The Bank was aware of the possibility of Japan's
financing this school but agreed to retain the item as part of the project in case the Japanese financing did
not materialize.
Similarly, in 1992, before Board approval, the Government allocated money from its own investment
budget for 1993 to upgrade the Provincial High Schools at Hoskins and Malala so that they could offer
Grades 11 and 12. It had been hoped that 65% of these expenditures would be financed out of the Loan
proceeds. But with the delays in Loan signing and effectiveness, and the absence from the Loan Agreement
of provisions for retroactive financing, no Loan funds were used. Most of the civil works at these two
schools were completed before Loan effectiveness.
All three schools were thus built, furnished, and equipped without recourse to the Loan funds and are now
functioning at full capacity. The unused Loan funds were eventually used for the construction, furnishing,
and equipping of education facilities in the Gazelle Peninsula following the volcanic eruption and
subsequent amendment of the Loan Agreement.
(2)     Development Maintenance. For the most part, the implementation of this component is rated
satisfactory, as far as it went. Over the life of the project, the component benefited all of the Provincial
High Schools, all of the National High Schools, all of the provincial CODE centers, and many vocational
centers. It many cases, timely interventions to repair and upgrade faulty water, power, and sewerage
systems prevented the high schools and vocational centers, which are predominantly boarding schools, from
closing. The system of providing grants to the schools before the civil works were carried out may have
been a in line with of the Bank's rules for Special Accounts. Yet it is difficult to see how this component
could have functioned otherwise, since neither the schools nor the provinces nor the Department of
Education had funds of their own to undertake works. The difficulties in obtaining acquittals from some
schools might suggest that there may have been some seepage of funds under this component.
The maintenance team set up at the national level for this component and for Routine Maintenance
(financed by the European Union) functioned especially effectively, constantly visiting the provinces and
the schools to provide advice and check on the quality of the maintenance work.  In this they were
supported by provincial arrangements made by each province for maintenance work.
In general, implementation of this component was successful. The cost-sharing ratio for this component
was 65% from the Bank Loan and 35% from the Government. Inadequate budgeting and late release of
Government counterpart funds for the component meant that far less was accomplished under this
component than could have been. In 1994 and again in 200 1, no government counterpart funding at all was
provided.
(3)    Certificate of Business Studies. The implementation of this component, as originally envisaged, is
rated generally satisfactory. Course writers and editors were contracted to prepare Stages 2 and 3 of the
course. Stage 2 was completed; apparently a couple of courses in Stage 3 have not yet been completed
because the course writers left the country, taking their manuscripts with them. CODE is seeking new
writers to complete these courses.
- 10 -



The equipment for CODE headquarters in Port Moresby and the provincial CODE centers was procured
successfully, although intemet connectivity in about half of the centers has been lost because of delays in
paying telephone bills.
After the Bank's agreement that Loan funds could be used to develop course materials to offer Grades 11
and 12 by distance education under the general rubric of expanding access, course outlines to offer Grade
11 were developed in 1998, but the failure of the Government to budget funding for this activity meant that
it was not completed under the project.
As described elsewhere, all 20 provincial CODE centers benefited from the Development Maintenance
component and from the Library Grants component.
Improving: Quality
(4)    Textbook Supply and Development. Although quite a large number of books, both new books
developed under the Reform and resupply of existing books, reached the schools, the implementation of this
component must be judged unsatisfactory. Successful implementation would have required a plan showing
which books needing to be written or updated, with a schedule for their writing/updating, trialing,
tendering, publishing, and distribution. The plan would have shown, year by year and month by month,
which grades would receive which new or revised materials. The plan would, obviously, be linked to the
plan for the expansion of Papua New Guinea's education system and the introduction of the Education
Reform and would be modified at least annually to take into account the past year's progress and the next
year's plans. It might have been expected that such a plan would have been produced during project
preparation, but at that time, Papua New Guinea's education reform agenda was still being formulated.
Therefore, it was intended that the Curriculum Development Coordinator, under the general leadership of
the head of the Curriculum Development Division, would take the lead in producing this plan and guiding
its implementation. Two expatriate officers held the post of Curriculum Development Coordinator during
the life of the project, but neither played a particularly active role in developing a plan for the old books to
be resupplied and the new books to be written and produced. On the Government side, the successive
heads of the Curriculum Development Division did not display the pro-active leadership required for an
operation of the magnitude required by the Education Reform. Part of the problem was the turnover itself
in this post: each new head needed time to understand the project and his responsibilities under it.
The procurement of textbooks remained a problem for years. The Loan Agreement had required
international competitive bidding on the basis of documentation acceptable to the World Bank. About the
time project implementation got under way, the Bank produced a new, draft 'Standard Bidding Documents
for the Procurement of Textbooks." When the Department of Education submitted bidding documents it
had used with the Bank's blessing under previous projects, the Bank's procurement staff insisted that the
new documents be used against the objections of the Bank's division chief at the time. In 1995, the Bank
succeeded in getting the Curriculum Development Division's officer responsible for procurement of
textbooks and the Bank's procurement staff to agree on slightly modified documents which were acceptable
to both sides. On the Government side, although the Department of Education had the capacity to undertake
sensible tender evaluation, Government guidelines required the tender evaluation to be done by the Central
Supply and Tenders Board (CSTB), where documentation could be delayed for months, several times past
the bid validity date, and where, on several occasions, pressures were brought to bear to award the tender
to other than the lowest responsive bidder. Towards the end of the project, the tendering process was
working well, but by then it was too late.



Despite a general lack of qualified and experienced curriculum writers initially, the Curriculum
Development Division was able to identify large numbers of individuals in the private sector who
"moonlighted" as curriculum writers. Individual terms of reference and curricula vitae were reviewed by
the Bank on a case-by-case basis, and there was never a case where a less-than-qualified individual was
proposed. It can be considered a success of the project that it developed a cadre of locally based
curriculum writers as well as a successful mechanism for identifying and contracting them.
Another success of this component was the development of a mechanism to deliver the books from the
provincial education offices to the schools. The Bank initially insisted on international competitive bidding
for this task, but the Curriculum Development Division's procurement unit managed to convince Bank
procurement staff that their proposal would work better. The tenders for book production included delivery
of the books to the provincial capitals. Then, tendering advertised locally took place in each of the
provinces. School headmasters and headmistresses were required to sign invoices that the books had
arrived. The process worked well in most provinces. There were problems in some of the weaker
provinces; in one province, the first time the procedure was tried, all the signatures "from the headmasters
and headmistresses" came back in one person's handwriting. It also did not help that the Bank decided,
rather late in the process, that the transport costs could be reimbursed at only 85% instead of at 100%. In
general, however, the mechanism worked, and it can be counted as a substantial institution-building success
of the project.
The Department of Education repeatedly failed to request adequate budgets for this component, particularly
in the last year of the project. Imported textbooks were to be reimbursed at 100% from the Loan proceeds,
but the failure of the Department of Education to include two large tenders for textbooks in its budget
request for 2001 meant that these tenders could not take place.
The Department of Finance failed repeatedly to approve the amounts requested by the Departrnent of
Education. Of those funds approved in the budget, not all were released, and often releases occurred so late
in the year that it was impossible for the funds to be spent. Tenders could not be let without the certainty
that funds would be available.
The pilot program to address the issue of book retention and security at the provincial and school levels,
which was to have been implemented in the beginning years of the project and was to include training in
materials management, care, and storage, was never carried out. Books supplied under the project continue
to disappear and be damaged before they ever reach the students. Everyone agreed that something needed
to be done, but no agreement could be reached as to what should be done or who should do it. In fact,
different solutions are probably required in different places; a pilot program could have identified effective
means for book retention and security which would have had a long-term impact on the effective school
book supply in Papua New Guinea.
(5)     Inspection and Guidance. This component got off to a very slow start, but once started, the
Inspection and Guidance Division worked hard to try to catch up. The component had several
achievements, although it did not reach its targets for the creation of posts for inspectors and guidance
officers. Nevertheless, its implementation is rated satsfactoiy.
Of the 11 additional positions to be created for inspectors, only 8 were created, and of the 5 additional
positions to be created for guidance officers, only 3 were created. In spite of conditions in the Loan
Agreement that the posts be created in 1994 and 1995 and the officers appointed in 1995 and 1996, the
posts were not created until 1997, and the officers not appointed until 1998. Budgetary stringency and a
freeze on the creation of new posts (conditions associated with the Bank's structural -adjustment lending)
- 12 -



were the main reasons. Even if all the posts had been created, however, the ratio of inspectors to students
would have declined, given that increases in enrollments at all levels were much larger than predicted. The
project was thus unsuccessful in achieving a' higher ratio of inspectors and guidance officers to teachers.
The project (from the Government's counterpart funding) made a considerable contribution to the hiring of
vehicles for inspectors to allow them to visit schools, although the funding for inspectors' transportation is
still very under-funded, with the result that some remote schools rarely if ever are visited.
Of the 25 houses to be constructed for this component, only 17 were completed before the Closing Date.
Another is about to be completed, and two others should be completed in September 2002. A land dispute
has prevented the inspector's house in Mount Hagen, Western Highlands Province, from being occupied;
the Department of Education plans to dismantle the prefabricated house and rebuild it elsewhere. About
two thirds of the houses were built by force account through the Department of Works (DOW).  The
Department of Education negotiated a price for each house with DOW and then advanced part of the funds
to DOW so that work could be started. (This procedure of providing advances to DOW before the civil
works were carried out may have been a contravention of the Bank's rules for Special Accounts.) Once
DOW had the advance, it was in no hurry to do the work.  Delays were encountered at every stage of the
process: site identification, acquisition of land, site survey, housing design (the houses were all to be of a
predetermined standard, but DOW indicated that specific designs needed to be done at each site to adapt
the standard design to each terrain), construction, architectural documentation, final acquittal. Force
account had been agreed during appraisal because it was thought that local contractors would not be
interested in bidding for construction contracts in some of the more remote locations. As it turned out,
however, all of the houses have been built in towns (some of them admittedly small) which have local
contractors.  The appropriateness of using force account nevertheless appeared to be justified when, during
the first years of project implementation, the tendering process for the first houses was delayed for months
in both the Department of Works and the Central Supply and Tenders Board.  The lack of contracts with
specific deadlines, however, meant that it was very difficult to hold the Department of Works to a schedule.
It had been expected that the inspectors would bring their own furniture with them, but in practice this
assumption proved untenable, and furniture should probably have been provided under the project.
Security fencing would also have been desirable.
The training subcomponent was originally intended to consist of three-month attachments overseas, during
which 24 serving inspectors and guidance officers could study advisory, evaluation, and guidance practices.
It had been intended that the training would take place early in the project (a first calendar for the training
was developed in 1993 !), yet the subcomponent did not begin until 2000, well after the original Closing
Date. The subcomponent was considerably modified in order to correspond more closely to the needs of
the transition from the old to the new Reform system of education. Instead of three-month attachments
overseas, it developed into a program of both long and short courses held both in-country and overseas.
Given the late start, only a small part of the money available for training was used.  And given that the
(twice-extended) final Closing Date has now passed, the government will have to finance the end of some of
the courses from its own resources. This subcomponent nevertheless benefited 13 1 inspectors and guidance
officers, more than five times as many as originally foreseen.
Equipment both for the Inspection and Guidance Division's headquarters in Port Moresby and for the
provincial offices was procured and distributed in 200 1. This subcomponent was added during project
implementation; in retrospect, training in the use of the equipment should have been added at the same time.
(6)     Library Grants. The implementation' of this component is rated  highly satisfactory.; Over its life,
it benefited the school libraries of virtually all secondary-level schools, about two thirds of the
- 13 -



primary-level schools, and every distance-education center in the country. Many schools in very poor areas
use their best building (perhaps originally the headmaster's office, and often the only building that can be
locked) to store their new books. Books were provided free to vocational centers, none of which at project
inception had libraries, and to provincial CODE centers, where the books were made available not only to
distance-education students but also to adults from the community. Books were provided to
secondary-level schools at a one-to-one ratio (i.e., subsidized at 50%), to 'normal" primary-level schools at
a three-to-one ratio (i.e., subsidized at 75%) and to disadvantaged primary-level schools at a five-to-one
ratio (i.e., subsidized at an 83% ratio). In 2001, in view of the impending closure of the project, the
National Library prudently stocked its warehouse with library books to be distributed following the end of
the project. Given the still woefully inadequate state of many of Papua New Guinea's school libraries,
much more could have been done under this component if the funds had been made available.
Workshops to assist teachers and school principals with basic library management and organizational skills
were held at least once in all provinces. Staff of the National Library, the implementing agency, visited
many schools in all the provinces to help with library organization and to advertise the library grants
program.
Particularly in the last years of the project, the National Library staff increased their effort to make schools
and communities aware of the program and the benefits of reading.  (Most Parents' and Citizens'
Committees at the school level prefer to spend school funds on infrastructure instead of books.) Over
10,000 information leaflets on the program were distributed to all schools in the country. The library
grants program was also advertised in the press and on the radio.
Three full-time staff, required under the Loan Agreement, worked to select, process, and dispatch the
orders from the schools; when the project was running at full speed, three people were insufficient.  Of the
three new posts to be created for the National Library for this component, one was approved using one of
the National Library's existing but previously unfunded positions and two were created new.
Strengthening Institutional ManaRement
(7)     Regional Management and Planning Advisors. Although it got off to a slow start, the
implementation of this component is rated satisfactory to highly satisfactory. The key to its success was
the Special Planning Advisor. Once a competent and dynamic individual was in place, the component did
very well.
The Department of Education tried in 1993 and half of 1994 to recruit a Special Planning Advisor, without
success. Eventually, the Department approached the United Nations Development Program (UNDP) for
assistance. UNDP developed a project document with UNESCO as the implementing agency which would
have provided the Special Planning Advisor, the training of the three Regional Management and Planning
Advisors, other technical assistance, and the policy study on female participation (see below). The UNDP
plan was considerably more expensive than the funding available for this component and was renegotiated.
Eventually, UNDP agreed to delete everything from the contract except the Special Planning Advisor, and
the Bank approved the contract. However, in late 1995 a Bank supervision mission leamed that the Papua
New Guinea/UNDP/UNESCO contract earlier approved by the World Bank had undergone a 'mandatory
revision" in July-August 1995, during which UNESCO and UNDP added items to the project which were
not agreed to by the World Bank. The Bank's Disbursements Division initially refused to pay against the
withdrawal application for the first payment for the Special Advisor, and the discussion over what should
be paid when lasted several more months. In view of the high cost and limited results of this advisor, the
Department of Education decided to terminate the contract, and the expatriate advisor left Papua New
- 14 -



Guinea in March 1996. By then, with the establishment of the AusAID-supported Facilitation and
Monitoring Unit within the Department of Education, which included a National Education Reform
Coordinator for Planning (occupied by an expatriate specialist in education planning), the Loan-financed
post was no longer needed.
Three Regional Management and Planning Advisors (RMPAs) were recruited, the last ahead of schedule.
All three eventually attended a one-year planning course at the International Institute of Education Planning
(IIEP) in Paris. However, the perception was that the RMPAs did not learn much of immediate practical
value and that the IIEP training was less relevant than the on-the-job training they received in Papua New
Guinea. It may also have been better to send provincial education planners for short courses instead of
sending the RMPAs for year-long courses. In any case, the RMPAs have worked closely with the rest of
the education planning team and have played a valuable role' in assisting the provinces prepare their
education development plans and in training provincial and (particularly) district education staff. It was
recognized even during project preparation that the Department of Education would have a difficult time
retaining trained nationals of this caliber, and the Bank had proposed Loan conditionality which would
have required the trained RMPAs to remain in post for a period of years. The Government pointed out,
however, that this would constitute bonding, which is illegal under Papua New Guinean law.  At the
present time, all three of the RMPA posts (a fourth was created during the Project) are filled, albeit none
with the original RMPA who was sent overseas for training. The original RMPAs have all either been
promoted or have moved elsewhere.
The two RMPA houses were completed, but unfortunately neither is being used by the RMPAs for whom it
was built. One, in the Highlands, is subject to a land claim. The claim has prevented the house's being
occupied by the Highlands RMPA. The Department of Education now plans to dismantle the
(prefabricated) house and rebuild it elsewhere. The other house, intended for the Islands RMPA, is
occupied not by the RMPA but by a school inspector, who has been instructed to vacate the premises so
that the Islands RMPA can move in. During project implementation, the Bank had agreed that houses for
the other two RMPAs, one for the Momase (Northern) Region and one for the Papua (Southern) Region,
could be built under the project, but these houses were never built.  The continued lack of housing turned
out to be a considerable incentive for the RMPAs' decisions to accept other employment.
The RMPAs, in consultation with other education planning staff, prepared a number of training manuals
for provincial planners in order to help them prepare provincial education plans and to plan for the reform
of the education system in their provinces. The manuals have been used in the training of provincial and
district education planners. Manuals were prepared in the following areas: teacher deployment, school
planning, the current state of education in Papua New Guinea, data analysis, effective management,
budgeting, the role of the District Education Administrator, and education standards. Workshops were held
for provincial and district education staff over a period of four years. Each workshop lasted. for 10 days.
All provinces were covered, and it is intended that repeat workshops be held from now onwards.
With the help of the Department of Education's education planning team, which included the, RMPAs, all
provinces produced five-year Provincial Education Development Plans which set forth, in some detail, how
the province intends to expand the education system and introduce the Education Reform. The plans are of
varying quality, and not all have yet been approved by the appropriate provincial authorities. They are,
however, a major step forward for education in Papua New Guinea and will guide the future efforts of the
Government and donors alike in the education sector. The national education planning team has recently
begun working with those provinces which produced the first plans to update them.
Computers were procured for all the District: Education Offices, and training was conducted in all
-15-



provinces on their use. Computers have not yet been delivered to Southern Highlands Province because of
concerns regarding their use.
It is impossible to determine how much of the success of the education planning effort over the past decade
can be attributed to the project. Certainly a large part must be attributed to the AusAID-assisted
Institutional Strengthening Project, under which the Facilitating and Monitoring Unit (for the Education
Reform) was established. Nevertheless, it can be counted a success that the RMPAs and the education
planning staff financed under other arrangements worked so well and closely together.
(8)    Policy Studies. It was originally intended that these studies be carried out in the first year of the
project, i.e., in 1993, so that their results could guide the Government's and donors' education policy and
investment decisions. As Australia began playing an ever-greater role in the education sector in Papua
New Guinea, there was considerable discussion that Australia might finance these studies on a grant basis,
which the Bank was happy to approve.
The Teacher Education Study (called the Teacher Supply and Demand Study) was to have been carried out
by October 3 1, 1993, with an action plan produced by March 3 1, 1994, and follow-activities begun by
June 30, 1994. This study was the first to be carried out, in October-November 1993, with the final report
appearing in December 1993. The results were used in developing Papua New Guinea's National
Education Plan, which appeared in 1995 and was approved in 1996.
The Study on Female Participation was to have been carried out by August 3 1, 1993, with an action plan
produced by December 3 1, 1993, and follow-activities begun by March 3 1, 1994. Given the delays in
signing the Loan Agreement and its effectiveness, the Loan Agreement was amended, slipping each of these
dates by one year. The UNDP/UNESCO mission which visited Papua New Guinea in December 1993 to
develop a proposal for providing the services of a Special Education Planning Advisor and the training of
the RMPAs had also proposed that the Study on Female Participation be included in the same contract.
When that contract was curtailed, AusAID agreed to finance this study, but as a project preparation
document rather than a study. AusAID undertook field work during May 1995, and a number of
workshops were held afterwards to gather additional information and to make recommendations. AusAID
completed project design in 1995 and completed a report in late 1996. The project was to begin in
mid- 1997 but did not, apparently over some hesitation over which Government agency would be best
placed to implement it. AusAID planned to recommence work in this area in May 1998, to develop a plan
of action and possibly a project to improve female participation in education. By the end of 1998, the
project had been renamed a 'Community Equity in Education" project. Given that Australian efforts were
not bearing fruit, a Bank supervision mission recommended in March 1999 that the Department of
Education prepare, by June 30, 1999, an action plan on how to improve female participation in education,
based on the 1996 preparation document and other available information, and hold a workshop in which it
could be discussed and finalized. In late 1999, it was planned that the AusAID-financed Community
Equity in Education Project, to support strategies to improve female participation and performance in
education and training, would begin in late 1999 or early 2000. The project never did materialize. Instead,
a gender desk was established within the Department of Education, staffed by a woman responsible for
promoting gender equity, and a number of the project's intended components have been included in other
AusAID-assisted  projects.
The Study on Cost Effectiveness in Education was to have been carried out by September 30, 1993, with
an action plan produced by February 28, 1994, and follow-activities begun by May 3 1, 1994. Given the
delays in signing the Loan Agreement and its effectiveness, the Loan Agreement was amended, slipping
each of these dates by one year. In the early days of the project, there was much discussion of the
- 16 -



importance of this study. The need for making the education system more cost-effective, however, was
quickly overshadowed by concerns about the overall resource envelope which would be required to
implement the Education Reform, with its massive expansion in enrollments and quality improvement
goals. There was discussion of a joint effort among the Government, the Bank, the ADB, and AusAID,
and in early 1994 the Bank was proposing to lead the effort. Changes in staffing in the Bank in 1994 left
no one responsible for education in Papua New Guinea for some months, however, and when the study got
under way, the Bank was not a participant. A draft report was produced by the end of 1994. The final
report of the Education Sector Resources Study was completed in May 1995 and was received by the
World Bank in September 1995. The study evaluated the cost of implementing the Education Reform
under two scenarios, one if the Education Reform were implemented without cost-saving measures, the
other if the Reform were implemented with cost-saving measures. Already by 1997, however, there were
concerns that the Education Sector Resources Study had under-estimated the cost of implementing the
Education Reform, accompanied by concerns that more would have to be done to make the education
system more effective. In the face of the Department of Education's demands for an ever-expanding
budget, the Departments of Finance and Planning demanded that the Department of Education demonstrate
that it was using the funds it got effectively. By late 1997, it had been decided to undertake another study
focusing on cost effectiveness in education. This study was carried out between July and October 1998
under the leadership of the same consultant who had done the Education Sector Resources Study in
1994-95. The study was judged to be of good quality and contained a number of important
recommendations.  Subsequent supervision missions recommended that the Department of Education
develop an action plan from the study, and hold a workshop to discuss the action plan. This to date has not
yet been done, although a number of the recommendations of the study nevertheless have become policy,
including (i) an increase in the allowance for teachers serving in 'disadvantaged" (remote) schools and (ii)
the extension across all provinces of the allowance for teachers serving in multi-grade situations.
In spite of the fact that reports were produced in all three areas, the tardiness in carrying out the studies and
the lack of follow-up on the last two studies means that the implementation of this component must be
judged   unsatisfactory. The outcome might have been different if the main actors responsible for this
component had not also been responsible for planning and monitoring the outcome of the Education
Reform, a vastly larger exercise.
The Bank agreed, midway through the life of the project, that a fourth study entitled 'Mapping and
Assessing the Practices and Structures of Literacy and Awareness Programs in Papua New Guinea" could
be carried out with Loan funding, but this initiative was never followed up. This study was apparently
later carried out with funding from elsewhere.
(9)     Proiect Implementation Unit. The success of this component was key to the success of all the other
components and to the success of the project; as a whole. For most of its existence, the performance of the
Project Implementation Unit was not effective due to (a) high staff tunover; (b) lack of clarity,over
relationships with the Department; and (c) difficulties in recruting and retaining qualified accountants. And
the unit certainly never developed into a unit capable of coordinating all donor-assisted project in education
in Papua New Guinea.
Project implementation was supposed to be overseen by a Project Coordinating Committee, chaired by the
Secretary of Education and including representatives from all the project component agencies, Finance,
Planning, and Works. The Committee met quarterly (for the most part) to discuss project implementation
and produced reports and minutes. In retrospect, it served a more useful function as a forum to share
information than as a body to deal decisively with the problems facing project implementation.
-17 -



Four Project Coordinators were engaged in the life time of the project. The Project Coordinator was
responsible for ensuring that proper records and accounts were being kept and that the flow of
communications among the various stakeholders (components, education authorities, other Government
agencies, World Bank) was constant. The first Project Coordinator adequately maintained the accounts but
left at the end of 1996. From 1997 to 1999, the Project Coordinator did not function effectively,
record-keeping ceased, funds disappeared, and the flow of communications came to a standstill, with the
result that the Bank insisted on appointing a new Project Coordinator as a condition of extending the
closing date. The task of the subsequent Coordinator (1999 to 200 1) focused on getting the project back on
track. The third Coordinator left in April 2001 when his contract expired and was not renewed. The final
Project Coordinator had a limited budget and was mainly a caretaker, winding up the various activities and
closing down the project. The lack of continuity in Project Coordinators meant that each new Coordinator
had to learn what the project was all about and how to deal with its myriad details and problems'
The procurement function was not adequately filled until the closing years of the project, by which time
most of the major procurement should already have taken place. All of the components required tendering
of some sort, and the inability of the Project Implementation Unit to assist caused one problem after
another. In mid-1999, the Bank suspended disbursements, indicating that the then 'Procurement Manager"
had very limited background and experience with procurement, that the procurement of textbooks had been
left to an official within the Curriculum Development Division who had not acted as necessary to push the
process forward or even to reply to the queries of potential suppliers, that in fact, no qualified, diligent
person had been managing the procurement process for the project for more than two years, that months
had gone by between the opening of bids for textbooks and the evaluation of the bids, and then further
months between bid evaluation and bid award, and that several tenders for textbooks had been outstanding
for over a year. Misprocurement was declared for one tender, and the corresponding amount of the Loan
was cancelled. As a condition for lifting the suspension, the Bank insisted that a qualified procurement
specialist from the private sector be appointed. A private firm won the contract but proved to be incapable
of managing procurement. Finally, towards the end of the project, a qualified individual was appointed, but
by that time there was little need for his services.
The accounting function was also not adequately filled during most of the life of the project. At project
inception, and before the appointment of a Project Accountant, the Project Coordinator kept the project
accounts. But following his departure, no qualified, competent accountant occupied the post. By
mid-1999, the Bank suspended disbursements because of inadequate accounting (as well as procurement),
indicating that the project accounts for both the Loan funds and the government counterpart funds had not
been kept for several months, that withdrawal applications had not been prepared and submitted regularly
to the World Bank (withdrawal applications were submitted only twice in 1997 and only three times in
1998), with the consequence that the World Bank had been unable to disburse more loan funds because no
withdrawal applications and no reconciliations of accounts had been received, and that over 100
outstanding bills had not been paid. As a condition for lifting the suspension, the Bank insisted that
qualified expertise in accounting from the private sector be employed to ensure that the accounting function
were adequately carried out. The firm of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu was eventually engaged, but their
contract was terminated on December 3 1, 200 1, the Closing Date, after which Loan funds could no longer
be used. At present (May 2002), it appears that the accounts are once again in disarray, that bills for
distribution of textbooks have not been paid, that invoices for this distribution are missing, that the Special
Account and the government counterpart funds accounts have been drawn down for expenditures not
related to the project, that the accounts have not been reconciled, that eligible items may not be reimbursed
because no withdrawal applications were submitted within the grace period, and that the Government will
be required to pay back to the World Bank about US$ 2.0 million of unreconciled advances made to the
Special Account.
- 18 -



Papua New Guinea was required to furnish to the Bank, by September 30 of each year, an audit report on
the financial transactions of the project during the Government's preceding fiscal year (January 1 -December
3 1). There were thus nine months for the Project Accountant to finalize the accounts and submit them to
the Auditor General's Office, for the Auditor General's Office to audit the accounts and prepare its report,
and for the Department of Finance to review the report and forward it on to the Bank.  There were
problems, however, at all stages of this process. With inadequate accounting expertise, it was often
difficult for the PIU to finalize the accounts' for the preceding year. The Auditor General's Office was
chronically understaffed and several years had to subcontract the work out to private auditors. (In
retrospect, it was probably a mistake for the Bank to agree at negotiations that the Auditor General's
Office could serve as the 'independent auditors" required under the Bank's General Conditions. Papua
New Guinea regulations require the Auditor General's Office to audit all government accounts, but the
Bank perhaps should have insisted on an audit by private accountants as well.) A few times the report
lingered in the Department of Finance before being forwarded to the Bank. Twice, in mid-December, and
with the Closing Date imminent, the Bank had to threaten that it would not extend the Closing Date unless
the audit report were received first. The audit reports, when, they came, only once identified any problems
with the accounts, which led the Bank to wonder whether a proper audit had in fact been carried out.
The function of Maintenance Manager was the best implemented of the four required PIU posts, probably
because the incumbent worked in the context of the infrastructure set up for the European Union's routine
maintenance project, and together with other staff financed by the European Union, including a former
Project Coordinator of Bank-assisted projects who had become the European Union's Coordinator for
Routine Maintenance. There was thus always someone to ensure that maintenance tasks were done in a
timely fashion.
Volcano Reconstruction
This implementation of this component is rated highly satisfactorily in an Implementation Completion
Report (Report No. 1953 1 dated June 29, 1999) on the Gazelle Restoration Project, prepared for this
activity. In contrast to the rest of the Education Development Project, this activity benefited from a
pro-active Project Coordinator, competent accounting and procurement staff, and adequate counterpart
funding.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project had a positive and substantial institutional development impact in several areas. The
provincial maintenance committees set up under the Development Maintenance component to review
schools' proposals and monitor implementation functioned very effectively and can continue to do so, if
funds are made available to continue secondary-level maintenance. The standard bidding documents
developed by the Curriculum Development Division and approved by the Bank are a solid achievement and
could be used successfully for further procurement of textbooks, again if funds are available. The
development of a cadre of locally based curriculum writers has been noted.  The process for textbook
19-



procurement itself, although it suffered from many problems throughout most of the project, was
functioning well by the end of the project and could be used to procure more large volumes of textbooks, if
funds are available. Similarly, the procedures for 'door to door" distribution of textbooks from the
provincial capitals to the individual schools worked well in most provinces and will probably continue to be
used for further textbook deliveries. The training program for school inspectors and guidance officers
which finally got under way towards the end of the project should have a positive impact on these important
functions for assuring quality in education. Procedures developed for providing school library books at
subsidized rates worked well, both the system developed for procuring and distributing the books and the
widespread dissemination to parents and communities of the value of using some of their schools' scarce
resources for books. The workshops held by the staff of the National Library in all provinces, to assist
teachers and school principals with basic library management and organizational skills, should have a
positive impact on the proper functioning of school libraries throughout the country and (through better
care and handling of books) on the availability and useful life of books in school libraries. The
establishment of a middle level of education planning expertise-the Regional Management and Planning
Advisors-between the national level (where capacity is strong) and the provincial and district levels
(where capacity is weak) should strengthen education planning throughout the country, as will the training
manuals written by these Planning Advisors and the equipment provided for district education planners.
The provincial Education Development Plans will guide the expansion and improvement of the education
sector in Papua New Guinea for years to come. And although no specific action plan has been developed
from the Study on Cost Effectiveness in Education, a number of the study's finding have in fact influenced
key education finance policies.
Unfortunately there were several areas where the project was expected to have an important institutional
development impact but did not. Chief among these was in the Curriculum Development Division, where it
had been envisioned that well before the end of the project, there would be a long-term plan for the
development of new textbooks and the resupply of existing textbooks, such that everyone
involved-curriculum writers, editors, procurement and distribution staff-would know what he or she was
to be doing in the effort to provide textbooks of good quality and in sufficient number to all of the country's
schoolchildren. The failure to carry out the pilot program on book retention and security means that many
of the books supplied under the project, both textbooks and school library books, may disappear. The
failure to create the full number of posts for new school inspectors and guidance officers, combined with
the rapid increase in enrollments, meant that the ratio of teachers to inspectors continues to get worse. The
failure to develop and implement an action plan for female participation in education has meant that gender
disparities in enrollments are little improved from a decade ago. And the failure of the Department of
Education to ensure the staffing of the Project Implementation Unit meant not only that it did not develop
into an agency capable of implementing any donor-financed project in the sector but in fact through much
of the project could not ensure even the basic functions of coordination, accounting, and procurement.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5. I Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The volcanic eruption at Rabaul in East New Britain Province in September 1994 covered the
whole city with volcanic ash, destroying education facilities along with everything else. Until
then, there had been an on-going discussion over whether to cancel the Loan funds not used for
civil works for upper-secondary education facilities, or whether to use them for other purposes.
With the decision to use undisbursed funds from four loans to replace the destroyed facilities, the
discussion came to an abrupt end.
20-



Economic downturns and shocks in the,international economy (e.g., El Nifio, the East Asian
financial crisis beginning in 1997, the civil war in Bougainville, downturns in commodity prices)
were outside the government's control but resulted in decreases in government revenues, which in
turn increased competition for scarce government resources.
The devaluation of the Kina may have resulted from inappropriate Government macroeconomic
policies over a period of years, but when it came, there was little the Government could do to
control the devaluation. Domestic inflation did not exactly offset the devaluation, and since the
Loan was denominated in dollars, there were suddenly far more Kina equivalents available than
before. Component heads continued to feel themselves bound by the Kina ceilings set at the
beginning of the project. This may have explained, in part, the underbudgeting which resulted in
such a large amount of Loan proceeds remaining unused, even after two extensions of the Closing
Date.
Expatriate staff that had contracts denominated in Kina, were suddenly and adversely affected by
the devaluation. Their departure from Papua New Guinea, seeking better incomes payable in
stronger currencies, meant loss of expertise and continuity for the project. New staff had to learn
all about the project before they could be effective.
Australia's decision in late 1992-early 1993 to transform its financial assistance for Papua New
Guinea from straight budgetary support to financing of projects had not been foreseen during
project preparation and appraisal. The decision meant that suddenly grant funding was available
for some of the activities which had been foreseen under the project. The proliferation of new
projects over the ensuing years placed additional pressures on the Department of Education's
absorptive capacity.
Social pressures, particularly parents' desire to see their children progressing beyond Grade 6 and
Grade 10, were a major factor behind the Education Reform. Parents' and commuriities'
enthusiasm for the Reform once it got started, however, had not been foreseen, nor had the very
rapid rise in enrollments in the 1990s. This rapid increase put stresses on the whole education
system, including implementation capacity within the Department of Education. This may have
had an impact on the Department's ability and desire to deal with the problems of the project.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The government's financial crisis of the mid- 1990s resulted from a combination of problems that
included macroeconomic management, public sector management, governance issues as well as
external shocks.
The key issue affecting implementation of the project was the government's failure to make
counterpart funds available. The low budgetary allocations meant that the project implementors
were working at less than capacity: since they could not spend funds that were not in the budget,
they could not move ahead with project implementation.
Even the budgeted funds were not released regularly and promptly, further slowing the
implementing agents: without the funds to pay the bills, they could not move ahead. Several
- 21 -



years the budgeted funds were released so late in the year that they could not be spent by the end
of the year.
The government had agreed at negotiations to create 11 posts of inspections and 5 of guidance
officers. The freeze on the creation of new posts, a part of Papua New Guinea's structural
adjustment program supported by the World Bank, led the Department of Personnel Management
not to create these posts.
The Government's Central Supply and Tenders Board was originally established to provide fair
and transparent tendering services and to avoid some of the more questionable tendering practices
then taking place in the various line Departments. The Department of Education had a relatively
good ability to evaluate tenders for textbooks. The necessity of having to go through the CSTB
had no value added and simply caused a delay in processing tenders.  In the earlier years of the
project, the CSTB also made several questionable decisions as to contract award which verged on
misprocurement
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
It was within the Department of Education's power to request an adequate budget allocation for
the project, which for the most part did not happen. For most of the years of the project,
however, there was little coordination between the Project Implementation Unit and the
Department's budget preparation unit. This lack of coordination meant that when project
implementation was accelerating and higher budget allocations would have been justified, the
budget preparation unit continued to request marginally incremental amounts for each component,
rather than following the realistic needs for the project. This failing was unfortunate in the last
year of the project, when, as noted above, two large tenders for textbooks could have been
completed if they had been included in the Department of Education's budget request.
The Department of Education was required to appoint a project coordinator, an accountant, a
procurement specialist, and a maintenance specialist of appropriate ability and experience and on
terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.  Not all staff were appointed on a timely basis and
some staff did not perform well.
The regular preparation of implementation progress reports by the Project Coordinator ceased in
1997-98 and then again after May 2001.
5.4 Costs andfinancing.
At the end of the project, the project accounts are incomplete.  Some of the earlier project
accounting records are patchy or non-existent, and therefore some of the early project
expenditures cannot be identified by project component. Some components did not keep track of
all project-related costs, and some of the accounts have disappeared. Records of project
expenditures on items which were not financed by the World Bank are particularly sketchy. In
addition, project accounts were kept in Kina terms; no running tally was kept of expenditures in
dollars. The task of converting the Kina totals into dollars is made difficult by the fact that the
value of the Kina varied considerably over the life of the project, from US$ 1.25 per Kina in
* 22 -



mid-1995 to US$ 0.3 1 per Kina in 2001.
The figures below represent the best estimates of the completion mission, based on available
information. Incremental operating costs engendered by the project (e.g., the operating costs at
the new National High School and the two "top up" secondary schools; salaries of the new staff
appointed under the project in the inspectorate, the National Library, and the education planning
unit) were substantially higher than expected at appraisal, since the project lasted nine years
instead of four. The figures below include the amounts financed by other donors (e.g., Australia,
Japan) and by the government.
Total Proiect Cost. The total cost of the project is estimated to have been US$ 48.7 million as
compared with the appraisal estimate of US$ 5 1.3 million.
Increasing: access:
Upper secondary expansion:     US$ 22.4 million, compared to US$ 13.3 million
Development maintenance:       US$ 6.2 million, compared to US$ 9.5 million
Certificate of Business Studies:  US$ 0.2 million, compared to US$ 0.4 milion
hIproving; quality-
Textbook supply & development:  US$  6.1 million, compared to US$ 19.7 million
Inspection and Guidance:       US$ 2.3 million, compared to US$ 3.3 million
Library grants:                US$ 4.2 million, compared to US$ 2.9 million
Strengthening institutional management:
Regional advisors:             US$ 1.7 million, compared to US$ 0.7 million
Policy studies:                US$ 0.2 million, compared to US$ 0.4 million
Project management & evaluation:  US$ 0.8 million, compared to US$ 1.1 million
Volcano reconstruction:        US$ 4.6 million, compared to US$ 0.0 million
Total:                         US$ 48.7 million, compared to US$ 5 1.3 million
Use of the World Bank Loan of US$ 35.0 million.
The amounts of the Loan estimated to have been used for the various components are as follows:
Increasing; access:
Upper secondary expansion:     US$ 0.0 million, compared to US$ 6.4 million
Development maintenance:       US$ 5.3 million, compared to US$ 6.2 million
Certificate of Business Studies:  US$ 0.2 million, compared to US$ 0.4 million
Improving: q2uait!.
Textbook supply & development:  US$  5.7 million, compared to US$ 17.4 million
Inspection and guidance:       US$ 0.7 million, compared to US$  1.3 million
Library grants:                US$ 3.5 million, compared to US$ 2.5 million
*23 -



Strengthening institutional management:
Regional advisors:               US$ 0.9 million, compared to US$ 0.4 million
Policy studies: *                US$ 0.0 million, compared to US$ 0.4 million
Project management & evaluation:  US$ 0.5 million, compared to US$ 0.0 million
Volcano reconstruction:           US$ 4.2 million, compared to US$ 0.0 million
Special Account (to be refunded):  US$ 1.0 million
Total:                            US$ 22.0 million, compared to US$ 35.0 million
*Only $45,275 of the Loan was spent on policy studies.
There was one cancellation of US$ 34,500, for misprocurement. As of the end of May 2002,
US$ 22.0 million had been disbursed. Since the Govemment has not sent in a final reconciliation
of accounts and a withdrawal application, the total remaining undisbursed (US$ 13 .0 million) will
be canceled.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability of most of the project activities is rated highly unlikely, for lack of adequate
budgetary resources to continue the project activities.
The three institutions of upper-secondary education are one exception. They are well established,
with permanent positions for teachers and other staff. The likelihood that they will continue to
function is highly likely.
Since provincial development maintenance teams exist in all the provinces, development
maintenance could continue to function effectively if funds had been budgeted. Both the World
Bank funding for Development Maintenance and the European Union for Routine Maintenance
have come to an end. There is some evidence that the national government will continue to
support this program, but at a reduced level (there were no funds allocated for maintenance in the
2002 Budget). The continuance of this program at the same level as during the project is unlikely
CODE will continue to offer the Certificate of Business Studies courses but apparently does not have
funding this year to complete the few courses left undone in Stage 3. The continuation of this activity is
likely.
It is unlikely that textbooks will be procured in large numbers unless some donor agrees to do so.
If that happens, the existence of standard bidding documents and the established procedures for
"door to door" delivery should speed the process.
The posts created for school inspectors and guidance officers are now part of the government's
-24-



establishment and will continue to be funded. The money to complete the three mainly
uncompleted houses has been advanced-to the Department of Works, and all three remaining
houses should be finished by September 2002.  The Department of Education has indicated that it
will continue to fund the training programs for inspectors and guidance officers which have not
yet finished. The sustainability of these activities is likely. It is not clear, however, that funds will
be allocated regularly for the maintenance of inspectors' houses.
The two library posts created are now part of the government's establishment and will continue to
be funded. Materials for training of library staff are available and will continue to be used for
training teachers in workshops. The subsidized program to the schools will continue through this
year, with the National Library financing the distribution of books from its own recurrent budget,
at which time the books in the National Library's storehouse will have been depleted. This
program is unlikely to continue at the same level unless a donor agrees to continue to fund it, such
that the sustainability of this component is unlikely.
The three posts created for Regional Management and Planning Advisors are now part of the
government's establishment and will continue to be funded. The expatriate Planning Advisor
financed successively by Australia, the World Bank, and then Australia again will probably
eventually disappear, to be replaced by a national. This component is also an exception among
the components: the education planning effort is highly likely to be sustained.
Further policy studies are unlikely to be done unless financed by an outside source.
The Project Implementation Unit continues to be staffed by a project coordinator, a maintenance
manager, and an accountant. These three staff are civil servants in the Department of Education
and will probably be deployed elsewhere, once the project is fully shut down. The sustainability
of the PIU is therefore unlikely.
As demonstrated elsewhere, urgent project-supported efforts such as the provision of textbooks,
maternal and child health care, and combatting AIDS and other infectious diseases may well be
unsustainable without external funding over the medium term (in some cases, 20 to' 30 years).
The lesson to be leamed is not that such projects should not be undertaken at all but rather that
donors should be willing to finance follow-up efforts as needed until the neediest countries
develop both the human and financial resources necessary to sustain such efforts on their own.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations.
Posts created under the project are now a permanent part of the government's establishment and
were included in the 2002 Budget. Funding for other activities was not included in the 2002
budget.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. 1 Lending.
Because of its long experience working with Papua New Guinea in education and its perceived
- 25-



advantage of being able to mobilize wide intemational experience, the Bank was asked in 1989 to
take the lead role among donors in the education sector in Papua New Guinea. Archival evidence
from the late 1980s and early 1990s shows that the Bank tried to fulfill that role. Bank
preparation benefited from years of constant interaction by Bank staff with the education sector in
Papua New Guinea in the 1 980s, as the second and third Bank-assisted education projects were
being implemented. Arrangements which had worked successfully in these projects were adopted
for the new project. The Bank team also drew on the information assembled during the
implementation of the Education Sector Review, which was completed about the time the project
was appraised. The documentation in the archives exhibits careful analysis and consideration of
alternatives during the preparation process. The issues which later impeded project
inplementation were identified during this period, and the project design and conditionality
reflected the team's attempts to deal with each risk: detailed terms of reference were prepared for
each of the technical assistants (expatriate and national) required for project implementation, and
Loan negotiations did not proceed until the Project Coordinator and the Maintenance Manager
had been appointed. In terms of staff continuity, one staff (education economist) and one
consultant (education specialist) worked together from Pre-Identification through Appraisal; a
second staff (architect/implementation specialist) joined the team for pre-appraisal and continued
through negotiations. The team foresaw the likely risks and built compensating measures into the
project design. Bank performance during lending is therefore rated satisfactory (although
marginally so).
7.2 Supervision:
Overall the quality of project supervision was inadequate, due primarily to limited staffing of the
supervision missions during the critical early years of the project and gaps in technical expertise in
subsequent years:
(a)    The first supervision was initiated about halfway into the first year of the project, a critical
period to prepare the project team to implement the project;
(b)   Key Bank personnel changes were introduced in the Bank supervision team during the
initial years of the project. Notably the task team leader was replaced during the first year,
leading to a gap in supervision of about 10 months. This was unfortunate as it happened at a time
when project management was also being changed and new management policies were introduced
in the project - a critical time in the project implementation cycle;
(c)    Beginning in 1995, supervision was conducted on a regular, twice per year, basis,
although the task tearn leader was concerned that the project needed to be supervised at least
three times a year. Inadequate resources were blamed for the inadequacies;
(d)    In 2000, there were no supervision rnissions conducted. The task team leader attempted
to maintain communication and guidance through email contacts. During this year five different
procurement specialists were involved in the project, giving conflicting advice to the Borrower.
Again, resources constraints were the stated reason;
(e)   In 200 1, the task team leader was again changed again, and two missions were conducted.
It was noted that the first mission of that year was led by a Bank staff member with no previous
. 26.



experience with the project, and that the recommendations of this mission were not followed up.
The second mission was considered a light mission to prepare for the Implementation Completion
Report;
(f)   There is also evidence that the supervision missions were limited in tine. Typically the
supervision missions would visit for about one week, during which field trips and other
supervision activities would be required. In PNG field trips are often difficult and
time-consuming. With the complexity and difficulties associated with this project, it is clear that,
in many of these missions, more time was needed to effectively supervise the project, and
(g)   The project supervision team would have benefited from the following types of expertise
which were only available in a limited way: (i) an educator as task team leader; (ii) procurement;
(iii) financial management; (iv) textbooks development; (v) education planning; (vi) women in
development; and (vil) education finance.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Given the above, the Bank's supervision of this project was judged to be unsatisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The preparation of this project coincided with the working groups preparing the Education Sector
Review, and much of the work could serve for both purposes. National education staff benefited
from expatriate technical assistance provided by the World Bank (under the previous
Bank-assisted project) and by UNESCO (for the Education Sector Review). The period was one
of intense excitement in the education sector and, for that matter, in the country at large, as the
nation contemplated making a major change in its education system. Borrower performance
during preparation is rated satisfactory to highly satisfactory.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Unfortunately, the momentum built up during project preparation did not last. Delays began
almost immediately. Although appraisal had taken place in February 1992, negotiations were
delayed until September 1992, as the Government had trouble in meeting conditions of
negotiations related to the creation of the posts of project coordinator, accountant, procurement
specialist, and maintenance manager and the filling of the posts of project coordinator and
maintenance manager. There was then a delay of about two months in getting the Borrower's
final agreement to the negotiated documents. Following Board approval in early December 1992,
almost seven months elapsed before signing. There were no special conditions of signing, but the
Borrower was unable to produce a one-page document authorizing any Papua New Guinean
official in or near Washington to sign. There were no special conditions of Loan effectiveness. It
required five months for Papua New Guinea to prepare the legal opinion, and when it finally
arrived, it mentioned the Asian Development Bank instead of IBRD and was dated January 1993
instead of January 1994. Meanwhile, dated covenants in the Loan Agreement which were to take
place in 1993 had become additional conditions of effectiveness. The Bank finally agreed to
amend the Loan Agreement so that the due dates would fall a year later, in 1994. Only four years
-27.



had been planned for project implementation, and the first year went by before the Loan even
became effective.
Throughout the project's life, the Borrower (Department of Finance) failed to approve adequate
allocations in the annual budgets for both the World Bank Loan funds and the government
counterpart contributions. Although the World Bank's Loan funds could have been used any time
after effectiveness, the Departrnent of Finance chose to ration them over time, meaning that
project activities again and again came to a halt for lack of funding, even those which did not
require government counterpart contributions. Often the budget allocations approved were not
released, and often the releases came so late in the year that the implementing agency could not
spend them.
Finally, the Borrower (Department of Finance/Department of Planning) did little to intervene or
resolve the implementing agency's problems when these were brought to their attention by Bank
supervision missions and managers.
In sum, the Borrower's performance is rated  unsatisfactory.
7.6 Implemen ting Agency:
As has been noted above, the majority of the project components were implemented well, and
much more could have been accomplished if project coordination had been better and (especially)
if adequate funding had been provided. These components included upper secondary expansion,
development maintenance, CODE, inspection and guidance, regional planning, and library grants.
The performance of the implementing agencies for these components is rated satisfactory to
highly satisfactory.
It is very unfortunate that the project's largest component, the textbooks component, accounting
for about half of the Loan, was not adequately implemented. Primary responsibility must be
assigned to the head of the Curriculum Development Division-and the inability or unwillingness
of the Department of Education's managers to appoint a dynamic, competent person to that post.
The lack of leadership within the Division meant that no effective plan for the component's
implementation was developed, such that most of the Loan funds were used for resupply of
existing textbooks instead of the development and production of new texts in support of the
Education Reform. Even within this component, however, there were aspects which were well
implemented, including (after the procurement arrangements were finally agreed) the effective
procurement of a large number of books and the development and management of effective
procedures for book distribution to the schools. Because it failed to do what it should have done,
however, the overall performance of the Curriculum Development Division is rated unsatisfactory
Policy studies were a very small component and may not have been completed as intended, with
action plans and follow-up, because it was not clear whether primary responsibility for arranging
for their implementation rested with the Project Coordinator or with the Planning Advisor. For
the most part, they were neglected because the major components of the project required so much
attention. Performance in carrying out the studies is rated satisfactory; in preparing and
- 28 -



implementing action plans, unsatisfactory.
The Department of Education did not ensure that the basic functions of project coordination,
accounting, and procurement were carried out adequately. The rating of the Department of
Education in regard to general project implementation is therefore rated unsatisfactory.
7.7 Oliera 11 Borrower performance:
On the one hand, an unsatisfactory rating would imply that there were no successes, when in fact
many Papua New Guineans, including most of the component heads, tried very hard to make this
project work, some with notable successes. On the other hand, a satisfactory rating would imply
that there were only limited problems, when in fact there were serious and endemic problems with
funding, textbook development, and project coordination. Unfortunately, since the key duties of
ensuring adequate funding, coordination, accounting, and procurement were rarely carried out
over the life of the project, the Borrower's overall performance is rated unsatisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
Borrower commitment is essential for successful project implementation. It is recognized that
Papua New Guinea experienced severe budgetary difficulties during the life of this project.
Nevertheless, projects in high-priority sectors like education should be fully funded, and the funds
released promptly, particularly when the Borrower has repeatedly indicated that donor-assisted
projects are to receive highest priority for counterpart funding. In the future, if Papua New
Guinea is unable or unwilling to provide' funds as agreed, then the Bank should consider
terminating its involvement in the project.
Virtually all Papua New Guineans who have reached the upper levels of the education system and
who have acquired employment in the civil service or the private sector have done so only with
the support and sacrifices over the years of their extended families, who have contributed to
school fees, transportation to and from boarding schools, and subsistence, inter alia. These same
successful individuals find themselves indebted to their extended families and are subject to
irresistible pressures to use their positions to benefit their clans. They become "big men" in Papua
New Guinean terminology, those to whom all resources flow but those who in consequence are
responsible for ensuring the well-being of the entire clan. Western notions of loyalty to the public
good or the nation are viewed with bemusement by those whose primary loyalty is to the welfare
of the clan. Thus what would be viewed as corruption or nepotism in some Western societies is
viewed as just and moral in traditional Papua New Guinean society, with some justification: the
mutual support offered one another within the extended family and clan has allowed the society to
survive for several millenia.
The lesson learned is that the World Bank should proceed to assist another project in the
education sector in Papua New Guinea only if firm arrangements have been made for the core
functions of project coordination, accounting, and procurement to be provided by staff who have
clear terms of reference and who can easily and quickly be replaced if they do not perform
adequately. Whenever these arrangements for independent and accountable project management
are disturbed, the Bank should not hesitate to exercise its remedies to ensure that those core
29 -



functions can be adequately carmed out by dynamic, competent, and experienced staff. Given the
continuing shortage of skilled nationals, the Bank should also consider including funding for
training of project staff in areas such as accounting and procurement as part of the project but
should be unwilling to approve appointees if they lack the necessary qualifications and experience.
The Borrower should consider expatriate technical assistance for providing training to enhance
the management skills of national incumbents of the above key project positions.
The Bank might consider undertaking another education project with Papua New Guinea only if it
is willing to devote adequate resources to project supervision. "Adequate resources" means that
a team of at least three people should work at least part-time on project supervision and visit the
country regularly as a team. Care should be taken to ensure team continuity to the greatest extent
possible.
In retrospect, the project was unnecessarily complex.  Staff coming new to the project on both the
Borrower's side and the Bank's side needed some time to grasp fully the various aspects of the
project, its objectives, its components, and its problems. In hindsight, given Papua New Guinea's
enormous needs in the education sector and desire to undertake a major reform of its education
system, and given that other donors' funds in the early 1990s were fully committed to other
programs, it is understandable that the Bank attempted so much in one project. Also, given the
cost and time of putting together a project and the unlikelihood that another project would
materialize within the next five years, it is understandable that the Bank chose to put several
components into one project rather than trying to do a series of smaller projects. Given that other
donors are more active now in education in Papua New Guinea than was previously the case, any
new Bank project should focus only one or a few components. More systematic donor
coordination will also be required.
Local competitive bidding should be considered for construction in urban areas, even if they are
only small towns. The procedure of advancing money to the Department of Works and expecting
them to act expeditiously did not work. The use of local private contractors would allow
contracts to contain rewards and penalties to encourage speedy completion of construction.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
From the Department of Education:
Introduction. The Department of Education accepts the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) to be a
considered document that has taken account of many of the comments forwarded by the various component
heads. The Department broadly agrees with the analysis and recommendations as set out in the ICR and
seeks to learn from any mistakes that have been made. Equally, it is to be expected that the Bank itself will
take account of some of their failings that may have contributed to the overall rating of the project. The
Department is encouraged by the Bank's openness in revealing such inadequacies. Inevitably, any ICR will
tend to focus on the failings, but there have also been significant gains made, even in those components that
have been found to have performed unsatisfactorily. These are also outlined in the individual sections of
the report.
*30.



Management. The major problem has been that of management. On reflection, the project was perhaps
more complex than was absolutely necessary, with the components ranging greatly in terms of both
financing and scope. This complexity made it difficult for the Department of Education to identify a
project management team with sufficient all-round competency. The supervision missions tended to give
equal time and effort to each particular component rather than concentrating on those areas that were
critical to the overall success of the project.
If any future projects are to be formulated, the Department of Education, in consultation with the Bank,
should consider different modes of managing the project, with decision-makers being isolated from normal
Government procedures and with the power to hire and fire. Any future projects should also take into
account, during appraisal, the problems that have been encountered with regard to securing funds from
Treasury. In an ideal situation, the funds required for the project should be quarantined unless there is
good reason to do otherwise.
If present practices are to be continued, the Department of Education would require assurances (a) from the
Bank, that adequate training and support be given to both the Project Management team and individual
component heads, funded if necessary from the Loan, and (b). from Treasury, that required funds would be
made available on time. This should help the, problem regarding tardiness in paying some accbunts and the
updating of statements of accounts that have adversely affected some components.
Individual components. The lack of clearly identified benchmarks and indicators at the start of the project
made it difficult for the Department of Education to assess whether implementation was successful or not.
Nevertheless, it is clear that the key failing was that of the textbook component of the project. :The lack of
an adequate action plan for textbook procurement early in the project was critical to this and the lack
thereof should have been acted upon much earlier by both Bank and Departmental project management.
The component was also affected by the approval process that was frequently the subject of considerable
delay. The staff turnover within the Curriculum Development Division and the difficulty of developing
curricula during a period of transition from the old system to the new has also contributed to the poor
performance of the component. Having said this, a large number of books have been delivered to schools
utilizing an innovative distribution system. It is hoped that positive initiatives such as these can be built on
in the future.
Bank Performance and Supervision. Bank support has been generally good although more specific help
could, and maybe should, have been forthcoming on a more regular basis in areas where the project was
clearly failing. In particular, the Bank should -have intervened more purposefully on a number, of
occasions. Two in particular come to mind: firstly, when it became clear that Government was not
complying with the Loan Agreement in the case of the employment of a qualified Procurement Officer, and
secondly, when the second of the Project Coordinators was clearly struggling in carrying out his duties.
The large range of activities alluded to earlier also affected Bank supervision. There did not seem to be the
flexibility available to be able to add, for example, a Procurement Specialist to a supervision mission at
short notice. This lack of specialised support given on supervision missions was a telling factor in the
failure of some components to satisfactorily achieve objectives. This failing is acknowledged in the ICR.
In this regard, Bank supervision has been less than satisfactory even though the consistent support given by
the Task Manager has been exemplary and can be best illustrated by his efforts to twice ensure the
extension of the project.
Bank missions were always concluded with a wrap-up meeting convened by the Department of National
Planning and Monitoring. It is unfortunate that rather more did not transpire from these gatherings despite
-31 -



the frankness of some of the discussions that took place. Greater support and appreciation from both the
Department of National Planning and Monitoring and the Treasury of efforts being made by the
Department of Education would have been most welcome. It was only at times of crisis that these
supposedly key stakeholders displayed an inordinate amount of interest.
Lessons for the future. As to the future, there is a huge demand for textbooks in all sectors of the system
and this will only intensify due to the expansion of the school system as a result of the Education Reform
agenda. The Government is not going to be able to pay for these textbooks even with the ongoing support
of the Australian Government through AusAID. The maintenance situation in many of our schools will
becorne desperate in the next few years. following completion of both the Education Development Project
and European Union intervention. It is doubtful as to whether the Provincial Governments or Local-level
Governments will be able to adequately fund this activity, which is now their responsibility. The issue of
library books in our schools is an on-going one and is a particular concern in the primary sector.  The gains
made through the Education Development Project wiDl be lost unless funding is made available from
whatever source for the maintenance of the stock of library books. The rapid currency devaluation of
recent years has made, in kina terms, the cost of library books appear very high. It is highly unlikely that
the schools or the provincial authorities will be able, or indeed willing, to provide the finding required for
what, in many schools, is not seen as a priority. The lack of housing for education officers will continue to
be a very real concern and is seen by many as being a serious impediment in the bid to employ the Papua
New Guinean expertise required to manage what is becoming an increasingly complex system. This will
not be solved through internal sources or until such tirne as a genuine housing market emerges in the
country.
All of this serves to starkly restate the sustainability issues raised in the ICR. It is undeniable that Papua
New Guinea still requires help from overseas donors and from international lending institutions and will do
for some considerable time. Equally, it is inevitable that Papua New Guinea will wish to enter into a future
loan agreement with an institution such as the World Bank or the Asian Development Bank.  It is our firm
conviction that the experiences gained, hard though they have been on occasion, as a result of the Education
Development Project will stand us in good stead when that time approaches.
(b) Cofinanciers:
None.
(c) Other partners (AGOs/private sector):
None.
10. Additional Information
None.
32-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Target at      Target at      Target at     Current
Objectives           Performance   Indicators    Baseline   Mid-Term       Completion     Full Impac Status as of       Comments
(1 9 9 2 )   (12/31/ 4) (12/31/96)     (12/31/01)   ,May 2002
Output/Impact__          .__       _   _   _   _      ,_   _                                     _   _  _    _  _   _
To assist the
Government to
implement its
education  sector
policies and
investment plans
through:
1) increasing access  a) enrollments in Grades 1       1,965       2,965          3,465          3,465        8,552           Serious
and 12 (absolute number)                                                             (2001)      overcrowding  ir
some classes.
b) enrollments in secondary     64,870      80,000         85,000         90,000       175,175
education of all sorts                                                               (2000)
(absolute  number)                                                                 .
c) enrollments in College of      I          364            756            1,500          9
Distance Education in
Stages 2 and 3 of the
Business Studies course
2) improving quality    ) mean score on Grade 6      16.8/17.2   17.0/17.5      17.5/18.0      18.0/18.5     16.5/17.2         See
completion exam  in                                                                  (1997)       Footnote 1.
English and  mathematics
)cohort completion rate in       67%         71%            86%            95%          61%
lower  secondary                                                                     (Dec.
2000)
3)  strengthening        number of provincial            0           10             20             20           20         Some are now
institutional          Education  Divisions                                                                             being  updated.
management             having produced an
acceptable  provincial
education  development
plan
I/ In those parts of the country where the Education Reform has been introduced, students no longer sit for the selection examinadon at
the end of Grade 6; they may proceed directly on to Grade 7.  There is thus a dwindling pool of students who take the exam, and they
tend to be in more remote, less developed parts of the country, such that one could have expected a drop in this indicator. Given the
declining importance of the examination, results have not been carefully tabulated in the last few years.
-33.



Target at      Target at      Target at     Current
Objectives           Performance Indicators Baseline      Mid-Term      Completion     Full Impact    Status as      Comnments
(1992)    (12131/94)    ( 1 2i31/t6)    (123 1/01)     of May
2002
Outpul!lmpact
To assist the
Government to
implement its
education sector
policies and
investment plans
through:
1) increasing access   a) available places in        1,965       2,965         3,465           3,465        7,800        Some serious
Grades It and 12                                                                               overcrowding.
b) number of stages of        I              2             3              3             3
CODE's Business
Studies course for which
materials are available
2) improving           c) supply of textbooks in      34%         50%            80%           100%       About 50%           See
quality              Grades I through 6                                                                               Footnote 1.
d) ratio of teachers per        120         110           105            100           157
inspector in Grades 7 and                                                          (2000)
.                  ~~~~~8 ________                                     _________                     ________
e) percentage of all schools     0          40             80             100          (See             See
(primary,  secondary,                                                            footnote.)      Footnote 2.
vocational, CODE
centers) with new or
improved school libraries
3)  strengthening      f) number of Regional                       2              3              3             3              See
institutional        Education Planners                                                                                Footnote 3.
management           recruited and trained
g) number of action plans        0           3             3              3
prepared on selected
topics
]J Estimated figure. This indicator is defined as supply over the last five years of textbooks for Grades 1-6 in English, mathematics,
community life (social studies), and health, at a  textbook:student ratio of 1: 1, the recommended ratio.  Five years is used because this is
the normal life span of a book. Since many of the textbooks were supplied in the late l98s (under the World-Bank-assisted Second
Education Project), the performance indicator dropped rapidly after 1992. Factors exerdng downward pressure on the indicator are (a)
the reduction in the number of books in schools as they wear out and (b) rapid growth in enrollments under the Education Reform. The
indicator rose, however, as books procured under the project arrived in the schools.
2/ Estimated at 90% of secondary-level schools, over 65% of primary-level schools, 80% of vocational centers, and 90% of the provincial
CODE centers.
3/ The three topics were (i) female participaton in education, (ii) cost-effectiveness in education, and (iii) teacher educaton. The study
on teacher education was carried out in 1994, and the resulting action plan is being implemented as part of the Educabion Reform. The
cost-effectiveness study was completed in October 1998, but no acton plan has yet been prepared.  AusAID  prepared an identification
report for a Community Equity Project in 1996, designed to increase female participation in education, but no action plan has yet been
prepared.
.34 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent).
Appraisal' ActuaILitest; P,ercefintg, of
Estimate '.- EstimiaWte<!"' Appiraisl
4Projict.Cost;by C,om,ponient~     U    JS$ miion ^'US$:'9mil'ion'c . ;- b,Q  L .) n U  rijio
Increasing Access:
Upper Secondary Expansion                        10.8         22.4          207%
Development Maintenance                          8.0           6.2           78%
Certificate of Business Studies                  0.3           0.2           6 7 %
Improving Quality:
Textbook Supply and Development                 16.2           6.1           38%
Inspection and Guidance                          2.7           2.3           8 5 %
Library Grants                                   2.6           4.2          1 6 2 %
Strengthening Institutional Management:
Regional Planning and Management Advisors        0.6           1.7          283%
Policy Studies                                   0.3           0.2           6 7 %
Project Management and Evaluation                0.9           0.8           89%
Volcano Reconstruction                            0.0           4.6  (not foreseen)
Total Baseline Cost                              42.4          48.7
Physical Contingencies                           3.2
Price Contingencies                              5.7
Total Project Costs                               51.3         48.7           9 5 %
Total Financing Required                         51.3          48.7 1
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
, x    i i    t+ : - g" -o / r'  -r N '  _ _r'
~~ ~~- -ief                              Procu6rement 'Methodl         K,s=  4r'  MVta   0it
1. Civil Works                        5.3         4.2         9.5                   19.0
i(3.4)      (2.8)      (6.1)                  (12.3)
2. Equipment, Books,
Educational Materials and           4.0        2.7        16.6                   23.3
Related Transport Services         (3.6)       (2.4      (14.9)                 (20.9)
3. Fumiture                                                              0.5         0.5
(0.0)      (0.0)
4. Consultants' Services                                      1.5                    1.5
(I 5)                  (1.5)
6. Fellowships                                                0.3                    0.3
.________ _  .(0          3)                   (0.3)
6. Local Training and Workshops                                          0.6         0.6
(0.0)      (0.0)
7. Salaries, Student Costs, and
Other Incremental Operating                                            6.1        6.1
costs                                                                 (0.0)      (0.0)
Total                               9.3        6.9        27.9         7.2       51.3
L_________________________________ . (7 0)       (5.2)     (22.8)       (0.0)     (35.0)
35 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
.~~dittfre~atogory  ~   '     -Procuiremenirehd                    il-.. Ttltoiiv
1. Civil Works                                  0.1       10.6        7.9        18.6
l _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _                    (0 J  1'(9   2        (0.0)      (9.3)
2. Equipment, Books,
Educational Materials and         2.6         0.2        7.5        1.4       11.7
Related Transport Services        (2.6)      (0.2)      (7.2)      (0.0)     (10.0'
3. Fumiture                                                            0.5        0.5
(0.0)       0.0,
4. Consultants' Services                                    1.9                   1.9
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ (1 .4 )(1 .4 )
5. Fellowships                                             0.3                    0.3
___________________________   _________  ~~(0.3)(0.3)
6. Local Training and Workshops                                        0.2        0.2
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _(0 .0 )  (0.0 )
7. Salaries, Student Costs, and
Other Incremental Operating                                        15.5       15.5
Costs                                                              (0.0)       (0.0)
Total                             2.6         0.3       20.3       25.5       48.7
(2.6)      (0 3)     (18.1)       0.0      (21.0)
1/ Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
21 Includes international and local shopping, direct contracting or purchase, purchase through Government Stores and
Supply, selection of consultants following Bank Guidelines, selection ot lellows using existing Government
administrative procedures, reprinting of books under existing contracts, and force account for minor civil works.
36 .



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
9.  -.          Appra~~isal                                pern~
ualllatbCt                   id0 W >i ,~  tm. E
Compoeient -        ,   I1Bank  G6Vt.   CoF.   Banki 'God.A     CoF.  Bank   Go'.         '
,increasing Access.
Upper Secondary Expansion             6.4    6.9    0.0     0.0    16.2!   6.2|   0%    235%.       *
Development   Maintenance            6.2     3.3    0.0     5.3    o.Gl    0.0a  85%     27%,       *
Certificate of Business Studies       0.4    0.0     0.0    0.2     O.CI   0.01   50%
llmproving Quality:
Textbook Supply & Development        17.41   2.3     0.0    5.7     0.4    0.0    33%    17%,       *
Inspection & Guidance                 1l.3   2.0     0.0    0.7     1.6    0.0    54%    80%        *
Library Grants                        2.5    0.4     0.0    3.5     0.7    0.0  140%    175%        *
:Strengthening  Institutional
Management:
Regional Planning &
Management Advisors                 0.4    0.3     0.0    0.9     0.5    0.4  22,5%   167%        *
Policy Studies                       0.4     0.0     0.0    0.0     0.0    0.1    0.                *
Project Management & Evaluation      0.0     1.1    0.0     0.5    0.3     0.0'          27%        *
Volcano   Reconstruction               0.0    0.0     o.o    4.2     0.4     0.0'                    *
Total Project Costs                   35.0   16.3     0.0   21.0    2.0     6.7    60%   129% 2
' Cofinancing was not foreseen at appraisal.
" During project implementation, the Bank agreed to finance T.A. and equipment for the Project
Implementation Unit.
Volcano reconstruction was not foreseen at appraisal.
-37 .



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable.
- 38 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
a) missions. *
Stage of Project Cycle                     No. of Persons and Specialty               Performan e Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)      l[mplementatior  Development
Month/Year      Count            Specialty                        Progress       Objective
Idenfffication/Preparation
Feb./Mar. 1991                 2    I Education Specialist
lIEducation Economist
July 1991                      3    l Education Specialist
I Education Economist
I Macroeconomist
Nov. 1991                      2    1 Education Economist
I Architect
Appraisal/Negotiation
Feb. 1992                      3    iEducation Specialist
I Education Economist
I Architect
July 1992                           l Education Economist
Supervision
Mar./Apr. 1993                      l Architect                          HS'             S
Sept. 1993                     2    l Education Policy Advisor            S              S
I Operations Officer
Apr. 1994                       2   l Education Economist                HS              S
I Operations Officer
Sept. 1994                     I    I Health Economist                    S              S
Feb. 1995                      2    l Human Resources Specialist          U:             U
I Education Specialist
Oct. 1995                      3    1 Human Resources Specialist          S              S
I Education Specialist
I Textbook Specialist
Mar. 1996                       I   I Human Resources Specialist          S              U
Sept. 1996                      I   I Human Resources Specialist          S              U
Mar. 1997                      2    l Human Resources Specialist          S              U
IArchitect/Engineer
Sept. 1997                     2    l Human Resources Specialist          S              S
I Architect/Engineer
Mar. 1998                      3    1 Human Resources Specialist          S              U
IArchitect/Engineer
I Textbook Specialist
Oct./Nov. 1998                 2    I Human Resources Specialist          U              U
I Architect/Engineer
Mar. 1999                      2    l Human Resources Specialist          S              U
I Implementation Specialist
Oct. 1999                      2    lHuman Resources Specialist           S              S
I Architect/Engineer
Feb. 2001                      I    l Procurement Specialist             U               S
Nov.2001                        I   I Textbook Specialist                 U              S
. 39.



ICR
May/June 2002                  2     1 Human Res. Specialist              U              U
I Procurement Specialist
(b) Staff.
Stage of Project Cycle                       Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks                US$ COOO)
Identification/Preparation                    30                          55.9
Appraisal/Negotiation                         35                          57.0
Supervision                                  130                         472.2
ICR                                            6                          34.2
Total                                        201                         619.3
* 40 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O    Macro policies                      O H  O SU O M    [bT O    NA
3 Sector Policies                        OH    OSUOM       ON    O NA
O    Physical                            OH    OSUOM       ON    O NA
O Financial                              OH O SU O M PJX      *   NA
3 Institutional Development              OH    O SU O M    ON   0 NA
O  Environmental                         O H   OSUOM      ON     *NA
Social
O    Poverty Reduction             OH   OSUOM       ON    O NA
O   Gender                         OH   OSUOM      ON     O NA
O    Other (Please specify)        OH O SU O M    ON   0    NA
0 Private sector development             OH 0 SU 0 M      ON 0    NA
3 Public sector management               OH    O SUO M     ON   0 NA
O    Other (Please specify)              OH   OSUOM       ON    * NA
- 41 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6. I Bank performance                               Rating
O     Lending                                       OHS OS       OLU    OHU
Z  Supervision                                      O HS O S *        UOHU
M Overall                                           OHS OS       *U     OHU
6.2 Borrower performance                            Rating
*J Preparation                                      O HS * S     OU     OHU
O      Government implementation performance        0 HS 0 S 0        U 0 HU
Z  Implementation agency performance                 O HS 0 S 0       U O HU
Overall                                             OHS OS       *U    OHU
-42



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Back-to-Office Reports of the Pre-Indentification, Preparation, Pre-Appraisal,
and Pre-Negotiations Missions
Executive Project Summaries
Education Sector Review
Program in Education for Overseas Funding'
Minutes of the Final Executive Project Summary Review Meeting
Appraisal Mission Aide-Memoire
Minutes of Negotiations
Staff Appraisal Report
Loan Agreement
President's Report
All Project Supervision Reports
Project Correspondence
All Supervision Mission Aide-Memoires
Department of Education's Completion Reports on each project component
and for the project as a whole
.43



-44



