Document of
FILE COPY                         The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.P-2031-CE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
FOR A
MAHAWELI GANGA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
April 7, 1977
This document hs a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
On May 24, 1976, the Sri Lanka Rupee was officially
linked to a basket of currencies with the initial parity
rate based on the Rupee/Pound rate at that date. Both
the composition of the basket and the weights assigned to
the currencies in it were revised on March 12, 1977. The
current Rupee/US Dollar rate has been used throughout the
report, except where stated to the contrary: 1/
US$1       =   Rs 7.28
Rs 1       =   US$0.137
Rs I M     =   US$137,363
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I long ton = 2,240 lb       =  1.016 metric tons
1 hundredweight (cwt)
=  50.8 kg              =  112 lb
1 bushel (bu) of paddy      =  45 lb
1 pint                      =  0.57 liters
1 acre (ac)                 =  0.405 hectare (ha)
1 mile (mi)                 =  1.609 kilometers (km)
1 square mile (sq mi)       =  640 ac (259 ha)
1 foot (ft)                 =  30.5 centimeters (cm)
Most non-foodgrain imports have to pay a surcharge of 65%
through the purchase of Foreign Exchange Entitlement Cer-
tificates (FEECs), and most non-traditional exports receive
a 65% premium over the official rate through the sale of
FEECs. The premium is now fixed at 65% of the Rupee parity
rate, resulting in the following current exchange rates
including FEECs: US$1.00 = Rs 12.01; Rs 1 = US$0.083.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
APC            -     Agricultural Productivity Committee
APL            -     Agricultural Productivity Law
ARTI           -     Agrarian Research and Training Institute
B              -     Billion
CC             -     Cultivation Committee
CP             -     Cooperative Program
DA             -     Department of Agriculture
DME            -     Department of Machinery and Equipment
FAO            -     Food and Agriculture Organization (U.N.)
FEEC           -     Foreign Exchange Entitlement Certificate
GA             -     Government Agent
GDP            -     Gross Domestic Product
GNP            -     Gross National Product
ICB            -     International Competitive Bidding
LCB            -     Local Competitive Bidding
M              -     Million
MAL            -     Ministry of Agriculture and Lands
MCC            -     Mahaweli Coordinating Committee
MDB            -     Mahaweli Development Board
MIPL           -     Ministry of Irrigation, Power and Highways
MW             -     Megawatt
O&M            -     Operation and Maintenance
PAC            -     Project Advisory Committee
PMB            -     Paddy Marketing Board
SLTC           -     Sri Lanka Trading (Tractor) Corporation
TSC            -     Technical Subcommittees
WFP            -     World Food Program
GLOSSARY
chena          -     Slash and burn or "shifting" agriculture
district       -     the principal Government administrative sub-
division. There are 22 districts in the country.
dry zone       -     northern and eastern two-thirds of Sri Lanka
ganga          -     major river
maha           -     northeast monsoon season (October to January)
paddy          -     unhusked rice
purana         -     villages inhabited by descendents of original
settlers with historical traditions
rotational
irrigation   -     intermittent water deliveries to minor canals and
field turnouts
tank           -     small reservoirs with earth-filled dams, typically
with a storage capacity of a few thousand ac-ft
wet zone       -     southwestern one-third of Sri Lanka, including
Colombo, the Capital, and the urban coast
yala           -     southwest monsoon season (March to June)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of theif ofcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
FOR A MAHAWELI GANGA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Sri Lanka for the equivalent of
US$19.0 M on standard IDA terms to help finance a project for the construc-
tion of irrigation works and settlement facilities, agricultural production
support, and social infrastructure for a contiguous area of about 106,000 ac
located in the north-central dry zone of Sri Lanka. Cofinancing arrangements
on various terms have been made with Canada, The Netherlands, the United King-
dom and the United States for a total of US$23.2 M equivalent (para 55).
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The latest economic report, "Sri Lanka:   Country Economic Memo-
randum" (Report No. 1425-CE February 28, 1977) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on March 1, 1977. Country data are provided in Annex I.
3.        The economic difficulties that presently beset Sri Lanka can be
traced principally to two basic characteristics of the country's economic
and social system: first, the dependence of the economy on three export
crops -- tea, rubber and coconut -- and, second, a political commitment to
the welfare state. This commitment found its expression in two policy tenets
which, for the past quarter century, successive Governments have followed in
varying degrees: the supply of mass consumption goods, principally food
and textiles, at low prices, and the provision of public services -- mainly
education, healch and transport -- free of charge or substantially below
cost.
4.        Sri Lanka's progress in social fields has been noteworthy.   Public
services are widely available at little or no cost and a more equal distri-
bution of income has been achieved by maintaining relatively high wages,
subsidizing services, and distributing food free or below cost. The welfare
state has been based mainly on the earnings of the export sector. A major
concern, however, is that Sri Lanka has experienced a pronounced weakening
in the market for tea and rubber beginning in the mid-fifties. Its effects
on the earnings of the traditional export sector, combined with the failure
to establish new sources of growth, seriously affected the ability of the
economy to generate a surplus in the form of savings and exports, which in
turn was one of the main reasons for little economic growth in the past two
decades. Between 1969-70 and 1975-76, the gross national product (GNP) at
constant prices increased at an annual rate of about 2.8%. With population
growing at a rate of about 1.7% p.a., there was only a slight improvement in
per capita gross income.



- 2 -
5.        Against this background, Sri Lanka had to face the shocks generated
by the oil crisis and worldwide inflation. In response to the changed world
economic conditions, the Government took a series of measures during 1974-75
to reduce the burden of subsidies on food and transport, and adjusted prices
of key consumer goods such as petroleum products. However, the impact was
small, and major economic problems--increasing domestic savings, improving
the price structure and reducing unemployment (now estimated at 20% of the
labor force) -- remain. These problems have been compounded by severe drought
in recent years.
6.        As in the previous year, 1976 was also a year of severe drought.
Nevertheless, paddy output in 1976 was about 5 M bu above the previous year's
level of 55 M, which was the lowest since 1970. This was ascribed to the
availability of adequate water from tank irrigation in the eastern rice-
growing districts. Over the past several years, the basis has been estab-
lished for a substantial rise in paddy production by improvements in irriga-
tion works, institutions, pricing, seed varieties, fertilizer availability,
and rural roads. With good weather conditions, Sri Lanka now has the pro-
ductive potential to meet at least three-quarters of its rice requirements.
7.        In the tree crop sector, tea production in 1976 was down 9% and at
the lowest level for the 1970's. Severe drought again was the main cause,
but the change-over in management after the land reform also played a role.
The drop in output was sharpest in the mid-elevation tea areas which were
most poorly managed before the land reform. However, the production of rub-
ber rose 5% in 1976. Both tea and rubber benefited from substantially
higher prices. The coconut sector, on the other hand, continued to suffer
from both declining output and low prices.
8.        The tree crop sector, after the 1972 and 1975 land reforms, is in
a state of transition. As might have been expected, difficulties have emerged,
but the take-over has been orderly and, by and large, the productive capacity
of the sector seems to have been preserved. Among its major problems are
the fragmentation of management arrangements after takeover; political pres-
sures to disperse lands to villages and landless farmers; the backlog of
maintenance and investment by previous owners anticipating nationalization;
and poor management conditions on a substantial number of estates, especially
those run by cooperatives. For some of these and other problems no easy
solutions are in sight, but there are some positive developments. Two major
public sector corporations, the State Plantation Corporation and the Janawasama,
(established after the 1975 land reform) are responsible for managing the
bulk of the estates taken over. These organizations have in part decentral-
ized management to regional offices, and are currently benefiting from high
tea and rubber prices. In particular, Janawasama realized substantial profits
in 1976. Also, plans are being prepared for the amalgamation of those estates
presently managed by electorate-level cooperative societies with these two
public sector units and possibly with a third group, the Janawasas (individual
cooperative agricultural/settlement schemes, formed after the 1971 land
reform, now being grouped together). This would be a healthy step towards
restoring an efficient pattern of management.



- 3 -
9.        The budgetary position in 1976 deteriorated considerably as com-
pared with 1975. Revenue was down and both current and capital expenditures
were up from the original budget estimates. Consequently, there was a cur-
rent account deficit of Rs 474 M as compared to the previous year's deficit
of Rs 305 M, and the total cash deficit rose by Rs 200 M to Rs 2,427 M. The
result of this increase in the cash deficit is that expansionary financing
was needed in the amount of at least Rs 440 M. The main reasons for this
worsening of the 1976 budget situation were: (i) lower than expected imports,
resulting in a substantial shortfall in revenue from Foreign Exchange Entitle-
ment Certificates (FEECs); (ii) the poor performance of many public sector
corporations; (iii) an increase in the net food subsidy resulting from the
reduction of bread and flour prices; (iv) expenditures related to the Non-
aligned Conference; and (v) drought relief. The 1977 budget shows a current
account deficit of Rs 87 M. Capital expenditures are expected to remain
virtually unchanged and the cash deficit to decline by about Rs 400 M to
slightly over Rs 2 B. The estimated increase in revenue of about 10%,
however, will be vulnerable to any shortfall in the import program, as was
the case in 1976. No additional revenue measures have been proposed. The
recent rEvaluation of the rupee is likely to worsen the budgetary deficit
in 1977 (see para. 17).
10.       A significant feature of the 1976 budget was the effort to encourage
economic activity in the private sector. Together with measures such as the
removal of the restrictions on the transport of rice, the budget signalled
a change in the Government's attitude towards the private sector. However,
announced plans for follow-up measures were held in abeyance. Thus, uncer-
tainties remain and the signals are still unclear.
11.       An encouraging development in 1976 was the apparent improvement in
Sri Lanka's terms of trade, possibly reversing temporarily the steady deter-
ioration over the previous decade. Tea and rubber prices rose strongly over
the year, while the price of food imports declined sharply. The improvement
in tea prices came too late in the year to fully offset the decline in the
volume of tea exports which followed a reduction in output. The rise in
rubber prices was, however, sharp enough to offset the fall in volume of
rubber exports. Coconut exports did not share the improvement in commodity
prices, and also declined in volume. The share of tree crop exports in Sri
Lanka's export earnings declined in 1976 to 71% from 76% in the previous
year.
12.       The share of non-traditional exports in total exports has also
been rising. In addition to measures taken in 1970 to promote minor export
crops, the Government's policies since 1973 have provided fiscal and financial
incentives to export-oriented industries. Tourism and gem exports, which have
good prospects for further development, have now become important sources of
foreign exchange earnings. Manufactured exports, after a temporary pause in
1975, resumed the upsurge that began in 1972-73. This was due primarily to
exports of sea foods and ready-made garments. These non-traditional exports
will be, however, adversely affected by the recent revaluation (see para. 17).
13.       The decline in the cost of imports in 1976, due mainly to lower
food prices, made possible a substantial reduction in the current account



- 4 -
deficit to an estimated $46 M. The deficit was more than offset by net
capital inflows and this caused Sri Lanka's net reserves to rise for the
first time since 1973. The import program for 1977 implies a strong deter-
ioration in the current account deficit, due to a major increase in imports
of items other than fertilizer and petroleum.
14.       An Aid Group for Sri Lanka, for which the Bank acts as the Chairman,
was formed in 1965 and has held twelve meetings. At the twelfth meeting, held
in Paris in April 1976, the members recognized Sri Lanka's need for continued
assistance, particularly in agriculture, and indicated their intention to con-
tribute aid of about US$180 M. However, aid group members' actual new commit-
ments in 1976 totalled $120 M, due, in part, to the decline in the value of
food aid caused by lower food prices. Disbursements of aid from all sources
in 1976 totalled $161 M, as against $202 M in 1975.
15.       Slow progress in the development of new exports and the long-term
deterioration in Sri Lanka's terms of trade, compounded by the rise in food
and petroleum prices since 1973, have greatly increased the country's require-
ments of foreign capital. Although concessional aid flows to Sri Lanka have
risen significantly, they have not been sufficient to prevent a sizeable
increase in the country's resort to short- and medium-term borrowing in the
early 1970s. Outstanding debt with one to five years maturity increased
from a negligible amount at the end of 1972 to $96 M (16.5 per cent of total
external debt) at the end of 1974, and then declined to $83 M. This has
been largely responsible for the marked deterioration in the debt service
ratio from 12% in 1974 to 20% in 1975.
16.       Concessional aid flows are needed to help finance imports of mainte-
nance and capital goods, which remain inadequate in relation to the economy's
requirements, without a further deterioration in the debt service ratio. Aid
is also needed to supplement the country's meager domestic resources available
for investment, and must, therefore, involve some local cost financing. The
import program for 1977 provides for a sizeable increase for imports of capital
goods under project aid. If this should materialize, it would lead to a con-
siderable depletion of the project aid pipeline and fresh commitments would be
needed to replenish the pipeline.
17.       Following the sharp upsurge in tea and rubber prices in early 1977,
the Government revalued the rupee by an average of 20% against major curren-
cies on March 12, 1977, in order to translate what it considered to be exces-
sive windfall profits to the producers of these commodities into benefits to
the consumer in the form of lower prices for imports. This measure has been
followed by an increase in the rice ration, the increase being subject to
availability of stocks. As the volume of imports remains tightly controlled,
the immediate effects of these moves on Sri Lanka's economic and financial
position seem manageable, although the budgetary deficit will be larger, and
consequently inflationary pressures stronger, than estimated at the time the
budget was presented. However, it is difficult to reconcile the revaluation
with the developmental needs of an economy that has suffered from inadequate
savings to finance investment; that must diversify its exports; and that
demands continuing attention to the adequacy of incentives for agricultural
production. Resolution of these conflicts between short-term benefits to the



- 5 -
consumer and the longer-term developmental needs of the economy will have to
be left to the new government that takes office after the national elections
due to be held by late September.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SRI LANKA
18.       Since the beginning of its operations in Sri Lanka in 1954, the Bank
Group has made eight loans totalling US$73.4 million (net of cancellations)
and ten credits totalling US$84.1 million (net of cancellations and exchange
adjustments) in support of 16 projects. About 38% of Bank Group assistance
has been for power, 45% for agriculture (irrigation and agricultural and dairy
development), and the remainder for development finance operations, highways,
and a program credit (mainly involving the import of raw materials for in-
dustry). Three early power loans, the two loans to the Development Finance
Corporation of Ceylon (DFCC), the credit for the Mahaweli Ganga Development
Project I, and the program credit were satisfactorily completed and fully
disbursed. At the request of the Borrower, a loan/credit for highways was
cancelled in 1970, after disbursement of US$0.8 million of the credit, follow-
ing the Government's decision to make major changes in the scope of the proj-
ect. The IFC's only investment in Sri Lanka, US$3.25 million to the Pearl
Textile Mills, Ltd. (Ceylon), was made in January 1970, but cancelled the same
year at the request of the Company. Annex II contains a summary statement of
Bank Group operations as of February 28, 1977, and notes on the execution of
ongoing projects.
19.       The Bank Group's current strategy is focused heavily on the agri-
cultural sector to support government efforts to increase food production
and to improve productivity in the tree crops subsector. However, projects
in basic infrastructure are also included. A project for the modernization of
five existing tank and drainage schemes, aimed at increasing farm production
in the Mahaweli Ganga area in the dry zone, was approved by the Board in
November 1976. A Water Supply project, designed to improve water supply in
and around Colombo, the capital, as well as the southwestern urban coast, has
been negotiated and is being processed for Board presentation shortly. A
proposed project for diversification of crops on marginal lands now under tea
and rubber is being prepared by the Government together with an FAO/UNDP team
with IDA assistance and is expected to be appraised during the fourth quarter
of the current fiscal year. Preparation has begun on a tree crop rehabilita-
tion project which is aimed at maintaining quantity and quality of Sri Lankan
tea output as some tea lands are diverted to other uses. Projects in other
fields, including rural development and drainage and land reclamation, are
being prepared for possible IDA financing.
20.       The Bank Group presently accounts for nearly 13% (and the Bank alone
for about 5%) of Sri Lanka's total external debt outstanding, and about 5%
(with IDA negligible) of debt service. It is projected that the Bank Group's
share in total external debt will decline to about 9% by 1980 (and the Bank's
share alone to fall to less than 2%). The Bank and IDA share in the debt
service will also show a slight decline.



- 6 -
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL AND IRRIGATION/SETTLEMENT SECTORS
21.       Agriculture is dominant in Sri Lanka's economy, accounting for
over four-fifths of export earnings, more than half of all employment, about
one-third of the GNP, and much of the Government revenues. And yet, despite
considerable potential for higher output levels, growth in agricultural pro-
duction has been slow in recent years. In the tree crop sector, during the
decade ending in 1973, the level of tea production remained stagnant and
coconut production declined by about 2% per annum; only rubber production
expanded significantly increasing by 3% per annum. Following a poor crop in
1974, tree crop production increased substantially in 1975 owing mainly to
favorable weather conditions. In foodgrain sector, production increased at
an annual rate of 3.1% during the decade ending in 1973, but it too has
stagnated since. Paddy production in 1970, under favorable weather condi-
tions, reached a record 77 M bu. However, the 1975 paddy crop totalled only
about 55 M bu due to unusually severe drought.
22.       The sluggish performance of the tree crop sector is largely a
result of inadequate investment due to poor financial returns and uncertainty
over future ownership. Production of field crops has suffered from poor
water management, lack of adequate farm power for tillage, inadequate atten-
tion to extension, marketing and credit facilities, and the system of con-
trols and subsidies which work to reduce farmer incentives. In light of its
major objective of increased food self-sufficiency, the Government is con-
cerned about the stagnation in agricultural production. Historically, the
country had depended upon the export earnings from tree crops to provide
for the import of foodgrains and other goods. The worsening terms of trade,
particularly within the last few years, have prompted a reexamination of the
Government's past strategy.   In the tree crop sector, nationalization of
estates has given the Government extensive control over production and
investment.
23.       Measures taken during the last few years to increase field crop
output have included increases in guaranteed support price levels; lifting
of controls on movement of paddy; reduction in free and subsidized rations;
banning imports of subsidiary crops such as chillies, onions, potatoes and
pulses; establishment of Agricultural Productivity Committees (APCs) as the
principal regulatory bodies for all agricultural activities at the field
level; and, most importantly, increased emphasis on efficient water utili-
zation and management.
24.       About half of Sri Lanka's total cultivated area of 5 M ac is under
field crops, primarily paddy (1.3 M ac). Where sufficient water is available,
it is common practice to produce two or more crops a year. In the dry zone,
however, where cultivation in the yala season is entirely dependent upon ir-
rigation (and partially dependent even in the maha season), the cropping
intensity is only about 110%. A large part of the problem is that farmers
in Sri Lanka follow traditional methods of field-to-field irrigation of paddy.
This is a highly wasteful use of water, particularly on soils with high per-
meability. With the recent improved methods of irrigation and proper opera-
tion and management of the irrigation systems, the Government is becoming



- 7 -
increasingly aware that it is possible to increase substantially the irri-
gated area with existing water supplies.
25.       Irrigation in Sri Lanka dates back to about 600 B.C., and at pre-
sent, about 900,000 ac (about 35% of the area under field crops) are irrigated.
Efforts are continuing to expand the area throughout the island. The Mahaweli
Ganga, Sri Lanka's largest river, is the principal source of water for irriga-
tion in the dry zone. Draining an area of about 4,000 sq. mi., it flows north-
east from the mountainous south-central part of the island into the Bay of
Bengal.
26.       The Master Plan for Mahaweli Development, formulated by a UNDP/FAO
team in 1968, envisages the irrigation development of about 900,000 ac (which
would double the country's irrigated area) and 970 MW of hydroelectric power
over a 30-year period. Stage I of the Plan, supported by the Bank Group
through Loan 653-CE (US$14.5 M) and Credit 174-CE (US$14.5 M), was started in
1972 and is now nearly completed. It includes a trans-basin diversion from the
Mahaweli Ganga at Polgolla through the Polgolla and Bowatenna Tunnels to the
present p-oject area, provision for an assured water supply to some 130,000 ac
of existing irrigated lands, and a 40 MW power station. Delays early in the
construction were due mainly to foundation problems at the Polgolla power
house, tunnelling problems at Bowatenna, and slowness in awarding contracts for
the Bowatenna diversion dam. After overcoming these problems, the construc-
tion progressed satisfactorily. Water was diverted at Polgolla in January
1976, and at Bowatenna in March. A concern reconfirmed during the project
implementation was that much greater attention needed to be given to agricul-
tural extension and research, and that, for future projects, increased emphasis
would be required in the areas of land development, settlement and social in-
frastructure. Good progress in these areas have been made during the last
year. The Stage II works, started by the Government in late 1975 (presently
about 20% completed), would utilize part of the diverted water from Stage I
to irrigate about 71,000 ac of new land in the proposed project area for the
settlement of about 27,000 families.
27.       Many settlement schemes have been introduced since the turn of the
century to relieve the over-population and unemployment in the more densely
populated areas of the wet zone. During the late 1950s and early 1960s,
settlers were admitted to the schemes prior to land development and were
left to do this work themselves. This resulted, however, in a slow build-up
of benefits, wasteful use of water, and high drop-out rates. In addition,
these schemes have suffered from inadequate supporting services, inappropriate
settler selection, lack of competent management, and insecure tenure.
28.       During the early 1970s, a number of laws were enacted in an effort
to support settlement, increase agricultural productivity, and achieve a more
equitable income distribution. The Agricultural Productivity Law (APL) of
1972 obliges all owners and occupiers of agricultural land to use it to the
maximum benefit of the country and provides for dispossession from those who
do not properly utilize their land. The Agricultural Lands Law (ALL) of 1973
provides for the regulation of tenants' rights and security of tenure and
prescribes rents payable to landlords. The ALL also established the APCs
and reorganized the local Cultivation Committees (CCs).



- 8 -
29.       The APCs have the responsibility to promote, coordinate and develop
agriculture in the areas they cover and to assist the Ministry of Agriculture
and Lands (MAL) in formulating and implementing annual programs for cultiva-
tion, supply of farm inputs and supporting services, collection/distribution,
marketing and storage of farm outputs, and other programs for crop and live-
stock production. They are directly responsible, through the CCs, for water
distribution below the 50 ac level. Because of their power to regulate
cropping patterns, the APCs also have a responsibility for the overall water
allocation within their areas. The APCs and CCs, whose members are appointed
by the MAL, do not have any professional staff. They work through, in coop-
eration with, and, to a large extent, under the supervision of the Government's
technical staff. The most important task of the APCs is the preparation of
the Annual Production Program, done in consultation with the Government's
agricultural officers and subject to approval by the District Government
Agent and the MAL.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
30.       The proposed project was identified and prepared by SOGREAH (French
Consultants), with the assistance of the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program (CP).
The project preparation costs were financed by the Bank Group under Loan
653/Credit 174-CE. At the request of the Government, the project was appraised
in April/ May 1975 in conjunction with the Tank Irrigation Modernization Project
(Cr. 666-CE). The appraisal mission was accompanied by representatives from
four prospective cofinancing countries: Canada, The Netherlands, U.K. and U.S.
Subsequently, it was learned that the Government had started work in the pro-
posed project area and was well along in the land clearing and construction of
irrigation works. Thus, at the request of the Government, and with the assist-
ance of the prospective cofinancing countries, the project was reformulated to
take in additional adjacent areas. The extended period from the appraisal to
date is largely due to this reformulation. A report entitled "Sri Lanka -
Appraisal of the Mahaweli Ganga Development Project II" (No. 1487-CE) is being
distributed separately to the Executive Directors. Negotiations were held in
Washington, D.C., during March 7-15, 1977. The Government was represented by
Mr. T. Sivagnanam, Secretary, Ministry of Irrigation, Power, and Highways, and
Mr. S. Velayutham, Director, External Resources Division, Ministry of Planning
and Economic Affairs.
A. Project Area
31.       The proposed project would constitute the first major integrated
development of unirrigated land under the Mahaweli Master Plan. Located in
Anuradhapura, Kurunegala and Matele Districts in Sri Lanka's north-central
dry zone, the project would cover a contiguous area of 106,000 ac included
in Stages I and II of the Plan. Included in Stage I are 35,000 ac of old
irrigated lands (settled during 1946-1964). Stage II includes 30,700 ac
presently under development, and 40,300 ac of undeveloped or new land. The
estimated population in the project area is about 140,000. The climate is



- 9 -
tropical with unpredictable rainfall which makes irrigation necessary through-
out the year.
32.       The old irrigated areas and the areas presently under development
have a population of over 100,000 comprised of subsistence farmers cultivat-
ing farms averaging about 3.0 ac. The undeveloped or new land is sparsely
populated with an estimated population of about 37,000. Most of the settle-
ments in the undeveloped areas are purana (old) villages with a traditional
pattern of clustered homesteads next to a small village tank. Farm incomes
are low, with only about one-third of the families deriving all their income
from the farm.
33.       Land tenure in the purana villages is complicated.    Most of the
tank irrigated paddylands with traditional ownership rights have been in-
herited and subdivided from one generation to another, which has resulted in
small and fragmented holdings. About three-quarters of all the land--almost
exclusively upland area--is owned by the Government. The peasants can farm
this land with annual permits, but, in most cases, cultivation is practiced
without permit. A small number of families lease their paddyland from the
Government at a nominal rent. This land can be inherited, but not sold,
mortgaged or fragmented. About 80% of the paddy land is cultivated by the
owner. The remainder is rented under a variety of arrangements such as
share-cropping, cash lease or fixed rent paid in kind.
B. Project Description
34.       The proposed project would build on experience gained in previous
settlement schemes in Sri Lanka. Its principal project design criteria are:
(i) optimal use of available water resources through irrigation and drainage
facilities with adequate control structures, canal lining and proper land
preparation; (ii) equitable distribution of project benefits through uniform-
sized farms (2.5 ac); (iii) self-reliance among settlers achieved through self-
help work and land sales (with secure tenure) to settlers at a price which, in
nominal terms, would recover about 60% of the cost of the irrigation and land
development works; (iv) provision of well-organized, highly intensive exten-
sion services; (v) creation of a settlement pattern which is socially and
economically viable; and (vi) strong project management and coordination in
its implementation and maintenance.
35.       The project would include equipment for completing the irrigation
and drainage works, road infrastructure, jungle-clearing, and settling of
some 15,300 families initiated by the Government under Stage II, as well as
equipment and vehicles for maintaining such works in the entire Stage II area
(71,000 ac). To enable farmers to cope with tightened crop calendars and to
intensify cropping patterns, the project would provide for a substantial in-
crease in farm equipment for land preparation and plant protection in the
Stage II area. The agricultural production support services for the area would
be strengthened, particularly for the supply of farm inputs, processing, trans-
port and marketing, and the extension service would be improved throughout the
Stage I and Stage II area (106,000 ac). In addition, social infrastructure



- 10 -
(village wells, schools, medical and community development facilities) would
be provided for 64,900 ac. And finally, technical assistance will be provided
by a project Implementation Adviser, an On-Farm Development Specialist, and a
Hydrologist (short-term).
C. Detailed Features
Project Implementation
36.       The Mahaweli Development Board (MDB) was established in 1970 to
plan and implement the development of Mahaweli Ganga's water resources. It
is an agency under the Ministry of Irrigation, Power and Highways (MIPH),
financed by regular Government budget appropriations. The MDB would have
the overall responsibility for the project implementation including irriga-
tion and land development, settlement, agricultural production, social infra-
structure, and the operation and maintenance of the completed irrigation
system. While the MDB is well-staffed with technical personnel for engineer-
ing design and construction, additional managerial staff will be required to
accommodate the greater emphasis to be placed on the settlement and agricul-
tural aspects of project planning and implementation. Accordingly, the Govern-
ment would assign the present General Manager to be in charge of engineering
design and construction, and fill the newly-created position, i.e., Additional
General Manager (Operations), who would be assisted by three Deputy General
Managers for Agriculture, Settlement and Community Development, and Irrigation
Operation and Maintenance (O&M). Both the General Manager and the Additional
General Manager (Operations) would report to the Chairman of the Board. The
actual appointment of the Additional General Manager (Operations) would be a
condition of effectiveness (Section 6.01 (b) of the Development Credit
Agreement).
37.       Whereas the MDB is responsible for planning all aspects of develop-
ment in the project area, including irrigation, agriculture, marketing, stor-
age, health and education, the specialized departments in the Government are
responsible for the operation and maintenance of the various facilities built
under the project. To ensure coordination between the MDB and the specialized
departments, the Government established a Mahaweli Coordination Committee
(MCC), chaired by the Secretary, MIPH, with Directors of the specialized
departments, Chairman of the MDB, and the Implementation Advisor (non-voting
consultant, para 52) as members. To ensure such coordination at the working
level, the Government established technical subcommittees (TSCs) for sectors
other than irrigation. Each TSC is headed by the Director of the specialized
department, with concerned MDB and department staff as members. The General
Manager (Operations) of the MDB would coordinate the work of the TSCs.
38.       The MDB would be responsible for implementing all civil works and
the construction of all buildings through its Deputy General Manager (Con-
struction). Field construction offices, each headed by a Chief Project Engineer,
would be responsible for the design of minor structures, distributary canals,
field channels and drains, and construction supervision within their areas of
operation (typically about 20,000 ac). After completion of the roads and



- 11 -
buildings, the facilities would be handed over to the specialized departments
concerned.
39.       The M1DB would be assisted by the Department of Mechanical Engineer-
ing (DME), MIPH, in preparing procurement documents for all construction and
O&M equipment, and the Sri Lanka Trading (Tractor) Corporation (SLTC) would
import the equipment including that required by private firms awarded con-
tracts. The availability of the required equipment would be specified by
the Government in the bid documents and the contractors would receive an
advance from MDB to buy the equipment.   The DME would provide repair facilities
for the equipment, but the contractors would have the option to select other
repair facilities. Public sector agencies carrying out works under negotiated
contracts would rent the equipment from DME.
40.       The Deputy General Manager (Settlement and Community Development)
would be responsible for implementing the settlement program, which is based
on detailed socio-economic surveys. Privately-owned land would be purchased
by the Government under the Land Acquisition Act of 1964 for settlement. The
Government would acquire all land and land rights required for the implementa-
tion of the project, and would provide IDA with satisfactory evidence to that
effect (Section 3.04 of the Development Credit Agreement). Farm families
already residing in the project area would be given priority in the selection
of settlers, with the exception of a small number of encroachers on State land
who moved into the area after 1970. The balance of the families to be settled
would be recruited from nearby areas. The selection would be based on a
detailed point system, with considerable weight given to agricultural experience.
After selection, each settler would purchase and be allotted a 2.5 ac farm and
a 0.5 ac homestead under the Sale of State Land (Special Provisions) Law of
1973 (para 61).
41.       The SLTC would procure farm tractors and implements and distribute
them to dealers for resale within the project area. In line with Government
policy, the APCs would buy and operate some farm equipment on a cooperative
basis. However, as the APCs are relatively new organizations and inexperi-
enced, private custom operators, selected and supervised by the APCs, would
play a major role. A condition of sale of tractors to the private operators
would be that they agree to do custom work within the project area, as spe-
cified by the concerned APCs. Credit facilities for the purchase of farm
equipment and implements would be provided by the Bank of Ceylon and the
People's Bank at prevailing commercial terms. Refinancing for not less than
75% of the total loans for farm equipment would be made available by the
Central Bank of Sri Lanka.
42.       The Department of Agriculture (DA), MAL, would be responsible for
the reorganization and strengthening of agricultural extension services in
the project area. This would include increasing the number of extension
workers from one per 500 farm families to one per 250 families, thereby per-
mitting weekly visits to small farmer groups. It would also include the pro-
vision of equipment, vehicles, supplies and staff quarters for the extension
service, as well as equipment, teaching aids, staff quarters and dormitory
accommodations for the training of extension staff and farmers. Also, a new
Irrigation and Water Management Pilot Project, jointly sponsored by the MDB



- 12 -
and the Irrigation and Agriculture Departments, would be set up in the project
area to investigate water management and cropping patterns. Motorcycles and
bicycles for extension personnel would be procured under the project and sold
by the DA to the staff on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA.
43.       Field surveys have been completed and detailed maps for the layout
of the irrigation distribution and drainage systems are scheduled for comple-
tion during 1977. Surveys for farm layout and design of the irrigation and
drainage systems within field turnout areas (about 50 ac) will be made after
clearing of forested areas. Detailed design of major irrigation works will
be completed by MDB during 1977. All designs are in accordance with sound
engineering criteria and standards.
44.       Construction work in the project area is ongoing and the new works
would be implemented within a relatively short period. Tender documents for
construction equipment and vehicles are being prepared, and awards would be
made for delivery beginning in early 1978. Under MDB's present rate of imple-
mentation, it is estimated that the different project components would be
completed as follows: (i) irrigation and land development and settlement,
three years; (ii) social infrastructure, four years; and (iii) on-farm works,
five years. Thus, the project would be fully implemented by mid-1982. The
Government will provide adequate funds to the agencies concerned for project
implementation and that it would submit to IDA, not later than November 1 each
year, a detailed implementation and financial plan for the following fiscal
year (Section 3.01 (b) of the Development Credit Agreement). In order to
ensure a well-planned settlement process, no settlers would be brought into
any subarea earlier than three months prior to the expected delivery of water
(Section 3.08 of the Development Credit Agreement).
Field Operation
45.       To ensure proper coordination among field-level officers for
irrigation, agricultural extension and community development, the Government
would establish a project management team consisting of the Resident Project
Manager (RPM), reporting directly to MDB's Additional General Manager
(Operations), and the three Deputy RPMs for Agriculture, Engineering O&M,
and Settlement, Community Development and Cooperatives.
46.       At the project level, a Project Advisory Committee (PAC) has been
established consisting of the RPM as Chairman, the three Deputy RPMs, senior
officers from Anuradhapura District (e.g., District Health Officer), and
farmer representatives nominated by the APCs and Multipurpose Cooperatives.
47.       In keeping with Government policy, the APCs, assisted by village
Cultivation Committees (CCs), would eventually take over most of the respon-
sibilities for agricultural planning and operation of the irrigation system.
Working with MDB and DA field staff, the APCs and CCs would make recommenda-
tions with respect to cropping patterns and calendars and the water-issue
periods for the distributaries. The CCs would also recommend minimum flows
for domestic purposes and livestock. With this information, the MDB would
then establish the operating calendars for the various command and sub-command



- 13 -
areas under the project. The success of this program would require complete
cooperation of the CCs and the APCs in the adopted water management plans.
Because of this water allocation responsibility, the jurisdictional boundaries
of the APCs and CCs would conform to the command and sub-command areas of the
irrigation system (Section 4.05 of the Development Credit Agreement).
48.       The Community Development Officers (CDOs), who would be responsible
for all settlement aspects of the project at the field level, have been given
many of the powers of the Government Agent, including broad supervisory re-
sponsibility over the APCs and CCs. The Agricultural Officers (AOs) would
fulfill the important function of providing technical advice to the APCs.
The Project Agricultural Extension Officer (PAEO) would be responsible for
the extension activities within the area (recently established as a separate
extension district), reporting directly to the Deputy Director of Extension,
DA. The PAEO, ex officio, also would be the Deputy RPM (Agriculture). These
officers would be located adjacent to the APC offices and would work closely
together. With the storage facilities, buildings, vehicles, and plant and
equipment for a processing complex provided under the project, the Paddy Mar-
keting Board (PMB) would be primarily responsible for the storage, processing
and marketing of the agricultural output from the project. Within one year
after settlement, the Government will ensure that the schools and medical
centers are adequately staffed (Section 4.04 of the Development Credit
Agreement).
Maintenance
49.       Responsibility for the maintenance of the construction equipment
would be with the DME which operates a regional workshop at Anuradhapura.
Until local institutions have developed sufficient competence, the MDB would
have the responsibility for the O&M of the irrigation infrastructure down to
the field turnout level. The Government would provide sufficient funds and
staff for the proper O&M of the irrigation works, roads and buildings in
accordance with appropriate engineering practices (Section 4.03 of the De-
velopment Credit Agreement).
50.       The CCs, acting under the general supervision of the APCs, and
advised by field staff of the MDB, would be responsible for the maintenance
of the field channels and for the distribution of water among the various
users on each distributary. The MDB staff would oversee the maintenance and
water distribution operations of the CCs, and would report any deficiencies
to the APCs or higher authority. In case remedial action is not taken,
authority would be given to the NDB to take over these functions and to
assess the costs against the water users with such charges to be collected
by the Government Agent (GA).
51.       Adequate repair facilities and workshops exist in the private
sector to provide maintenance services for the farm equipment to be provided
under the project.  Motorcycles and bicycles sold to the extension staff
would also be maintained by private workshops. The DA would provide a mile-
age allowance to the extension staff for the operation and maintenance of
these vehicles. The maintenance of the other extension equipment and vehicles



- 14 -
would be the responsibility of the DA. Funds for such maintenance, as well
as for fuel, personnel and operating supplies, would be provided through
the annual budget of the DA. The Government would continue to make avail-
able adequate provisions for the agricultural extension services in the
project area (Section 4.03 of the Development Credit Agreement).
Technical Assistance and Monitoring
52.       The MDB would employ an Implementation Advisor for about 3 years
to serve as a non-voting member of the MCC and to assist the MDB Chairman
in the planning, scheduling and management of all aspects of the project, as
well as the feasibility studies for the next stages of the Mahaweli Develop-
ment Scheme. The MDB also would employ an On-Farm Development specialist for
about 3 years to assist in planning the irrigation of upland crops, developing
suitable farm layout models within the field turnout areas, and establishing
operational criteria for the irrigation system. These two specialists would be
appointed by January 1, 1978 (Section 3.06 of the Development Credit Agreement).
53.       The project would include a program for monitoring irrigation
efficiencies and the agricultural, economic and social impact. Funds would
be provided for installing about 50 flow recording stations, equipment and
vehicles, services of a short-term hydrologist (12 man-months), and agro-
economic surveys to be carried out by the Agrarian Research and Training
Institute (ARTI). The net impact of the project on the environment and pub-
lic health is expected to be favorable. The Government would monitor the
incidence of malaria in the project area, and take preventive and remedial
measures as required (Section 4.02 of the Development Credit Agreement).
D. Project Costs and Financing
54.       The total project costs are estimated at US$100.5 M equivalent, in-
cluding about US$20.5 M in taxes and duties. The foreign exchange component
would be about US$32.6 M or 41% of the total, net of taxes and duties. The
estimates for civil works are based on actual contract prices recently awarded
for similar ongoing works in the project area, updated to January 1977 level.
Unit prices for equipment, materials and supplies are based on c.i.f. prices
for recently imported items in Sri Lanka and on January 1977 price quotations
from equipment suppliers. The major elements included in the cost estimate
are irrigation, land development and on-farm works (US$29.1 M); equipment and
vehicles for construction and O&M (US$12.6 M); farm equipment and other agri-
cultural production support (US$15.5 M); social infrastructure and settlement
(US$8.7 M), and technical assistance (at an average rate of US$93,000 per man-
year) and monitoring (US$1.1 M). Physical contingencies, based on the level
of data preparation and investigations completed, are estimated at US$6.8 M
(20% for irrigation works, 15% for market roads, and 10% for social infra-
structures, stores and other buildings, and the monitoring program). The
Government's costs for administration, design and construction supervision



- 15 -
are estimated at US$4.5 M, i.e., 10% of construction costs (including physical
contingencies). The provision for expected price increases amounts to US$22.2
M, or about 31% of the base cost estimate including taxes and duties.
55.       Cofinancing arrangements totalling US$23.2 M equivalent have been
made as follows: Canada, US$6.0 M; The Netherlands, US$5.0 M; U.K., US$7.2 M;
and U.S., US$5.0 M; all to be provided in the cofinanciers' respective cur-
rencies and at various terms (Annex III, page 1). Together with these co-
financing arrangements, the proposed IDA contribution of US$19.0 M would
finance the full foreign exchange costs and about US$9.6 M of local costs, or
about 53% of the total project cost net of taxes and duties. In light of the
limited domestic resources available for investment (para 16), such local cost
financing is justified. Commercial banks and the buyers of farm equipment
would provide about US$9.7 M for financing the farm equipment. Net of receipts
from taxes and duties on imported project items, the Government's contribution
would be about US$28.1 M, or about 35% of the project cost net of taxes and
duties. A condition of effectiveness would be the effectiveness of agreements
between the Government and the respective cofinancing countries (Section 6.01
(a) of the Development Credit Agreement).
E. Procurement and Disbursement
56.       Equipment and vehicles supplied by Canada, U.K. and U.S. under
parallel cofinancing arrangements would be procured in accordance with their
respective procurement guidelines, while equipment and vehicles supplied by
The Netherlands and IDA under joint cofinancing arrangements would be pro-
cured through international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with
Bank Group guidelines. A 15% preference margin, or prevailing customs duties
if lower, would be extended to local manufacturers in evaluation of bids.
Small off-the-shelf items costing less than US$10,000 each, which are not
practical for international tendering, would be purchased through normal
Government procurement procedures which are satisfactory to IDA. Such pur-
chases, however, would be limited to an aggregate total of US$250,000.
57.       Because most of the civil works would be labor-intensive, relatively
small, restricted to seasonal construction, scattered over a wide area, and
not practical for grouping into large contracts, they would be unsuitable for
ICB. Since the private sector does not have sufficient capacity to carry
out all the civil works under the project, a number of public agencies with
substantial experience in this type of work would also be used. Thus, part of
the works would be awarded to private contractors (US$28.7 M equivalent) after
local competitive bidding (LCB), part to public agencies under negotiated
contracts (US$8.5 M equivalent), and a small amount would be carried out under
force account (US$0.6 M equivalent). Award of contracts to public agencies
would be governed by the following conditions: (i) unit prices offered would
not exceed the unit prices in the lowest evaluated LCB bid for similar work;
(ii) all participants, whether under LCB or negotiated contracts, would meet
prequalification standards acceptable to IDA; (iii) all public agency con-
tracts would be approved by IDA before they are awarded with the exception
of contracts below US$50,000, up to an aggregate of US$500,000; and (iv) DME,



- 16 -
the central pool in Sri Lanka for machinery and equipment for public works,
would be restricted to procuring, renting, repairing and maintaining equipment
and vehicles, and would not participate directly in any construction work.
Small works, such as brush clearing and minor land preparation, distributary
canals, drainage channels, and on-farm development would either be carried out
following LCB or let on a unit price basis to small village contractors. This
work designation formula is designed to utilize, as far as possible, the
locally available construction capacity, while controlling the cost of
negotiated contracts.
58.       Disbursements from the proposed IDA credit would be made for:    (i)
100% of the foreign expenditures for directly-imported equipment, vehicles and
spares; (ii) 50% of local expenditures for imported equipment, vehicles and
spares procured locally; (iii) 100% of ex-factory price for locally-produced
goods; (iv) 100% of foreign expenditures for technical assistance and the
monitoring program; (v) 25% of expenditures for irrigation infrastructure and
roads; and (vi) 47% of expenditures for social infrastructure and buildings.
Disbursements for force account work under item (v) above would be made
against statements of expenditure provided by the Government. The documenta-
tion in support of these statements of expenditure would be retained by the
Government and made available for inspection during project supervision. All
other disbursement would be made against full documentation. It is expected
that disbursements would be completed by end-1982, about six months after
completion of the project.
F. Cost Recovery
59.       The present value of the project investments in irrigation infra-
structure and land development is estimated at Rs 180 M or about Rs 4,700
per ac (at a discount rate of 10% per annum). In addition, the O&M of the
irrigation system would require an annual expenditure of about Rs 80 per
ac. Assuming that water charges are introduced in phase with the construc-
tion schedule, but with a one-year grace period, full cost recovery would
require an annual charge of about Rs 1,850 per farm or Rs 740 per ac --
Rs 660 for recovery of capital costs (over 30 years) and Rs 80 for O&M costs.
These charges would represent about 50% of the net incremental farm income.
60.       Whereas it might be possible to recover full project costs, the
following considerations argue for significantly lower recovery rates: (i)
the farms are small and even after full development the incomes of the set-
tlers would not exceed the average per capita income in Sri Lanka; (ii) the
settlers should be given proper incentives to purchase and fully develop their
new farm and maximize their contribution to an important national objective,
i.e., self-sufficiency in foodgrain production; and (iii) Sri Lanka has not
charged for irrigation water in the past, and thus there would be considerable
opposition from farmers if the charges are perceived as "too high". Thus, it
has been agreed that project charges would be set at a level equivalent to
about 22% of net incremental farm income.



- 17 -
61.       The prime institutional mechanism for recovery of capital costs
for the project is the Sale of State Land (Special Provisions) Law of 1973
under which the developed land, all publicly-owned (para 40), would be sold
to the settlers. The sales prices would cover the cost of development below
the intake structure at the field turnout level and the amount of special
assistance to the settlers. The Government has agreed that the land sales
price would average Rs 8,880 per family (Rs 3,550 per ac of farm land), which
would be paid over 20 years at 4% interest. This amounts to an annual charge
of Rs 650 per farm .(Rs 260 per ac) in current terms.
62.       The O&M costs for the irrigation works included in the project
would be covered by charges levied in accordance with the Land Betterment
Charges Law of 1976, under which the Government is able inter alia to impose
annual charges in irrigation and drainage schemes taking into account factors
such as amount and dependability of irrigated water, increased agricultural
production, cropping intensity, and capital and O&M costs. The detailed
regulations required for the implementation of land betterment charges are
under preparation and expected to be enacted by end-1977. Work is also
underway to revise, update and prepare the land registers necessary for the
administration of land betterment charges. By January 1, 1978, the Govern-
ment would complete all measures necessary to enable it to impose and collect
appropriate charges from within the project area and other major irrigation
and drainage schemes throughout the country (Section 3.09(a) of the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement). Actual collection of the charges would begin after
the yala harvest (September 1978).
63.       The Government would collect from the project beneficiaries charges
adequate to recover full O&M costs and as much as possible of the construction
costs, after taking into account the ability of the beneficiaries to pay, in
accordance with a cost recovery plan acceptable to IDA (Section 3.09(b) of the
Development Credit Agreement). The initial charge for O&M costs would be Rs 30
per ac, to be gradually increased to cover full O&M costs in the fifth year.
64.       The agreed level of charges (land sales price and land better-
ment charge) would lead to about 33% of cost, in real terms, being recovered.
The Government, in agreement with the Association and beginning in 1986, would
review and revise, if necessary, on a regular basis every three years, the
level of charges collected under the project.
G. Project Benefits and Risks
65.       The land and water resources in the sparsely populated dry zone
of Sri Lanka are highly underutilized. Due to low rainfall, irrigation is
essential for intensified cultivation. The proposed project would help re-
lieve this major resource constraint and assist the Government in achieving



- 18 -
three basic development objectives: (i) increased food production;
(ii) reduced unemployment and underemployment; and (iii) improved income
distribution.
66.       The production increase due to the project is estimated at 42,300
tons of foodgrains, 1,100 tons of chillies, and 3,300 tons of oil crops.
The increased foodgrain production would give net foreign exchange savings
of US$8.0 M (in 1977 dollars) per year.
67.       The increased labor requirements would be primarily due to the
expansion of cultivated area and to a more intensive land use. Taking into
account the likely growth in farm employment that would occur without the
project, about 12,000 full time jobs would be created in agriculture. The
provision of farm power would reduce both labor and irrigation require-
ments during the land preparation period. The water savings would be used
to expand cultivated areas, leading to an increase in labor requirements. It
is estimated that these two effects on labor demand would roughly balance.
Thus, the overall direct employment effects of the project would largely stem
from the undeveloped or new land area (40,300 ac). With an increase in the
gross value of agricultural production of some Rs 150 M at full development,
the project would generate additional income and employment in the local non-
farm sectors such as marketing, transport and processing. Based on experience
elsewhere in Asia, this would be an increase on the order of 9,000 man-years.
68.       Most of the future settlers -- whether already living in the
project area or coming from nearby areas -- are poor subsistence farmers
or landless agricultural laborers. Their present incomes, which are fairly
uniform, are about half the national average. Under the project, they would
be settled with secure tenure on 2.5 ac farms, and their incomes at full
development would reach the national average.
69.       The benefits from social infrastructure are basically non-quanti-
fiable. Likewise, it is not possible to quantify the benefits accruing to
other areas where population pressure on scarce land resources would be
alleviated. However, as the failure of many settlement schemes in Sri Lanka
shows, these components of the project would be important for the success of
the settlement program and help to achieve the projected production increases.
70.       The project's economic rate of return is estimated at about 21%.
If the relevant sunk costs for Stage I are included, the economic rate of
return is estimated at 14%. Sensitivity tests indicate that the project is
relatively sensitive to construction delays and to changes in future prices
and yields, but not very sensitive to a slower build-up of project benefits.
Although the project would remain viable under the worst combination of
assumptions associated with these risks, there is a need to carefully monitor
and control project costs and to ensure realization of full project benefits.



- 19 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
71.       The Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of Sri
Lanka and the Association, the Recommendation of the Committee provided for
in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement, and the text of
a draft resolution approving the proposed Credit are being distributed to
the Executive Directors separately.
72.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex IV.
73.       Conditions of Credit effectiveness would be:    (i) Appointment of
the Additional General Manager (Operations) in the MDB (para 36); and (ii)
effectiveness of agreements between the Government and the respective co-
financing countries (para 55).
74.       I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
75.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
April 7, 1977






XF-rof 4 paces
SRI LANKA- SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHE~ET
LAND AREA (TMOU RN2)----------------                                          ---------
...............                        ~~~~~SRI LANKA                          REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1910)
TOTAL         6 5. 6                                        MOST RECENT
AGOIC.        2&.2                         1960       1970    ESTIMATE            TANZANIA    MDJIPPThES      NALATSIA**
GNP PER CAPITA (US8)                         60.0       100.0      1 50.0               123.0        2350.0       hhs.o
POPULATIaN AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (AID-YR. MILLION)                9 .9      12.5        13.6*                12.9 /       36.9         10.4
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SgURRE KM.                         151.0    -  191.0      201.0                  14.0       123.0         32.0o
PER S0. KM. AGRICULTURAL. LAND             ..      5 06. 0    5 45. 0               23.0        279.0        291.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BRIfl RATE V/1H10, AV.)           31.6        33.1        28.6                 50.-5       44.2         42.2
CRUDE LEATH IRAT (/THOU0, AV.)           10.1        8.0         6. 3                2 3. 0      1 3.2        12 .9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE K/THOU)           5 2 .0      5 0.0      49. 0               160.04/       8 0 .0       40.8 /a
LIFE EXPECTANCT MT BIRTH IYRSjh         6 0.5       6 5. 8      617.0               41.8         5 5 .6       56.1T
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                  2.5         Z. 3        2. 2                3. 2         3. 3         2. 6/a
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (Z)
TOTAL                                    2.6         2. 4        1.7                  3.0/        3 .0         2.6b
URBAN                                    5.0/a       4.5         3.71                 5.6         4 .0         3. 0
U RBAN P OPULA T ION (1 I F TOT AL)        19.1/A     22.0o       22. 4/a               6. 0       217. 6        26.8
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 TEARS                          41.54       4 0.0       39. 3 /a            44. 44b      45 .6        4 4.7 /a
15 TO 64 YEARS                          5 4.34      56 .0      5 6. 4 7-,            53 . 0 7    5 1.6        52.17T.
65 YEARS ANO OVER                        4.2ZE       4.0         4.37-a              2 .A67       2.8a         3.27;.
AGE DEPENDENCT RATIO                        0.84b      0. 8        0.8/a                0.-94        0 .9        0.9/a
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIOD                  1.57U      1 .4        I.27;5               1.2 7-.,b    1 .5         1. 67-
FAMILT PLANNING
ACCEPTORS    CUOMOLAT IVE, THOU)           ..      21 5. 3    4 31. 5                  .        35 4.0       222. 2/a
USERS (X OF MARRIED WOMEN)                 .       .  10         99         ..                    2 .0         8.-0 7-
EMPLOY MENT
TOaTA4L LABOR FORCE ITHDUSAkD)          3 500. 0 /b 4100.0      48 00. 0             5600 0/ab12 300.0        2900.0/a
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (Z)             49.07      5 2.0 /a    5 5. 0/c              1:,f       5 5 .3/a     4 3.0o7-
UNEMPLOYED (Z OF LABOR FORCE)               4.0 7c     9 .o 7;    11.0o;                 .           1.0          6. o7;7 b
I N COME D I STRIAU3LiIOIA 
% OF PRIVATE INCOME REC'D BY-
HIGHEST   SCZ OF HOUSEHOLDS             2 6.  4        18.      18.6                 3 3.5         Z. 8.3
HIGHEST 202 IF HOUSEHOLDS               52.17       456         42. 8               6 3.3           .         56. 0
LOWEST   202Z Of HUUSEHOLDS              4.5 7;      14          7.3                  2.3           ..3.5
LOWEST    0 Z OF HUIJSEHOLDS            13.17       12.9        19. 3                 7.                      it:112
Z OWNED BY TOP lOG OF OWNERS..                           ..         .....
ZUWNED BY SMALLEST IAO OWNERS..                         ..         ...
HEALTR AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                 k1620.O /d      .      3980.0 /a           21510 0 /a c
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON           4170. 07a    274~0.0 /o  2010.0o7;e          486900           ..      1080%/a Ic
PUPOULATION PER HSIA         (            2 90. 07a  3 3 0.07;   3 30. 0 7.           7 00: 0  a  850.0        210:0 __
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF 
CALORIES (2% OF R EQU IVAE ME N TS      9 2.0      107.0       1 01. 0               7 3. 0     10 0.0        g 3.0/a d
PROTEIR (GRAMS PER DAY)                 4 5.0       5.          4.030                            450          49.0
-0F RAIC N ANIMAL AND PULSE           1 5. 0     16 .0       15. 0                2 3 .0      2 2. 0        2 0. 0 f
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES, 1-4                 ...                  16.8                   .           9 .0         5. 5
EDUCATI106
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                          95.-0 /e   101I.0 /d   1 02.0A4,             36.  &     108.   A      89.    a
SECONDARY SCHOOL                        210;        5.          52. O0                3.0 K!.    48. 7;           0
YEARS OF GCNOULING PROVIDED                                   A
(FIRST AN0 SECOND LEVEL)                12. 0       12.0        12. 0                13. 0       1 0. 0       1 3 . 0/a
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
EX OF SECONDARY)..                                   1.0 /a       ...,                            6 .0 /c      3 . 0/a
ADULT LITERACY RATE IX)                    61.0    .      .       1 8. 1                  ...                    55.o
HOUS ING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                    2 .1 A2./a.                                              2 .1         2. 3/
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOU'T
PTPEO WATER (Z)                         80. 9 4b                68.86 /a             30.04bf     1 6 .0       65.0/a fn
ACLESS TO ELECTRICITY
(2 OF ALL DWELLINGS)                          b                    0/a23.                                     430a
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED                                 *        90/                               304.1
To ELECTRICITY (I)                       2. 34 b                 2. 8 /a               ..           . 0       30.0/A
CONSUMPTI ON
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)             3 6. 0      4 1.0        I. 11.0                         4 5. 0       41. 0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)               8.0         1.0         10,                -3.0          8.0         21.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/TM PER CAP)               3 1. 0      65.~        1 77. 0              01.0 Ia    23 5.0       3 82.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                   1.2         1.5         0.1                 0.1          2.0          40
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



Page 2 of 4. pages
Unl-s otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 end 1970, and for Most Recent Lstimate between
lQ73 and 1to75,
Population for 1976 provisionally estimated .5 13.8 million.
on  Te selection of Malaysia as an objective country ie based on ito ability to combine a higb rats of economic growth wiub an adequate leve              of
celfare making it a suitable objective for policynakers In Sri Lanka..
SRI LAUKA       1960     /a  1953463;     /b   1963;    Ic   Registered applicants for work;       /d  1962;     /--  5-12 and 13-16 years of age respectively.
197   /  As percentage of employssent;     A    Regiotered unemployed;      /, Gover~nment only;      Id   6-10 end 11-17 years of age
respectively;      /e  Betsee   1965 and 1970 the duration of general ..scondary education was increas.ed feco I to 7 yearn.
Date non vocational education refer to technical Institutes ettanbed to tie Ministry of Education only.
MOST RICIOINT ESTIMATE:   IA  1971;     A   R atio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total, labor force;         /c  As pernen.tagc
of sopioyoent;      /d  Registered unemployed;      /e   1972;     If  Goveroent only;       /a  6-li and 11-17
years of age respectively.
tAiIZANIA       1970     IA  Mainland Tancania;      lb  1967;    _/c  Including assistant medical officers;        Id   Including oiduiv-   and assistant
ourses;     /s  7-13 and 11-19 years of age respectively.
PHILIPPINES     1970     A/  A.i percntage of emlyen;           A   7-12 and 13-16 years of age respectively;        Ic   Not including private cocational
scbools or vocational short-tern courses.
PMALAYSIA       1970     /A  h)et Malavnla;      /b  Registered applicants for work;       IA   Goyernoent only;      Id  196h-66;      Ic   12-18 years of age;
7T1967;       Ig   Pipsd-Vatcr inoide.
R12,   anry5, 1977
DEFINITIONS Op SOCIALI.NDQICATORS
Lan.d Aces (tbo. knn                                                                   P.poplation, per oursina Perso   - Popslatico divided by orsber of practinieg
Total -Total surface are     cprining land ar-eansd inland wa ters.                       -le ssd femle graduate ourses, "trained" or "certified" nures, and
Aunft.    M- Ms  r--M e naeOf agr-col-nrl stes aed temporarily or                        susslilary personnel with traisiog oreoetse
p-o-oooti    for craps. pastures, earken & bitohes gardens or to Iiie                Popuistion per hoapita1 bed - Popoistioe divided by orober of baspita1 beds
is; Ian.                                                                               availahle is public sod p,,ieste genersi and spe-aIfted haspfts1 sod
rehabilitstion centers; enclades narsing bones scd -tisllssocnts for
GNipecr c.Pit. (USl) - GiP per -spita estimates at ostrent market Prices,                custodial sod preventive cae.
caiccisted by saecovrso          method as World pooh Atisa (i973-75 basis):         Per capita supply of calories (Z of remuiramestul - Conputed iron esergy
1960. 1970 aod 1975 dat,                                                              equivalsst of net food sopplies avilable in country porn .pits Per day,
svaiiabls supplies comp rise domestic prodaction. imports Iess eop-r,
Pupnl.tin sod vice      taitcssd1hae                                                                  is      kIch  net supplies eon lde sciusi teed. needo, quantiss-
Popolation ind-v     cillia.    - As of July first    if nor avilable,                   ased is food prscans ing and losses in dictribotio, requir-mets unto
average of t,'c end-yea  -stimatan, 1960. 1970 and 1975 data,                         estimated by FAQ based on physiological      -    fee o i   nroal activity sod
hea lth considering envirosesta1 temnpertstcr, body asights. age sod se.
Papalata- densit     - per 55am   Ian - Mid-year papolation per square kila-             distributions   f papulation , sod allowing 107% for wast.eat boo...bold level,
metr 'll" bectar..s)of total ares.
p caiodeco icy - Per sc_rn Am of sgric, isod - Conputed as above far             Per ..pit. eapplv of rortni. (arson nor day) - Prcteiona---n Of per
agi-icct-Ia isod osly.                                                                 capita set sapply Of fecd per day. nor -pplv of fond is defined a
absee,. requirsocafral         onre      established by US00A Econonmi
Vital statintico                                                                         Researhleets provide fcr a oioimm           alwac      of 60 grams Of
irude birth rate oer thousad.         -g seta- Anoa..  live births per thousand          tota1 protein per day, and 20 fran     of animl sod psise protein of
ooid-year pop~latlo-, 1cnn    - ye r aitbetin  averge. esding in 19h0 sod            which 10 grams should be animi protein, thes       standards are lower
1970. sd five-year averge ceding In 1975 for soot reent estimate,                      than those of 75 grams    f icta1 pr-reto and 23 gSna of soLmel protein
trude death rtst per Lhb....nd, averag     - Annual deaths per thc-soad of mid-          as ae average for the world, propose.d by FAQ in the Third Weld Fond
'-er populatico, ten-year arithmetic averges ending in 1960 and 1970 sod               S.r-e.Y
flo-pyea   avera.ge ending iv 1970 for vat receot entitste.                          Per capita protein supply from sotsi and poise - Prcteln supply of fond
Iofant -otli      rtc f/thou) - Annual deaths Of infants under one year                  derived Iron ailsoad poises in grams Per da.,
of aePot thousa.nd live births,                                                      leash rate f/thee) ages 1-4 -Aessa.l deaths per ch-nndni.t age grop
Lctn cprLanrv of hitchfru      - Averae number nf years of life remain-               1-4 pears, to children in this age group, -uggencd acanId--o cf
ind at birch, usal      y./e-yeor avo-ge-    -dini in 1960. 1970 cod                   sal1-tritio-.
1975 fcr developing cutries.
G--s rer-ducti-on      , atAvr-go number of lin- daughter       a wosn wili            Edu...sien
beat in hot norma    -cpr-d-c-     pcnied if she euperiennes present age-            Aidnoted  srIlelnocto rtio - prinaty school - inro1lsent of all      gesc
sp-ecift  fe-ititi    -t-u, usually fiv-yea     averages ending in 1960,               percestage of prfmary school-age populurs-n      iocludes children aged
I190 and 1975 for developing uutis                                                     6-il yesr- but adjusted for different lengths of primary cducatien,
tnltogrowth rote ill-ttal        - ipound ...mual growh rates af old-              for ceuntries with universa    ed-ntico, entailment may encred 1007,
yearpeplacnn  ar  95060.190-70'ad 190-15.                                      since sme pupils ar.e hlo      rabev- the official school age
Population crowl rae (7,) - urban - ipute         luegowhrt         o    oa            Adjusted enrollment rotia -secodary school - Computed as         bv.-
Ppoplation,different dcfi-nt-es of uno         area  say affect compare-               secndary    duatian require    on leat feur year     of approve.d pri-rt
hIh oyf dat    o-ne   countries,                                                      instru.ttle, provides gene.ral. -ootiona1 or teac.her tra1inin
ic.oc popula-tim (1 of total) - coia Of orion to icta        pepolotion,                 instruction   for pupils of 12 to I7 veer    of agn,O cupropnd-c-
differect definpitions cf urbanareas may affec      copr.biIiryof data                 coursesareSgmrlly -ncldad.
among teen. tries                                                                    Years of schooling provided (first and -ecnd Il...ls) - Toral Your       of
Agc -trucre     cren)       Child-c (0-lA, yst). -urbiog-oge       (15-h4 yearn).        scheoliog, at secondary 1-levl    oatoa       e t-r-ntics soy he Pa--
and retired (60 years   -d ever) A_pece_ rtoe      of mid-year population.             c!isly or completelIy(eacnded.
Ac dependency ractio - tacIc     f pplto              5 ad 60 and cver Ic              Pacation eI   tolloent IT of secondary) - cec-mioa1 institution
chos-  fages 10 through hi.                                                           include technical, isduasris1 or other p-cgrsu which operate
E-onvl   dependenc    rocic -Rtud    of populati-onuder 15 and 65 and avr                Indespendently or as departpe,nto of uec.odary i-atiturtion
cthe lbor forty in aggroup of 15-hi years                                         Adult lit--ay rtst ()-Literate adu1to         (able tc red and units)a
famil  olaeica  accptor  (cnaeiaee.  hou )   _-Cuultive comer ef              percentage ef total ados pepalation aged 10 years and ever.
o-epter    of birthb-cnc-1 d--ce      t,nderu -p-re   of matiena1 foeily
plOOuciOtufom  tor   icpt11"ion d                                             gassinP-g-g   -   - e
fail   p ..no -. usru (. of yandae)-Pecnae                   fmareesn                      Per room (urbam) - Average o-ber of pers-- Per teem in
wovec .I chsld-b-oing age (15-44 year) wig u-        birth--ot-Il device .....sPied conventional dw-lliags in urbacaras                   duellings   -1clde
cc al mrrie  somon  v 000  ge gr_op....sps-pemset sttru                                             turc and unoccupied ports.
ccpie  dooilng without      'Pipd aster (1) - Oc-pied cnefca
E.ployn-L                                                                                dwellidngs isubn -  a..n' rural1area  wIthout inside or outside piped
Teto1 labor fete    tthousand) - E-osoica11y active peroons. including                   aster faugilitie  as per..stage of all occupied dwellings.
armed fgrcrs and,seyoe        bu    mrcig,housawive, students. etc.,                Access en e1strigity (7. of oil dtellinos) - Conventional dwellings
doiotest         aie      onrie      r  o     - oprable                               with electricity in living quater      as p-erne     of coral dwellings  in
isab- f-einc oarclus(             - Agriculturl labor force (in     onming,              urban and rua-   aes
f.... cry, buntIng and ftebieg) as percentge of total labor forc                    aRalI daeIiiaa   cossected cc e1-uricirn (         C)-Cpcted as above for
ium.pl.eyd (. of Iohar fgrue) - Unnplycyd are ann ally defined asrural d-Illingo only.
person   who are able sod swilliisg to tabs a Jab, out of a Job a 
gSie   dsp   _emined out of a jb, and neeking worh for a spegifled                  Cens   Ptapien
climom- period no reeneding one we oh, my met be coparable betesaem                 Radlori    is    feet thea 22p) - All ryp-c of rcivers for radio broed-
countries due no different d.fisitigno of uneoplcyod and esurc       of               castsese genersi public per thousa.nd Of pepsiatia..    esnludes
data.e.g. ,oplcy-set eff-e       catistics, .-nPIc s-.vY., cmpsisry                     _Iiimensd rece.ivers In nooncries and in years when registeasie     of
ceopovetose             .                                                             radio set   ass in effece; data for reget years may eat he comparble
since mot conotrie     abolished lcnig
Iscone distribution - Percentage of private incom      (beth Is cash sad              Pa:ss1engercars iee   thos Pop) - Pssegerca        comprise   otcar car
bind) received by richest 5%, richest 207., poor-- 207%, and pooret                   s..ating less thas .eight peron, eoclods- omb41--e, hearses and
4I/   fhousholds.                                                                     nilitary   -hics.1
Electricisy (kwh/yr Per cap) - Annual consuption ai isdsstriol, .
D-trributiam of land osonerobip - Percn.eao      cf Iuod ownd by ucaitbiast             meri_l    public sod private electricity in hilowart hosts Per capita,
10, and poores   107. Of land most.generally based on prodution data, without alwnefor Ionsca in
grids her     owing for imports and enperto af elenctricity
Osit.1h and Nutitioan                                                                 New-prin   (ba/ylr per cap) - Ports pita annual   -onmption in kilograms
Popula,tion Per physfigis  - Pcpclstie- divided by somber ef practicing                 estimoted from domestic productieo plus set imparts of -raprint.
physi.an   qualified from a medical   -cb-I an university level.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4 pages
COUNTRY DATA - SRI LANKA
AREA                       POPULATION             1/                        DENSITY
65,607 sq km              1r.8 million (mid-1976)                           210 per sq km (1976)
Rate of growth:  1.7 70 (from 1971 to 1976)      554 per sq km of agricultural land (1974)
POPULATION CHARACTERISTICS (1974)                                   HEALTH (1970)
Crude birth rate (per 1,000):  27.3                                 Population per physician,  3,690
Crude death rate (per 1,000):   8.9                                 Population per hospital bed, 330
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births): 45
INCOME DISTRIBUTION (1973)                                          DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
% of national income, highest quintile, 45                          % owned by top 107. of owners
lowest quintile,  13                          % owned by smallest 10%/. of owners
ACCESS TO PIPED WATER (1971)                                        ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (1971)
% of population - urban   77                                        7. of dwellings  - total  ..  9
- rural    5                                                        - rural  ..  3
NUTRITION (1973)                                                    EDUCATION (1970)
Calorie intake as % of requirements: close to 100                   Adult literacy rate,  78%
Per capita protein intake (grams per day):  45                      Primary school enrollment,  89%
2'
GNP PER CAPITA in 1975:   US $150
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1975                                      ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%,constant prices)
US$ Mn.        %                       1960 -65          1965 -70          1970-75
GNP at Market Prices          3,367       100.0                        3.9                5.0             2.8
Gross Domestic Investment       525        15.6                      - 2.0               14.1          -  1.0
Gross National Saving           354        10.5                      - 1.2               13.2          - 8.5
Current Account Balance       - 186       - 5.5
Exports of Goods, NFS           628        18.7                        2.3               0.8             0.0
Imports of Goods, NFS           799        23.7                     - 4.3              - 2.0          - 7.5
OUTPUT, EMPLOYMENT, AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1975
Value Added                 Emplovment                     V. A. Per Worker
us5$  Mn.    %_                  M         __ US $                          %
Agriculture                  1,226       39.2                1.829    54.9                  670         71
Industry  3/                   507       16.2                0.367    11.0                1,381        147
Services                     1,398       44.6                1.136    34.1                1,231        131
Unallocated
Total/Average         3,131      100.0                 3.332  100.0                  940        100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government
(RL.   Mn.)        % of GDP
1976       1970-72      1976
Current Receipts                                                                 4,859         21.0       17.8
Current Expenditure                                                              5,333         23.1       19.6
Current Surplus                                                                 - 4/4       -   2.1     -'1-
Capital Expenditures                                                             1,988          6.4        7.1
External Assistance (net)                                                        1.065          2.7        3.9
1/ Provisional estimates.
2/ The per capita GNP estimate is calculated by the same conversion technique as the 1975 World Atlas. All other
conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
3/ Includes mining.
4/ The sectoral distribution was assumed to be the same as for 1971.
not available
not applicable



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4 pages
COUNTRY DiTA - SRI LANK&
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                 1970         1971        1972        1973        1974        1975
(illion Rs. outstanding end periodT
Money and Quasi Money                    3,061        3,379       3,917       4,093       4,504       4 712
Bank Credit to Public Sector             2,571        2,724       2,900       2,679       2,532       2,828
Bank Credit to Private Sector            1,617        1,760       2,186       2,164       3,235       3,403
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP         26.0         28.3        30.5        27.1        21.0        19.7
General Price Index (1963 - 100)         127.0        130.4       138.6       152.0       170.7       182.3
Annual percentage changes ins
General Price Index                        5.9          2.6         6.3         9.6        12.3         6.8
Bank credit to Public Sector               9.6          6.0         6.5         7.6       - 5.5        11.6
Bank credit to Private Sector             10.0          8.8        24.3       - 1.0        49.6      - 14.2
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                               MERChANDISE EXPORTS 1976
1/
1974     1975     1976-                                            US S Mn.     %
(Millions US$)
Exports of Goods, NFS          572      628      629            Tea                              249        44.5
Imports of Goods, NFS          735      799      657            Rubber                           106        18.9
Resource Gap (deficit = -)    -163     -171      -28            Coconut Products                  44         7.9
Interest Payments (net)        -16      -15      -18            All Other Commodities            161        28.7
'.!orFers' Remittances           -        -        -                          Total              560       100.0
Other Factor Payments (net)      -
Net Transfers                        -             -
Balance on Current Account    -179     -186      -46
Direct Foreign Investment        1        -        -            EXTERNAL DEBT (US $ Millions)
Net MLT Borrowing               44       87       78                                 December 1974  December 1975
Disbursements               (70)    (126)    (112)                                               (provisional)
Amortization                (26)    ( 39)    ( 34)           Total Outstanding       867.8          997.4
Subtotal                     45       87       78
Capital Grants                  42       77       49            Total Outstanding
Other Capital (net)            101       21      -15              and Disbursed         579.4          600.7
Other items n.e.l.              -1       -3        -
Increase in Reserves (+) /      +8       -4        6            DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1975-     /      20.3%
Gross Reserves (end year)       78       58       92
Net Reserves   (end year)      -80      -84      -18
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                  IBRD/IDA LENDING, December 31, 1976 (Million US$):
1967 - 1971        Foreign Exchange Entitlement                                                 IBRD      IDA
US$1.00 = Rs 5.93  Certificate (FEEC) Rates
Rs 1.00 = US$0.17                                               Outstanding & Disbursed         36.0      43.6
End 1972           1968      US$1.00 = Rs 8.54 (44% FEEC)       Undisbursed                      7.8      36.9
US$ 1.097R2   67   1969 to                                      outstanding including
US$1.00 = Rs 6.70 1  1971    US$1.00 - Rs 9.22 (55% FEEC)          Undisbursed                  43.8      80.5
Rs -.00 = US$0.15  1972(end) US$1.00 - Rs 9.92 (557. FEEC)
End 1973           1973(end) US$1.00 - Rs11.12 (65% FEEC)
US$1.00 = Rs 6.75  1974(end) US$1.00 - Rs11.04 (65% FEEC)
Rs 1.00 = US$0.15  1975(end) US$1.00 - Ra12.72 (65% FEEC)
End 1974           1976 end) US$1.00 = RsI4.57 (65% FEEC)
End 1974     ~1977 (end-
US$1.OO = Rs 6.69   March)   US$1.00 = Rs12.01 (65% FEEC)
Rs 1.00 = US$0.15
End 1975
US$1.00 = Rs 7.71
Rs 1.00 = US$0.13
End 1976
us$1.00 = Rs 8.83
Rs 8.83 = US$0.11
End March 1977
US$1.00 - Rs 7.28
Rs 1.00 - US$0.14
1/ Preliminary estimate as of mid-February 1977.
2/ Repayable in foreign currencies and with a maturity over one year.
3/ Includes errors and omissions.
4/ Ratio of debt service to exports of goods and non-factor services.
South Asia Programs Department
March 21, 1977



ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SRI LANKA
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of February 28, 1977)
US$ Million
Loan or                                           Amount (net of cancellations
Credit                                              and exchange adjustments)
Number   Year    Borrower         Purpose          Bank       IDA    Undisbursed
Six  loans and three credits fully disbursed      42.4      30.1         -
121      1968  Sri Lanka         Irrigation                  2.0        0.3
636      1969 Ceylon             Power            16.5                  1.3
Electricity
Board
168      1969  Sri Lanka         Land                        2.5        0.4
Reclamation
653      1970  Sri Lanka         Irrigation/      14.5                  5.8
Power
372      1973  Sri Lanka         Power Transm.                6.0       0.8
504      1974  Sri Lanka         Dairy                        9.0       8.1
Development
566      1975  Development       Industrial                  4.5        2.2
Finance Corp     Finance
of Ceylon
595      1975  Sri Lanka         Agricultural               25.0       22.3
Development
666      1976  Sri Lanka         Tank Irrigation
Modernization               5.0       5.0
Total,                                            73.4       84.1      46.2
of which has been repaid                        30.4       -
Total now outstanding                             43.0       84.1
Amount sold,                            3.6
of which has been repaid              3.6        -
Total now held by Bank and IDA                    43.0       84.1
Total undisbursed                                  7.1       39.1       46.2
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of February 28, 1977).
None.



ANNEX II
Page 2
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Cr. No. 121 - Lift Irrigation Project; US$2 million of June 19, 1968;
Effective Date: August 5, 1968; Original Closing Date:
June 30, 1973, Revised Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Construction is about two-and-a-half years behind the appraisal
schedule, but most problems causing the delay - government change, reorgani-
zation, insurrection in 1971, strikes in 1972 and inadequate repair facili-
ties - have been solved since 1973 and little further slippage is expected.
Total costs have risen due to inflation by US$1 million over the appraisal's
estimate of US$3.3 million; the additional cost is being met from local sour-
ces. The Project remains viable because prices of main output (onions and
chillies) have risen three to four times the values used for appraisal. The
Credit is expected to be fully disbursed by the Revised Closing Date.
Ln. No. 636 - Maskeliya Oya Power Project; US$16.5 million of July 28, 1969;
Effective Date: January 19, 1970; Original Closing Date:
September 30, 1973, Revised Closing Date: December 31, 1977
The Project is virtually completed. The first unit of 50 MW was
commissioned in February 1974, about 1-1/2 years later than originally esti-
mated. The second unit was commissioned in July 1974. The gas turbine unit
was cancelled upon the request of the Ceylon Electricity Board (CEB). Delays
were caused mainly by problems associated with the appointment of acceptable
consultants, landslides in the penstock area and various strikes in manufac-
turers' factories. Site work has in general been carried out satisfactorily.
The only remaining work, the extension of the Polpitiya switching station, is
expected to be completed by June 1977. The closing date of the Loan has been
extended to December 31, 1977 to allow for completion of the Polpitiya switch-
ing station, and for delays in manufacture and delivery of equipment. Foreign
exchange savings of about $1.9 million are used to cover the cost overrun on
the Power Transmission and Distribution Project (Credit 372), discussed below.
Cr. No. 168 - Land Reclamation and Drainage Project; US$2.5 million of
November 13, 1969; Effective Date: February 12, 1970;
Original Closing Date: December 31, 1974; Revised Closing
Date: June 30, 1977
Construction is about two-and-a-half years behind schedule (for
the same reasons as under Credit 121 above), but all necessary equipment is
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3
now on order and no further delays are anticipated. Overall project costs
have increased due to inflation by 30% above the appraisal estimate; the
cost overruns are being met by Government. The Project remains viable
because the price of the main output (paddy) has increased by over 100%
since appraisal. The Project is expected to be fully disbursed by the
Revised Closing Date.
Ln. No. 653   - Mahaweli Ganga Development Project (Irrigation/Power);
US$14.5 million of January 30, 1970; Effective
Date: April 30, 1971; Closing Date: June 30, 1976;
Revised Closing Date: July 31, 1978
The Project, now nearly complete, is nearly two years behind
appraisal target. Delays were due mainly to foundation problems at Polgolla
power house and a slow start at Bowatenna diversion dam. After overcoming
these problems, the construction progressed satisfactorily. Water was di-
verted at Polgolla in January, and at Bowatenna in March, 1976. The power
plant is in its final stages of testing; the Bowatenna and Elehara (diversion
and new canal intake) structures are almost completed. Good progress has been
recorded to date on agricultural extension and research in the Project area.
Total project costs increased by about 12% over the appraisal estimates
largely as a result of rising costs for electromechanical equipment. However,
the economic viability of the Project was not adversely affected by the cost
overruns since produce prices increased by 100% since appraisal. The Credit
(174-CE) associated with this Project has been fully disbursed. The closing
date of the Loan has been extended to July 31, 1978 to permit final disburse-
ments, including one year for disbursing retention payments.
Cr. No. 372 - Power Transmission and Distribution Project; US$6.0 million
of April 18, 1973; Effective Date: July 25, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1976; Revised Closing Date:
December 31, 1977
The Project is proceeding without major problems and procurement
is practically completed. Inflation since signing has increased foreign ex-
change costs by some 30% and we have agreed to cover the cost overruns from
savings under Loan 636-CE above.
Cr. No. 504 - Dairy Development Project; US$9.0 million of August 9, 1974;
Effective Date: February 10, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
Progress of implementation is satisfactory.   The Project Technical
Unit has been established, its key staff appointed and field-trained. Con-
struction of the calf rearing unit and the importation of the first shipment
of 860 cattle have been completed. Farmer response to the project is most



ANNEX II
Page 4
encouraging; about 800 loan applications have been approved by the participat-
ing banks. Although disbursements are behind schedule, largely due to delay
in credit effectiveness, the Project is making good progress and is likely to
be fully committed by late 1977.
Cr. No. 566 - Third Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon Project;
US$4.5 million of June 27, 1975; Effective Date: August 22,
1975; Closing Date: September 30, 1979
The Credit was designed to meet the estimated foreign exchange re-
quirements of the Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon (DFCC) over the
life of the project for lending mainly to export industries and tourism. The
implementation of the Project is progressing satisfactorily and there are no
major issues. The Credit is likely to be completed and fully disbursed by
the Closing Date.
Cr. No. 595 - Agricultural Development Project; US$25.0 million of
December 24, 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1978
The Credit will help meet capital and technical assistance require-
ments in the agricultural sector. Disbursements were initially delayed because
of slowness in finalizing complementary UNDP projects, delays by the Government
in appointing key consultants, and inadequacies in local overall project coor-
dination. The irrigation and sugar production components are now progress-
ing satisfactorily. Orders for the importation of the first lot of machinery
for the Ministry of Irrigation, Power, and Highways have been placed and
tender documents for the remainder of these two components are being finalized.
Agreement has been reached on modified UNDP complementary projects and final
approval by UNDP and FAO (Executing Agency) has been obtained. The Government
has appointed the key consultants for the tree crop incentive study and all
conditions for credit disbursement have now been satisfied. Review missions
in June/July and September 1976 assisted the Government in improving the over-
all coordination of the Project.
Cr. No. 666 - Tank Irrigation Modernization Project; US$5.0 million of
January 12, 1977; Effective Date: March 14, 1977;
Revised Effectiveness Date: April 18, 1977; Closing Date:
June 3Q, 1981
Although the Credit is not yet effective, the Inter-ministerial
Project Coordinating Committee has been established and is meeting regularly,
and working committees at the District and tank levels are being formed.
The Chief Project Engineer has been appointed and has assumed his duties.
Procurement is in process for the equipment and vehicles to be financed
by both IDA and the U.K., which is providing US$6.0 million equivalent in
cofinancing.



ANNEX III
Page 1
SRI LANKA - MAHAWELI GANGA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
CREDIT & PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                      Republic of Sri Lanka (GOSL).
Amount:                        $19.0 million.
Terms:                         Standard.
Cofinanciers:  Canada       -  US$6.0 million equivalent with no interest
or service charge, repayment period of
50 years (including 10 years' grace). Pro-
curement tied to goods and services produced
in Canada.
The
Netherlands - US$5.0 million equivalent at 2-1/2% interest,
repayment period of 30 years (including 8
years' grace). Procurement untied, joint
financing with IDA under international compe-
titive bidding.
United
Kingdom    - US$7.2 million equivalent on grant basis.
Procurement tied to goods and services pro-
duced in the U.K.
United
States     - US$5.0 million equivalent at 2% interest
during grace period (10 years) and 3% interest
thereafter, repayment period of 40 years. Pro-
curement tied to goods and services produced in
the U.S.
Project
Description:                 The Project would be the first major develop-
ment of new lands located in Sri Lanka's
north-central dry zone, covered by the Govern-
ment's Mahaweli Master Plan. The Project builds
on experience gained from ongoing irrigation/
settlement works in the area, as well as previous
schemes elsewhere in Sri Lanka, and is designed
with the view to replication in the future. It
provides for irrigation works and land develop-
ment, agricultural production support, and social
infrastructure required for completing Stage II
of the Government's Plan. The details of the
Project are given below.



ANNEX III
Page 2
Project
Components: I. Irrigation Infrastructure (and Land)
(a) Completion of reconstruction of existing
Kalawewa Main Canal (10 mi), with control
structure;
(b) Improvement of four large tanks along Main
Canal to serve as equalizing reservoirs
to reduce operational losses;
(c) Construction of 250 mi of distributary
canals, with control structures, and
400 mi of field channels;
(d) Construction of operation and maintenance
(O&M) roadways along main, branch and
distributary canals; and
(e) Improvement of main drains (10 mi) and
construction of secondary and tertiary
drains (100 mi and 110 mi, respectively).
II. On-Farm Development
(a) Cleaning of trees and brush and cross-
ripping by heavy tractors;
(b) Plowing of cultivation areas to assist
settlers in leveling, grading and con-
structing soil conservation bunds; and
(c) construction of 1,500 mi of farm ditches
and drains to provide farm-level water
distribution and drainage.
III. Equipment, Vehicles and Facilities
(a) Provision of equipment and vehicles for
construction of civil works; and
(b) Construction of workshop (with equipment,
offices and staff quarters) and equipment
to support the 0&M of irrigation works.



ANNEX III
Page 3
IV. Agricultural Extension and Research
(a) Reorganization and strengthening of agri-
cultural extension services in the area,
and provision of vehicles for increased
staff mobility, staff quarters, and
demonstration equipment;
(b) Provision of equipment, teaching aids, staff
quarters and dormitories for the Regional
Agricultural Training Center at Maha
Illuppallama; and
(c) Provision of equipment and staff housing for
new Irrigation and Water Management Pilot
Project jointly sponsored by the Mahaweli
Development Board and Irrigation and Agri-
cultural Departments.
V. Farm Equipment
(a) Provision of 300 four-wheel and 1,200 two-wheel
tractors, with implements; and
(b) Provision of 50 power sprayers and 1,300
hand sprayers for improved plant protection.
VI. Storage, Marketing and Processing
(a) Construction of storage facilities for fertilizer,
seed and paddy in 50 village centers;
(b) Construction of three primary cooperatives and
24 branch cooperatives, renovation of 26 branch
buildings, and vehicles and minor equipment for
the three primary cooperatives; and
(c) Provision of buildings, plant and equipment for
the Paddy Marketing Board's processing complex,
and 50 rice hullers and 25 thresher/winnowers
for the Cultivation Committees in the project
area.
VII. Market Roads
(a) Construction of 25 mi of new link roads and
improvement of 50 existing link roads to pro-
vide all-weather access throughout the project
area.



ANNEX III
Page 4
VIII. Schools and Medical and Community Development Facilities
(a) Construction of 600 classrooms in primary schools
and 20 classrooms in secondary schools, together
with laboratories, playgrounds, and quarters
for school principals;
(b) Construction of two rural hospitals and two
central dispensaries, with maternity wards,
together with vehicles, equipment and staff
quarters;
(c) Construction of small community halls for
each village center and provision of vehicles
and staff housing.
IX. Village Wells and Roads
(a) Construction of 1,235 wells (one per 20 families)
in the hamlets; and
(b) Construction of 200 mi roads in the hamlets and
villages, including drains and culverting.
X. Assistance to Settlers
(a) Provision to each settler materials for a
temporary hut, seeds and planting material for
the first crop, field tools, and a subsistence
allowance of Rs 50 per month for five months,
totalling about Rs 680 per family; and
(b) Provision to each family free food rations
for one year from the World Food Program.
XI. Technical Assistance and Monitoring
(a) Provision of an Implementation Advisor and
On-Farm Development Specialist for three years
each; and
(b) Provision of buildings, equipment and vehicles,
consultant's services to support a program to
monitor irrigation efficiencies and to assess
the agricultural, economic and social impact
of the project.



ANNEX III
Page 5
Cost Estimates:  1/                                    US$ Millions
Local Foreign Total
I. Irrigation and Land Development
Land Acquisition                         0.4     0.0      0.4
Irrigation Infrastructure               10.0     3.1     13.1
On-Farm Development Works               12.2     3.4      15.6
Construction Equipment, Vehicles         4.4     5.4      9.8
O&M Facilities and Equipment             1.4     1.5      2.9
Sub-total                           28.4    13.4     41.8
II.   Agricultural Production Support
Agricultural Extension, Research         1.1     0.8       1.9
Farm Equipment                           3.7     6.0      9.7
Storage, Marketing, Processing           2.0     1.4      3.4
Market Roads                             0.4     0.1      0.5
Sub-total                            7.2     8.3     15.5
III.   Social Infrastructure
Schools, Medical and Community
Development Facilities                 3.3     0.9      4.2
Village Wells and Roads                  1.6     0.5      2.1
Sub-total                            4.9     1.4      6.3
IV.   Settlement                               1.8     0.5      2.3
V.   Technical Assistance/Monitoring          0.4     0.7       1.1
VI.   Engineering, Supervision,
Administration                         4.5     0.0      4.5
Base Project Cost                       47.2    24.3     71.5
VII.   Physical Contingencies                   5.3     1.5       6.8
Sub-total                           52.5    25.8     78.3
VIII.   Price Contingencies                     15.4     6.8      22.2
Total Project Cost                      67.9    32.6     100.5
1/   Including Taxes and Duties (US$20.5 M equivalent).



ANNEX III
Page 6
Financing Plan:                                         US$ Millions
Local  Foreign   Total
(a) Components Net of Taxes
IDA Credit                               4.7     14.3     19.0
Canada                                    1.2     4.8      6.0
The Netherlands                           1.3     3.7      5.0
United Kingdom                            1.4     5.8      7.2
United States                             1.0     4.0      5.0
Government of Sri Lanka                  28.1      -      28.1
Commercial Banks/Private Sector          9.7       -       9.7
Sub-total                            47.4     32.6     80.0
(b)  Taxes                                   20.5       -      20.5
TOTAL                                67.9     32.6    100.5
Estimated Disbursements:                                US$ Millions
IDA Fiscal Year         Annual     Cumulative
1978                1.6           1.6
1979                4.8           6.4
1980                6.2          12.6
1981                4.e          16.6
1982                2.4          19.0
TOTAL                  19.0
Procurement
Arrangements:             International competitive bidding (ICB) under
IDA guidelines (with a 15% preference margin, or
prevailing custom duties if lower, for local
manufacturers) for equipment and vehicles
financed by IDA and The Netherlands; tied pro-
curement under Canadian, U.K. and U.S. guide-
lines for equipment and vehicles financed by
Canada, U.K. and U.S., respectively; for civil
works, local competitive bidding (LCB) for pri-
vate contractors; negotiated contracts for public
agencies, and a small amount under force account,
all under usual Government procedures which are
acceptable to IDA; normal trade channels for small
off-the-shelf items costing less than US$10,000
each and aggregating less than a total of
US$250,000.



ANNEX III
Page 7
Technical Assistance/
Monitoring:               One Implementation Advisor for about three
years to serve as a non-voting member of the
Mahaweli Coordinating Committee (MCC) and to
assist the Chairman of the Mahaweli Develop-
ment Board (MDB) in planning, scheduling and
management of all aspects of the project, as
well as preparation of the next stages of the
Mahaweli Development Scheme; one On-Farm
Development Specialist for about three years
to assist in planning the irrigation of up-
land crops, developing suitable farm layout
models, and establishing operational criteria
for the irrigation system; and funds for a
program for monitoring irrigation efficiencies
and the agricultural, economic and social im-
pacts of the project, including recording sta-
tions, equipment and vehicles, services of a
short-term hydrologist (12 man-months), and
agro-economic surveys to be carried out by the
Agrarian Research and Training Institute (ARTI),
an independent local organization.
Economic Rate of Return:    The economic rate of return is estimated at
21 percent.
Appraisal Report:           No. 1487-CE of March 31, 1977



ANNEX IV
Page 1
SRI LANKA
MAHAWELI GANGA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I.     Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare the project
The project was identified and prepared with Bank Group support
during the implementation of the Mahaweli Ganga Development Project (Loan 653/
Credit 174-CE), which started in 1972. It was appraised in April/May 1975 in
conjunction with the Tank Irrigation Modernization Project (Credit 666-CE).
At the request of the Government, the project was reformulated in May/June
1976.
(b) Agency preparing the project
The project was prepared by SOGREAH (French consultants), with the
assistance of the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank and
date of first mission to consider the project
July, 1974            First presentation to the Bank
September, 1974       First preappraisal mission
(d)  Date of departure of appraisal mission
April, 1975           appraisal mission
February, 1976        post-appraisal mission
May, 1976             post-appraisal mission
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
March 15, 1977.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
July 20, 1977.



ANNEX IV
Page 2
Section II.    Special Bank Implementation Action
Representatives from the cofinancing countries (Canada, The
Netherlands, United Kingdom, and United States) will participate with IDA
in the supervision of the project.
Section III.   Special Conditions
Conditions of Effectiveness
(a)  Appointment of Additional General Manager (Operations),
MDB (Condition of Effectiveness, para 36).
(b)  Agreements between the Government of Sri Lanka and
the respective cofinancing countries (Condition of
Effectiveness, para 55).
Other Special Conditions
(c)  All land and land rights required for project acquired
by Government (para 40).
(d)  Government to provide adequate funds for project imple-
mentation, and to submit to IDA each year a detailed
implementation and financial plan for the following
year (para 44).
(e)  MDB to permit no settlers earlier than three months
prior to expected water delivery (para 44).
(f)  Jurisdictional boundaries of the Agricultural Produc-
tivity Committees and the Cultivation Committees to
conform to the command areas of the irrigation system
(para 47).
(g)  Schools and medical centers to be adequately staffed within
one year after settlement (para 48).
(h)  Government to provide sufficient funds and staff for
O&M (para 49).
(i)  Government to continue to provide adequate funds and
staff for agricultural extension services (para 51).



ANNEX IV
Page 3
(j) Government to appoint an Implementation Advisor and an
On-farm Development Specialist by January 1, 1978 (para. 52).
(k) Government to monitor the incidence of malaria and
take preventive remedial measures as necessary (para 53).
(1) Government to complete all measures necessary by January 1,
1978, to enable it to impose and collect appropriate
charges (para 62).
(m)  Government to recover full O&M costs and as much as possible
of the construction costs, after taking into account the
ability of the beneficiaries to pay, in accordance with a
cost recovery plan acceptable to IDA (para 63).



PAKISTANs  >  C He  N A          E0'30'                                   031-              y I,
C-                        ~~~~~~~SRI LANKA
>0           kA.I,o,a,r,.  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~ ~  ~ ~ ~     TR INCOMALEE
INDIA                     IVtMAHAWELI GANGA(II) IRRIGATION AND       T
i13z2*ex>U8MA ts   RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT             N                    Trieo6alee
2' ~ \j A  80t Ef 9>-'3Project Location
Beaq                                                 it.,>                       030~~~~~~~~~~~ i  5  ,  21 10 I,  I
e '0\>SRI LANKA  .   E'2UO2                                                             >'    '3
D   Lf   _  <              U   S  10  5  I 0  20  25  20  35  40  1f
es'AOIOIAES                      A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ILOESPO 
;Indian  Ocean3  INDONESIA'  I_C KlO          E5     20    25          / -NQicA;'N     /|
mtl  ,ae>e                                                              \cu.c z31/a ztr/ >f  sVNAR S /   /I= _  2 
AnurodhoFlp~~~~~~~~~~~~~N /J0 00I Kr -X                , 
XF                  Xi~~~~--J -- 
.. ;. .............. ~~~~~~A, ,/                 -   -     11A- ---(AJN;- 
:'  d<>~~  ~~  -     1  l | s  -  1:s\>1  A  P  U  R   1   a a f J a ; KKHLA 0000*4  -  j 
E '(--.r                   -- ~ -      \AlIYW           GloyJunce on \onZr S
r 0                                         .    ilh~~oraeo s  ">Hrgurakg0da T  I
-r0 o* r                            ;,,-'             _  . iAANNA        4.                      USAW OL0  N/ 
NK ~ ~   ~     ~     ~     ~     PLONPW
/  ''''  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T ... .
//                      L>i                ( _ I  l;  I ;A WA
/    K14- >                 /   )  f   _ ^s     _1 S  ' 
/
/  II ~   ~   --.,  I
.2   t       ro-   ~~~~~~~\ -'  5, D/\ombup(v   1ANOAN A MED ISA   ./       <
K nknelura4#-n9SRI LANKA                             N  />FOTE   / 
-00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\-
4 " ' -NaI,onol roads  %  4 \ \     5     7POOTAL  .   FT I  L 6N'N   R I  WA
A - _ Asi~~~Ro-ilmo0izs              J                      IS -              /}(____ 
K nr< R  *,   E  G   A cr\l=Loolsoo             A
.      .  -<<\v|'(AREA eF/,MAP 4 9 ( : t , \ Canals un~~~~D.b6lu  deL cnuLAo
tSoIlea                  Doe, dooSl  l  EO OP e /ll | :- tf 7t' (      e          m eetnesS eI ?3'
e~~~~~ dOS-SO                                  BOWAC7 ;/TENNA__'                 Malew Props amS:d rser
01.0   0  V;VLINISA0       3doQ                        X DIVERSION DN Y
,ISD  MANNA   3      L- { -]jP IoI s-' j (                           E  I DAMrJ/KSRoI_  I  j  <
J      A            ------     LJ ) / /                           ;;tIIG!
I IIA C,1'I           oea'ce,ossuco
Np Voot /R  ,x                  // g     /  MAT A     L E LL      A         Et rtroos
e   :- ' _-   ; -   '  '  30   S  ,f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ \  N  U  W  A  R  A   E \L  I- YCopleed  rojctcArls,Stae _
ARAP_s.   .o                   I _   ON*r  lY                  10Sd 
co 5,                                               opetd5001,Sag  U
3000 ~ ~ "--                                              04csevr
I~~~~~ ~~~~* ~ ~ ~~~~1 ,0                  M A                    k        E-U K)U-IIdcd Ie
POLCOLLA  K                                or.Iaelcprecol(Ay MOB
DIVERSION  >  'N        's      Stage~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ...l0-d,re  neopr
41,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~).Ie101
I f         )       -~~~~~~~~~~~~~  4       BADULLA~~~~~,.-   d-  d-E-
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  op                  K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Po.Sdd,   ~
toKS.AroENtoI Do 0Y-



