CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 701 CE
Development Credit Agreement
(Mahaweli Ganga Development Project II)
between
REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 27, 1977


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 27, 1977, between REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower has contracted from Canada acting through
the Canadian International Development Agency a loan (hereinafter
called the CIDA Loan) in an amount equivalent to six million
Canadian dollars (Can$6,000,000) to assist in financing part of
the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement
(hereinafter called the CIDA Loan Agreement) entered into between
the Borrower and Canada, acting through the Canadian International
Development Agency;
(C) the Borrower intends to contract from the Kingdom of
the Netherlands a loan (hereinafter called the Netherlands Loan)
in an amount equivalent to thirteen million Dutch Guilders
(fl3,000,000) to assist in financing part of the Project on the
terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter called
the Netherlands Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the
Borrower and the Kingdom of the Netherlands;


﻿- 2 -
(D) the Borrower intends to contract from the United Kingdom
of Great Britain and Northern Ireland a grant (hereinafter called
the UK Grant) in an amount equivalent to four million five hundred
thousand Pounds (E4,500,000) to assist in financing part of the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement
(hereinafter called the UK Grant Agreement) to be entered into
between the Borrower and United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland.
(E) the Borrower intends to contract from the United States
of America through its Agency for International Development a loan
(hereinafter called the USAID Loan) in an amount equivalent to
five million dollars ($5,000,000) to assist in financing part of
the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement
(hereinafter called the USAID Loan Agreement) to be entered
into between the Borrower and the United States of America, acting
through its Agency for International Development; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "MDB" means the Mahaweli Development Board, a body
corporate established pursuant to the legislation referred to
in Section 5.01 (a) of this Agreement, as such legislation may
be amended from time to time, and includes any successor thereto;


﻿4
(b) "Project Area" means an area of land located in the
Anuradhapura, Kurunegala and Matale districts in the north-central
part of the territories of the Borrower and comprising an area of
approximately 106,000 acres, which area shall be further defined
by a map to be agreed upon between the Borrower and the
Association;
(c) "Areas under Development" means the areas of land
amounting to about 24,600 acres in the Project Area to be defined
by a map to be agreed upon between the Borrower and the
Association;
(d) "Main Project Area" means an area of approximately
40,300 acres in the Project Area, not including the areas under
development, to be defined by a map to be agreed between the
Borrower and the Association;
(e) "Implementing Agencies" means the departments,
organizations, agencies and enterprises of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out activities related to the Project;
and
(f) "SLTC" means the Sri Lanka Trading (Tractor) Corporation,
a corporation established and operating under the laws of the
Borrower.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to nineteen million dollars ($19,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association,
for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1983 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿- 6 -
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each May 1,
and November 1 commencing May 1, 1987, and ending November 1,
2026, each installment to and including the installment payable on
November 1, 1996, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.


﻿- 7 -
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out all Parts of
the Project except Part B (i) and (ii) through MDB, Part B (i) of
the Project through its Department of Agriculture and Part B (ii)
through its Paddy Marketing Board, with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
engineering, agricultural and financial practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
(b) Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions
of paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower undertakes to:
(i) furnish to the Association, not later than November I of each
year, a detailed plan for the implementation of the Project
together with the financial requirements for the Project for
the following fiscal year; and (ii) make available the funds as
required, to cover all expenditures under the Project in accordance
with such plan.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof


﻿- 8 -
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, all
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be used exclusively for the Project until the construction
of civil works under the Project has been completed, provided,
however, that all equipment needed thereafter, as shall be agreed
between the Borrower and the Association, for the operation and
maintenance of the Project shall be retained by MDB and shall be
used exclusively for this purpose.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and such costs of the Project as are recovered and to identify the
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and
to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable the
Association's accredited representatives to visit the facilities


﻿-9-
and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the
Credit, such costs of the Project as are recovered and the goods
and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the
Association, upon its request, evidence satisfactory to the
Association that such land and rights in respect of land are
available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall continue to maintain a
project advisory committee chaired by the Resident Project Manager
for the Project Area, and consisting also ef the three Deputy
Resident Project Managers for the Project Area, senior government
officers from the Anuradhapura district and farmers' representatives
from the Project Area, to advise the Borrower on the implementation
of the Project.


﻿- 10 -
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall cause MDB to employ, not
later than January 1, 1978 or such other date as may be agreed
between the Borrower and the Association, for a period of three
years: (i) an Implementation Advisor, to work directly for the
chairman of MDB and to assist in planning, scheduling and management
of all aspects of the Project; and (ii) an On-farm Development
Specialist to advise the MDB on the irrigation of upland crops, to
assist in developing suitable farm lay-out models and to establish
operational criteria for the irrigation system in the Project
Area.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall maintain its Mahaweli
Coordination Committee and the working level technical
subcommittees, all already established in agreement with the
Association.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall settle each section of the
Project Area not earlier than three months prior to the expected
date for the delivery of water to such section.
Section 3.09. In accordance with the Borrower's resource
mobilization program and except as the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall:
(a) complete, not later than January 1, 1978, all such
measures as shall be sufficient to enable the Borrower promptly
to begin to assess, impose and collect appropriate charges in all
publicly financed development projects; and


﻿- 11 -
(b) recover from beneficiaries under the Project charges
adequate to ensure the recovery of the operation and maintenance
costs and of as much as possible of the construction costs of the
Project, after taking into account the ability of the beneficiaries
to pay, in accordance with a cost recovery plan acceptable to
the Borrower and the Association.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause the
Implementing Agencies to maintain separate records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices the operations and financial condition, in
respect of the Project, of the Implementing Agencies.
(b) The Borrower shall cause the Implementing Agencies to:
(i) have their accounts and financial statements (balance sheets,
statements of income and expenses and related statements), in
respect of the Project, for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish
to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not
later Lhan six months after the end of each such year, (A)
certified copies of their financial statements for such year as so
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements of
the Implementing Agencies and the audit thereof as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably request.


﻿- 13 -
Section 4.02. The Borrower undertakes to adopt and implement
an appropriate procedure for monitoring the incidence of malaria
in the Project Area, and for taking necessary preventive and
remedial measures as required in that respect.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such measures as are required to maintain irrigation works,
roads and buildings in the Project Area in accordance with
appropriate engineering practices and to maintain the agricultural
extension services instituted under the Project in the Project
Area.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall ensure that schools and
medical centers in the Project Area are adequately staffed not
later than one year after such schools and centers are required to
serve settlers, and continue to be so staffed.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall reorganize the boundaries of
the jurisdiction of the Agricultural Productivity Committees and
Cultivation Committees in the Project Area in such a way that they
conform to the commands and sub-commands of the irrigation system.


﻿- 14 -
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) Act No. 14 of 1970 of the Borrower establishing MDB and
any other legislation or regulation of the Borrower governing
the establishment, organization and powers of MDB shall have
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived, or shall
cease to be enforced, so as to materially affect the operations of
MDB or the Project;
(b) any action shall have been taken to materially modify
the organization structure of MDB; and
(c) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any grant or loan made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Project
shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
the terms of the agreement providing therefor,
or


﻿- 15 -
(B) any such loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreement maturity
thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Association that: (A) such suspension,
cancellation, termination or prematuring is not
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform
any of its obligations under such agreement, and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available
to the Borrower from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower; and
(b) any event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.


﻿- 16 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
(a) That the CIDA Loan Agreement, the Netherlands Loan
Agreement, the UK Grant Agreement, and the USAID Loan Agreement,
have been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and
delivered on behalf of, the parties thereto and are legally
binding upon the parties thereto in accordance with their terms,
and all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of such
Agreements or the right to make withdrawals thereunder, except for
the effectiveness of this ,greement, have been fulfilled; and
(b) That the Additional General Manager (Operations) of MDB
has been appointed.
Section 6.02. The date September 30, 1977 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿-- 17 -
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
4.01 through 4.05 of this Agreement and the provisions of paragraph
(a) of Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate
or on a date thirty years after the date of this Agreement,
whichever shall be the earlier.


﻿- 18 -
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary, Ministry of Planning and Economic
Affairs of the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary
Ministry of Planning and
Economic Affairs
Colombo
Sri Lanka
Cable address:
SECMINPLAN
Colombo, Sri Lanka
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿- 19 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties thereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
By /s/ Neville Kanakaratne
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Ernest Stern
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amount of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount Allocated            % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category             Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Civil Works:
(a) Irrigation           8,500,000           25%
infrastruc-
ture, land
development,
roads and
associated
works
(b) Social in-           4,700,000          47%
frastructure,
including
buildings and
works
(2) Equipment, vehicles       2,500,000
and spare parts:
(a) directly                               100% of foreign
imported                              expenditures
(b) imported                                50%
but locally
procured


﻿- 21 -
Amount Allocated            % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category             Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(c) manufactured                            100% of local
locally                                expenditures
(ex-factory)
(3) Technical Assis-            700,000          100% of foreign
tance (including                            expenditures
monitoring Pro-
gram)
(4) Unallocated               2,600,000
TOTAL    19,000,000


﻿- 22 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in
compliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds
of the Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for
taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods
or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or
supply thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes
levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit decreases or increases, the Association
may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the
disbursement percentage then.applicable to such item as required
to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 23 -
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice


﻿- 24 -
to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the
Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
A.   Irrigation and Land Development Works
(i) Completion of Kalawewa Right Bank Main Canal (about
10 miles) and the improving of four major tanks
along the canal;
(ii) Construction of branch canals (about 31 miles),
distributory canals (about 250 miles), field
channels (about 400 miles) and structures
serving the Main Project Area;
(iii)  Improving of natural drains (about 10 miles) and
construction of secondary (about 100 miles) and
tertiary drains (about 110 miles) serving the
Main Project Area;
(iv) Clearing and preparation of about 40,300 acres of
land in cle Main Project Area; and
(v) Provision of vehicles and equipment and a
construction workshop for the construction,
operation and maintenance of the above works.
B.   Production Support
(i) Reorganization and strengthening of agricultural
extension services in the Project Area and
provision of buildings, vehicles and equipment
for this purpose;


﻿- 26 -
(ii) Provision of storage and processing complex in the
Project Area for the Borrower's Paddy Marketing
Board;
(iii) Provision of other storage, marketing and processing
facilities in the Project Area;
(iv) Provision of about 1,200 two-wheel and 300 four-wheel
tractors with implements, about 50 power sprayers
and about 1,300 hand sprayers for an area of about
71,000 acres within the Project Area; and
(v) Improvement of about 50 miles of existing roads and
construction of about 25 miles of new roads in the
Main Project Area.
C.   Social Infrastructure
(i) Provision of additional buildings and equipment for
schools in the Main Project Area and the area under
development;
(ii) Provision of additional medical facilities in the
Main Project Area and the area under development;
(iii) Provision of community development facilities in
the Main Project Area and the area under
development;
(iv) Construction of about 1,235 village wells in the
Main Project Area; and


﻿- 27 -
(v) Construction of about 200 miles of roads in the
villages in the Main Project Area.
D.   Other Project Components
(i) Settlement of about 15,300 families in the Main
Project Area;
(ii) Provision of consultants' services to assist the
MDB in the planning, design and implementation of
Parts A through C of the Project; and
(iii) Studies, surveys, structures and supporting
vehicles and equipment and consultants' services
necessary to monitor irrigation efficiencies and
assess the agricultural, economic and social
impacts of the Project.


﻿- 28 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the
purchase of goods shall be procured in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
August 1975 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Procurement of small off-the-shelf items costing less than
$10,000 each and with an aggregate value not exceeding $250,000
may be procured in accordance with procedures of the Borrower
acceptable to the Association.
2.   Civil works for the Project may be carried out under
contracts awarded in accordance with the normal procedures of the
Borrower or by force account or under negotiated contracts with
agencies of the Borrower under arrangements acceptable to the
Association.


﻿- 29 -
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods except those to be procured in accordance
with local procedures: (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or
the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured goods; (ii)
customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded;
and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other
expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place
of their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in the Republic of Sri Lanka may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the following provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
informarion required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
the Republic of Sri Lanka if the bidder shall


﻿- 30 -
have established to the satisfaction of the Republic
of Sri Lanka and the Association that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in the Republic of Sri Lanka equal to at
least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such
goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in the Republic of Sri Lanka.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
(c) above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further


﻿- 31 -
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if
said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the
group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be
selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C which as a
result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is the lowest evaluated
bid shall be selected.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works, equipment,
vehicles and spare parts estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to
the prospective bidders.


﻿- 32 -
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Association of the name of the bidder to which it
intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Association,
in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Association of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account


﻿- 33 -
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations
for award and such other information as the Association shall
reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that
the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.


