Report No. PID10911
Project Name             Brazil-Energy Sector Reform Loan...
(ESRL)
Region                   Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                   Energy
Project ID               BRPE76905
Borrower                 Government of Brazil
Implementing agency     Ministry of Mines and Energy
Esplanada dos Ministerios - Bloco U
70065-900 Brasilia, DF
Brazil
Date this PID prepared   May 8, 2002
Project appraisal date   January 14, 2002
Project Board date       June 13, 2002
Background
The operation will initiate a medium- term program of Bank assistance to the
energy sector, designed to support the completion of reforms started in 1995 and
subsequently stalled due to political tensions and an electricity supply crisis.
The Government remains committed to achieving the model envisioned in 1995; that
is, an energy sector characterized by competition, private sector operating and
investment decisions, public oversight trough policy making and regulation, and
universal coverage.
The program of assistance to the energy sector will start by focusing on the
power sector, where there are more urgent reform needs and the greater consensus
on the reform agenda; the hydrocarbons sector is covered directly only with
respect to provision of natural gas for electricity generation, although certain
other components, such as institutional strengthening, would affect it as well.
Loan objectives and description
The proposed operation will contribute to achieving the new sector model by
pursuing interlocking sectoral and macroeconomic objectives. The financing
provided by the ESRL is not earmarked to the power sector, but will go directly
to the Ministry of Finance in the form of general budgetary support. Hence, at
the macroeconomic level, the operation will contribute to financing Brazil's
nominal public sector deficit and its US$50 billion external financing
requirements. Some US$4 billion of this total is expected to be met from public
sector sources, including multilateral disbursements such as the proposed ESRL.
In the longer term, the sectoral and macroeconomic objectives of the proposed
operation will interlock, since the policy reforms to be undertaken in the
energy sector will help to promote economic growth, and thereby ease the
external financing requirement.
Actions supported by the loan can be grouped into six main areas:



Effective Management of the Energy Crisis. Measures taken by Government include
the timely implementation of a rationing program tailored to minimizing social
and economic impacts, contracting emergency supplies, resolving financial
disputes and reducing the backlog of wholesale market transactions resulting
from the crisis.
Regulatory reforms. At the core of the proposed operation are a series of tariff
reforms which have been mandated by GCE (Energy Crisis Management Chamber) and
which were designed to remove the distortions that currently discourage private
sector investment.
Market reforms. The success of the reformed power sector model will depend on
establishing efficient wholesale energy markets, for both electricity and gas
(the critical input for thermal generation).
Institutional reforms. The incomplete implementation of the original reform
model left a variety of structural problems, both within the sector itself and
among the government institutions that oversee it.
Environmental sustainability. Although Brazil has a sound framework for
environmental regulation, a number of shortcomings in the institutional
framework often prevent its timely and consistent application, creating a
potential impediment to private investment in the sector. The ESRL program and
the parallel Energy Sector Reform Technical Assistance Loan will support a
series of interventions designed to address these and other concerns related to
the mainstreaming of environmental and social issues in the early stages of the
expansion planning cycle. Finally, the operation will also support a range of
policy measures designed to save at least 1 percent of electricity demand each
year, thereby postponing US$300 million of investments in generation capacity
each year.
Universal access. One of the shortcomings of the earlier sector reform process
was that it gave distribution concessionaires complete discretion to determine
low-income urban tariff discounts and rural electrification plans, without
establishing any corresponding responsibilities or guidelines. The Government
has addressed both of these problems. The introduction of a sound and consistent
set of principles and eligibility rules for low-income tariff discounts will
protect poor consumers in urban areas. And the definition of a coherent strategy
for rural electrification, with clear targets for each operator, will ensure
that the service reaches the rural poor within (depending on the region) a two
to ten-year period.
Loan financing
The proposed loan will be for US$454 million, to be disbursed in a single
tranche.
Project implementation
The implementing agency will be the Ministry of Mines and Energy.
Project risks
-2-



The full potential of power sector reform will not be realized unless the
original package of institutional and structural reforms is completed. Two key
concerns persist.
The new regulatory and oversight institutions created as part of the reform
process are not yet functioning adequately. Some important issues about
coordination of efforts and clarification of jurisdictions still persist between
policymakers and regulators, in both the economic and environmental areas. In
addition, as a result of the restructuring of Eletrobras, the sector lost a
critical mass of technical experts needed to support the development and
implementation of energy policy.
The principal risk of the proposed operation is that further policy reforms may
not be followed up by the next Government. However, reforms which have been
accomplished, and those which are underway with a view to completion and
implementation before the end of 2002 are most likely to continue in place
despite any change in political orientation. In other words, whereas there may
be a slow-down in the reform process, the risk of backsliding is small. The
strategy underlying the ESRL consists of supporting the Government's efforts
throughout the remaining months of 2002 to ensure that the fundamental measures
regarding sector rehabilitation have been taken within the current
administration.
Poverty category
The proposed operation is an important part of Brazil's poverty reduction
strategy, as articulated in the CAS. This strategy considers renewal of broad-
based growth, based on macroeconomic stability and fiscal adjustment, to be
necessary for large and sustainable poverty reduction. The proposed operation
will contribute to poverty reduction through two independent channels. First, by
restoring the energy sector to a sound footing, the operation will remove one of
the key domestic constraints holding back economic growth in Brazil. It is
estimated that the energy crisis reduced GDP growth in 2001 by about one
percent. Recent estimates suggest that in Brazil, each percentage point of
economic growth lifts 300,000 people out of poverty. Second, by addressing the
deficiencies in the current regulatory framework for urban tariffs and rural
electrification, the operation will ensure that both urban and rural poor have
access to affordable electricity service.
Environmental aspects
The project is an adjustment operation that focuses on legal, regulatory and
institutional reforms in the Brazilian power sector. The hydrocarbons sector is
covered only as regards the provision of natural gas for electricity generation.
The operation finances a part of Brazil's current account and nominal fiscal
deficits. Its proceeds are integrated into the reserves of the Central Bank. The
loan is not used for investments or other budget expenditures in the power
sector.
There are also no indirect impacts on power sector budgets as a result of
possible fungibility of resources across public sector budgets, for the
following reasons:
-3-



(a) The proposed loan does not increase resources available for public sector
spending. Under Brazil's fiscal regime, an adjustment loan from the Bank
substitutes for financing from alternative, more expensive debt sources and
substitutes foreign for domestic lending. It does not increase aggregate fiscal
resources available since the fiscal envelope is defined by the binding primary
fiscal surplus targets determined under the Fiscal Responsibility Law and agreed
with the IMF. These targets have been diligently complied with for the last
three years. There is no indication whatsoever that they are being relaxed. The
proceeds of the adjustment loan thus cannot even indirectly increase public
spending (including investments). Also, the resulting savings in interest do not
influence the primary balance and will thus reduce the public debt and not
contribute to increased spending. This is an essential point in Brazil's fiscal
management framework and is well documented in several Bank and IMF documents.
(b) There are no national budget transfers to the power sector. National
government investments in the power sector are undertaken by Eletrobras, which
is a listed joint-stock company with 30- private capital participation. These
companies cannot legally receive budget transfers for their investments. Their
investments are financed through internally generated resources and bond issues.
There is no fungibility with fiscal resources (and certainly not with proceeds
from the Bank's proposed adjustment lending).
Since it focuses on legal, regulatory and institutional reforms in the power
sector, and does not finance investments in expansion, this operation has no
adverse environmental and social impacts. However, as indicated, it offers the
opportunity to address regulatory, institutional and methodological issues with
the objectives of (i) ensuring the appropriate mainstreaming of environmental
and social concerns in expansion planning and operation of power sector
projects, and (ii) facilitating the timely licensing of future investment
projects. Thus, the adjustment program and the Energy Sector Reform Technical
Assistance Loan (ESTAL) take a forward-looking, strategic, sectoral approach to
safeguard issues, and support a program covering:
(a) review and adjustment, as needed, of environmental requirements, procedures
and mandates for licensing of power sector projects;
(b) assessment of the performance of power sector regulatory agencies to clarify
their institutional roles and coordination requirements vis-a-vis other
government entities, such as the Ministry of Environment, the National Water
Agency, and the Ministry of Mines and Energy;
(c) revision and realignment of key institutions with regard to mandates and
procedures for mainstreaming of environmental and social issues in longer-term
expansion planning, including coordination with water resources management and
environmental agencies;
(d) carrying out a set of studies on priority topics including: project
preparation methodologies; strategic assessment of longer-term system expansion
paths; river basin inventories; strategic assessment of the thermal power
program; issues and options relating to potential participation of the sector in
markets for carbon emissions reductions and other environmental services; and
promotion of corporate responsibility;
(e) strengthening (number and qualification) of professional cadres within the
power and environment sectors, with special emphasis on the environmental
licensing capacity in regions/states where expansion of the sector is likely to
be concentrated over the coming years; and
(f) strengthening of monitoring and ex-post evaluation of environmental and
social issues in the power sector.
- 4-



This set of studies and activities will comprise a Program to Strengthen
Planning and Management of Enviromental and Social Issues in the Power Sector,
to be implemented in successive stages over the medium term. For the first four-
year period, the program will be supported by the ESTAL, to be appraised in
parallel with the current operation. It should be noted that this program is
fully consistent with a Memorandum of Understanding signed in March 2002 by the
Ministers of Mines and Energy and of the Environment, establishing the scope and
terms of a technical cooperation program covering nine broad areas relating to
the mainstreaming of environmental and social concerns in energy sector
activities, and placing special emphasis on the strengthening of environmental
licensing agencies.
Contact:
Jayme Porto Carreiro
Task Team Leader
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Tel.:202 473 1425
Fax:202 522 2106
Email: jportocarreiro@worldbank.org
For information on other project-related documents, contact:
The Infoshop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Tel.: (+1-202) 458-5454
Fax: (+1-202) 522-1500
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not be necessarily included in the final
project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending May 17, 2002.
- 5 -



