Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P7532-BR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ONA
PROPOSED ENERGY SECTOR REFORM LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$454.55 MILLION
TO THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
May 17,2002
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Sector Management Unit
Brazil Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This d'curncnt has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
offic;- dties. Its content may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit-Brazilian Real (RS)
EXCHANGE RATE
(Exchange Rate Effective May 13, 2002)
R$1 .00=US$0.40
US$1 .00=RS2.50
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January Iu to December 315
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ANA           Agencia Nacional de Agua                                  Federal Water Regulatory Agency
ANEEL         Agencia Nacional de Energia Eletrica                      Federal Electricity Regulatory Agency
ANP           Agencia Nacional do Petr6leo                              Federal Hydrocarbons Regulatory Agency
BNDES         Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Econ6mico e Social      National Social and Economic Development Bank
BOVESPA       Bolsa de Valores de Sao Paulo                             Sao Paulo Stock Exchange
CADE          Conselho Administrativo de Defesa Econdmica               Anti-Trust Agency
CCC           Conta de Consumo de Combustfveis                          Fuel Compensation Account
CCPE          Comite Coordenador do Planejamento da Expansao do Sistema  Power System Expansion Coordinating Committee
Eletrico
CNEN          Conselho Nacional de Energia Nuclear                      National Nuclear Energy Council
CNPE          Conselho Nacional de Polltica Energbtica                  National Energy Policy Council
CNRH          Conselho Nacional de Recursos Hfdricos                    National Water Resources Council
DNAEE         Departamento Nacional de Aguas e Energia El6trica         National Department for Water and Electricity
EIA           Environmental Impact Assessment
ESCO          Energy Service Company
ESMAP         Energy Sector Management Assistance Programme
ESRL          Energy Sector Reform Loan
ESTAL         Energy Sector Reform Technical Assistance Loan
FDI           Foreign Direct Investment
GCE           Camara de Gestao da Crise de Energia Eletrica             Energy Crisis Management Chamber
GDP           Gross Domestic Product
IDB           Inter-American Development Bank
IBAMA         Instituto Brasileiro do Meio Ambiente                     Brazilian Environmental Institute
IBGE          Instituto Brasileiro de Geografia e Estatistica           Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics
MAE           Mercado Atacadista de Energia                              Wholesale Electricity Market
MAG           Minist6rio de Agricultura                                 Ministry of Agriculture
MMA           Ministerio do Meio Ambiente e dos Recursos Renovaveis      Ministry of the Environment and Renewable Resources
MME           Ministerio de Minas e Energia                              Ministry of Mines and Energy
ONS           Operador Nacional do Sistema                              National System Operator
PPIAF         Public-Private Infrastructure Advisory Facility
PRODEEM       Programa de Desenvolvimento Energetico de Estados e        State and Municipal Energy Development Program
Municipios
PSBR          Public Sector Borrowing Requirement
RGR           Reserva Global de Reversao                                 Global Fund for Reversion of Power Sector Asset
Ownership
SEA           Strategic Environmental Assessment
SELIC         Sistema Especial de Liquidacao e Cust6dia para Titulos Federais  Brazilian average daily inter-bank lending rate
UNDP          United Nations Development Programme
Vice President:         David de Ferranti
Country Director:      Vinod Thomas
Sector Director:       Danny Leipziger
Team Leader:            Jayme Porto Carreiro



Brazil FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Energy Sector Reform Loan
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY .........................................................i
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY ........................................................                  ii
I. INTRODUCTION .1
II. LINKS TO POVERTY REDUCTION                                     ..2
A. Macroeconomic Linkages                                .2
B. Microeconomic Linkages                                .3
HI. RECENT MACROECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS                                      .9
Macroeconomic Reforms Since 1990                          .9
Recent Developments                                .9
Medium-term Outlook .11
IV.   ENERGY SECTOR: DEVELOPMENTS, ISSUES AND REFORMS ............................... 12
A.   Key Features of the Energy Sector ........................ ...................................... 12
B.   The Genesis of the Energy Crisis ..................... ......................................... 27
V. THE PROPOSED LOAN .33
A. Program Objectives of the Proposed Loan .33
B. Reform Program Supported by the Bank .35
C. Description of Financial Assistance .43
D. Environment .46
E. Benefits .48
F. Risks and Risk Mitigation .50
VI. RECOMMENDATION .................... 51
This operation was prepared by a World Bank team composed of Messrs/Mmes: Vivien Foster, Luis Guasch
(LCSFP); Nelson de Franco, Susan Goldmark, Katia Nemes (LCSFE); Bernard Tenenbaum (EWDEN);
Joachim von Amsberg (LCC5A); Maria Teresa Serra (LCSEN); Jose Augusto Carvalho (LEGLA). The team
was led by Mr. Jayme Porto Carreiro, and worked under the general guidance of Mr. Vinod Thomas (Director,
LCC5C) and Mr. Gobind Nankani (former Director, LCC5C)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its content may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ANNEXES
ANNEX 1:      Letter of Development Policy ........................ ........................................... 53
ANNEX 2:      Actions Indicators and Goals ...................... ............................................. 59
ANNEX 3:      Background Information ................................................................... 63
Table A3. 1:  Summary of state of privatization and unbundling of the power sector ......... ........ 63
Table A3.2:   Summary of power sector institutional framework ...................... .......................... 65
Table A3.3:   Summary of power sector legal framework ............................................................ 68
Table A3.4: Overview of planned new generating plants ........................................................... 70
ANNEX 4: Environmental and Social Issues in the Power Sector: Context, issues
and proposed program ...................................................................  73
Table A4. 1: Summary of key legal framework with respect to environmental and social
issues in the Brazilian Power Sector ...................................................................  82
ANNEX 5: Operations Portfolio (IBRD/IDA and Grants) .91
ANNEX 6:      Statement of IFC's Held and Disbursed Portfolio .93
ANNEX 7: Country at a Glance .95
MAP:         IBRD MAP No. 31735 - Brazil Energy Sector Reform Loan



BRAZIL
ENERGY SECTOR REFORM LOAN
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower              Federative Republic of Brazil
Implementing Agency   Ministry of Mines and Energy
Poverty Category      Not applicable.
Amount                US$454.55 million.
Terms                 Bullet payment on June I't 2012; interest at six-month LIBOR plus
fixed spread for Fixed Spread Loans denominated in USD.
Commitment Charge     0.85% p.a. on undisbursed loan balances for first four years,
standard charge of 0.75% p.a. on undisbursed loan balances
thereafter, beginning 60 days after signing, less any waiver.
Front-end Fee         1% of Loan amount, capitalized.
Objectives            The objectives of the operation are to support the Government's
efforts to: (a) restore the normal functioning of the power sector
following the recent energy supply crisis; and (b) address the
immediate regulatory problems that were the underlying cause of
the crisis.
Description           The proposed operation would support key reform measures in the
following broad areas:
* The Govermnent's effective management of the energy
crisis, which served to avoid rolling blackouts and minimized
the economic and social cost of supply shortages.
* A series of regulatory reforms which have brought electricity
tariffs up to cost recovery levels and allowed them to adjust
over time as required. This will help to restore incentives for
private sector investment in the sector.
* A series of market reforms that will improve the
competitiveness of the wholesale power and gas supply
markets, and remove impediments to private sector investment.
* Improvements in the timeliness and consistency of application
of what is basically a sound framework for environmental
regulation in Brazil.
i



* Improvements in access to electricity by low income rural
consumers, and modification of tariff policies to ensure the
affordability of electricity tariffs for low income urban
consumers.
Benefits                The operation provides benefits in three key areas. First, it
would enhance economic growth prospects for the country as a
whole by rectifying the problems that continue to afflict the
power sector. Second, it would address the specific needs of
the poor by promoting universal access to an affordable
electricity service. Third, it would address issues of longer term
sustainability, natural resource use, and management of the
environmental and social impacts of power sector expansion.
Risks                   Two significant elements of risk have been identified. The first
is that the key regulatory and policy making institutions in the
sector lack the capacity to implement the program. The second
is that the new administration that will take office in January
2003 may not share the same long-term vision of the energy
sector. Both of these risks may be reduced through the parallel
Energy Sector Reform Technical Assistance Loan (ESTAL),
which incorporates institutional strengthening measures and
aims to provide a vehicle for continuing dialogue with the new
administration.
Financing Plan          Not applicable.
Net Present Value       Not applicable.
Project Identification  PE-P076905-LEN-BB
Number



EXECUTIVE SUIMMARY
1.    This Report proposes an Energy Sector Reform Loan (ESRL) to the Federative
Republic of Brazil in the amount of US$454.55 million (including front-end fee of 1%).
The operation will initiate a medium- term program of Bank assistance to the energy sector,
designed to support the completion of reforms started in 1995 and subsequently stalled due to
some opposition and an energy supply crisis. The Government remains committed to
achieving the model envisioned in 1995; that is, an energy sector characterized by
competition, private sector operation and investment, public oversight through policy making
and regulation, and universal coverage. The program of assistance to the energy sector will
start by focusing on the power sector, where there are more urgent reform needs and greater
consensus on the reform agenda. The hydrocarbons sector is covered directly only with
respect to provision of natural gas for electricity generation, although certain other
components, such as institutional strengthening, would affect the energy sector as a whole.
2.    During 2001 Brazil experienced a major electricity supply crisis. This was caused
by one of the worst droughts on record, which affected vast areas of the country, failing to
refill the large hydroelectric reservoirs on which the country depends. Power supplies were
disrupted causing serious economic and social hardship, particularly in the poorest, Northeast
region. In 2002 precipitation returned to normal and the reservoirs are recuperating. The
crisis brought to light serious limitations in the organization of the power system as a whole.
3.    The Government showed considerable skill in managing the power crisis and
identifying its underlying causes. While the recent drought has undoubtedly played an
important role in provoking the crisis situation, the fundamental causes of the problem lie
elsewhere. The crisis can ultimately be traced to a series of regulatory deficiencies and
pricing distortions created during the early phase of the transition to the new power sector
model (1995-2000). The Government managed the crisis successfully, avoiding the need for
rolling blackouts and minimizing the social and economic impacts of rationing. Moreover,
once the crisis was brought under control, the Government turned its attention to addressing
the underlying regulatory failures that were the cause of the problem, and realizing the
original long-term vision for the sector.
4.    The proposed operation will contribute to achieving the new sector model by
pursuing interlocking sectoral and macroeconomic objectives. The financing provided by
the ESRL is not earmarked to the power sector, but will go directly to the Ministry of
Finance in the form of general budgetary support. Hence, at the macroeconomic level, the
operation will contribute to financing Brazil's nominal public sector deficit and its US$47
billion gross external financing requirements. About US$5 billion of this total is expected to
be met from public sector sources, including multilateral disbursements such as the proposed
ESRL. In the longer term, the sectoral and macroeconomic objectives of the proposed
operation will interlock, since the policy reforms to be undertaken in the energy sector will
help to promote economic growth, and thereby ease the external financing requirement.
iii



5.    The proposed operation is an important part of Brazil's poverty reduction
strategy, as supported by the CAS (discussed by the Board on 03/30/2000. Progress
Report discussed on 05/24/2001). The strategy considers the broad renewal of growth,
based on macroeconomic stability and fiscal adjustment, to be essential for large and
sustainable poverty reduction.' The proposed operation will contribute to poverty reduction
through two independent channels:
*  By restoring the energy sector to a sound footing, the operation will remove one
of the key domestic constraints to economic growth in Brazil. It is estimated that
the energy crisis reduced GDP growth in 2001 by about one percentage point.
Recent estimates suggest that in Brazil, each percentage point of economic growth
lifts 300,000 people out of poverty.
*  By addressing the deficiencies in the current regulatory framework for low-
income urban tariffs and rural electrification, the operation will ensure that both
urban and rural poor have access to affordable electricity service.
6.    The operation has no negative environmental or social impacts, and supports the
development of a strategy for strengthening the planning and management of
environmental and social issues in the power sector. The development of the strategy will
entail the following activities: (a) a review of environmental licensing requirements,
procedures, and mandates for power sector projects; (b) a clarification of institutional roles
and procedures for medium to long-term planning and improved coordination with water
resources management and environmental agencies; and (c) an assessment of environmental
and social issues associated with alternative medium to long-term system expansion paths.
Objectives and Basic Coverage of the Government's Reform Program
7.    Brazil embarked upon a major energy sector reform     process in 1995. The
Brazilian power sector is unique in that hydroelectric power represents 90 percent of its
generation portfolio. Generation and transmission activities in Brazil were historically the
responsibility of the federal company Eletrobras, while distribution was largely undertaken
by state utilities. In 1995, a sector reform process initiated the vertical unbundling and
privatization of the sector. Due to political resistance, the unbundling process was never
completed, so that 58 percent of national generating capacity remains in the hands of
vertically integrated Eletrobras subsidiaries. However, 23 percent of generation assets and 64
percent of distribution were successfully privatized. As part of the reform process, the
Government introduced an independent system operator (ONS) to be responsible for central
cost-based dispatch, and a new regulatory agency (Federal Electricity Regulatory Agency -
ANEEL) to supervise the sector. Parallel reforms in the upstream gas market ended the legal
monopoly of Petrobras, but in the absence of any structural reforms, competition has been
very slow to develop.
Brazil's poverty reduction strategy also includes continuation of reforms to improve basic education and
health, public services, land titling, support to small farmers, and the social safety net. In addition, it aims to
increase social inclusion by promoting the participation of poor and marginal citizens in poverty reduction
projects.
iv



8.    Against this background, the Government has requested World Bank support
for a long-term energy sector program, with the ultimate objective of realizing the
Government's original vision for the sector. The Government's long-term objective is to
create an energy sector that provides universal access to reliable, sustainable and efficient
energy services. As articulated in the Letter of Development Policy (Annex 1), the
Government believes that the only realistic way to achieve this objective is by opening up the
energy sector (including power generation and upstream gas supply) to effective competition,
and promoting private sector participation in the operation of the existing infrastructure and
the development of new capacity. To function effectively, such a sector needs to be
supported by effective Government institutions. In particular, it requires: (i) a well-resourced
and expert body to provide strategic policy guidance; (ii) an autonomous regulatory agency
that makes transparent, consistent, and defensible decisions, and can be held accountable for
them; (iii) an impartial system operator to ensure the efficient utilization of generating
capacity; (iv) an efficient pricing system that signals true economic costs and adjusts
transparently to changes in costs over time; and (v) a set of modem regulatory instruments
such as accounting systems, financial models, benchmarking databases, and systems for
monitoring the quality of service and responding to customer complaints.
9.    The Government has already made rapid progress towards redressing the
underlying causes of the crisis and moving further towards the long-term vision of the
sector. In January 2002 the Energy Crisis Management Chamber (GCE) mandated the
adoption of a comprehensive and well-designed 33-point action plan of regulatory and
structural reforms. In April 2002 Congress passed a new law (Law 10438/02) which
implements a number of the most important reform measures, including tariff increases, tariff
rebalancing, the establishment of binding targets for rural electrification, and renewable
energy promotion. The rapid progress that has been made during the last 12 months, together
with the significance of these recent measures, demonstrates the extent of the Government's
commitment to the energy reform program.
Timing and Sequencing of the Operation
10.   The World Bank proposes to support the Government's efforts to achieve its
long-term vision with a series of operations and a variety of instruments. Given that the
original sector reforms were supported by a World Bank operation (Loan 3376-BR),
continued Bank involvement in following through the reform process is particularly
important. The new interventions will take the form of a program, comprising the proposed
single tranche ESRL, a proposed Energy Sector Reform Technical Assistance Loan
(ESTAL), and a Public-Private Infrastructure Advisory Facility (PPIAF) Grant. The
underlying continuity for the program will be provided by the proposed ESTAL. Whereas the
adjustment operations will take the form of general budget support, the technical assistance
and PPIAF operations will channel resources directly to those policymaking and regulatory
institutions responsible for implementing the policy reforms. Further operations may be
proposed as necessary. The scope of the proposed interventions and how they relate to one
another is illustrated in the following table:
v



Bank Support to the Brazilian Energy Sector
ESRL                            PPIA1F                           ESTAL
June 2001-May 2002            May 2002-December 2002          August 2002-December 2006
Implementation of first-level    Studies for second-level reforms  Implementation of second-level
reforms in:                     in:                              reforms in:
*   Market development and       G  Market development and       o  Market development and
regulation                       regulation                      regulation
*   Environmental management     e  Access for the poor          e  Environmental management
*   Access for the poor                                          *  Access for the poor
*   Long-tern planning           Workshops with stakeholders to:  o  Long-tern planning
*   Institutional strengthening  t  Discuss results of studies   e  Institutional strengthening
* Draw lessons from
intemnational experience
• Build consensus
11.     The ESRL      is designed primarily to support the Government in its effective
management of the power crisis, the undertaking of the necessary groundwork for the
next set of structural reforms, and the implementation of first level reforms. The next set
of structural reforms would be implemented with support from the PPIAF, the ESTAL and
possibly further lending, thereby enabling the full realization of the original power sector
reforms (see figure below). Despite the possibility of succeeding operations, the ESRL was
not structured as a programmatic loan because of the Presidential elections in October 2002;
it would be inappropriate for the current administration to make commitments on behalf of
the future Government. The policy dialogue on remaining necessary structural reforms will
be resumed with the new administration.
Overview of Brazil's Energy Sector Program
Gov't actions                Real of Fregrarg            Long-term Vision
(2001 - 2002)                 opt:hwl seetsr    \                            \
ReL,.Ie ininiedlait crisis       (2003 - 100J)               Universal access to,
and related disputes.  \                            \        reliable energy services.
Restoreiormal funcrc-nine      Reform functioning of
of wholesale power market.     wholesale pow'ier market.     Efficient and competitive
\                   \     ~~~~~~~~~market for energy supply.\
Correct dimorion; in           Strengthen Dolicy and  \                             '\
ele.triciw 1.rilffi            regulatory bodies.            Private sector operation and
Raise electricity tariffs toward                            financing of new capacity.
cout-recowery levels.          Take measures to reduce
Unbundle venItaI*,          )  marker power in generaLion   Impartial administration of
transmission network- and
integrated uliiis/            Privatize remaining public    pipelines.
Introduce incentives for       generation assets.
reliable energy supply.  -                                   Transpare,nt, consistent and
Take measures to protect       E j  xpand coveeage of /      accountableregulation.
urban and rural poor.          electricity in rural areas.
Idintifx botlncls o /   mpoe rrnxYr' or/ Well-resourced, effective
ldenitii' bottlenecks in       Improve framework for         policymaking body.
current fiamework for          managemlent of'
management of                  environmental and             Sustainable management
environmetntal and social      social issues.                of environmental and
issues.                                                      social issues.
vi



Description ofAchievements
12.   Actions undertaken and under implementation by the Government can be
grouped into seven main areas (see Annex 2 for further details):
* Effective Management of the Energy Crisis. Measures taken by Government
include: (i) the timely implementation of a rationing program tailored to minimize
social and economic impacts; (ii) contracting emergency supplies; and (iii)
resolving financial disputes and reducing the backlog of wholesale market
transactions resulting from the crisis.
*  Market Reform. The success of the reformed power sector model will depend on
establishing efficient wholesale energy markets, for both electricity and gas (the
critical input for thermal generation). A crucial first step consisted of measures to
normalize and improve the electricity wholesale market, strengthen competition in
gas supply, and correct problems with the governance of the system operator.
Complementary measures have been mandated to reduce the market power of
large vertically integrated federal utilities by selling off their power supplies via
public auctions and introducing legal separation of generation and transmission.
*  Regulatory Reform. A series of tariff reforms which have been mandated by
GCE and which were designed to remove the distortions that currently discourage
private sector investment are at the core of the proposed operation. In particular,
generation and distribution tariffs have reached cost-recovery levels, and
regulatory reforms are underway to ensure that they remain at cost-recovery
levels over time. Equally important, the operation will support the introduction of
incentives to ensure that distributors provide reliable energy supplies to their
customers.
*  Environmental and Social Issues. Although Brazil has a sound framework for
environmental regulation, a number of shortcomings in the institutional
framework often prevent its timely and consistent application, creating a potential
impediment to private investment in the sector. The ESRL program and the
parallel ESTAL would support a series of proposed interventions designed to
address these and other concerns related to the mainstreaming of environmental
and social issues in the early stages of the expansion planning cycle.
*  Protection of the Poor. One of the shortcomings of the earlier sector reform
process was that it gave distribution concessionaires complete discretion to
determine low-income urban tariff discounts and rural electrification plans,
without establishing any corresponding responsibilities or guidelines. The
Government has addressed both of these problems. The introduction of a
consistent set of principles and eligibility rules for low-income tariff discounts
will protect poor consumers in urban areas. At the same time, the definition of a
coherent strategy for rural electrification, with clear targets for each operator, will
contribute to extend service to the rural poor within (depending on the region) a
two to ten-year period.
* Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy. The Government has promulgated
regulations containing energy efficiency standards for a wide range of standard
vii



electrical equipment. This measure forms part of a wider program aiming to save
at least 1 percent of electricity demand each year, thereby postponing US$300
million of investments in generation capacity each year. Measures have also been
taken to promote the use of renewable energy sources (mainly small hydro, wind,
and biomass).
Institutional Reform. The incomplete implementation of the original reform
model left a variety of structural problems, both within the sector itself and among
the government institutions that oversee it. The Government is addressing the
issues, beginning with a major reorganization of the Ministry of Mines and
Energy.
Environmental Issues
13.   The project has no direct or indirect adverse environmental or social impacts,
since it focuses on legal, regulatory and institutional reforms. Moreover, being an
adjustment operation, the project provides general budgetary support as opposed to financing
specific power sector investments. Proceeds of the loan are integrated into the reserves of the
Central Bank. The loan is not used for investments or other budgetary expenditures in the
power sector or any other sector. Furthermore there are no indirect impacts on the power
sector's budget as a result of possible fungibility of resources across public sector budgets. A
C rating has therefore been accorded.
14.   The ESRL and the parallel ESTAL offer an opportunity to strengthen the
general framework both for management of environmental and social issues in the
power sector and for environmental licensing of power sector projects in Brazil. The
general framework for managing environmental and social issues in the power sector, and for
environmental licensing of power sector projects has been in place since 1986 and is
comprehensive, detailed and basically sound. Nonetheless, as a result of the ongoing sector
reform, regulatory, institutional, and methodological concerns have arisen. These include
certain inefficiencies of the current licensing system, the overlapping mandates of different
agencies, and the need to update methodologies and procedures to assess environmental and
social implications in power sector expansion in line with increased attention to optimal,
integrated natural resource use. A proactive, strategic approach is being taken, through the
preparation of a series of studies and the design of a program to address priority issues.
15.   The adjustment program focuses on revisiting and updating as needed the
overall framework of environmental regulation and management as the basis to ensure
effective environmental procedures in managing specific power projects and the
sustainability of future sector expansion. The two operations (ESRL and ESTAL)
complement each other in supporting preparation of a program comprising the following key
elements: (i) a review of environmental licensing requirements, procedures, and mandates for
power sector projects; (ii) a clarification of institutional roles and procedures for medium-
long-term planning and improved coordination with water resources management and
environmental agencies; (iii) carrying out a set of studies on priority topics including: project
preparation methodologies; strategic assessment of longer-term system expansion paths; river
basin inventories; strategic assessment of the thermal power program; issues and options
viii



relating to climate change; promotion of corporate responsibility; and (iv) support for the
institutional realignment and strengthening of professional cadres within the power and
environment sectors. While the first two activities are of relevance in the very short-term,
the last set of activities addresses issues related to the future efficiency of the sector.
Risks and Sustainability
16.   While the measures supported by the current operation have already been completed,
some concerns persist regarding the longer term sustainability of these reforms and the
broader energy reform program initiated by the proposed operation.
* The policy-making and regulatory institutions that will be responsible for
following through the reform progress are still relatively weak. The institution
that has so effectively spearheaded the response to the energy crisis and the wider
revitalization of the sector, the GCE, is temporary in nature and will be dissolved
at the end of 2002. The GCE was created as an ad hoc body in response to the
perceived weaknesses of the existing policy-making (MME) and regulatory
(ANEEL) institutions of the sector. However, it is these institutions that will
ultimately be responsible for following-through the reform program developed by
the GCE. This risk has been addressed by incorporating substantial institutional
strengthening components into the ESTAL that forms an integral part of the
proposed program of Bank assistance.
* The next Government may not share the same long-term vision for the power
sector. With the upcoming elections in October 2002, it is possible that the new
administration may take a different view about the long-term model to be
followed for the energy sector. While this risk cannot be entirely contained, at
present there is at least cross-party consensus about the need for a competent and
independent energy regulator and on the need to increase private sector
participation in the expansion of the power sector. However, while falling short of
their full potential, the reforms supported by this loan would nonetheless have
made an important contribution to sector improvement even if the next
Govermnent decides not to pursue some of the envisaged medium-to long-term
reforms. Once again, the ESTAL provides a vehicle for dialogue with the new
administration and will help to provide the underlying continuity for the program.
ix



x



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT TO
THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
ENERGY SECTOR REFORM LOAN TO THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
I.    INTRODUCTION
1.    This Report proposes an Energy Sector Reform Loan (ESRL) to the Federative
Republic of Brazil in an amount of US$454.55 million (including a front-end fee of 1%).
The operation will maintain Bank support for power sector reform (Loan 3376-BR) and will
initiate a medium-term program of Bank assistance to the energy sector in Brazil, which
started in 1995 but were subsequently paralyzed as a result of political tensions and an
energy supply crisis. The Government remains committed to its original vision of a
competitive energy sector, where operating and investmnent decisions are undertaken by the
private sector, and public oversight is exercised through an effective regulatory framework.
However, as a result of the obstacles encountered along the way, Brazil currently finds itself
stuck in an awkward intermediate position between a centralized state-controlled industry
and a privatized competitive market.
2.    The proposed ESRL will contribute to the achievement of inter-locking sectoral
and macroeconomic objectives. The finance provided by the ESRL is not earmarked to the
power sector, but will provide general budgetary support and enter the countries' foreign
exchange reserves. Hence, at the macroeconomic level, the operation will contribute to
financing the nominal public sector deficit and the US$47 billion gross external financing
requirements of 2002. About US$5 billion of this total is expected to be met from public
sector sources including multilateral disbursements, such as the proposed ESRL. In the
longer term, the sectoral and macroeconomic objectives of the proposed operation interlock,
since the policy reforms to be undertaken in the energy sector will help to promote economic
growth thereby easing external financing requirements.
3.    The proposed ESRL could be complemented by subsequent operations to
optimize the power sector model. One or more follow-up operations could focus on
optimizing the sector model by addressing underlying structural problems. This would entail
completing the vertical and horizontal break-up of electric utilities so as to provide the basis
for effective competition, and perfecting the wider policy-making and regulatory framework.
This program of support would include, but not be limited to a new Technical Assistance
operation, expected to become effective toward the end of the proposed operation, thereby
providing underlying continuity to the policy dialogue and following through with the
implementation of the reform program.
4.    This Report sets out the detailed case for the proposed ESRL and lays down the
associated conditions. The discussion is organized as follows. Section II explains how the
operation would contribute to the World Bank's poverty reduction agenda in Brazil, both
from a macroeconomic and microeconomic perspective. Section III describes the wider
macroeconomic context in Brazil. Section IV provides some background on the Brazilian
1



energy sector, the reform process and the advent of the current energy crisis. Section V
describes the proposed lending program in some detail. The Letter of Sector Development
Policy may be found in Annex 1, the Policy Matrix in Annex 2, additional background
material on the energy sector is provided in Annex 3, Annex 4 provides a detailed description
of the framework for environmental regulation, and Annexes5, 6 and 7 are the state of the
active IBRD and IFC portfolio in Brazil and the country at a glance.
II.   LINKS TO POVERTY REDUCTION
5.    The proposed operation is an important part of the Brazil CAS poverty
reduction strategy (discussed by the Board on 03/30/2000. Progress Report discussed on
05/24/2001). This strategy considers renewal of broad-based growth, based on
macroeconomic stability and fiscal adjustment, necessary for large and sustainable poverty
reduction. Important improvements in the assets of the poor would include continuation of
reforms for better basic education and health, public services, land reform and support to
small farmers. Social protection would be further improved through strengthening and better
targeting of the social safety net. Finally, participatory policies would increase social
inclusion and effectiveness of poverty reduction projects.
6.    The poverty reduction impact of the operation comes through two independent
channels. The first channel is a macroeconomic one. By restoring the equilibrium of the
energy sector, the operation will remove one of the key domestic constraints holding back
economic growth in Brazil; a key determinant of poverty. The second channel is a
microeconomic one. By addressing the deficiencies in the current regulatory framework for
low income urban tariffs and rural electrification, the operation will promote access by both
urban and rural poor to an affordable electricity service.
A.    Macroeconomic Linkages
7.    A well-functioning energy sector is an important precondition for economic
growth, as attested by recent evidence from Brazil. Recent evidence on determinents of
growth in the poorest northeastern region of Brazil found a strong link from investments in
water and energy infrastructure to increased private capital formation and output, since a
10% decrease in infrastructure investment leads to a 2% to 3% decrease in private capital
formation. The implication is that a poorly performing energy sector will raise the cost of
doing business and retard economic growth.
8.    The macroeconomic impacts of energy rationing have been substantial; initial
estimates suggest that it has reduced GDP growth by about 1 percentage point. This
estimate does not take into account the longer-term growth impact of the crisis, which has
created additional investment uncertainty and dampened medium-term expectations.
9.    About 300,000 people will fail to escape from poverty as a result of the energy
crisis, and 35 million poor will see their living standards worsen. At present, 23% of the
Brazilian population, equivalent to 35 million people, lives in extreme poverty, surviving on
less than R$65 per month (or US$0.80 per day at the current market exchange rate). The
growth impact of the current energy crisis is expected to prevent about 300,000 people from
2



escaping poverty this year, as well as preventing those still below the poverty line from
improving their living conditions.
10.   The situation is particularly acute in the Northeast of the country, which is by
far the poorest region and also the worst affected by the energy crisis. The nine states of
the Northeast are home to almost two thirds of poor people in Brazil. They have an average
poverty rate of 48%, which is more than twice the national average, and per capita GDP has
lagged behind at 60% of the national average since as long ago as 1960. The Northeast has
been particularly hard hit by the energy crisis. Since 1998, the region has been experiencing
its worst drought in 70 years, and rainfall levels in 2001 were less than 20% of the
corresponding long-term monthly averages (compared with 30% to 60% in the Southeast).
Due to such low levels of rainfall, and the more limited success of the rationing program in
the region, a series of three 'mandatory holidays' were introduced for the Northeast during
October and November 2001. The Northeast accounts for 13% of Brazil's GDP and has
significant petrochemical, textile, sugar, aluminum and paper sectors. The cutback has forced
schools and businesses to close, disrupted transportation and commerce, and intensified
regional tensions between the Northeast and Southeast.
B.    Microeconomic Linkages
11.   Beyond the serious macroeconomic impacts described above, access to
affordable electricity also contributes more directly to the welfare of poor households. It
has been empirically established that-due to the inefficiency of traditional substitutes such
as candles and kerosene lamps-households without access to electricity pay a much higher
price for energy. Recent empirical work from Guatemala estimates that households without
access to electricity pay on average about US$10 per kWh for lighting and battery-powering
of electrical appliances, compared to US$0.1 per kWh for households with access to
electricity. The same analysis shows that the poorest (first quintile) households with and
without electricity spend approximately the same amount of money on lighting and powering
electric appliances, however those with electricity obtain almost 30 times more effective
energy from this expenditure. There are thus very substantial benefits to poor households
from obtaining an electricity connection.
Reaching Universal Coverage
12.   Although access to electricity is universal in urban areas, there is still a
substantial coverage deficit in rural areas. In common with most other South American
countries, Brazil has achieved virtually universal access to electricity in urban areas
(Figure 1). Estimates of rural electrification rates are subject to considerable uncertainty;
however, coverage rates of between 55% and 75% have been estimated from existing data,
and more precise information will become available once the results of the 2000 Census have
been published. On this basis, the rural population without electricity is estimated to lie
between 2 to 4 million households (equivalent to between 10 and 20 million people). It is
also important to note that there are huge disparities across states, with rural electrification
rates as high as 96% in the Southern state of Santa Catarina and as low as 0.8% in the
Northern state of Para (see map at the end of this report).
3



13.   The vast majority of households without electricity are living in conditions of
considerable poverty. Access to electricity in rural areas is very inequitable, with coverage
rates of less than 50% in the bottom income decile and almost 100% in the top income decile
(Figure 1). The recent World Bank Poverty Assessment found that 73% of households
without an electricity connection were living in extreme poverty. Moreover, a study by the
Institute of Economics at the Federal University of Rio found that around two-thirds of
households living without electricity have incomes of less than two minimum wages per
month (Figure 2). An important corollary of this is that resources channeled into rural
electrification will be very well targeted towards the poor.
Figure 1: International Comparisons of Electricity Coverage
(a) Urban                                  (b) Rural
12-                                         1
0.9
1I-                             BolNiAa   0.8                         -.-  olivia
0 8                            __-o-- Brazil  0.7                      --AD- Brazil
Chile     0.6                             Chile
0.6                            * Colombia  0.5  ,. Colombia
-a-- Guatemala  0.4                         o Guatemala
0.4 -                          a Honduras  0                               H.3o_duras
0.2     .       .    ,           Mexico    0-2  .                          Mexico
I- M     ~ ~~~~0.1 
0                                          O........
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10                       1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
Deciles                                    Deciles
Source: The figures are derived from recent household survey data from each of the countries indicated. The
source of information for Brazil is the PNAD, 1996.
14.   There is at present no clear policy framework governing the rural electrification
process. Moreover, the existing legal framework incorporates a number of flagrant
contradictions. First, although the Ministry of Agriculture (MAG) is legally responsible for
rural electrification, most existing initiatives are being led by the Ministry of Mines and
Energy (MME) via Eletrobras. Second, a law passed in 1996 (Law 9427) establishes that
concessionaires are entirely responsible for the investment costs associated with service
expansion, and that no connection charge should be required from the customer. However,
this law has yet to be implemented, and therefore current schemes continue to rely on the
previous principle that customers should cover 90% of the connection costs. Third, the
various concession contracts with the distribution operators, embody a very wide range of
different types of universal service obligations. However, none of them establish clear targets
and deadlines for rural electrification.
4



Figure 2: Distribution of population without electricity by income level
0.35
0.3      m      _
0.25
0.2
0.15
0.05- 
" -                                             - 
<1    1a2    2a3    3a5   5a10  10 a 20  >20  no incorne  not
dedared
Income expressed in number of minimum wages
Source: IBGE - PNAD 1995
15.   The Government is in the process of strengthening the universal service
obligations of distribution concessionaires. A law recently passed by the Brazilian
congress (Law No. 10438/02), together with new regulations being developed by ANEEL,
would introduce explicit connection targets for distribution concessionaires with the aim of
reaching universal coverage within a two to ten year period (depending on the State). The
proposed financing mechanism would be a cross-subsidy from existing customers to new
customers; meaning that the costs of expansion would be financed through general increases
in the electricity tariff in each concession area rather than through connection charges alone.
The new norms would also introduce greater regulatory flexibility for rural services, and
provide incentives for the use of renewable energy. It should be noted that rural customers
already benefit from a cross-subsidy in their service tariff, since they pay only 60% of the
charge faced by urban customers, and moreover are often more costly to service due to their
isolated locations. This makes them commercially unattractive to serve, undermining
incentives for further expansion of coverage.
16.   The Government and a variety of donors are supporting a range of different
initiatives designed to promote rural electrification. The federal government supports two
major programs, Luz no Campo managed by Eletrobras, which focuses on grid extensions,
and the State and Municipal Energy Development Program (PRODEEM) managed by the
Ministry of Mines and Energy, which focuses on photovoltaic energy for remote
communities. The Ministry of Agriculture has its own separate initiative. Moreover, a
number of states have developed their own rural electrification programs, notably Minas
Gerais, Ceara and Sao Paulo. Finally, donor agencies are also active in the sector. The World
Bank Poverty Alleviation Program has electrified more than 280,000 families in the
Northeast at a cost of US$115 million (or about US$400 per household). In addition, the
Japanese Special Fund and the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) are backing a R$19
million (US$7 million) project to develop pilot models for rural electrification.
5



Table 1: Comparison of principal rural electrification schemes
Luz No Campo              PRODEEM
Established                1999                     1994
Agency
* Administration         Eletrobras                MME
* Implementation         Distribution companies    Municipalities
Target population         Periphery of service areas  Isolated communities
Technology                Grid extension             PV Panels
Beneficiaries
* To date                290,000 households        4,100 communities
* From now until 2002    710,000 households        10,000 communities
Investment to date        R$1.74 billion (US$0.64 billion)  R$56.7 million (US$21 million)
Source of funding         RGR Universal Service Levy  Federal budget
Financing mechanism       Loans                      Grants
17.   Efforts so far have focused on grid extension. Luz No Campo is the single largest
program, aiming to connect a million rural households in the three year period 1999/02 (see
Annex 3 for state level coverage targets). However, as of October 2001, only 290,000
connections have been made. The program has been funded by the Global Fund for
Reversion of Power Sector Asset Ownership (RGR) and administered by Eletrobras. The
RGR is a universal service levy equivalent to 2.5% of the value of investments made by
electricity operators, that is added-on to consumers' electricity bills. The levy has raised
R$1.74 billion (US$0.64 billion) for the Luz No Campo program to date. The resources
channeled through the Luz No Campo program are mainly used to provide loans for
distribution concessionaires to finance grid extensions in rural areas. The terms of the loans
provided by Eletrobras to the distribution companies are very favorable, with a 6% interest
rate, 2 year grace period, and 5-10 year payback period. The average cost of a new
connection has been R$2,326 (US$860). Rural consumers are typically expected to pay the
full costs of the connection, albeit spread over a number of years. In some cases, the state
governments provide partial subsidies.
18.   Experience with off-grid electrification has been very limited, and subject to
problems of unsustainability. The dispersed nature of unserved populations in Brazil would
suggest that off-grid solutions are also necessary in order to reach universal coverage in the
most cost-effective manner. However, there has been limited experience with this approach.
The main government sponsored off-grid electrification program is PRODEEM, established
in 1994. Under this program, the Ministry of Mines and Energy (MME) procures
photovoltaic panels that are then allocated free of charge to municipalities on demand. The
program focuses on electrifying schools, health posts, and other community installations,
rather than individual households. To date, PRODEEM has procured 3MW of photovoltaic
panels, at a total investment of R$56.7 million (US$21 million). There are plans for a second
phase of PRODEEM to focus more on private productive uses of energy. The budget for
2001 has been increased to R$60 million (US$22 million), and the target for 2001/3 is to
reach a further 18,000 communities.
6



19.   A key failing in off-grid electrification programs has been the absence of
institutional mechanisms for maintaining the systems. A recent evaluation of the first
tranche of installed systems found that on average 56% of the systems had broken down
within three years of installation. This average is misleading since in those states where
maintenance had been taken over by state-owned distribution concessionaires (Sao Paulo,
Minas Gerais) 100% of systems were found to be in functioning order, whereas in those
states where there was no maintenance support (Ceara, Alagoas) none of the systems were in
working order. The absence of formal financial compensation for such maintenance activity
has made privately owned distribution companies unwilling to take on this task.
20.   To summarize, there are a number of significant problems with the current
approach to rural electrification in Brazil. Although the Government has some important
rural electrification initiatives underway, there are important inconsistencies in the policy
framework that prevent these programs from being more effective. The main issues can be
summarized as follows.
*  Lack of coordination between the different programs that support rural
electrification, as well as lack of consistency in their financing policies.
*  Lack of clarity in universal service obligations faced by distribution
concessionaires, as well as lack of financial incentives for them to invest in rural
electrification, or to maintain and operate rural investments financed by other
players.
*  Lack of mechanisms to ensure efficient technology choices between grid-based
and off-grid solutions to rural electrification, including adequate differentiation
between quality of service and other regulatory parameters between urban and
rural areas.
*  Lack of clarity regarding the potential role to be played by agents other than the
distribution concessionaires in reaching universal coverage.
*  Lack of focus on maximizing the social and economic benefits to communities by
promoting productive uses of energy.
21.   The proposed operation aims to clarify the policy framework for rural
electrification, and to elicit a commitment to concrete electrification targets. The first
step will be to establish a coherent national strategy for rural electrification, resolving some
of the contradictions identified above and defining the respective roles of grid-based and off-
grid electrification programs. Thereafter, concrete electrification targets will be established
for each specific distribution concessionaire, to meet the Government's universal access
objectives within a proximate but realistic time horizon, estimated to lie between two to ten
years depending on the state.
Providing a Rigorous Basis for Social Tariffs
22.   Prior to the sector reform process, all residential customers were eligible for
discounts on their electricity bills. These became progressively smaller for higher
consumption blocks, tapering gradually away to zero at a subsistence consumption threshold
7



of around 200 kilowatt-hours per month. In 1995, a number of important changes were
introduced. First, the magnitude of the percentage discounts was reduced. for those
consuming below the subsistence threshold. Nonetheless, discounts remain substantial with
those consuming less than 30 kilowatt-hours per month receiving tariff reductions of 45%.
Second, those consuming above the subsistence threshold no longer receive any discount on
their first few blocks of consumption. Third, eligibility for tariff discounts was confined to
those meeting low income eligibility criteria.
23.   Discounts were subsequently confined to low income customers, without any
consistent eligibility criteria for identifying them. Instead, each distribution concessionaire
has been at liberty to determine its own subsistence threshold (ranging from 140 to 220 kWh
per month) and its own eligibility rules for these discounts. As a result, a wide range of
different criteria are in use including the technological characteristics of the connection, the
installed load, the type of dwelling, and the geographical location. Moreover, ANEEL reports
that the proportion of customers eligible for low-income tariffs in any particular state bears
little correlation with the known levels of poverty in different states. Some concessionaires
even claim that none of their customers are eligible to receive low-income tariffs, which is
implausible given that 23% of the country's population lives in poverty. A study currently
underway is documenting the details of practice in each concession area.
24.   The proposed operation will support the rationalization of social tariffs to ensure
that they are more consistently and effectively targeted towards the poor. There is
evidently a need to rationalize the basis of social tariffs for electricity, and to place them on a
sound economic footing. A number of issues arise.
*  First, there is a need to ensure that low-income tariff discounts are financed in
such a way that they do not undermine incentives for private operators to serve
poor households, as tends to happen with traditional cross-subsidies. A preferable
approach may be to charge uniform tariffs to all customers, but to partially
subsidize the bills of low-income customers from an escrow account funded by a
general tariff surcharge.
*  Second, there is a need to harmonize the social tariff policy for urban and rural
areas. At present, all rural customers receive a discount of 50%, regardless of their
income or consumption level; whereas the discount of 45% on urban tariffs is
limited to subsistence consumption by low-income customers.
*  Third, it is inappropriate to place eligibility for social tariffs at the discretion of
the distribution operator, since this is likely to generate perverse incentives. Such
eligibility criteria should rather be a matter for government policy to decide.
*  Fourth, the criteria used to establish eligibility for tariff discounts need to have a
proven link with the poverty status of households. The selection of these criteria
needs to be based on an empirical analysis of the correlation between electricity
consumption, poverty, and other observable household characteristics that might
potentially serve as screening mechanisms.
*  Fifth, it is important to remember that what ultimately matters is not the official
tariff faced by low-income customers, but what they actually end-up paying to the
8



utilities. Non-payment of electricity services in Brazilian cities is estimated to be
of the order of 5%.
III. RECENT MACROECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS
Macroeconomic Reforms Since 1990
25.   Starting in the early nineties, Brazil has adopted a comprehensive package of
economic reforms that has fundamentally transformed its economy. The reform package,
implemented in different stages, covered diverse areas ranging from trade and monetary
management to exchange rate policy and the creation of fiscal institutions that enhanced
credibility in the sustainability of public finances. The first stage, until 1992, involved trade
liberalization with average import tariffs being lowered from 39 to 15 percent, flexibilization
of capital account transactions and establishment of the regional trade agreement, Mercosul.
A second stage of reform began with the Real Plan in 1994 and concentrated on monetary
stabilization with the most strldkng development being the reduction of inflation rates of the
order of 5000% in mid-1994 to 6% in 2000. This reform stage also involved constitutional
changes that reduced earmarked expenditures and allowed fiscal policy to regain some
flexibility. These changes, plus a favorable external environment, brought about the end of
chronic and high inflation and an average annual growth rate of 4.2% in the 1992-1997
period. Simultaneously, demand for foreign savings increased as the current account went
from zero in the period 1990-1994 to a deficit of 4.2% of GDP in 1998. Following monetary
stabilization in 1994, the authorities undertook a series of further reforms including a large
privatization program and stabilization of the financial system.
26.   To reduce the vulnerability to external shocks and to ensure a sustainable debt
path, Brazil has, since 1998, undertaken ambitious and credible riscal adjustment.
Fiscal adjustment lagged other elements of the reform program but was implemented in
earnest after the Russia crisis in late 1998. Supported by an IMF program, the Government
has since complied with quarterly fiscal targets and consistently generated a consolidated
primary fiscal surplus of more than 3% of GDP. The Public Sector Borrowing Requirement
(PSBR) has fallen to between 4% to 6% in the last two years. At the same time, the
institutional framework for fiscal management has been improved. In early 1999 authorities
in Brazil adopted a flexible exchange rate and an inflation-targeting framework. Growth
prospects have been enhanced due to reduced vulnerability to both external and domestic
shocks, achieved by smaller trade deficits and the elimination of primary public sector
deficits. The key elements to achieve these outcomes have been the adoption of the floating
exchange rate regime, the credible and permanent reduction in the inflation rate, the tax
increases, strict austerity of those expenditures directly under governmental control and the
adoption of the Fiscal Responsibility Law that supported adjustment processes, specially at
the subnational level.
Recent Developments
27.   The positive outlook for Brazil that prevailed in early 2001 was dampened by the
international slowdown, recent events in Argentina, and a domestic energy crisis. After
9



a growth of 4.5% in 2000, a similar performance was expected for 2001. Then international
demand began to soften as the result of the global slowdown. Events in Argentina and in
international capital markets led to depreciation and required a tightening of monetary policy
to contain the inflationary pressure resulting from the depreciation. Fiscal policies were
tightened to maintain public debt sustainability in the face of higher interest rates and a
depreciated currency.  Finally, under-investment due to weaknesses in the regulatory
framework brought about an energy crisis with electricity rationing that constrained
economic activity. The domestic slowdown resulting from all these factors together meant
that growth in 2001 was only 1.5%. As a result of the negative external and internal shocks,
sovereign bond spreads rose, and the real depreciated by almost 40% in the first 9 months of
2001. However, it recovered by 16 percent in the last quarter of 2001, so that depreciation
over the year as a whole was only 16 percent. Over 2002, rates have been broadly steady,
inclined towards mild appreciation of 0.2 percent in the first quarter.
28.   It is estimated that of the 3.0 percentage point shortfall in economic growth in
2001, about 1 percentage point is probably attributable to the energy crisis. An
interesting question is the extent to which these different external and domestic shocks
contributed to the 3.5% shortfall in GDP growth. The simultaneity and wide-ranging impact
of each of these shocks makes it particularly difficult to disentangle the effects of each one.
Moreover, there are important interactions between the growth impacts of the external and
domestic shocks, since the opportunity cost of energy rationing will evidently be lower when
the economy is moving into a recession than when aggregate demand for energy-intensive
industrial output is buoyant. It is estimated that about 1 percentage point of the shortfall is
attributable to the energy crisis, and the remainder to the external shocks. Moreover, the
macroeconomic consequences of energy rationing would have been considerably higher if
large industrial customers had not been given the flexibility to trade consumption quotas
amongst themselves.
29.   The resolution of the energy crisis led to a 20% tariff increase in 2001, which
could have added about 1 percentage point to the Consumer Price Index. While the
immediate reaction to the energy crisis was to impose a 20% rationing target on much of the
country, consumer tariffs are now having to increase as the government corrects the tariff
distortions that gave rise to the crisis and negotiates compensation deals with generators and
distributors. It is estimated that the overall impact of these tariff increases was 20% during
2001. According to central bank estimates, this tariff increase may have added about 1
percentage point to inflation in 2001. While not insignificant, the possibility of such a price
level increase-if indeed it occurred-does not hold-up as an argument against key energy
pricing reforms. Nevertheless, there remains an on-going tension between inflation control
and energy sector policy in Brazil. Following the hyper-inflationary experience of the 1980s,
the central bank is understandably unwilling to countenance indexation measures of any
kind. At the same time, the policy of private sector participation in the energy sector, is
unlikely to function unless foreign investors are provided with some kind of systematic
protection from exchange rate movements that substantially affect the costs of finance and
gas purchase. At present, this tension has been dealt with by providing only partial
compensation for exchange rate movements, and by limiting cost pass-through to annual
adjustments as opposed to automatic monthly indexation.
10



Medium-term Outlook
30.   As the result of effective macroeconomic management and a swift policy
response, Brazil is expected to withstand the current turbulences with reduced growth
but without major disruptions. The Government has maintained effective macroeconomic
management and reacted to the shocks with an appropriate mix of monetary and fiscal
tightening and continued push for structural reforms. The energy crisis has been managed
well under the circumstances, and the rationing response has worked well. Fiscal policy has
remained robustly credible, with a primary surplus of 3.7% of GDP in 2001, exceeding the
previously set target. The signing of a new IMF 15-month Standby Arrangement on
September 14, 2001 lent further credibility at a difficult time. And finally, the continued
assured management of challenging macroeconomic circumstances by authorities has been a
key signal to the markets. Reflecting regained market confidence, sovereign spreads have
fallen, and the real has strengthened from a yearly low of 2.78 to the dollar in mid-October
2000 back to 2.30 in July 2001. The outlook for 2002 includes a GDP growth rate of 2.3%
(against 1.5% achieved in 2001), a steady inflow of foreign direct investment, and a reduced
current account deficit.
31.   Brazil's large public debt and high external fmancing requirements imply
continuing vulnerability to future shocks, but this vulnerability is expected to decline
gradually over time. As a result of the depreciation and the increase in interest rates, the
ratio of net public debt to GDP rose to 54.8% in October 2001, compared with 49.5% in
October 2000. Public debt to GDP declined somewhat by end 2001, to 53.3%. The year-end
decline reinforces the conclusion that earlier increases during the year resulted almost
entirely from the depreciation of the exchange rate, rather than loose fiscal policy. Of the
R$124 billion increase in net debt over the past twelve months, 76.2% was attributed to the
weakening currency. Moreover an estimated fifth of the increased public sector borrowing
requirement in late 2001 was due to the acknowledgement of public debts known as
'skeletons,' such as the public bank debt write offs as well as worthless or illiquid securities
in state-run pension funds. Such measures reduced hidden fiscal liabilities and made the
Government's accounts more transparent. In response, and consistent with the credible fiscal
stance adopted over the last three years, the Government raised its primary surplus targct to
3.5% of GDP, which ensures a declining debt to GDP ratio under the worsened
circumstances. Regarding the external accounts, the trade balance has improved through a
compression of imports in response to the depreciation. A substantial surplus in the trade
balance is expected for 2002. The Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) has declined from its
record levels in the past two years but remains substantial, estimated to have reached about
US$19bn in 2001. Current projections include a gradual improvement in the current account
balance (which was US$-23.2 billion in 2001, or 4.6 percent of GDP) and in external debt
indicators.
32.   Brazil has continued the structural reforms necessary to reduce the
vulnerabilities related to its large public debt and high external financing requirements
and needs to further pursue these on a continuing basis.  Improvements in the
institutional framework for fiscal management continue with the effective implementation of
the Fiscal Responsibility Law and refinements of the Plano Plurianual (PPA). Further
public-sector pension reform remains a key item on the agenda of structural fiscal reforms.
11



Financial sector reforms are proceeding, including a first phase of federal bank reform and
the expectation of legal reforms in the financial sector. The recent signing of a new
Corporate Law is expected to promote development of Brazil's capital market through
improved corporate governance. With respect to other growth-promoting reforms, measures
are being taken to address the regulatory weaknesses that have led to the current energy
crisis. Congress has recently approved important measures to flexibilize the labor code.
Other important medium-term reforms should include improvements in the efficiency of the
tax system.
IV. ENERGY SECTOR: DEVELOPMENTS, ISSUES AND REFORMS
A.    Key Features of the Energy Sector
Anatomy of the Power Sector
33.   The Brazilian power sector is globally unique because of its almost exclusive
reliance on hydroelectric generation, which accounts for 90% of generating capacity
(Figure 3a). This proportion is high even by the standards of other predominantly
hydroelectric systems, such as those of Chile (65%), the Nordic Pool (50%), Spain (50%),
and Colombia (67%). Moreover, the MME estimates that the current 60 GW of developed
hydroelectric resources represent a relatively small proportion of the country's remaining
hydro potential. This is estimated to be of the order of 226 GW (125 GW inventoried and 101
GW estimated); however taking into account environmental restrictions and likely cost-
effectiveness relative to other fuels, 144 GW  is probably a more realistic assessment.
Expansion of hydroelectric generation will take place mostly in the South/Southeast and in
the Araguaia/Tocantins basin, closer to the most densely developed/urbanized areas of the
country. There are no major investments foreseen in the Amazon in this period.
34.   The hydroelectric system is characterized by large river basins and major
reservoirs with long-term storage capacity. Another distinguishing feature of the Brazilian
system is the relatively large size of river basins, which means that most of the country's 220
larger (above 10MW) hydroelectric stations, and all of its 21 largest stations (above
1,000MW) are located in a series of cascades along the five major national river basins. This
arrangement leads to important externalities between the operating decisions of different
stations located on the same cascade, which are often controlled by different companies, and
has therefore motivated the centralized control of dispatch.
35.   The generation portfolio is expected to shift gradually towards thermal
generation over time. Following discovery of major natural gas reserves in neighboring
Bolivia, the incipient gas market in Brazil has been boosted by the completion of the Bolivia-
Brazil gas pipeline. The pipeline is capable of supplying 30 million cubic meters of gas per
day, equivalent to about 7 GW of combined cycle gas fired plants. However owing to
capacity constraints in upstream pipelines in Bolivia, Brazil is currently receiving only 13
million cubic meters per day. Thermal generating capacity is projected to double over the
period 2001/06, from 7 GW to 16 GW. Even then, thermal would continue to represent only
16% of the generation portfolio.
12



36.   Most new generation projects since 1998 have sponsors with upstream   or
downstream commercial interests, and are typically co-financed by the state. A detailed
review of generation capacity coming on-stream between 1998 and 2007, is presented in
Table A3.4 of Annex 3. However, there is still considerable uncertainty surrounding the
completion of any of these plants, with environmental difficulties being one of several
problems contributing to delays and cancellations. A number of factors are striking about the
composition of new plants. First, more than two-thirds are hydroelectric. Second, about half
of the planned new capacity is being developed either by companies with upstream interests
in gas supply or by companies with downstream interests in distribution or large scale
industrial use. Finally, much of the new generation is co-financed by state-owned enterprises
such as Petrobras and the Eletrobras subsidiaries.
Figure 3: Anatomy of the Brazilian Power Sector
(a) Generation portfolio (MW)   (b) Regional consumption by sub-market (TWh)
4%                                  6% 2%
14j
11%
17%-
61%
I Hydro (domestic) * Hydro (imports) * Themat oOther |  Southeast/central U South * Northeast a North 0 Isolated
Source: Erber (2001)
37.   Due to a number of transmission bottlenecks, the national grid can be separated
into four regional sub-markets (Figure 3b). The Brazilian power market registered a total
consumption of 306 TWh in 2000. Demand is growing at about 5.3% per annum. The market
operates as four partially inter-connected regional sub-markets, of which by far the largest is
that of the Southeast/Central region which accounts for more than 60% of national
consumption. The major links between these sub-markets are a 1,000 MW transmission tie
connecting the North to the Northeast and to the Southeast/Central sub-markets, and a 2,000
MW tie (via the Itaipu power plant) connecting the South to the Southeast/Central sub-
market. The South is connected to Argentina by a 1,000 MW tie. These ties are insufficient
to allow the full utilization of occasional and some permanent surpluses in specific sub-
markets. Projects currently underway will duplicate the capacity on all of these inter-
connectors. However, these inter-regional links will not provide their full benefit unless
several significant local bottlenecks within each sub-market are eliminated.
13



Power Sector Restructuring
38.   Until the mid-1990s, the Brazilian power sector had developed along traditional
state-owned lines. Power services were provided by about 70 public utilities, with a
combination of federal, state and municipal ownership. The federal government, through
Eletrobras and its four major regional subsidiaries (Furnas, Chesf, Eletronorte and Eletrosul),
controlled 58% of the generation assets and about 75% of the national transmission network.
State and municipal companies (together with some small private operators) were primarily
responsible for electricity distribution, covering 80% of retail customers, but also had
significant interests in generation and transmission. Any surplus energy produced by local
companies was purchased by the Eletrobras subsidiaries, which were responsible for bulk
sales.
39.   In 1995 Brazil embarked on a power sector restructuring process. The purpose of
the reform was to move from a centrally controlled, government-owned sector, to a
competitive system largely under private sector ownership. The reform was motivated by a
desire to attract private investment into the power industry, and improve the overall
efficiency of the system. The key reforms were enacted in Laws 8987/95, 9074/95, 9427/96
and 9648/98. For a detailed description of the contents of this legislation see Table A3.3 of
Annex 3. This legislation set out some of the main features of the new institutional
framework, including the requirement to vertically unbundle power utilities, the creation of
an independent system operator (ONS), a wholesale electricity market (MAE), a planning
agency (CCPE), and a regulatory agency (ANEEL). These laws also specified some of the
structural changes needed to make the transition to the new model, including the unbundling
of vertically integrated companies, the introduction of free negotiation for bulk supply, and
the expiry of all existing long-term contracts between generators and distributors.
40.   The necessary process of vertically unbundling generation from transmission
and distribution assets has become politically paralyzed at a relatively early stage. At
the outset of the reform process in 1997/8, a number of major companies went through a
process of vertical unbundling whereby generation assets were transferred into a separate
company from transmission or distribution assets, and in some cases were sold on to the
private sector. These companies included one of the Eletrobras subsidiaries (Eletrosul) and
some of the larger state utilities (CESP, Eletropaulo, CEEE-RGS and CELG). Altogether,
about 42% of national generation capacity was vertically unbundled, and 23% was ultimately
privatized. The vast majority of the remaining generation assets are held by the three other
Eletrobras subsidiaries (Eletronorte, Chesf, and Furnas). Although these three companies
introduced accounting separation, it has proved difficult to make any further progress with
the unbundling process. The absence of progress with unbundling is a serious concern, since
international experience demonstrates that neither accounting separation, nor even creation of
separate but affiliated legal subsidiaries, is enough to prevent anti-competitive behavior.
41.   Consequently, the Eletrobras subsidiaries continue to occupy a dominant
position in the generating sector, particularly in certain regional sub-markets. The
failure to make progress with the divestment of federally owned power assets has left
Eletrobras in a dominant position. Even though no individual subsidiary controls more than
16% of the national market, in combination the remaining Eletrobras subsidiaries (including
14



Itaipu) account for almost 60% of national generating capacity (Table 2). Furthermore, at the
level of individual sub-markets the concentration of market power is much more extreme.
Eletronorte controls almost 90% of the capacity in the northern sub-market, while Chesf
controls almost 100% of the generating capacity in the Northeast. Evidently, this kind of
market structure severely limits the degree of real competition in the generating sector.
Ultimately, the creation of a level playing field between generators will require most of the
remaining federally-owned generating assets to be broken-up and privatized. Furthermore, as
a precursor to privatization, it will be necessary to break-up the packages of generating assets
held by each of the three main federal companies, in order to ensure that no company
occupies a dominant position in any of the four regional sub-markets.
Table 2: The enduring market power of Eletrobras
(P' jcentage of generating capacity in national and regional markets in 2001
Eletrobras Subsidiaries             Eletrobras
Eletronorte  Chesf     Furnas    Itaipu  |  Cgtee      Total
Nornh             87.6                                                 87.6
Northeast                    97.2                                      97.2
Central/Southeast                       31.5      27.3                 58.8
South                                             18.6       3.8       22.4
National          16.1       15.4       8.4      1 7.5       0.7       58.1
4lncludes Brazilian share plus wholesale purchase of Paraguayan share.
Source: Erber, 2001.
42.   There has been substantial progress with privatization in the electricity
distribution sector. Between 1995 and 2000, 24 electricity distribution utilities were
privatized with an aggregate sale value of US$22 billion, and a total debt transfer of US$6
billion. As a result, private operators account for 64% of retail sales. Moreover, the
privatization of one of the principal remaining state distribution companies, COPEL, is
currently underway. However, the initial attempt to privatize COPEL in November 2001
failed when all six pre-qualified blue chip foreign strategic investors withdrew from the
bidding process, discouraged by the uncertainties of the crisis environment. The State of
Parana is currently preparing a second auction under revised terms.
43.   However, many distribution companies continue to have significant interests in
generation, introducing the danger of uncompetitive self-dealing arrangements for
power purchase. Many of the distribution companies, including those that were privatized
since 1995, own substantial generating capacity. In recognition of potential anti-competitive
behavior, ANEEL has imposed limits of 30% on self-dealing for power purchase by
distributors from their own generators. However, not only are these limits comparatively
high, but there is evidence that they incorporate significant exceptions (such as thermal plants
built by 2003) and moreover are not being enforced in practice. The ultimate success of
Brazil's efforts to create a competitive power system will depend on clear vertical and
horizontal limits on cross-ownership between different entities in the sector. The full
completion of vertical unbundling in the distribution sector is complicated by the fact that the
distribution utilities fall within the jurisdiction of State governments making it more difficult
to reach political consensus. Nonetheless, international experience suggests that this problem
will need to be tackled sooner or later. For example, in Bolivia the 1995 electricity law
prohibits generators from having ownership interests, either directly or indirectly, in
15



distributors and vice versa. Similar restrictions exist in Argentina and have been instrumental
in the development of effective competition. Without a similar structural foundation in
Brazil, competition will be inhibited.
44.   A parallel reform program in the upstream gas sector has terminated the legal
monopoly of Petrobras. Since its creation in the fifties, Petrobras held the national
monopoly for exploration and exploitation of petroleum and gas, refining, maritime
transportation, and pipeline transportation. Exceptions were the distribution of petroleum
products, which was open to domestic and foreign investors, and distribution of natural gas,
which was the legal responsibility of the state-owned distribution companies. The
constitutional review of 1995, and subsequent Hydrocarbons Law of 1997, ended the legal
monopoly of Petrobras and sought to open the sector to competition under the supervision of
a new regulatory agency, Agencia Nacional do Petr6leo (ANP).
45.   However, in practice Petrobras continues to occupy a dominant position.
Although Petrobras has established a separate transportation subsidiary, as required by the
new law, no further restructuring is contemplated, and the dominant position of Petrobras is
likely to complicate the development of effective competition in the sector. ANP has been
taking a number of measures to try and promote new entry, for example by auctioning
concessions for the exploration and development of new petroleum fields, and for the
development of marginal pipeline capacity on existing rights of way. In addition, two new
pipeline projects, one of them involving a connection with Argentina, are currently being
developed without Petrobras involvement. Although the regulatory framework mandates
open access to all gas pipelines, the fact that there is currently no excess capacity in the
Bolivia-Brazil pipeline means that this legal requirement has yet to become a reality.
46.   Lack of competition in gas supply is seriously prejudicing the development of
new private sector thermal generating capacity. Given that gas imports from Bolivia are
the key input for new thermal generating plants, these developments in the hydrocarbons
sector have an important follow-through effect on power sector reforms. At present, the only
option available to developers of new thermal power generation is to obtain Bolivian gas via
a dollarized take-or-pay contract with Petrobras. However, given the fact that thermal plants
only operate on an occasional basis in a system dominated by hydroelectric plants, and that
there is no system of capacity payments to generators, or any secondary market in gas
supply, it is extremely difficult for new investors to recover the costs associated with these
rigid gas supply contracts.
16



Table 3: The evolving structure of the Brazilian energy sector
Pre 1995                  2001               Long-term Vision
Gas supply        Publicly owned vertically  Legally open access to  Petrobras faces effective
integrated monopoly,    exploration, transportation  competition in exploration,
Petrobras, responsible for  and bulk supply activities, transportation and bulk
exploration, transportation  but in practice Petrobras  supply, with open access to
and bulk supply.        continues to occupy a   existing pipelines and
dominant position.      rights of way.
Publicly owned state    Some state distribution  All state distribution
companies responsible for  companies have been  companies have been
distribution.           privatized.             privatized.
Generation        Publicly owned, vertically  23% of generation   Privately owned, vertically
integrated federal      capacity in private hands,  unbundled companies.
companies, for generation  but market continues to be
and transmission.       dominated by vertically
integrated Eletrobras
subsidiaries and Petrobras
joint ventures.
Transmission      Publicly owned, vertically  Publicly owned, vertically  Publicly owned, vertically
integrated federal      integrated federal      unbundled companies,
companies, for generation  companies for generation  operating under an
and transmission.       and transmission.       independent system
operator.
Distribution      Publicly owned, mainly  64% of the market is in  Privately operated,
state companies, with   private hands, but vertical  vertically unbundled
some vertical integration,  integration persists.  companies.
including generation,
transmission and
I distribution.
47.    To summarize, the structural reforms undertaken following 1995 were not
sufficient to realize the long-term    vision of a competitive energy supply market in
Brazil. Table 3 shows the following problems in particular:
*   No measures were taken to increase the effective competition faced by Petrobras
in exploration, transportation and bulk supply of natural gas.
*   Federally-owned vertically integrated transmission and generation companies
were not fully unbundled thereby jeopardizing open access to the transmission
network.
*   Federally-owned generation assets were not horizontally broken-up so that the
Eletrobras subsidiaries retained their considerable market power.
*   Distribution companies failed to divest of their major generation and transmission
assets, thereby creating the potential for abusive self-dealing arrangements.
17



New Government Institutions
48.   To complement the reforms in the industry structure, a number of new
government institutions were created. Prior to sector refonns, Eletrobras was responsible
for planning and coordinating the expansion and operation of the electricity sector, as well as
being the holding company for federally-owned power sector companies. The evident
conflict of interest between Eletrobras planning and operating functions, as well as the
absence of any autonomous regulatory agency to supervise the implementation of
government policy, prompted a restructuring of government institutions in the sector.
49.   Policy-making remains the responsibility of the Energy Secretary at the MME.
In addition, the National Energy Policy Council (CNPE), which is a multi-ministerial body
with broader stakeholder presentation, is responsible for advising the President on matters
relating to energy policy. The CNPE has no technical staff of its own, but rather relies on the
MME to provide the necessary support functions. An important constraint has been the lack
of a permanent body of suitably qualified experts in sufficient numbers to support these
policy-making activities within the ministry. Although this has always been a problem, at
least prior to the reforms MME was able to draw upon a considerable body of expertise
within Eletrobras. However, most of these human resources were dispersed as a result of the
restructuring process, leaving the MME, and hence also the CNPE, seriously lacking
technical support.
50.   Planning functions originally undertaken by Eletrobras were transferred to the
Power System Expansion Coordinating Committee (CCPE). The CCPE has a broad
membership representing all the major stakeholders in the power sector. It is responsible for
producing 10 year expansion plans for the generation and transmission sectors. In the case of
generation, the plans are only indicative in nature, with investors at liberty to make their own
decisions. In the case of transmission, the plans are mandatory, in the sense that new
investment must conform strictly with the plan. However, unlike Eletrobras, CCPE does not
have the cadre of high quality permanent staff that are needed to provide technical support
and prepare the annual reports upon which the long-term plans are based. A further issue is
the lack of clarity with regard to responsibilities for preparation of river basin inventories,
formerly conducted by Eletrobras and major utilities. ANEEL has been carrying out or
updating some of them, but recognizes that strategic studies should be the responsibility of
MME.
51.   There is also ambiguity of jurisdiction regarding policy-making and regulatory
entities in the energy and water sector when it comes to hydroelectric plants. The
National Water Resources Council (CNRH) and the Federal Water Regulatory Agency
(ANA), in line with the National Water Resources Policy (Law 9433/97), have roles roughly
symmetrical to those of CCPE and ANEEL in the power sector, and overall responsibility for
the country's policy with regard to planning and licensing multiple uses of water that affect
more than one state. The lack of clarity/inconsistencies in the role of CCPE/CNRH and of
ANEEL/ANA with regard to policy making and planning (including with respect to
environmental/social dimensions) needs to be resolved for the new model to function
appropriately.
18



52.   Responsibility for the dispatch of generating plants was transferred to an
independent system operator. Given the objective of creating a competitive generation
market, it was no longer appropriate for Eletrobras to be responsible for dispatch, since it
continues to own almost 60% of generation. In order to ensure non-discriminatory access to
the national transmission grid, an independent system operator-ONS-was established in
1998. ONS is responsible for conducting the dispatch of all generating plants larger than 50
MW connected to the national grid, and coordinating the operation of the interconnected
system, comprising all transmission lines in excess of 230 kV. The governing
body-comprising 19 members in all-incorporates representation of the production
(generators and importers) (43%), transmission companies (14%) and free consumers
(distributors, large (>3MW) industrial customers and exporters) (43%); each with the voting
shares indicated. However, the governance arrangements for the independent system operator
(ONS) have proved to be problematic. This is so for two reasons. First, the relatively large
number of members of the ONS governing board (19 in all) makes the decision-making
process complex and unwieldy. Second, although the voting shares appear to be equitably
distributed, in practice the continuing vertical integration of generation and transmission,
effectively gives the Eletrobras subsidiaries a controlling share.
53.   ANEEL was created as an independent regulator for the electricity sector, with a
relatively broad range of responsibilities. The agency is governed by a five person
directorate, appointed directly by the President, with the approval of the Senate, but without
the involvement of the MME. ANEEL's unusually broad range of responsibilities include:
issuing regulations to support the implementation of new legislation; awarding concessions
to sector operators; designing hydroelectric inventories to optimize river flows; scheduling
the transmission network expansion concessions; supervision of concession contracts;
revision of tariffs; monitoring of service quality; dealing with customer complaints;
certifying the firm energy of hydroelectric plants; and overseeing the operation of the
wholesale market. The first three areas of responsibility described, in most countries would
fall within the jurisdiction of the policy-maker rather than the regulator. Indeed, the
responsibility for awarding concessions has very recently been transferred from ANEEL to
MME. ANEEL is allowed to delegate some of its functions to state utility regulators, where
these exist, however, this has not yet happened to any significant degree.
54.   At present, there is no effective mechanism for private investors to appeal to a
third party against regulatory decisions adopted by ANEEL. Although power sector
operators are allowed to appeal decisions directly to ANEEL, the only possibility of
obtaining an independent assessment of regulatory decisions is via the judicial system.
Experience to date suggests that judicial appeals can take several years to complete, and that
the judiciary is not technically equipped to deal with the complex economic and financial
issues raised by regulatory disputes. The numerous disputes that have arisen between
ANEEL and the private sector over the interpretation of the regulations suggest that the
creation of such an appeals mechanism will be essential to building confidence in the
impartiality and transparency of regulatory decisions.
19



55.   ANP was created as the. regulatory institution for the hydrocarbons sector. ANP
was created in 1997. Similar to ANEEL, ANP is headed by a five-person directorate
appointed directly by the President, with the approval of the Senate. The principal functions
of ANP are as follows: implement national policy for the hydrocarbons sector; award and
supervise concessions for exploration, development and production activities; issue
authorizations for refining, processing, transporting and trading activities; define tariffs for
pipeline transportation; protect consumer interests; organize and maintain technical records
of the oil and gas sector and regulate the dissemnination of new technical data; supervise
compliance with oil products and gas conservation measures; support land expropriation
procedures associated with the development of the hydrocarbons sector. Given the important
linkages between the gas and electricity markets, there was some discussion as to whether
ANP and ANEEL should be merged. This possibility is no longer under active consideration.
56.   To summarize, the key problems with the institutional framework created
during the transition to the new sector model are as follows:
* Allocation of some policy-making functions to the regulatory body ANEEL rather
than to the MME.
*  Coordination among agencies responsible for environmental regulation (ANA,
IBAMA, CNRH), and between these and ANEEL.
*  Coordination between ANEEL and ANP on matters regarding the role of
hydrocarbons in the expansion of the electricity sector.
*  Clarification and modification of the role of Eletrobras within the new power
sector model.
*  Clarification of responsibility for long-term strategic planning within the context
of the new sector model.
*  Resolution of the human resource constraints that prevent the policy-making
functions from being adequately performed by MME and CNPE.
*  Relative roles of ANEEL and the Anti-Trust Agency (CADE) in addressing
competition issues in the power sector.
Generation Pricing
57.   The new vision of the power sector foresaw generators and distributors engaging
in freely negotiated long-term bilateral contracts, with minor surpluses and shortages
settled using a spot market. In order to ensure a smooth transition to a competitive market,
initial contracts were introduced in 1999 to cover 100% of the distributor's anticipated
demand. The prices incorporated in the initial contracts were determined by ANEEL, and are
set at an average level of about R$50 per MWh (US$20 per MWh). The prices embodied in
the initial contracts still only reflect average historic costs of production rather than the
marginal cost of new plants, which is estimated to be of the order of US$38 per MWh. Since
many generation assets have already been largely amortized, it is still possible for existing
generators to operate profitably at these prices. The initial contracts will be phased out
progressively, 25% per year, between 2003-06. Thereafter, distributors will be at liberty to
20



negotiate their own terms with generators, as long as they hold long-term contracts to cover
at least 85% of their anticipated demand. In order to take into account the climatic
uncertainty associated with hydroelectric plants, ANEEL is required to certify the amount of
'firm energy' that hydro generators may contract with distributors, based on a 95% reliability
criterion.
58.   Any differences between contracted and outturn volumes would be settled at the
regulated spot market price. A key feature of the reform process was the introduction of a
wholesale electricity market (MAE), based on an agreement between the key sector
stakeholders. Major decisions relating to the MAE are taken by the General Assembly, where
50% of the votes are allocated to consumers (distributors, large industrial customers and
exporters) and 50% to producers (generators and importers). Initially, supervisory and policy
decisions were delegated to an executive committee (COEX) that consisted of about thirty
members. However, this governance arrangement was found to be slow and susceptible to
deadlocks. Consequently, in April 2001 ANEEL required that COEX be replaced by a
smaller governing board called COMAE, comprising six counselors, two nominated by the
generators, two by the distributors and two by ANEEL. Although four out of the six
counselors were selected by particular constituencies, the counselors were not supposed to
represent the commercial interests of these constituencies. The day-to-day operation of the
MAE were supervised by a services manager (ASMAE), while the settlement of accounts
was the responsibility of the Brazilian Financial Clearing House (CBLC).
59.   The spot market price is determined mechanistically based on the output of a
complicated software model used for dispatch. Like most Latin American countries, the
Brazilian wholesale spot market operates as cost rather than a bid-based market. The price
used to settle transactions on the MAE, is that determined by the independent system
operator (ONS). ONS uses a computer algorithm known as NEWAVE, which is an economic
optimization model designed to minimize the costs of meeting a given level of overall energy
demand. The computer model determines which plants get dispatched (i.e. scheduled to
generate electricity) and at what levels. One of the key parameters in this model is the
opportunity cost of water, which is calculated on a five year forward looking basis, taking
into account hydrological conditions, the cost of thermal generation, planned new generating
capacity, and the marginal cost of a system outage. In contrast to hydroelectric plants, new
thermal plants are at liberty to make their own price bids, and are dispatched depending on
whether these lie above or below the opportunity cost of water. Whenever hydroelectric
plants are at the margin, the opportunity cost of water that emerges from the NEWAVE
model automatically becomes the price at which spot market transactions are settled on the
MAE. In a system that is dominated by hydroelectric plants with relatively low short-run
marginal costs, new thermal plants are only dispatched on an occasional basis when reservoir
levels are exceptionally low.
60.   There is significant scope for improving upon the current model by giving
market participants a greater role in the determination of spot prices. The problem with
the current system is that all economic decisions about generation are centrally imposed,
making the sector particularly vulnerable to any errors or biases in the NEWAVE model.
Nonetheless, a move towards an entirely decentralized bid-based dispatch model would
probably be premature in Brazil given the various structural problems identified above
21



(namely concentration of market power, vertical integration, and dominance of publicly
owned generators). It is also complicated by the interdependence between hydroelectric
plants located on a single cascade. Significant improvements in efficiency could be achieved
by allowing participants in the spot market to trade at freely determined prices, even while
continuing to operate centralized cost-based dispatch. This modification would allow the spot
price of electricity to reflect a much wider range of market information and stakeholder
perceptions, reducing the vulnerability of the pricing mechanism to any errors and biases in
the NEWAVE model. It would also give generators financial self-determination, rather than
forcing them to trade at prices and quantities imposed from the center. This approach is
increasingly being taken in European wholesale markets, and operated for more than twenty
years in the New England Power Pool in the United States.
Transmission Pricing
61.   The structure of transmission prices is being altered to reflect geographical
constraints in the network. During the initial contract period, transmission pricing is based
on a single 'postage stamp' charge per kilowatt of load, which does not vary with geographic
location. The problem with this pricing mechanism is that it does not provide any incentives
for generators to choose locations that minimize the sum of generation and transmission
costs. As the initial contracts expire, or new long-term contracts are signed to cover
incremental demand, a system based on nodal pricing is being introduced. The nodal prices
reflect the marginal cost of system expansion at each entry point, and which may even be
negative on some portions of the network where there is excess transmission capacity.
However a 'postage stamp' component will be retained in the price structure to ensure that
full average costs are covered and to provide more stable prices. It is estimated that the
relative weight of nodal pricing and postage stamp pricing in the final tariffs will be three to
one.
Distribution Tariffs
62.   The Government decided to adopt a gradual approach to phasing in cost-
reflective electricity tariffs. Decades of public sector control meant that at the time of sector
reform electricity tariffs were significantly below cost-recovery levels. Tariffs were allowed
to rise substantially in US dollar terms, from US$45 per MWh in 1991 to US$75 per MWh in
1997 (Figure 4). However, much of this increase was eroded by the subsequent devaluation
of the Real, so that as of the year 2000, the US dollar value of the average retail tariff had
fallen back to about US$60 per MWh.
22



Figure 4: Evolution of average electricity tariffs in Brazil (US$/MWh)
120
100--
' 60    -                      - '-Residential
60   _____________________   ~   Commercial
o_                         -b _-Industnal
40 -                              Total
20-
0 
Source: Erber (2001)
63.   Distribution companies are allowed to pass-through uncontrollable costs,
however, this has not been taking place in practice. Although Brazilian law prohibits
automatic and continuous indexation of prices, the regulatory framework allows annual cost
pass-through of certain uncontrollable costs known as 'Parcela A.' These include taxes,
levies, Itaipu charges, and the cost of power purchased under initial contracts. Overall, they
account for about 40% of the overall costs to the end-user. Distributors have complained that
ANEEL is not allowing the pass-through of 'Parcela A' costs. This dispute has recently been
resolved by introducing 'tracking accounts' which allows future changes in uncontrollable
costs to accumulate with interest during the course of the year, and then to be passed-through
in a single step at year's end. Moreover, distributors are being compensated retrospectively
for the failure to pass-through 'Parcela A' items in the past.
64.   Distributors also have major complaints about the procedure for passing-
through the cost of energy purchased under new long-term contracts ('Valor
Normativo'). Distributors may also pass-through energy purchase costs on new long-term
contracts up to a fuel-specific regulatory price cap known as the 'Valor Normativo.' ANEEL
has established six different 'Valores Normativos' one for each of the major fuels, and these
are revised on a periodic basis to keep pace with changes in costs. Private operators
consistently identify the 'Valor Normativo' as a major obstacle to new investments in the
sector. The complaints are twofold. First, they claim that the values of the 'Valores
Normativos' are significantly below the true marginal cost of supplying new energy for
thermal generation. Second, they argue that the procedures for setting and revising the 'Valor
Normativo' are extremely opaque and create a great deal of uncertainty about the likely
revenue streams that will accrue to generators. Moreover, they only partially compensate
investors for movements in the Brazilian real against the US dollar. This makes it very
difficult for a distributor to sign a long-term power purchase agreement with a generator, that
would obligate the distributor to fully compensate the generator for any increasing cost (in
Brazilian currency) of key inputs (such as natural gas) that must be paid for in US dollars.
Hence, as initial contracts expire, the problems with the 'Valor Normativo' will make it
increasingly difficult for distributors to meet their regulatory obligation to hold long-term
contracts for at least 85% of their anticipated demands. There is consequently an urgent need
23



for ANEEL to develop more transparent, market-based mechanisms for determining
allowable pass-through of energy purchase costs.
65.   Distribution tariffs are reviewed by ANEEL every three to five years. The
purpose of these reviews is to allow prices to adjust for changes in the cost of providing the
distribution service. So far, ESCELSA has been the only utility to undergo a distribution
tariff review. However, the other 56 operators are scheduled to undergo their first distribution
tariff reviews in 2003-04. The ESCELSA experience revealed the complete absence of
methodological principles and guidelines for tariff review, either in the concession contracts
or in the sectoral legislation. As a result, ANEEL was forced to develop its approach to price-
setting on a discretionary and 'ad hoc' basis, and the process was therefore characterized by a
series of major methodological disputes between the regulator and the utility. Perhaps the
most dramatic of these related to the methodology for valuing the regulatory asset base, with
ESCELSA convincing ANEEL to increase the value of its asset base from R$685 billion to
R$980 billion. This experience has generated a great deal of uncertainty for the 56
distribution companies that will shortly be facing their first reviews, and points to the urgent
need to develop detailed methodological guidelines for the conduct of tariff reviews.
66.   It appears that the distribution tariff structure in Brazil incorporates some
degree of cross-subsidy from domestic to industrial customers. The retail tariff for
residential customers in the year 2000 was US$0.087 per kilowatt-hour, while industrial
customers paid US$0.039 per kilowatt-hour. It is to be expected that domestic tariffs should
be significantly higher than industrial ones, since the former are more expensive to serve due
to their smaller loads and their more extensive use of distribution facilities. Nonetheless,
price differentials of this magnitude are probably not justified in terms of the underlying cost
structures, suggesting that some cross-subsidy is taking place. ANEEL has recently
developed a methodology for allocating distribution costs between different types of
customers. The regulatory agency has tested the methodology using data from one of the
distribution utilities, and found that residential tariffs for that company should be lowered by
10% and industrial tariffs raised by up to 20%. The practice in Brazil stands in contrast to
most other Latin American countries, where industrial consumers are often required to cross-
subsidize residential customers. However, the differential between industrial and residential
consumers is similar to that in the US where in 1999 residential customers paid US$0.081 per
kilowatt-hour, against US$0.044 per kilowatt-hour for industrial customers.
67.   In summary, there are a number of reasons to believe that the overall average
level of distribution tariffs had fallen too low in the period following sector reform. The
discussion thus far illustrated a number of different reasons why tariffs had fallen too far
below costs.
* The 'Valor Normativo' was no longer at a level commensurate with the long-run
marginal cost of developing new thermal plants.
* The absence of full cost pass-through of historic costs accumulated under Parcela
A, had prevented tariffs from keeping pace with recent cost increases.
* The absence of any regulatory methodology for updating the value of distribution
company assets over time.
24



Environmental Management
68.   The Government has a long-standing and reasonably solid framework that
regulates the handling of environmental and social issues in the power sector. Licensing
of power sector projects with regard to environmental and social impacts is regulated by
norms that were largely adopted before the reform of the power sector. Within the general
licensing framework established in Brazil in 1986, the power sector was the first sector for
which specific regulations were developed (CONAMA Resolution No. 006/1987). Such
regulations cover generation and transmission projects above a minimum size (10 MW in the
case of generation, and 230 kV in the case of transmission) and require three licenses in the
course of the project cycle. The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the
Ministry of the Environment and Renewable Resources (MMA) recently conducted an
assessment of the effectiveness of the licensing system in Brazil. A specific study on the
regulations that apply to the power sector was underway at the time of this writing. Overall,
the results are positive while recommending some selective areas of improvement and
adaptation to the new power sector context.
69.   Environmental and social safeguard functions previously shared with Eletrobras
have been largely transferred to environmental regulatory and enforcement agencies. In
Brazil, environmental licensing responsibilities lie predominantly with state agencies. The
Federal Government, through the Brazilian Environmental Institute (IBAMA), is in charge of
licensing power sector projects in cases where these are bi-national or lie on national rivers,
bordering two states. Nuclear plants are licensed by the National Nuclear Energy Council
(CNEN). Before the reform of the power sector, this arrangement was supplemented by
planning functions carried out within the power sector itself. Eletrobras established technical
guidelines for handling environmental and social impacts of hydro, thermal and transmission
projects, and carried out technical reviews of projects on behalf of the National Departmnent
for Water and Electricity (DNAEE), before submission to environmental licensing agencies
at each pertinent stage of the project cycle. With the elimination of this technical function
within the sector, demands on the technical expertise of environmental licensing agencies
have increased significantly.
70.   Uncertainties and transaction costs associated with the licensing process are
considerable. Environmental licensing agencies, especially at the state level, are often not
equipped to deal in a timely manner with the technically complex and controversial issues
associated with the location, design and operation of power sector projects. Furthermore the
recent trend in the country has been towards increased involvement of communities and local
levels of government in environmental decision making, adding further challenges.
Institutional strengthening at the federal and state levels is an ongoing but long-term effort,
which is being supported by the Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB),
among others. With regards to the current pipeline of projects, the licensing process has
followed established procedures and is proceeding much as before privatization. The
challenge is mostly for the future. In the new private sector-based model, the lack of a
mechanism to minimize uncertainties and transaction costs associated with environmental
licensing is a significant limitation.
25



71.   With the power sector still in transition, there is considerable lack of clarity with
respect to institutional responsibilities. Within the power sector, the basic set of
environmental guidelines (for resettlement, indigenous peoples, flora and fauna, coal-fired
thermal plants, among others) and methodologies (for environmental and social studies and
activities at different stages of the project cycle) developed over the years by Eletrobras, in
collaboration with the previously state-owned companies, is apparently still largely being
used as a reference by ANEEL. The main concern is the lack of clarity with respect to
institutional responsibilities for environmental planning, especially in the early stages of the
project cycle.
72.   In the longer term, dealing with the environmental and social externalities
generated by power sector projects requires coordination on the part of energy, water
resource management and environmental agencies. During the course of the reform
process, the power sector has been drawing largely on an existing pipeline of fairly advanced
projects (at feasibility or more advanced stage of study), including their respective
environmental/social assessments and management plans. The pipeline of projects will need
to be revisited soon for a number of reasons. First, since the Brazilian system is strongly
hydro-based, an ad-hoc concessioning of individual projects in disregard of a comprehensive
study of the complete cascade has drawbacks in terms of optimizing generating capacity.
Second, optimal multiple use of water resources has gained importance since the approval of
the National Water Resources Policy in 1997 and the creation of the CNRH and ANA.
Inventories of river basins will need to be systematically updated to incorporate water
resources management issues as well as heightened concerns on the part of local
communities and Brazilian society with respect to environmental and social impacts.
73.   Several overlapping efforts are underway to address 'upstream' planning needs.
Given the increasing emphasis on a comprehensive resource management perspective,
several agencies (ANEEL, ANA, MME       and Eletrobras) are currently advancing
methodological and other studies to respond to what they perceive as their mandate. It is
quite urgent that responsibility for extensive river basin inventory work be clearly assigned
and that a mechanism for institutional cooperation be put in place. A model of the longer-
term planning responsibilities within the sector has been put forth by MME. Broad-based
discussion and agreement amongst the key institutional stakeholders with regard to
institutional mandates and procedures for long-term planning are under discussion in the
Power Sector Revitalization Committee but are likely to require a longer timeframe. Thus
this process and the specific recommendations that result from it should be supported in the
next phase of the Sectoral Adjustment program. The ESTAL, which is being prepared in
parallel with this adjustment loan, will support an update and revision of river basin
inventories, including the environmental and social impacts of alternative cascade
arrangements. Similar concerns apply to the case of thermal plants, where strategic studies of
macro-siting are foreseen and would contribute significantly to reduce uncertainties related to
the thermal program.
74.   A vision of the environmental and social implications of longer-term expansion
of the power sector needs to be developed to reduce uncertainties and make best use of
opportunities. The power sector is currently operating in a crisis mode. Beyond this phase
however, strategic planning will be an essential function in a capital intensive sector like the
26



power sector, with long lead times and major public interest issues at stake, especially as the
private sector becomes increasingly involved. This implies a clear identification of the likely
expansion paths (e.g., fuel uses, river basin development sequencing), key issues and
implications of alternative paths (e.g., likely impacts), and options for addressing them (e.g.,
mitigation strategies, synergies with other initiatives, institutional, regulatory and
methodological requirements, financial implications, funding opportunities).
75.   Annex 4 presents a more detailed description of the current framework for
management of environmental and social issues in the power sector.
Energy Efficiency
76.   Energy efficiency is a critical element of the equation for meeting balance
between supply and demand for electricity. It has been estimated that cost-effective energy
savings of at least 1% of electricity demand per year would be relatively easily attainable in
Brazil. Such savings would make it possible to defer US$300 million of investments in new
generating capacity each year and would lead to reductions in carbon emissions of about 17
million tons over the next decade. The achievement of this energy efficiency target is being
supported by a current World Bank operation (Loan 4514-0 BR). The operation will address
some of the key barriers that prevent these benefits from being realized at present. These
include lack of public awareness, absence of credible consumer information documenting
energy savings, an underdeveloped Energy Service Company (ESCO) sector, and regulations
and procurement practices that impeded the realization of potential savings in the public
sector. An important step forward was the recent promulgation of the Energy Efficiency Law
(No. 10297/01)
B.    The Genesis of the Energy Crisis
77.   Against the backdrop of these major structural reforms, a crisis was gradually
unfolding. The hydrological situation in Brazil had been worsening continuously since
1997. The wet season in the year 2000 was one of the worst in the last 70 years so that by the
time the new dry season began in April 2001, the average storage level of the country's
reservoirs had reached a low point of 34% in the Southeast and 42% in the Northeast,
compared with typical values of 80% for the end of the wet season. In May 2001, the
Government officially declared a state of emergency in the power sector, and in July a
rationing program was introduced limiting consumers in the South of the country to 80% of
their historic consumption levels. The same policy was extended to the north of the country
in September 2001. Although the worsening hydrological situation was the proximate cause
of the crisis, this begs the question of why hydrological reserves were allowed to reach such
low levels.
Causes of the Crisis
78.   According to the Government, the underlying cause of the crisis was the failure
of planned new plants to come on stream in the year 2000. According to the licensing
records, an additional 7.8 GW of thermal generating capacity was scheduled to come on
stream by 2001. If this amount of new capacity had become available, no power shortages
27



would have been experienced. However, in practice, hardly any of this new capacity
materialized. About one-third of it experienced significant delays in reaching financial
closure, while the other two thirds had to be cancelled altogether due to lack of investor
interest. Given that the dispatch decisions taken by the NEWAVE model in 1999/00 were
premised on the arrival of this additional plants, reservoir levels were allowed to fall much
more rapidly than would have been justified under the circumstances, with a more realistic
assessment of the likelihood that new generating capacity would come on line by the end of
the year 2000.
79.   There are basically two reasons why the planned new plants failed to come on
stream. First, distributors had no incentive to contract for the new plants. Second, the
structure of prices made it very difficult to finance new plants.
80.   There were not adequate incentives for distributors to react to the impending
supply shortage by contracting for new generation. Although generators and distributors
were aware of the impending supply crisis, neither of them chose to react to the problem by
trying to develop additional sources of power. Distributors technically had 100% of their load
covered by long-term contracts with generators. They therefore had no incentive to contract
for additional energy, since they would not be allowed to recover the associated costs from
their customers. Indeed, if rationing occurred the distribution companies stood to receive
financial compensation from generators (under ANEEL's Annex V) that would more than
compensate for their decrease in revenues. Moreover, given that rationing is 'socialized' in
Brazil, there was nothing to be gained by any individual distribution company taking
measures to prevent it happening.
81.   At the same time, there was no incentive for generators to build new plants.
ANEEL's Annex V compensation provisions effectively put the responsibility for
guaranteeing energy supply on the generators. However, the state-owned generators that
continue to dominate the sector, simply refused to believe that the compensation clauses
would ever be enforced; this was a prophecy that proved to be self-fulfilling. Moreover,
neither was it financially attractive to build new plants. On the one hand, the level of ANEEL
'Valor Normativo' parameters relative to the true cost of building new plants meant that
distributors would be unable to pay the prices that generators needed to cover the cost of their
investments. On the other hand, the structure of prices and contracts made it virtually
impossible to build merchant thermal plants. In a predominantly hydroelectric system, such
plants would only be dispatched on an occasional basis when reservoir capacity was low. It
would therefore have no way of covering the fixed costs of investment, and the dollarized
take-or-pay gas contracts offered by Petrobras.
82.   This fundamental lack of incentives for maintaining supply-demand balance will
need to be addressed if future crises of this nature are to be avoided. This experience has
revealed that neither ANEEL's Annex V provisions nor the stock market have provided the
incentives to ensure that generators develop adequate reserve margins to ensure that energy
demand could continue to be met in the face of a hydrological shock. International
experience illustrates that a number of other mechanisms exist for providing these kind of
incentives. One possibility is to increase the onus on distributors, by requiring them to
contract for a higher percentage of their required load, and/or fining them for failure to
28



deliver energy to their consumers. Another possibility is to further restrict the amount of firm
energy that hydroelectric generators can contract for a given level of capacity, and/or to
introduce positive incentives for the development of merchant plants through a system of
capacity payments to generators that make themselves available for dispatch, regardless of
whether or not they are actually dispatched. Finally, demand-side bidding mechanisms have
sometimes been used to maintain balance between supply and demand by allowing large
industrial consumers to be compensated for voluntary reductions in load. The appropriate
mix of policy measures for Brazil will need to be carefully evaluated. However, some
combination of these measures needs to be introduced to rectify the underlying problem.
83.   In addition to these underlying causes, there were a considerable number of
exacerbating factors that contributed to the severity of the crisis. Briefly, these were as
follows:
* A major drought that prevented the recovery of reservoirs to acceptable levels, so
that the system was left with very low reserves.
* Poor coordination between government entities that delayed the policy response.
* Transmission bottlenecks that prevented sharing of the available energy across the
various regional sub-markets.
* Under-valuation of the opportunity cost of water that led to excessive dispatch of
hydroelectric plants.
*  Delays and uncertainties in the process for environmental licensing of power
sector projects.
Figure 5: The declining path of hydroelectric reserves
120
° 100._...
~~~.1oo ~~~~~~-$-End of wet season
.*5  80-     a                      (south)
20    \    /                 --_-Beginning of wet
# 60 -   >_!{/ Ak    4><\          season (south)
4-End of wet season
40   - _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
o~   0   __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __(north)
* /  a Beginning of wet
R 20 -     ' i       K¢_- ' :--it  season (north)
20
a. 
Source: Relat6rio da Comissao de AnAlise do Sistema Hidrotdrnnico de Energia Eldtrica
84.   The level of reservoirs had been in continuous decline since 1997 foliowing a
series of years of below average rainfall. The amount of rainfall that fell in each wet season
since 1997 was consistently below the average. Rainfall in 2001 was around 50% of the long-
run average in the South and Southeast and less than 20% of the average in the North and
Northeast. As a result, reservoir levels both in the North and the South were in continuous
29



decline (Figure 5). At the end of the wet season in April 2001, they were about 34% of full
capacity in the Southeast and 42% in the Northeast, which is less than they would typically
hold at the beginning of the wet season, and compares with more typical values of 80% of
capacity for the end of the wet season. By the end of the dry season in October 2001,
reservoir levels had fallen to 21% of capacity in the Southeast and 8% in the Northeast,
compared with more typical levels of 40% for the end of the dry season.
85.   There is evidence that most, if not all, of the key players were aware of the
gravity of the situation, long before emergency measures were taken. As early as the
beginning of 1999, the MME was aware of an impending crisis situation and identified a
number of countervailing measures including the construction of emergency thermal
capacity. However, none of these measures were ever implemented, largely as a result of
disagreements among MME, ANEEL, Eletrobras and Petrobras over the appropriate levels of
remuneration for the new plants and the associated gas contracts. In addition, there is
evidence that ONS, ANEEL and MME failed to adequately communicate the severity of the
crisis to the highest levels of government, and that senior officials were not receptive to the
early warnings that they received.
86.   Although there was an overall power shortage in Brazil, some regional markets
were nevertheless in surplus. Owing to regional variations in hydrological conditions, the
1999/00 drought did not affect all of the four sub-markets to the same degree. Indeed, while
the Northeast and Southeast sub-markets were experiencing a shortage, there continued to be
surplus generating capacity in the neighboring northern and southern sub-markets.
Unfortunately, transmission bottlenecks between these sub-markets prevented the
exploitation of this surplus capacity and thus contributed to the severity of the crisis.
87.   Political influences exercised over the parameters of the NEWAVE model
appear to have led to a systematic under-estimate of the opportunity cost of water. Due
to the enduring vertical integration of Eletrobras subsidiaries, these effectively have a
controlling influence on the governing body of the national system operator (ONS). The
choice of technical parameters used to calculate the opportunity cost of water in the
NEWAVE model was subject to political influence. A number of features of the model have
been identified as responsible for this bias, and are listed below. The effect of this has been to
create an unwarranted bias in favor of dispatching hydroelectric plants, thereby accelerating
the decline of reservoir levels beyond what would be warranted by the underlying conditions.
In effect, the political manipulation of model parameters became a way of postponing the
need to face decisions about potential rationing.
* The cost of a power deficit is undervalued at R$667/MWh (US$250/MW), and
moreover does not rise according to the magnitude of the deficit.
* The model assumes that new generating capacity that has been publicly
announced will definitely come on stream, when in reality it often fails to do so.
* The model does not take into account the transmission bottlenecks that exist
between regional sub-markets to an adequate degree.
* In evaluating alternative states of the world, the model algorithm does not
embody the risk aversion that characterizes the preferences of policy-makers.
30



88.   Finally, delays and uncertainties over environmental licensing procedures also
contributed to the difficulty of developing new generation capacity. The inefficiencies of
the environmental licensing system are an unlikely short-term cause of an energy crisis in a
hydro-based (long lead-time) system. Nonetheless, delays in licensing projects and
uncertainties with respect to requirements were often evoked during the course of the crisis
as partly to blame for reluctant private sector participation. Suggestions have emerged,
ranging from a possible centralization of the licensing system to the institution of special task
forces to support state agencies in addressing ad-hoc critical cases.
Emergency Measures
89.   The Government set-up a special high level committee to oversee the
management of the energy crisis (GCE). The GCE, which convenes weekly, is coordinated.
by the President's Chief of Staff, and comprises key public and private sector representatives,
including MME, ONS, MAE, MMA, National Social and Economic Development Bank
(BNDES) and Eletrobras. The creation of this special committee undoubtedly signaled a
weakening of MME authority in the sector. The decisions of the GCE are legally enforceable,
taking precedence over those of ministries and regulatory agencies. Hence, the adoption of
these measures by the GCE represents a binding public commitment. However, the GCE is
only a temporary institution so that it appears that policy-making powers will revert to the
MME once the crisis is over.
90.   The first measure taken by the GCE was to ration the consumption of electricity
to 80% of levels observed in the year 2000. The objective of the rationing was to prevent
the kind of 'rolling blackouts' that have been experienced under similar circumstances, for
example in California. Consumers who go above the 80% threshold, initially face financial
penalties and were ultimately disconnected from the system. Initial reports suggested that the
reduction in residential demand has been of the order of 24% exceeding the rationing targets,
while the industrial sector has fallen short of the rationing targets achieving reductions of the
order of 17%. Furthermore, there has been greater success in meeting rationing targets in the
Southeast than in the Northeast. This is partly attributable to the lower baseline levels of
consumption in the poorer Northeast region, which make it more difficult to find easy
economies from cutting back on luxury power consumption, and in part to the warmer
climate of the Northeast which leads to substantial power consumption for air conditioning.
As a result, a series of three mandatory public holidays were introduced in the Northeast
towards the end of October in an effort to curtail power consumption. With the advent of the
rainy season, rationing was gradually relaxed and ultimately suspended at the end of
February 2002.
91.   Special measures were taken to minimize the social impact of rationing on low-
income residential consumers. In order to prevent rationing from cutting into vital uses of
electricity, households consuming less than 100 kWh per month were exempt from the
requirement. Instead they were provided with financial incentives to reduce their
consumption, by being credited with 2 free kilowatt-hours on next month's electricity bill for
every kilowatt-hour saved this month. These measures were taken with a view to protecting
low-income families who tend to consume modest amounts of electricity for essential needs
such as basic lighting, water supply and food preservation.
31



92.   In addition, particular care was taken to minimize the economic impact of
rationing on large industrial customers. In order to provide large industrial customers with
flexibility in meeting the rationing threshold, the GCE allowed them to trade quota rights
among each other on a secondary market operated by the Sao Paulo Stock Exchange
(BOVESPA). This mechanism made it possible for industries with a relatively low marginal
productivity of energy to sell their quotas to those with a relatively high marginal
productivity, thereby reducing the total economic cost of meeting a given level of rationing.
Between June and December 2001, some 36.4 GWh have been traded on this exchange at an
average price of US$78 per MWh.
93.   In addition, the GCE has focused on contracting short-term   emergency
generation back-up. Brazil entered the 2001-02 wet season with reservoir levels as low as
8% of capacity in the Northeast, and 21% in the Southeast. In order to avert the possibility of
additional rationing next year, reservoir levels had to recover to about 50% of capacity
during the course of the recent wet season. In fact, about 70% of capacity was reached.
However, in case the rains had proved to be insufficient, prior to the rainy season the GCE
tendered out the provision of (mainly barge-mounted) short-term emergency capacity,
receiving offers for 4.7 GW of additional supply of which 2.2 GW were ultimately
contracted. The possibility of paying large industrial consumers to further cutback their
consumption in the event of further shortages was also explored. The costs of contracting
short-term emergency generation will be recovered from customers in the form of a general
mark-up on electricity tariffs, which could be up to 10% depending on the extent to which
the emergency capacity is actually used.
Consequences of the Crisis
94.   The immediate consequence of the crisis has been to create a major rmancial
liability for generators vis-a-vis distributors (US$2.6 billion). Under Annex 5 of the
concession contracts, generators who are unable to supply the energy they have committed
must compensate distributors by purchasing the energy shortfall, at the lesser of the spot
market price or a predetermined cap of R$200 per MWh (US$74 per MWh). Owing to the
80% rationing provisions, generators were liable to compensate distributors for the 20% of
their contracted energy that they had failed to supply. Given that spot market prices had
reached three times the level of the cap, the compensation applicable was at the capped rate.
However, even the cap was almost four times as high as the initial contract price, and as a
result generators have defaulted on the Annex 5 compensation requirement leading to a
major dispute with distributors. The GCE has estimated that the total amount owed by
generators to distributors was of the order of R$7 billion (US$2.6 billion).
95.   The Annex 5 disputes coincided with the inauguration of the wholesale
electricity market (MAE), and have prevented it from functioning effectively. The
advent of the energy crisis coincided with the phased introduction of the new electricity
wholesale market. The implementation of the new wholesale trading arrangements was
hampered from the outset owing to a major Annex 5 dispute between Furnas and the
distribution utilities over the purchase of the energy to have been generated by the Angra II
nuclear plant, which failed to come on stream in time. Although the Angra II reactor was
built by Eletronuclear, the initial contracts allocated the plant to Furnas, which was therefore
32



held legally liable for the delay in the completion of this plant, even though it had no
operational control over the project. Shortly thereafter, the rationing measures were
introduced leading to the broader Annex 5 dispute between generators and distributors
described above. As a result, there has not yet been any settlement of financial accounts
between buyers and sellers in the wholesale market since September 2000.
96.   Furthermore, distribution companies have suffered major financial losses (US$2
billion) from the lower sales imposed by government rationing. Generators are not the
only power companies to be adversely affected by the crisis. Distribution companies have
seen their sales fall by 20%, as a result of government rationing and have claimed
compensation. The total financial shortfall they will have experienced is estimated to amount
to R$5.6 billion (US$2 billion). The Government has resolved this problem by allowing the
distributors to borrow money from BNDES to cover 80% of these losses, and to repay the
loans by means of authorized consumer tariff increases of the order of 5% for a period of
three years. The tariff increases vary by customer class, being 2.9% for residential customers
and 7.9% for other customer groups; low income customers are exempt from these tariff
increases. In return, distributors have given-up the compensation that they are owed by
generators under ANEEL's Annex V.
97.   Perhaps the only positive consequence of the crisis has been to highlight some of
the deficiencies in the transitional arrangements and to generate the political will to
complete the implementation of the original reforms. In addition to its role as crisis
manager, the GCE has made efforts to understand the underlying causes of the crisis and
thereby to identify longer-term solutions that would prevent the repetition of such an episode.
As most of the short-term measures have now been implemented, GCE is increasingly
turning its attention to defining the longer-term reforms required to move the sector back
onto a sustainable path. In January 2002, the GCE published a major 33 point action plan
mandating major market and regulatory reforms designed to address the underlying causes of
the energy crisis. Working groups have been established to work on each of the major issues
and new regulations are underway in a number of key areas. Several of the measures in the
GCE plan were incorporated into Law No. 10438/02, which was passed by Congress in
February 2002.
V.    THE PROPOSED LOAN
A.    Program Objectives of the Proposed Loan
98.   The long-term objective of the power sector lending program will be to support
the Government in realizing its original vision for the energy sector (see Letter of
Development Policy in Annex 1). The Government has clearly stated its overall policy
objective of providing an efficient, reliable, universal and sustainable electricity service to its
citizens. Moreover, the Government remains convinced that the way to achieve this is by
completing the implementation of the original sector reform. This will entail a competitive,
market-based sector with extensive private sector participation, supervised by an
autonomous, transparent and consistent regulatory system, and complemented with clear
obligations and incentives for the achievement of universal coverage.
33



99.   The proposed ESRL will contribute to the achievement of inter-locking sectoral
and macroeconomic objectives. The finance provided by the ESRL is not earmarked to the
power sector, but will provide general budgetary support. Hence, at the macroeconomic
level, the operation will contribute to financing the nominal public sector deficit and the
US$47 billion gross external financing requirements. About US$5 billion of this total is
expected to be met from public sector sources including multilateral disbursements, such as
the proposed ESRL. At the sector level, this finance will support the Government's
implementation of pricing reforms designed to address the underlying causes of the current
energy crisis. In the longer term, the sectoral and macroeconomic objectives of the proposed
operation interlock, since the policy reforms to be undertaken in the energy sector will help
to promote economic growth thereby easing the external financing requirement.
100. The proposed ESRL supports the Government's successful approach towards
restoring the normal functioning of the electricity sector, while subsequent operations
would aim to optimize the power sector model. The transition to a new model left the
power sector in a dysfunctional condition. The Government has addressed some of the
associated issues, such as: reactivate the wholesale electricity market, raise tariffs towards a
cost-recovery level, and strengthen incentives for reliable energy supply. One or more
follow-up operations could focus on optimizing the sector model by addressing underlying
structural problems. This will entail completing the vertical and horizontal break-up of
electric utilities so as to provide the basis for effective competition, and perfecting the wider
policy-making and regulatory framework. This program of support would include, but not be
limited to, the ESTAL, expected to become effective toward the end of the proposed
operation, thereby providing underlying continuity to the policy dialogue and following
through with the implementation of the reform program. It has also been supported by the
Public-Private Infrastructure Advisory Facility (PPIAF) which has focused on studies and
workshops to sustain the Government's achievements.   The three operations can be
visualized in the following table:
Bank Support to the Brazilian Energy Sector
ESRL                      PPIAF                      ESTAL
June 2001-May 2002       May 2002-December 2002   August 2002-December 2006
Implementation of first-level  Studies for second-level reforms  Implementation of second-level
reforms in:                in:                       reforms in:
*  Market development and  * Market development and  * Market development and
regulation                 regulation                regulation
*  Environmental management  * Access for the poor   * Environmental management
*  Access for the poor                               * Access of the poor
*  Long-term planning      Workshops with stakeholders to:  * Long-term planning
*  Institutional strengthening  * Discuss results of studies  * Institutional strengthening
* Draw lessons from
international experience
* Build consensus
34



B.    Reform Program Supported by the Bank
101.  The disbursement of the loan supports the Government's effective management
during the last year and the implementation of first level reforms. The loan of
US$454.55 million (including front-end fee of 1%) will be disbursed immediately upon
effectiveness of the proposed ESRL. This reflects the achievements of the Government's
Energy Crisis Management Chamber (GCE), which has been responsible for overseeing the
national response to the crisis since April 2001. The main achievements of the GCE during
the last year are summarized in Table 4 and described in greater detail below. They can be
grouped into a number of areas. Many of these measures were adopted via Law 10438/02,
which was passed by Congress in February 2002, and the rest have been mandated directly
by the GCE.
*  First, the GCE has provided effective management of the energy crisis,
minimizing its economic and social impacts and taking swift action to resolve the
associated disputes and provide short-term emergency generating capacity
(Conditions A-C).
*  Second, the GCE has taken substantial market reform measures that will restore
the normal functioning of the wholesale market, increase the competitiveness of
the wholesale gas and power markets, and improve the governance of the system
operator (Conditions D-H).
*  Third, the GCE has made significant progress towards the regulatory reform
measures required to correct underlying distortions in electricity distribution
tariffs, and improving the reliability of energy supply (Conditions I-N).
* Fourth, the Government has approached its program in an environmentally and
socially sensitive manner (Conditions O-S). This has entailed supporting the
strengthening of the framework for the management of environmental and social
issues, taking measures to safeguard affordable access to electricity by the urban
and rural poor, and promoting energy efficiency and use of renewable energy
sources.
*  Finally, the GCE has promoted complementary institutional reforms to
strengthen the policy-making capabilities of the Ministry of Mines and Energy
(Condition T).
102.  The overall impact has been to restore tariffs for distribution, transmission and
new generation to cost-recovery levels, and just as importantly sustain them at those
levels in the face of future changes in economic conditions. Hence some of the policy
reforms focused on adjusting the current level of tariffs, while others focused on improving
the efficacy and transparency of regulatory rules for adjusting tariffs to changes in costs over
time. It is estimated that the immediate impact of these actions will be to raise the average
end-user tariff by 20%. Figure 6 illustrates how the various actions contribute to the
achievement of cost-reflective tariffs.
35



Table 4: Summary of Conditions
Effective management  A. The Government's program for electricity rationing was successfully
of the energy crisis   implemented with minimum social and economic impacts.
B. The Government has contracted for 2 gigawatts (GW) of short-term
emergency electricity generating capacity.
C. The Government resolved the (US$4.6 bn) financial disputes that arose as a
result of the crisis involving electricity generation and distribution companies.
Market reform        D. The Government has taken significant steps towards improving the
functioning of the electricity wholesale market (Law No. 10438/02).
E. The Government has determined that sales of electricity produced by federal
utilities will be carried out through public auction.
F. The Government has mandated substantial improvements in the governance
and operation of the system operator.
G. The Government reformed the operation of the gas supply market to provide a
greater diversity of supply options to downstream thermal generators.
H. The Government has taken measures to prevent the abuse of vertical
integration between generation, transmission and distribution.
Regulatory reform    I. The Govermnent has established tracking accounts to ensure timely pass-
through of 'Parcela A' costs incurred by distribution companies.
J. The Government has taken significant steps towards imnproving the functioning
of the 'Valor Normativo' system.
K. The Government has mandated that regulations be issued requiring
rebalancing of retail tariffs (Law No. 10438/02).
L. The Government has mandated that new regulations will be issued detailing a
comprehensive distribution price review methodology.
M. The Government has mandated that transmission tariffs be revised to more
accurately reflect geographical variations in cost.
N. The Government has mandated that market players be provided with adequate
incentives to maintain reliability of energy supplies.
Environmental and    0. The Government has taken measures to improve the framework for
social issues           management of environmental and social issues in the power sector.
Protection of the poor  P. The Government has established national eligibility rules for low income
electricity tariff discounts (Law No. 10438/02).
Q. The Government has established that there will be mandatory connection
targets for electric utilities to reach universal access (Law No. 10438/02).
Energy efficiency and  R. The Government has issued regulations to Law No. 10295/01 regarding
renewable energy        energy efficiency standards and other related issues.
S. The Government has established a program to create incentives for the
development of renewable energy sources (Law No. 10438/02).
Institutional reform  T. CGE has decided that transmission tariffs be revised to reflect more accurately
costs of transmission from different geographic locations.
36



Figure 6: Relationship between agreed actions and cost-reflective tariffs
e   Cost-Reflo'oive Tgsiffs o
Norativo'eraionT                                                 nmision                      Disto Taiff bullPas-hrug o
T                                               t
Long-Texm ConUcts | | ~~~~~~~~~~~Application of New|
I   . .   I   .                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(Scheduled 2003/6)
Old Plant                                    T                      NWNew Plant  M
j ii   | Refonnof sValor  |  f Registration of  |  |    Correction of  |             fi 
Reormof'alio'ryse           Pending                  Biases in                    Distnbution Tariff        FlPas     Throghof
Auctioning of old    Increase Level of         Resolution of       Reformed Govenance       New Regulations for     New Regulations
Energy from Initial  'Valor Normativo'        Annex V Disputes        Stmcture of ONS         DiseMbueion Tahlff     for Rebalancing
Contracts                                                                                Review Mediodology      Tariff Structures



103. The measures supported by this operation form part of a medium-term program of
optimization of the Brazilian energy sector. The full reform program is laid out in the policy
matrix to be found in Annex 2. Alongside each of the twenty measures (Conditions A-T), the
matrix identifies any immediate follow-through actions that may be required to assure the full
implementation of these reforms and the corresponding monitoring indicators. By the time each
of these measures is fully implemented, the realization of the original power sector model will be
largely complete. However, further optimization will be desirable in a number of key areas that
are identified in the policy matrix and that may be supported by future adjustment operations as
necessary. These include the following: (i) increasing reliance on market mechanisms for the
determination of generation prices, by replacing the existing system of administratively
determined spot prices and regulatory caps on power purchase cost pass-through; (ii) finalizing
the vertical unbundling of the sector by divesting the major generation assets held (albeit under
separate legal entities) by transmission and distribution companies; (iii) perfecting the
framework for managing the environmental and social issues raised by power projects;
(iv) completing the rural electrification process within the context of a coherent national strategy.
Effective Management of the Energy Crisis
104.  Condition A: The Government's program for electricity rationing was successfuly
implemented with minimum social and economic impacts. The rationing program was
successful in avoiding rolling blackouts, and included a number of innovative features. First,
large industrial customers were given the flexibility to trade electricity consumption quotas on
the Sao Paulo stock exchange, thereby making it possible to reduce electricity consumption at
minimum economic cost. Second, small (primarily low-income) domestic consumers were
exempted from the rationing requirement in order to ensure that essential electricity consumption
was not jeopardized, but were given financial rewards for economizing on energy use.
105. Condition B: The Government has contracted for 2 gigawatts (GW) of short-term
emergency electricity generating capacity. This reserve capacity will become available to the
country, starting in 2002, as a safeguard against any continued shortages of hydroelectric energy
that could arise before new long-term capacity comes on stream.
106. Condition C: The Government resolved the (US$4.6 bn) financial disputes that
arose as a result of the crisis involving electricity generation and distribution companies.
Two major sets of financial disputes arose following the advent of the energy supply crisis and
for some time paralyzed the normal operation of the sector. The first was a dispute between
electricity generation and distribution companies, in an aggregate amount of about US$2.6
billion equivalent, over the compensation that the former owed the latter under the Annex 5
provisions of the initial energy supply contracts. The second was a dispute between electricity
distribution companies and ANEEL, in an aggregate amount of US$2 billion equivalent,
regarding reduction of revenues of such companies as a result of the fall in sales attributable to
the rationing provision.
38



Market Reform
107. Condition D: The Government has taken significant steps towards improving the
functioning of the electricity wholesale market (Law No. 10438/02). The following key
measures have been taken. First, all transactions that took place in the electricity market since its
inception in September 2000 until June 2001 have been registered; they had previously been
paralyzed owing to the major financial dispute between generation and distribution companies
mentioned above. Second, Law No. 10438/02 has implemented a new governance structure for
the electricity wholesale market. The new structure serves to strengthen decision-making
processes, increase regulatory oversight, and create arbitration mechanisms for solving disputes
between participants. Third, the GCE has decided to develop proposals to establish mechanisms
for de-linking the determination of electricity spot prices from the NEWAVE Model in the
medium-term, and has created working groups to implement such proposals. This is particularly
significant since it marks the beginning of a transition from centralized administrative dispatch to
decentralized economic dispatch.
108. Condition E: The Government has determined that sales of electricity produced by
federal utilities will be carried out through public auction. This decision of the GCE ensures
that the federal energy utilities will not be in a position to abuse their market power in the power
supply market when the initial contracts start to expire in 2003. It also provides a contract-based
mechanism for privatizing the control of these generating assets.
109. Condition F: The Government has mandated substantial improvements in the
governance and operation of the system operator. Two important decisions have been taken
that will help to prevent a repetition of the dispatch decisions that contributed to the recent
energy crisis. First, GCE has decided to modify the governance structure of the ONS. It will
replace the current system (based on stakeholder representation), with an alternative system in
which decisions are made by a small number of independent technical experts, who do not
represent any of the commercial interests of the power sector. This will help to dilute the
influence of the Eletrobras subsidiaries in the decision-making processes of the system operator.
Furthermore, the NEWAVE Model has been revised (GCE Resolution No. 109) so that it
provides a more accurate estimate of the opportunity cost of water, which is the key parameter
governing dispatch in a predominantly hydroelectric system.
110.  Condition G: The Government reformed the operation of the gas supply market to
provide a greater diversity of supply options to downstream thermal generators. The
inflexibility of Petrobras take-or-pay gas supply contracts, has been one of the factors preventing
new thermal generation projects from reaching financial closure. In order to permit alternative
risk-sharing arrangements between the gas supply and generating sector, Petrobras has begun to
offer a wider menu of contractual options (such as linear pricing schemes, or two-part tariff
schemes incorporating capacity and energy charges), and has already negotiated at least one
flexible supply contract. The ANP also announced the first round of auctions for new pipeline
capacity on existing rights of way on October Ist, 2001. This will help to stimulate the
development of competition in gas transportation, thereby reducing costs and accelerating
network expansion.
39



111.  Condition H: The Government has taken measures to prevent the abuse of vertical
integration between generation, transmission and distribution. In order for the new power
sector model to function effectively, it is necessary to complete the process of vertical
unbundling; separating out generation, transmission and distribution activities. This will entail a
substantial program of asset sales, which would be difficult to implement against the backdrop of
the current energy crisis, and impossible to complete within the life of the current operation.
Therefore, the Government's council for privatization has decided (via Resolution No. 35/01), to
create separate legal entities to be respectively responsible for the electricity generation and
transmission activities presently under the responsibility of the three main federal utilities
(CHESF, FURNAS, and ELETRONORTE). Furthermore, the GCE has decided to revise the
existing regulations regarding limitations by any company which generates and distributes
electricity, on the use of the electricity it generates for purposes of its own electricity distribution
activities. A working group has been created to carry out such revision.
Regulatory Reform
112. Condition I: The Government has established tracking accounts to ensure timely
pass-through of 'Parcela A' costs incurred by distribution companies. This measure was
taken via Medida Provisoria No. 2198-5 (August 24th 2001) and Portaria Interministerial No.
296/01. It addressed the concerns of distribution companies that had not been allowed to pass on
to their customers changes in a timely fashion any changes in exogenous costs that were
permitted under the terms of their respective concession contracts.
113. Condition J: The Government has taken significant steps towards improving the
functioning of the 'Valor Normativo' system. The 'Valor Normativo' for pass-through of
energy purchase costs has been a major obstacle to new investment in electricity generation. The
Government is taking short, medium and long-term measures to improve the functioning of this
system. First, the 'valor normativo' for new gas-fired power generation plants has been increased
by 20 percent in real terms (ANEEL Resolution No. 256/01) to better reflect the full economic
costs. Second, ANEEL has issued regulations (Resolutions Nos. 022/01 and 256/01) merging all
of the technology specific 'valores normativos' into a single cap and improving the transparency
of the rules for adjusting this value over time as market conditions change. Third, CGE has
decided to formulate proposals for medium-term alternatives to the 'valor normativo' based on
market mechanisms, and has created a working group to implement such proposals.
114. Condition K: The Government has mandated that regulations be issued requiring
rebalancing of retail tariffs (Law No. 10438/02). These regulations will ensure that the tariff
structure for electricity distribution services more accurately reflects the cost differentials
between residential and industrial customers, starting from the next distribution price reviews
scheduled for 2003-04. As well as improving the equity and efficiency of distribution pricing, the
tariff re-balancing will help to ensure that large industrial customers (with more than 3MW of
installed capacity) face the correct incentives for engaging in the direct purchase of energy from
generators.
40



115. Condition L: The Government has mandated that new regulations will be issued
detailing a comprehensive distribution price review methodology. These regulations will
include a description of the procedures to be used for determining the X factor, benchmarking
company performance, estimating the Weighted Average Cost of Capital, and valuing the
regulatory asset base. They will serve to ensure that there is a detailed, defensible, predictable
and transparent methodology for revising tariffs, well in advance of the 56 distribution tariff
reviews scheduled in 2003-04. This will go some considerable way towards reducing the
regulatory risk currently faced by distribution companies, and enhancing the confidence of
investors in the regulatory system. In parallel, the Government will establish regulatory
accounting guidelines for distribution utilities, to ensure that there is a consistent and objective
information base to support tariff revisions. GCE has created the working groups to implement
these changes.
116. Condition M: The Government has mandated that transmission tariffs be revised to
more accurately reflect geographical variations in cost. It is important that transmission
tariffs provide signals to generators of the economic cost of locating at different points on the
transmission network. At present, such price signals are weak. The new tariff structure will better
reflect geographical variations in tariffs..
117. Condition N: The Government has mandated that market players be provided with
adequate incentives to maintain reliability of energy supplies. During the recent energy crisis,
neither generators nor distributors faced credible incentives to maintain the reliability of energy
supplies. In order to avoid a repetition of this scenario, the GCE will ensure that such incentives
are provided through the introduction of new regulatory and market mechanisms, including an
appropriate package of incentives for safeguarding the reliability of energy supplies. The GCE is
studying the suitability of a range of alternative mechanisms to the Brazilian context. These
include higher contracting obligations on distributors, fines on distributors for failure to supply
energy to customers, revision of the firm energy parameters governing the contracting of
hydroelectric energy, introduction of capacity payments for plants that make themselves
available for dispatch, and demand-side bidding.
Environmental and Social Issues
118. Condition 0: The Government has taken measures to improve the framework for
management of environmental and social issues in the power sector. The transition to a new
power sector model, and in particular the changing role of Eletrobras, has raised problems of
coordination between the different regulatory agencies responsible for power, water resources,
and environmental issues. In order to address these problems, the MME and MMA signed a
Memorandum of Understanding in March 2002. On this basis, the Government has prepared a
program to strengthen planning and management of environmental and social issues in the power
sector, comprising the following measures: (i) review and adjustment, as needed, of
environmental licensing requirements, procedures, and mandates for power sector projects; (ii)
assessment of the performance of power sector regulatory agencies to clarify their institutional
roles and coordination requirements vis-a-vis other government entities, such as the Ministry of
Environment, the National Water Agency, and the Ministry of Mines and Energy; (iii) revision
and realignment of key institutions with regard to mandates and procedures for mainstreaming
41



environmental and social issues in longer-term expansion planning, including coordination with
water resources management and environmental agencies; (iv) carrying out a set of studies on
priority topics including project preparation methodologies, strategic assessment of longer-term
system expansion paths, river basin inventories, strategic assessment of the thermal power
program, issues and options relating to potential participation of the sector in markets for carbon
emissions and other environmental services, and promotion of corporate responsibility; (v)
strengthening (number and qualification) of professional cadres within the power and
environment sectors, with special emphasis on the environmental capacity in regions/states
where expansion of the sector is likely to be concentrated over the coming years; and (vi)
strengthening of monitoring and ex-post evaluation of environmental and social issues in the
power sector. This program is detailed in Annex 4 and will be supported by the proposed
ESTAL.
Protection of the Poor
119. Condition P: The Government has established national eligibility rules for low
income electricity tariff discounts (Law No. 10438/02). To replace the wide range of
discretionary practice by distribution companies regarding low income tariff discounts, Law No.
10438/02 establishes that such discounts will be provided to all customers consuming less than
80 kilowatt-hours per month (excluding second homes). Discounts may also be provided to
customers in the 80-220 kilowatt-hour range may also be provided if customers meet certain
additional eligibility rules to be determined on a national basis by ANEEL. The electricity
regulator will also specify how distribution utilities may recover the loss in revenues entailed by
low income tariff discounts.
120. Condition Q: The Government has established that there will be mandatory
connection targets for electric utilities to reach universal access (Law No. 10438/02). With
the authority of Law 10438/02, ANEEL will deternine the specific connection targets for each
distribution utility, to ensure that power is brought to Brazil's 3 million un-electrified
households within a reasonable time horizon (between two and ten years depending on the
State). In order to resolve some of the inconsistencies and contradictions in the current approach
to rural electrification, the Government has already made substantial progress towards publishing
a national strategy for rural electrification. The new strategy will establish the appropriate
financial, technological and institutional models for meeting these connection targets in an
efficient, equitable and sustainable manner. In addition, the Government will issue new
regulations establishing the price and quality parameters for off-grid electrification, and
determining the rules for off-grid sub-concessions. Development of the national strategy is being
supported by an Energy Sector Management Assistance Programme (ESMAP) Grant.
Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy
121. Condition R: The Government has issued regulations to Law No. 10295/01
regarding energy efficiency standards and other related issues. The law requires the
establishment of mandatory minimum performance levels for electric appliances and equipment
commercialized in Brazil, as well as the introduction of mechanisms to promote energy
efficiency in new buildings. The new regulations provide energy efficiency standards for certain
42



common types of electrical equipment including motors, lamps, refrigerators, freezers, air
conditioners, and water heaters, together with benchmarks for future improvements in the energy
efficiency of each appliance, and a labeling scheme to help consumers identify energy efficient
brands.
122.  Condition S: The Government has established a program to create incentives for the
development of renewable energy sources (Law No. 10438/02). The law introduces a new
program designed to provide incentives for the development of renewable sources of electricity
generation, with a primary focus on small hydro, wind and biomass (mostly sugar cane bagasse).
Institutional Reform
123.  Condition T: The Government has started studies to restructure the Ministry of
Mines and Energy (MME). The limited capacity of the MME to meet key policy-making and
enviromnental planning activities in the energy sector and thereby takeover the role originally
played by Eletrobras has been a key institutional concern arising from the sector reform process.
The GCE has mandated a major restructuring of the MME that entails both the reorganization of
the internal directorates so that they are better aligned with the needs of the sector, as well as an
expansion and enhancement of the human resources available to the Ministry.
C.    Description of Financial Assistance
Phasing of the Operation
124.  The proposed ESRL is not an isolated operation. It has been conceived as an initial
element within the context of a program of support to accompany further reforms in the Brazilian
energy sector. However, it has not been structured as a programmatic loan because of the
Presidential elections in October 2002.  A multi-year adjustment operation would be
inappropriate at this time, since it would entail the current administration making commitments
on behalf of the future administration.
125. Thereafter, the ESTAL operation will provide the basis for on-going dialogue and
support the institutions responsible for following through with the medium-term reform
program. A new three-year ESTAL operation is expected to be presented to the Board shortly
after this ESRL. By overlapping with the proposed adjustment operation, and providing a bridge
between the current administration and the next, the TA loan will ensure the longer-term
continuity of the policy dialogue. It will also provide a basis for direct engagement with the key
sectoral institutions responsible for following-through with the next stage of the reform program,
thereby supporting the achievement of the longer term policy objectives. The Technical
Assistance package will be channeled primarily towards MME, ANEEL and ANP, but will also
benefit MMA and ANA.
126. Policy dialogue will resume with the new administration in order to identify the
most appropriate form for follow-up support. As noted above, while the proposed operation
will of itself bring substantial benefits by correcting the numerous tariff distortions that are
currently preventing investments in the Brazilian power sector, further structural reforms will be
43



required if the potential of the original power reform is to be fully realized. The structural reform
agenda has been clearly identified in the preceding analysis, and would be supported in the next
phase of the program. These will be the subject of renewed policy dialogue once the new
administration is in place.
Relationship to Other Bank Activities
127. The World Bank has been active in the Brazilian energy sector for some time. Since
the early 1990s, the World Bank has had a number of energy sector operations in Brazil,
primarily focused on the development of the hydrocarbons sector (Table 6). Although for various
political and macroeconomic reasons it did not prove possible to have a specific operation linked
to the power sector reform process, a restructuring of Loan 3376-BR in 1995 allowed for the
incorporation of a US$20 million component of Technical Assistance to support the power sector
reforms. Hence the World Bank was actively engaged with this process. At present, the only
active operation in the sector is the Energy Efficiency Project (Loan 4514-0-BR) which aims to
demonstrate replicable energy efficiency improvements across a variety of sectors, and support
the development of energy efficiency standards and energy service companies.
128. The IFC has resumed its operations in the Brazilian energy sector following a three
year hiatus. Due to excessive institutional exposure to Brazil, the IFC stopped preparing new
operations in Brazil during the period 1998 to 2001. Activities have recently resumed, and a
number of significant new projects are currently under preparation (Table 6). The IFC is
focusing its strategy on supporting distribution utilities in the Northeast, where substantial
efficiency improvements stand to be made. It is also supporting the development of gas-fired
generation, some of which is expected to act as merchant plant as a result of negotiating more
flexible gas purchase contracts from Petrobras. The IFC is also interested in the development of
relatively small hydropower projects.A full list of IBRD and IFC operations in Brazil is provided
in Annexes 5 and 6.
129. The Inter-American Development Bank also has a significant energy sector portfolio
in Brazil. The overall focus of the IDB program is on consolidating sector reform, promoting
rural electrification, developing renewable energy sources, mobilizing resources for private
sector generation, and working on the integration of energy markets (Table 6). Through its public
sector window, the IDB is currently focusing on technical assistance activities to support rural
electrification, and the development of regulatory capacity. On the private sector side, the IDB is
supporting a significant number of hydroelectric and thermal generation projects.
44



Table 6: Summary of recent World Bank, IFC and IDB energy sector operations
| Project                                    Board Date  Status
World    Hydrocarbon Transport and Processing Project  1992.    Co   letd nd
Bank   .(Loan 3376-BR)                                         :Satis'factory
Gas Sector Development Project: Bolivia-Brazil Gas  1997  Completed and rated
Pipeline (SCL-42650)                                    Highly Satisfactory
Sao Paulo Natural Gas Distribution Project     199   ..Completed and rated
(Loan 3403-BR)                                          Sahisfactory
Energy Efficiency Project                      1999     Under
(Loan 4514-0-BR)                                        Supervision
EFC     C4AAGilrnan Amorin 200'MW Hydroelectri         1997     Currently. .:  . . ... ..:
disbursing;
C-AG-Northeast Distribution Utilties           2001     Under
preparation
'C-AE-Small Hydroelectric Power Generation ,2002        Under
preparation
C-AC-Gas Generation                            2002     Under
preparation
IDB     Private sectori
BR-0271 Ia Hydroelectic Power Project          199   --
BR-0316NorthEnergy                         -   1999
BR-0346 VBC Partial Risk Guarantee            I1999
BR-0304 Cana Brava Hydroelectric Power Project  2000
BR-03 15 Dona Francisca Power Project          2000
BR-03154 Ter,mobahia Power Project             2001
--BR-0361 Termopertnambuco-Power Project .     2001  ,
Public sector
CT-FOMIN Business Models for Renewable Energy
Projects under the PRODEEM Program
CT-FOMIN Technical Training of Regulators from
ANEEL and ANP
130. The proposed ESRL is fully consistent with the CAS 2000, and fits into the broader
strategy of adjustment lending. The Brazil CAS 2000, which was approved by the Board on
March 30, 2000, envisages an important role for adjustment lending to support effective and
continuing structural reforms addressing the key objectives of fiscal stability and renewed
growth, while at the same time contributing to financing Brazil's considerable external financing
requirements. Within the envelope of the CAS ceilings, these adjustment loans include the
proposed ESRL, as well as a Second Programmatic Financial Sector Adjustment Loan and a
possibly future Second Programmatic Fiscal Adjustment Loan. Consistent with the CAS, the
Bank's response to the energy crisis combines the proposed ESRL-designed to help implement
key changes in the regulatory framework necessary to attract further private investment-with a
Technical Assistance operation to provide longer term support to the key agencies responsible
for implementing these changes.
131. Since late 1998, Brazil has been supported by a three-year IMF program focused
around targets for the primary surplus of the consolidated public sector. These and other
program targets have been consistently achieved and in several cases exceeded. In September
2001, the IMF approved a new 15-month stand-by agreement. Through the IMF's quarterly
45



program reviews and the ongoing close consultation between the Bank and the IMF, satisfactory
macroeconomic performance is assured throughout the life of the proposed operation.
Disbursement, Audifing and Fiduciary Environment
132. The Loan would disburse under the Bank's provisions for fast-disbursing
operations, which require no procurement of goods and services. The flow of proceeds
would follow procedures established under the prior programmatic Fiscal Reform structural
adjustment loan. The Bank may require audits of the account into which the proceeds of the loan
will be disbursed.
133. As discussed in some detail in the 2001 CAS Progress Report, reviewed by the
Board on May 24, 2001, Brazil has a supportive fiduciary environment for the proposed
operation. Furthermore, the Government is engaged in a process of strengthening its expenditure
review, financial management, and auditing functions. Moreover, the Bank has recently stepped-
up its support for further improvements in the fiduciary framework in Brazil advancing on the
shift from transaction-based fiduciary oversight to systemic support:
*  The Federal Government has over the last years consolidated effective and
transparent expenditure planning, budgeting and financial management systems.
These systems include multi-annual planning (Plano Pluriannual), strategic budget
planning, the annual law of budget guidelines, and the budget law itself. The
monitoring and evaluation system of the Plano Pluriannual constitutes a framework
for gradually institutionalizing public expenditure reviews that are built into the
regular planning and budgeting cycle.
*  The Bank has completed a Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA),
and the Fund has undertaken a fiscal transparency assessment. The CFAA includes a
review of the systems and procedures used at the national level to budget, expend,
account for, report on, and audit the use of funds approved in their annual budget. The
assessment shows the overall satisfactory financial management framework and
makes specific recommendations for further improvements. It concludes that, overall,
at the national level, Brazil has in place appropriate financial management systems.
* In specific areas, the Bank also supports Governments in their procurement systems.
Regarding Bank-financed projects in general, the Brasilia-based implementation team
continues to support and underpin high standards with respect to financial
management, procurement and accountability.
* A Country Procurement Assessment (CPA) has recently been initiated to complement
similar work recently undertaken with good impact at the state level.
D.    Environment
134.  The project has no direct or indirect adverse environmental or social impacts, since
it focuses on legal, regulatory and institutional reforms. Moreover, being an adjustment
operation, the project provides general budget support as opposed to financing specific power
46



sector investments. Proceeds of the loan are integrated into the reserves of the Central Bank. The
loan is not used for investments or other budget expenditures in the power sector or any other
sector. Furthermore there are no indirect impacts on the power sector's budget as a result of
possible fungibility of resources across public sector budgets as explained in Annex 4. A C rating
has therefore been given.
135. Nonetheless, the program of which this project is a part, and which includes the
proposed ESTAL, offers an opportunity to strengthen the general framework both for
management of environmental and social issues in the power sector and for environmental
licensing of power sector projects in Brazil. The program will address concerns that have
arisen with respect to the efficiency of the current licensing system in the course of the reform
process and to strengthen the mainstreaming of environmental and social issues in future power
sector operations, especially with regard to decisions that pertain to the early stages of the project
cycle. Therefore a proactive, strategic approach has been taken, which integrates within the
Bank-supported adjustment program itself the design of a series of measures to address
regulatory, institutional and methodological concerns.
136. The activities to be supported by the ESTAL will focus on revisiting and updating as
needed the overall framework of environmental regulation and management, as the basis
to ensure effective environmental procedures in managing specific power projects and
ensuring the sustainability of future sector expansion. The two operations complement each
other in supporting preparation of a program comprising the following key elements, as
described in Annex 4: (i) review and adjustment, as needed, of environmental licensing
requirements, procedures, and mandates for power sector projects; (ii) revision of mandates and
procedures and realignment of key institutions with regard to mainstreaming environmental
issues in medium-long-term planning and improved coordination with water resources
management and environmental agencies; (iii) carrying out a set of studies on priority topics
including: project preparation methodologies; strategic assessment of longer-term system
expansion paths; river basin inventories; strategic assessment of the thermal power program;
issues and options relating to potential participation of the sector in markets for carbon emissions
and other environmental services; and promotion of corporate responsibility; (iv) strengthening
(number and qualification) of professional cadres within the power and environment sectors,
with special emphasis on the environmental capacity in regions/states where expansion of the
sector is likely to be concentrated over the coming years; and (v) strengthening of monitoring
and ex-post evaluation of environmental and social issues in the power sector.
137. As currently envisaged, full development of the strengthening program itself would
be undertaken in stages, with consultations/validation carried out at each major stage (e.g.,
diagnostic, preliminary design and overview of program priorities, formulation of a multi-year
strategy, formulation of the first phase action plan). This program would be implemented in the
medium-term (4-8 years), possibly supported by the Bank through subsequent operations,
including the ESTAL .
47



E.    Benefits
138. The program will enhance economic growth prospects by rectifying the problems
that continue to afflict the power sector. Electricity is a key input into most production
processes, hence serious problems in the power sector affect overall economic performance. The
proposed program will address the various problems that are currently preventing the power
sector from making its necessary contribution to economic growth. In the short-run, this means
restoring the normal functioning of the power sector so as to remove the shortages that are
currently holding back economic activity. In the medium-term, it entails creating incentives for
the construction of new (thermal) generating plants by the private sector, by correcting the
existing distortions in the electricity pricing regime, so that tariffs can converge to cost-recovery
levels. In the longer run, it requires the full implementation of the original power sector reform
model, including restructuring of the power sector to provide the basis for effective competition.
These reforms will increase the efficiency of the power sector, which will in turn improve the
competitiveness of the Brazilian economy.
139.  As well as contributing to poverty reduction via economic growth, the program wil
address the specific needs of the poor for access to an affordable electricity service. In urban
areas, the proposed operation will support the development of an objective, consistent and
effective eligibility criterion for targeting low income tariff discounts towards the poor. In rural
areas, the operation will require the development of a coherent strategy for reaching universal
access, including the incorporation of mandatory connection targets for distribution utilities.
140. The program will also address issues of longer term sustainability, optimal natural
resource use and management of environmental and social impacts in power sector
expansion. The loan will strengthen the mainstreaming of environmental and social issues in the
early stages of the project cycle, strategic decision making with regard to thermal and
hydropower expansion, and improvement of the environmental licensing process (requirements,
procedures and mandates).
48



Table 7: Summary of benefits
Objectives              Outcome Indicators                Poverty Impact and Indicators
Restoration of normal   * Lifting of electricity rationing.  * Electricity sbortages no longer
functioning of the      * Normal functioning of the         holding back economic growth.
electricity sector.       electricity wholesale market.
Creation of incentives for  * Achievement of cost-recovery  * Prevention of future energy crises,
new private sector         electricity tariffs.             thereby avoiding adverse shocks to
investment in new       * Modification of regulatory regime  economic growth.
(thermal) generating      to ensure that prices remain at
capacity.                 cost-reflective levels.
> Valor Normativo rules
> Dispatch model rules
> Distribution review method
* Provision of incentives for
reliable energy supplies
* Improved transparency and
timeliness of environmental
regulation procedures.
* Development of new (thermal)
generating plants by the private
sector.
Full implementation of  * Completion of structural reforms ' , lectiit prcduced t effici'n :
original power sector     of the sector, including fiull    costs, thereby enhancing
reform model.             vertical unbundling, horizontal   productivity and economic growth.
break-upand privatizationof
,remining state-owned assets.
,  Correction of defects in the
institutional ~and rgltr
fra-iework ar'isig frm .the
t--nsiti,n t  n th new mo el
-(includi'nv ,        '      ,-vironental
. '. .t ' -'  ;!,i  :-;;  ;  planning Jmd  riicesing  issues):.,  , _-.-., _-__ ,,::__ ._ -._____
Universal access to     * Introduction of consistent and  * Percentage of poor electricity
affordable electricity    well-targeted eligibility rules for  consumers benefiting from low-
services.                 low-income tariff discounts in    income tariff discounts
urban areas.                    * Cost of subsistence electricity
* Introduction of mandatory rural   consumption as a percentage of the
electrification targets for each  income of an urban household on
state distribution utility.       the poverty line.
* Percentage of poor rural households
with access to electricity
[mproved management     * Timely licensing of power sector  * Resettlement and other social
of environmental and      projects.                         impacts associated with fiutre
social issues in power  * Environmental and social concerns  power sector operations reduced or
sector operations.        mainstreamed in power sector      mitigated.
I   expansion plans and projects.
49



F.    Risks and Risk Mitigation
Macroeconomic Risks
141.  Brazil remains vulnerable to external shocks due to the level and composition of its
public debt. Brazil's level of public debt remains above 50% of GDP. Moreover, this debt is
predominantly indexed (either to the SELIC or the US dollar) creating volatility in the cash flow
of the public sector. As a result, the economy remains vulnerable to external shocks.
Nonetheless, under very plausible assumptions, public debt to GDP ratios are expected to begin a
gradual decline as primary balance surpluses are maintained. On the external front, the current
account balance deficits should maintain their downward trend to ensure that external debt
remains sustainable and that the country's financing requirements are aligned with the different
sources of external funds. The major short run risks are related to market uncertainty regarding
the elections outcomes. Macroeconomic risks are greatly ameliorated by the credibility built-up
by the Government through three years of effective macroeconomic and fiscal management in
the face of severe external shocks. Even in a scenario with further macroeconomic shocks,
sector performance is expected to be improved compared to a situation without the reforms
supported by this loan.
142.  Further macroeconomic shocks would also complicate the implementation of the
proposed energy sector reforms, particularly in the medium-term. The proposed operation,
by stimulating economic growth, will have positive macroeconomic consequences by helping to
improve the sustainability of the public debt. However, it is important to question how the
energy sector reform program would itself be affected by future macroeconomic shocks. There
are a number of important linkages, two of them negative and one positive. First, any increase in
country risk premium will raise the cost of capital for private investors reducing the flow of
foreign direct investment in the Brazilian power sector, and lowering interest in any further
privatizations that are likely to be required in the medium-term. This would not affect the current
operation, which does not entail any privatization measures, but would affect subsequent
operations under this program. Second, any further devaluation of the real will necessitate
compensating adjustments in energy prices to ensure that the private sector is adequately
remunerated for past investments. Third, any dampening of aggregate demand would reduce
future investment needs, facilitating restoration of the balance between supply and demand.
Risk of Weakening Reform Consensus
143. The new administration could take a different view about the appropriate long-term
policy response. The long-term vision described in this document is that of the current
administration, and may not be shared by a future government. It is also possible that opposition
may emerge at the State level. Precisely for this reason, the proposed operation has been
designed as a self-contained short-term operation to ensure that the key tariff reforms take place
within the life of the current administration. It will thereby bring significant benefits to the power
sector, irrespective of whether the next administration is willing to commit to the longer term
program of structural reforms. In addition, the proposed Technical Assistance operation will help
to support the key policy-making and regulatory agencies in following-through with the
50



implementation of the reform program. It is also important to note that the reform program is
likely to carry the support of foreign investors who have collectively committed US$22 billion to
the Brazilian power sector to date.
144.  While falling short of its full potential, the reforms supported by this loan would have
made an important contribution to sector improvement even if the next Government decides not
to pursue some of the envisaged medium to long-term reforms.
Risk of Institutional Weakness
145.  The leadership in the current energy crisis is coming from an ad hoc temporary
committee, the GCE, which is expected to disband with the close of the current
administration. Although the sector has its own permanent policy-making bodies, notably
MME and CNPE, they are notoriously weak in technical capacity and have been identified by
GCE as partially responsible for the present situation. In order to address this concern, the
proposed Technical Assistance operation will aim to strengthen the institutional basis of policy-
making in the sector.
VI. RECOMMENDATION
146. I am satisfied that the proposed Loan would comply with the Articles of Agreement of
the Bank, and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
By: Shengman Zhang
Washington D.C.
May 17, 2002
51



52



ANNEX 1: LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
V..
PRESID&NCA DA REPBMLICA
CAMRA DE GESTAO DA CRISE DE ENERGIA ELtTRICA
Oficio n2 032/2002 - GCE/PR
Bili - DF, 6 May, 2002
To.
Mr. Jnms D. Wolfeusohn
Presiden&
he World Bank
Washinton, DC - USA
Dear M. WolsoWn,
This letter on secor polcy addresss Brazi's progTm  towards theimp  tion
of its  ergy sector reform  prograi, including mchanisms to address related soca  and
environmental issues. An efficient energy sector is a key ingredient to foster economic growth and
the imovement of fiving standards. We believe the policies outlined below are important
goverunmet initiatives to be supported by the Bank through an Energy Sector Reform adjustment
operaoiD
2.          The Governmentu' long term objective for the enegy sector is to provide univesa
access to reiable, sustdnable and efficient electricity services, that pay due rgrd to the
environment. The govenm     intends to achieve this objective by openingV-p the energy sector
(includng powe gmeeaon and upstem gs supply) to effective cormpetiton ad  prmotmg an
efficient participation of the private sector in the operation of the adstng inrasiuchue and in the
development of new capacity. In order to function effecte, it has to be complemneted by
eflrecti  governmet isitutions In partular, it reqir  a well-resouroed and exprt body to
provide stratgic policy guidance, autonomous regulatory agemces that can be held aontable for
taking turanspa t, and consistent decsions, and an inparmal system operator to ese the efficit
utlizion of genenrting capacity.
3.          Brazi stated a broad power sector reform     proem   in 1995. Tasrif  wero
realigned early on, and more than two thirds of the distribution assets and one fourth of genaton
assets have since been privatized. New nmgulatory and operating institudons were created: two
prae bodies, Opemdor Naciona1 do Sistema - ONS. the national system operator, and the
wholesale energy market, Mercado Atacadista de Enersia - MAE, now govn energy and cash
flows, while a new regulatory agency (Ag&cia Nacional de Energia E;ltnica - ANEEL) was cred
to supervi the lectYt sector. Reforms in the upstream gas marlet were also undertaken. These
refom  comprised inter alia the creation of a rgulatory agency (Agn6Ca, Nacional do Petr6leo -
ANP) and the end of the lega monopoly of Probras over the sle and producion of oi. An agency
to regula  the differt  u    of waer resources-that play an mpo       role in letricity
geration iD Brail-WaS aIso created (Ag6cia Nacional de Apua -
53



2.
4.           More recently, Brazil has successfully dealt with a maor eUor crisis. Brail is
a country with a power system that is predominantly hydroelectric and, as such, it is depeuden on
the bydrologic conditions of its main water basins. The hydrology was very atypica in 2001, with
very little rain in the wet season and, in the Northes region, the wor drought in seven decades. In
respone to an mwn O   shornage of power, the Govefment itoduced a ratonig program in June
2001 limiting most consumers to an average of 80%/ of their historic consumption levels. This
program was based mainly on price incentives to firms and households. with ihe threat of sdective
acts. In the event, the response of the population to this program was such that these cuts tured out
to be very rare and blackouts were avoided throuShout the dry season
5.          Despite the reduction of more than 20% in total elecdiky consumption, the
disruption of economic activity was limited  This resulted from alwing large indti
customers to trade consuWption rights among each other on a secondary market operated by the St*
Paulo Stock Exchange (BOVESPA). This mechanism made it possible for industries vith a
relaiively low marginal productivity of energw to sell their quotas to those with a relatively higb
mrginal productivity, thereby reducig the total economic cost of meetig a given level of
rationing. The success of these auctions led to a quick spreading of other cxcharige, resultig that.
on balance, most of the deceleration of the economy in 2001 can be atnliuted to demand actors,
includig the worsenng of the intrational ekromnent, due to trorim and economic difficies
in neighbor countries, rathe than to the direct effects of the shortage of enagy. A positive side
effect was an overall increased productivity, as a result of the measures tken to reduce power
consumton.
6.           Tne rationing program was accompAnied by a strengthening of the social safety
net In order to prevent rationing from cutting into vitl uses of eecticity, hosptals, police, fire
sations and other sewcs received special treatbent In addition, households coumg less than
100 kWh per month were required to save relatively less, and were instead provided with financial
incenves to reduce their consumption. The response of these households to the price incentives
corbuted to the overall: sings while allowing them to reap a financal benefit.
7.           The goverment also adopted measures to reduce the risk of rationing in 2002.
lt proured 2154 MW of short-term emergency capacity starting this year. The acquisidon of this
cinsurance polic followed clear and tranparent procedures through a well publicized bidding
process and the joint work of federal, state and local environaital auth es to ensu  the
adequate licensing of tese power units.
S.           The events of 2001 brought to the forefront the importance of acceleratg and
strengthening the implemeutation of the reform initiated in 1995. To steer the reform impets,
the govemment set up the Committee for the Revitalization of the ModeL which is under the
Chamber to Address the Energy Crisis (GCE) created at the onsd of the crisis. The Committee is
charting the key changes to the sector to be implemented in 2002 and beyond and has produced
specific proposals made public in two Progress Reports released by the governm  in early 2002. It
created several task forces that are now detailing those proposals in consulaon wth the agts and
society at large. Ahead of the implemntation of those specific proposals, the government has
already taken seveal steps toward the reform and regularization of the sector.
9.          A lirsi step towards ensuring the wefl fiuctioning of the soctor was the slution
of pending regulatory issues, induding those associated with the rationing. The reduction in
the production of ener  in 2001 led to cash flow problems an        economic losses to
54



3.
generators and distnbutors. Conract dauses between those       agents, as well as other agre rns
siged by their representativ  within the MAE, resulted in an important dispait of views about
who would beer the cost of the rationn  incding how much of it would be passed through to
consumers. To address this problem and fosw the functionig of the power sector, the govwnmnit
helped generators and distributors to find common ground. The resing "Genrasl Agreemt for
the Sector" reduced the overall bill to less than half of intial estimates and spread the pass trough to
conmers over a number of year-henceforth reducing the impact on industries and households,
while shielding low imcome households from the resulting tariff in_eas  The agrement also
allowed BNDES to provide liquidity to distrbutors by offieing loans guaraneed by the tariff
increaSe. Importantly, participanits of the agreement accepted to drop any cout action related to the
rationing and the interpretation of the onginal contracts.
10.         Agreement was reached also with generators and distributors that solved all
grievances covering the period between the auctioning of the concessions and the end of 2001.
The government established a robust mechasm to insuate disibutors from chianges in the cost of
non-manageable" costs, such as purchased thermal energy from the reseve capacity (CCC) and
hydra energy from Itaipu bydro power plant. Under the previous legisation, variations in these
costs were taken into account once a year, at the time of the tariff calclato  when they were
passed through to the consumer Depending on the way these variations take place, this mechanism
nught. however, provide only a partial hedging. To improve ths hedgi&g, the government has
passed legislation that creaes a tracking account, where variations in 'non-manageable" costs from
January 2001 are credited or debited. This resuted in all parties involved renouncing any claim and
dropping any court actions involving past demands related to items now included in the tracking
11.         Ibese measures, effectve from end 2001, have been ratfied by Congress in
ApriL The General Agreement of the Sector, as well as the rles govening the purchase of
emegency capacity, were incorporated to Medida Provis6ria No. 14, covering several other reform
tems. This Medidk Provis6ria, which was convertd into Law No. 10438 on Apil 26, 2002, is a
watershed in the reform process.
12.         The law gives prominence to universal acm and the use of energy from
renewable sources. The law establishes responsibilities andfiands for the delimitation of a eining
areas where universal access is to be ensured through mandatory connection targets for distriution
companies. The law also rates the creation of PROINFA, whicb directs funds for building more
than 1,000 MW of renewable sources such as wind and small hydro power, as well as biomus. This
initial program is to be followed by other steps with a view to allow that 10/o of total energy comes
from these sources within 20 yers,
13.         The government has insisted that environment responsibUity Indudes frsteing
efficecy in the use of energy. Hence, the govrnment is taking a range of policy measures
designed to save at least 1% of electricity demand each year, including an Enrgy Effici   Law
(No. 10295/01), that has been accompanied by a decree establishing techical groups, which are
already discussing m datory minimum pezlrmance levels for electric appliances and equipmnt
with the industry and other stakeholdems The government is also working on legal changes to alow
govemnt institons to contat with energy service companies (ESCOS) and ensring financial
support trawng of technicians proficien  in efficiency and renewabl eerg  technologies
throughout the country.
55



4.
14.         Folowing the schedule draw   by the Revitalkation Committee, menures in
seve     other ares are to be implmented in the next few months. These actions wiI be based
on discussions and studies already underw   aad will addrs keY issues suh as (i) gettng
generaton and distribuion prices ight; w   a view to increase compedto and accounabiity in
the sector; (i) improving the reliability of energy supply ad the access to gas, to allow for the latter
to be competive; (ni) separatig gaenion, rmmission, and distribution acivties; (iv)
enhancing the pefomance and coordination of agencies, and (v) inrsiqg the protection of the
environmen and the poorest.
15S.        In a bod, albeit cardDly-considered move, the govenment envisages to gvo
market prtiipants a greater role in the deteminadon of eneu  prices. A move towards a
decentralized bid-based dispatch model may avoid the risks assocated with relying mainly on a
single mathematical model, as is the nile today. This move, however, has to avert the buid up of
maicet power and other distortons, while ensring the reliability of the system and its efficient
operation. Inctve compatible mechanisms are thus being  icussed within the government id
with agents. The eflective implementation of such plans will require inter sha the adequate
defniMon of property rigs of water-both amw ng bYdro plant opeators and wth respect to other
users, an isu also under discussion with the help of ANA.
16.         The auctioning out of the energ under the control of state-Owned firms wig, in
turn, belp fliding new pas-strough mechanisms. Law No. 10438 mandates the public auction of
the electricity geed by fbdedally controled utilities, which account for more than one third of
total supply of electricity in the country. This sale will provide market-based indication of the true
competitve pnice of energy, allowing an overawung of the exiting formula-based refernce value
imniting the pass-tough of the cost of power purchase. In addition the so-caled 'Valor
Nonnativos'-VN, which re0ect the -standard" cost of each diftlrm sources of energy will be
unified to refect that competve value and cost differentials betweeo energy sources wil be
explicty subsidized according to transparent polices.
17.         Anl measures envisaged by the government take into account that the power
m*ret liberalzation in Braz is not occuning in an envirnment of xxem supply. This is in
contra with, for instance, Europe, wher excess capacy ensures that the spot price remams close
to USS 20/MWbL It means tht the restructuing of the sector, whie addressing isues of
competion, has to enure new invesments. These competing priorities underlie many of the
challenges faced by the implementation of the reform to date, but are not unique to BraziL For
instance, in order to bp lower the cost of energy, while fostering invement; the Government is,
for instance, refoming the gs supply market to provide a greater diversy of supply options to
downstam therml ge     ors.
18.         The evolving policy for ps recognizes the hIportance to reconcile macro and
micro economic factors in the development of thermal power. Cuentdy, the VN for thermal
power is around USS 40/   /h, but has faied to ensue a steady Rlow of investment into this
;dusty. In fact, the infleibility of exng take-or-pay gaS supply contracts requires a high VN to
allow themal plams to break even, and uldmately price this source of enegy out (no distribution
company signed a supply contract at that VN). Heance, the government is instead fostering the
emergence of new spplier and attempting to integrat thermal ectricity witin other uses of gas
in order to render this soure of energy truly competitive. A first step in t direction is the first
round of auctions for new pipeline capacity on aeiing rights of way air  way.
56



19.         The unbundling of geneation and tnsnu,sion act   es is another cornestone
of the reforms. The ganraion, transission and distribution activits of Furnas, Che4  and
leetronorto vill be completely unbundled by the middle of the year, and the corporate stuctre of
these enerpises overhauled. As of 2002, all integrated entpri  wil also be reqired to separ
out their accounts, with a clear distinction of asset and liabilities reated to eah activity. Another
leg of this approach to promote a level playing field will be to require reducing the tluesold for
self-dealing by distrbutors.
20.         Several dozen of distribution tAriff reviw  sebeduled for 2003 will bring
additional trmnspremcy to the sector. Despite the special drcuusm   present in 2001, ANEE
sucoessfihly conducted the penodic tariff review of an importan distnbutor last year. Although not
setting definite benchmarls, this review served as a tesing ground for the mhodogy to be
adopted m fiiture revews and redecsed commfets fiom the sector. The outcome ofthe review and
the adjustments made in the iritial rmtiodology in light of cormnents were publshed in a tchnical
note made avaiable at the web site of ANEEL. The agency plaos to issue definite regulaons well
in advance of the 56 disirbuton tarff reviews swheed fbr 2003/4. In parlel, the Gov _men is
establishing regulatory accounting guidelines for duribuon uilides, to ensure that the is a
consistent and objective infonnation base to support taziff revisions.
21.         Institutional issues are also being addressed. The nw regatory oad oversigh
fiamework created as part of the reform process have experiencod teething pains In partiular, se
regulawnoi of the wholesale market proved dysimctional. This market of diferensces has not becn
able to settle any transacions since its inception in September 2000, leading ANEEL to intervene
and change its governtice. Since then, there has becu a reduction in the badkog of pending
trsactions, with the registing of accounts for the period up to June 2001.ITh gove ient has
initiated a refom of the mfinistry in charge of elechicity.
22.         The government is addresing the top issues about coordination of efforts and
clarifxcation of jurisdictions between polcy makers snd regulatons both on the economk and
environmental side. An important step towards this is the overhaing of the Miny of Mies
and Energy, siCe, with pnvation, the govenuet sector has lost a ccl man of tehical
experts to support the development and implementation of energy policy, and a stengthne
structuro is needed to Q1S the goverment poicy-makung fimctions. Another step forward has
been the presence of the: leadership of ANEEL, ANP and ANA at the executive committee of the
GCE, which is also improving the coordination between these agencies, laying down a path to an
ncreased institutional cooperation betwee them.
23.         The coordination between agencies In the ar     of the environment is alo
improving. The govermient has an unshakable conmitmet to  viromental susta lity. For
some years, Brazil has h6d a sound framework of envronmental regulaon, and the Mnistres of
Mines and Energy (MME) and the Environment (MMA) have stepped up their cooperation, with
the sining in 2002 of a frmework agreemn to cooperate in areas of common interest. There has
also been a consistent effort to review environmental licng raquremets, procedures and
24.         Finall, a comprehensive policy for low-income tariffs is being deveoped,
contributig to the government effort to protect the poorest The government tends to
hnroduce a sat of principles and eligibity rles for low income tarif counts that wi protect
poor consumrs in urban wreas. These nales are to be designed to     mom targeted and
57



6.
capt"re the actual social status of consimers. It is noteworthy that, by iasin the efficiency of
the sector, the reforms i the elecrty sector wil in difat ws help improving standards of
living of the populaion as whole. To oe etent of their conbution to biger economic growtb.
they can help lft thousabds of people out of povesty and create jobs.
25.         To support the carring out of the program, the Bra1la    Govenmet ha
initiated conveidow with the Bank seeking its support to a tecalica ustanee project This
project wil1 help to develop a medim-terin coopeaion in addressing issues auh as those
surounding the regulatoxy system and the wholesale and reti makets, impoved access to power
by the poor, the sectors environmental fram ork, as wel as the log-trm expansion plang for
the sector and the cacity of the Govenmme  in poicrymaing and m l      i m the nergy
sector.
The Governmaet remains fmly committed to its program of refodm as outined above ard would
welcome your prompt consideration of an Energy Sector Refom Lo  in support of the measures
dat have baen implemanted and those under           We look forard to contimie workng
together with the Bank du future adjustment loans regarding the reform of the ener8y sector.
Your, siwcerely.
PEED
Chief of Staff of the Presidency
Head ofthe Cimnara de Gestao da Crise da EnergialE1tica
58



ANNEX 2: BRAZIL: ENERGY SECTOR ADJUSTMENT OPERATION - ACTIONS INDICATORS AND GOALS
Expected Follow-       Monitoring        Elements of Future  Program Objectives
Actions Completed                              Through             Indicators           Reforms
Effective       A. The Government's program for electricity                   Termination of                           Resolve immediate
Management of   rationing was successfully implemented with                   electricity rationing.                   crisis.
the Energy      minimum social and economic impacts.
Crisis
B. The Government has contracted for 2GW of                   Installation of new                       Provide short-term
short-term emergency electricity generating                   capacity.                                reserve capacity.
capacity.
Resolve disputes
.C. The Government resolved the financial                      Acceptance of                             Reate bisis
disputes that arose from the energy. crisis:                  decisions by parties
a) between generators an,d distributors for                   involveL,
US$2.6 billion,''
b) between distributors and ANEEL for.
US$2 billion;
Market Reform   D. The Government has taken significant steps  Complete settlement  Registration and  Implementation of  Optimize functioning
towards improving the functioning of the  of all registered   settlement of        new method for spot  of wholesale power
electricity wholesale market.            transactions.        transactions.        price determination.  market.
a) All transactions between September 2000-                   Establishment of new
June 2001 have been registered.                            wholesale market
b) A new governance structure for the market                  govemance structure.
has been implemented (Law No.          Publish proposed    governance s  t
10438/02).                            new method for spot  Publication of
c) Working groups have been established to  price determination.  proposed new
de-link spot prices from NEWAVE model.                           .
E. The Government 'has determined'ihat sales  Conduct auctions on  Volume of power                  'Iniprdve
of electricity produced by federal'u,tiliies will  a regular basis'  'sales auctioned.                  competitiveness of
b carried out thro u public auctions. .                                                                 wholesale market.



Expected Follow-       Monitoring       Elements of Future  Program Objectives
Actions Completed                             Through             Indicators           Reforms
Improve transarency
F. The Government has mandated substantial                                                            and inmpariality of
improvements to the system operator.     Implement new       Non-stakeholder                          system operator.
a) Current stakeholder board replaced by  governance model.  board appointed.
non-stakeholder board to improve
governance.                                               Revised NEWAVE
b) Revised NEWAVE model to better reflect                    model operational.
the opportunity cost of water.
-1crease
G. The Government reformed the operation of  Institutionalize  More flexible                           omperitiveness of
the gas supply market.                   flexible gas supply  contracts negotiated.                   garsppyt   aret.
a) Petrobras negotated first flexible gas  contracts.        Auctions'held-on a                      :
supply contract with power generator.  Execute auctions for  regular basis.,
b) ANP announced first round of auctions for  new gas pipeline
new gas pipeline capacity.           capacity.
.  Divest generation    Increase
H. The Government has taken measures to                       Separate compames   assets of federal   competitiveness of
prevent abuse of vertical integration.                       for generation and   utilities,          wholesale power
a) Creation of separate legal entities for                   transmission                             market
generation and transmission assets of
CHESF, FURNAS and ELETRONORTE.       Issue new            Reduced volume of
b) GCE mandated new regulations limiting  regulations.       self-dealing in the
self-dealing of power by vertically                       wholesale power
integrated electricity distributors.                      market.



Expected Follow-       Monitoring        Elements of Future  Program Objectives
Actions Completed                              Through             Indicators           Reforms
Regulatory     L. The Goverlnment has established tracking'                   Regulations-issued'                      Maintain cost-
Reform         accounts to ensure timely pass-through of                      and enforced.                            reflective distribution
'Parcela A' costs beyond control of                                                                    tariff.
distributors.
J. The Governmnent has taken significant steps                Level of VN relative  Implementation of  Maintain cost-
to imnprove functioning of 'Valor Nornativo.'                 to true cost of      new market-based    reflective distribution
a) Raised VN for new gas-fired power plants                   generation,          altemative to VN.   tariffs.
by 20 percent.                                            Revised regulations
b) Revised regulations for VN to better   Publish proposed    issued and enforced.
reflect cost of electricity generation.  market-based     Publication of
c) Decided to formulate proposals for     alternatives to VN.  proposed alternative.
market-based alternatives to VN.
K. The Government has mandated that      Issue and enforce    Regulations issued.                       Maintain cost-
regulations be issued rebalancing retail taiffs  regulations  No. of distribution                       refective distrbuton
between residential and industrial customers.  rebalan,cing   companies tapling                        tariffs.
between                       ~~~~~~~~~~~distribution tariffs.  rebalanced tariffs.__________
L. The Government has mandated new       Issue and enforce    Regulations issued.                       Maintain cost-
regulations detailing a comprehensive     I                   No. of reviews                            reflective distribution
distribution price review methodology.   regulations for      completed following                       tariffs.
review  ri           new methodology.
M. The Government has mandated that      Issue and enforce    Regulations issued.
transmission tariffs be revised to better reflect  regulations for  No. of transmission
guographical variations in cost.          transmnission prices.  companies applying
new tariffs.
N. The Govemment has mandated that market  Issue and enforce  Regulations issued                        Ensure reliability of
players be provided with adequate incentives  regulations regarding  and enforced.                      energy supply.
to maintain reliability of energy supplies.  improved reliability.  Availability of firm
energy relative to
__________________    peak  demand.



Expected Follow-       Monitoring       Elements of Future  Program Objectives
Actions Completed                             Through             Indicators           Reforms
Environmental  0. The Government has taken measures to                                           Implementation of    Minimize
and Social     improve the framework for management of                                           the results of the   environmental and
Issues         environmental and social issues in the power                                      program studies.     social impacts of
sector.                                  Publish diagnostic  Publication of                           power sector.
a) Completed a diagnostic review of      review.             diagnostic review.
enviromnental licensing requirements,
procedures, and mandates.            Execute proposed     Publication of results
b) Signed MoU between MME and MMA        program.            of the program
and agreed TOR for a program to                           studies.
strengthen planning and management of
selected issues in the power sector.
Protection of   P. The Government has established national  Incorporate new rules  Lower prices to lower              Provide affordable
the Poor       eligibility rules for low' income electricity  into'tariffs and billing  income hous'eholds.           electricity to the
tariffdiscounts (Law No. 10438/02).      procedures.                                                  poor.
Q. The Government has established that there  Determnine company  Achievement of  Implementation of   Attain universal
will be mandatory connection targets for  specific targets.  coverage targets.    new rural           access to electricity.
electric utilities to reach universal access, in                                  electrification
the context of a coherent national rural  Publish rural strategy  Publication of rural  strategy.
electrification strategy.                                    strategy.
Energy         R. The Government has issued regulations lo  Develop strategy for  Percentage of                     .Improve efficiency of
Efficiency and  Law No. 10295/01 regarding energy efficiency  disseminating and  equipment sales that                 energy use.
Renewable      standards and related issues.            incorporating new    comply with new
Energy                                                  standards.          -standards.
S. The Government has established a program  Develop strategy for  Percentage of new                  Provide incentives
to create incentives for the development of  implementation.  generating capacity                     for renewable energy.
renewable energy sources (Law No.                            that is renewable.
10438/02)..                                          .      .
Institutional  T.; The Government has determnined the   Training and         No. of staff working                     Create effective
Reform         restructuring of the Ministry of Mines and  institutional     on energy policy.                        policy-making
Energy to strengthen its capacity in policy-  strengthening via  Publication/                         institutions.
making and environmental planning.       ESTAL.              dissemination of
policy directives and.
-:__________  -__________________________________ .________ _ -_ _  environm ental plans.             . plans,



ANNEX 3: BRAZIL'S ENERGY SECTOR: BACKGROUND INFORMATION
Table A3.1: Summary of state of privatization and unbundling of the power sector
Original    Original  Production  Year of                Year of     Main
Ownership    Activities  Scale   Unbundling  New Companies  Sale     Buyer
FEDERAL
7CHIESF       ELETROBRAS      G3      10418 MWY    None                   None
-T:
D
ELETRoN6RTE  ELETROBRAS       G3      4885 MW             ELETRONORTE    None
643 MW      1999    ManAus Energia  1999  ELETRONORTE
99 MW      1999    Boa Vista Energia  1999  ELETRONORTE
T
D        12 TWh
6TW1I
0.2 TWhI
ELETROSUL    ELETROBRAS       (3      3688 MWV    1998:   GRSL1998              TPRACTEBEL
ESCELSA      ELETROBRAS       G        171 MW     None    ESCELSA         1995  PvFEN/GTD
D        STWh
FUIGHT       ELETROBRAS       G       9502 MW     None                    1996 ED
T
D        24 TWh
state
ELETROACRE- Acre       ,       3       28 MW      Ye?ELETROBRAS
CEAL         Alagoas          D        2 TWh      Non     CEAL             #    ELETROBRAIS
CH-A         AmapA                     34 MW     .. None                  None
CEAM         Amazonas         G3       150 MW     Yes?                    2000  ELETROBRAS
D        I GWh
COE-LBA                      -lBhia9TWh           Nn      COLA1997              [BERDROLA
COELCE       Ceara            D        6 TWhl     None    COELCE          1998  ENDESA
CEGGiA                                  58W        197     CS             1997  EDS
18MW          ~~~~CELG  ,   -None 
D  5TWh            :~~~~CELG     ,None~
CEMAR        Maranhflo        D2 TWh              None -CEMAR             2000  Pe~nn'silvania. P & L
ENERSUL  Ma Grossa  (3    123 MW     N~~~~~one ,  ERL1997?.        ESCELSA
D        3W
CEMAT        Mato Grosso      G3      104 MW      None   'CEMAT           1997  REDE
D        3TWh
(,ELPA       ParA -0                   9MW         None    CELPA        -1998   PREDE
D    3TWh
63



Original     Original  Production  Year of                  Year of     Main
_______________ Ownership  Activities  Scale    Unbundling  New Companies  Sale       Buyer
State cont.
SAELPA        Parafba           D        2 TWh       None    SAELPA           2000  CFLCL
4~~E~PE   P~emambuPo        DN7DTWIeNon                   CELPE           2000   BROL
CEPISA        Piaul             D        1.3 TWhT    None    CEPISA            #    ELETROBRAS
CER           Rio de Janeiro    060 MfW              Nec      CERJ            1996 §EDSVD
D6 TWhI
COSERN    ~~Rio GadN.        D        3 TWhT      None    COSERN           1997  CO"ELBA
CEEE-RGS      RioOGrande S      G        9MW         1997    CEEE-RGS       -no
487 MW      ;:i      CGTEE          :"ao,  ELETROBRAS
T.:  ~ ~ ~    ~   ~   CE-RGS           n
D7 TWh'                  CEEE-RGS         no
5TW                 RGE             1      Q7VC~
-         ~~~~~7-TWTI          AES -Sul        199    AES'
CERON         Rondb.ia          G3       109 MW
D        1.1 TWht    None    CERON             #    ELETROBRAS
CER           Ro6raimia'G                22 NW%      None   -None
D        0.O4 TWI1
Eletropaulo   Sao Paulo         G    -   1397 MW     1998     EMAE            None
T                            CTEEP            None
Eletropaulo
D        35 TWht              Metropolitana   1998  AES
22 TWht             EBE (Bandeirante)  1998  EDP
CESP          Salo          .   (         62M         97      CESP PaanA     'None
2643 MV              TIEt            .1999' AS
2~~22MW  ~      CGEEP         .*1999   DK
D    -jIl TWht           ELEKTRO         '1998  ENRON.
CPFL          510 Paulo         Ci       148 MW      None     CPFL            1997   VBC
D        I9TWTI
ENERGIPE      Segp      ,       1         TT          oe      ENERGIPE        19974 CLC
Municipal
CELB          Campina Grande    D        0.5 TWh     None     CELB            1999   CFLCL
Private
CELTINS       Orupo RLEDE       a
0        06TWbh      None
CFLCL         Cataguazes        (3       18 MW       None
Leopidina         D        0.9 TWht
CAIUA         Oruo REDE         D        08 TWh      None
II Eletrobras acquired control of these small uuilities between 1997 and 2000 with the intention of impro% ing theiF performance for futur
privatization.
64



Table A3.2: Summary of power sector institutional framework
Brief description
ANEEL          ANEEL was created in 1996 as the federl regulatory agencyfor the electricity sector..
The-agency is governed by a five person directorate, appointed directly by the President,
with the approval of the Senate, but without the involvement of the M191E. The internal
structure of ANEEL is comparativelv complex, with 20 different superintendencies each '
idaling wit a specific area.
ANEELis responsibilities include:
o issuing regulations to support the implementation of new legislation; awarding
concessions tio sector operators;
* supervision of concession contact; ratis on of taiffM;'
- monitorig *of service quality;
* dealing witha ustomer complaints;
'* c.etifngihe fir nener gyof hydroelectric plants;,
- designing hydroelectri invenories to optiimize river flows;
* modeling stream flow in the transmission network; and
* overseeing the opperationof the wbolesale market.
ANEEL is allowed to delegate some of its functions to state utility regulators, where  .
these exist, however this has not yet happened to any significant degree due to,,the
, absence of suitably qualified counterparts in many stes.
ANEEL monitors the physical implemenlttion of envin al and social programs
associated to power sector projects. From a technical and normaativeperspective p.
responsibility for ensuring compliance with mitigation/compensation plans rests vith the
licesing agen-cy.
ANP            ANP was created in 1997 as federal regulatory agency for the hydrocarbons sector.
Similar to ANEEL, ANP is headed by a five person directorate appointed directly by the
President, with the approval of the Senate. The internal structure of the ANP comprises
nineteen Superintendencies, with responsibilities for specific areas, totaling 400 staff.
ANP's principal functions include:
* implementing national policy for the hydrocarbons;
. awarding and supervising concessions for exploration, development and production;
* issuing authorizations for refining, processing, transporting and trading activities;
* defining tariffs for pipeline transportation;
* protecting consumer interests;
* organizing and maintaining technical records of the oil and gas sector;
* regulating the dissemination of new technical data;
* supervising compliance with oil products and gas conservation measures; and
* supporting land expropriation procedures associated with project development.
Given the important linkages between the gas and electricity markets, there has been
some discussion as to whether ANP and ANEEL should be merged, however this
possibility is no longer under consideration.
65



Brief Description
GCE        . '' The GCE is a special high level committee thatwmscreated in 2001 asatemporurybody
to manage the national response to the energy crisis. It is coordinated by the P  rsidebt's
Chief of Staff, and'comprises key public an'd private sectoerepreseutatives, includig -
:'MME, MNIA, ONS, MAE, BNDES and Eletrobras. The creation of this special'-
comnittee signals the limitations of MME to deal w ith a crisis situation.
CCPE           The CCPE, established in 1999, with responsibility for sectoral planning. The committee
is presided by the energy secretary and incorporates a wide representation including
Petrobras and Eletrobras, ONS, a selection of generation, transmission and distribution
companies, as well as a number of industry associations.
The committee, functions through a number of technical sub-committees, of which one
(CTSA) focuses on environmental and social studies. CCPE is responsible for producing
10 year expansion plans for the generation and transmission sectors. In the case of the
generation sector, the plans are only indicative in nature; hence investors are not required
to select projects from the list or implement them in the sequence proposed. The CCPE
has faced major difficulties in recruiting the technical staff needed to support the
planning process.
CNPE           The CNPE was created in 1997 in order to advise the President on matters relating to
energy policy, and to formulate guidelines for the rational utilization of energy resources.
It is composed of a steering comm-ittee with 10 members comprising seven Ministers of
State, the President's Chief of Staff, a representative of the State governments, an
academic specialist and a private citizen. The committee meets once every six months, or
whenever necessary. The CNPE bas no technical staff of its own, but rather relies on the
Secretariat of Energy at the MME. Among its eight Technical Committees, one is the
Environment Committee.
MAE            A key feature of the reform process was the introduction of an wholesale electricity
market (MAE), based on an agreement between the key sector stakeholders. The MAE
began to operate in September 2000. Major decisions relating to the MAE are taken by
the General Assembly, where 50% of the votes are allocated to consumers and 50% to
producers.
The supervision of the MAE was originally the responsibility of an executive committee
(COEX), whose members were elected directly by the General Assembly. Following
initial problems-relating mainly to the decision-making process, the lack of full-time
dedicated committee members, and the lack of progress in resolving the disputes that
have been paralyzing the MAE-ANEEL intervened to replace the COEX with an
advisory committee (COMAE); comprising six counselors, two nominated by the
generators, two by the distributors and two by ANEEL.
The day-to-day operation of the MAE is supervised by CAMAE, while the settlement of
accounts is performed by the Brazilian financial clearing house (CBLC).
66



Brief description
MMv'E          The Ministry ofMies aid Energy is responsle.for:activities related to the exploration
and exploitationofnatualresources, inclding gi.es:and hydroelectric resources, and
those related to the tsflormation and ,distribution of mineral and energy products.
Within the MIVIEi the Scoretary General is resposible for internal coordination and
extemal liaison. Whilelthe,Secretary ibr Energyf and th Secretafor Mines and
Metallurgy have jurisdiction, over' each respective area. The Energy Secretariat is sub-
divided betweenIthe Energy Poliq Department and the Energy Development
Department. The nierAg Secretary also supervises the two federal energy companies
(PETROBRAS and ELETROBRAS) and the two independent energy regulators (ANP
and ANEEL).
The main responsibilities'of the Secretary of Energ are as follows:
~~~d           elns fo I'e -d"vel'o;p'me';t 'of-
to provide guidelines for rhe development of national energy policy;
'   to advise government on improving the environmental performance of the energy
sector;
* to provi&destrategic:coordination for energy sector development plans;  -
* to promote and coordinate tie collection and recording of hydrological data;-
'e topromote research and de,v,eiopent in the energy sector;      - 
;  to:foster and coordinate the development of new and renewable energy resou'rces;
* to provide technical and administrative su,ppon to CNPE, and to coordinate the CCPE;
'* to mainrtain national energy production and consumption records; and
* to coordinate international integration of the energy sector.
ONS            ONS was created by the sector reform law in 1998, as a private entity charged with
conducting the dispatch of all generating plants larger than 50 MW connected to the
national grid, and coordinating the operation of the interconnected system which
comprises all transmission lines in excess of 230kV. The dispatch decisions of ONS must
be consistent with the conditions embodied in each plants environmental license.
The objective of ONS is to minimize the generation costs of meeting any given level of
demand on the system, and to ensure non-discriminatory access to the transmission
network for all players. It also provides advisory input to CCPE on the presence of
transmission constraints in the national grid.
The decision-making body of the ONS is the General Assembly, which comprises
representatives of the generation (43%), transmission (14%) and free consumer sectors
(43%), each with the voting shares indicated.
67



Table A3.3: Summary of power sector legal framework
Brief sunnmary
Law         Creates the National Privatizacion Program, involving all federal assets, under BNDES
8031/90     coordination.
The law has been complemented by the following regulations:
* Decree 572/92 incorporated LIGHT and ESCELSA into the Prograr; and
'  Decree 1503 incorporated the remainder of the ELETROBRAS group into the Program.;2`'.<
Law         The law is primarily concerned with revising power sector tariffs to pave the way for
8631/93     subsequent sector reforms. The main dispositions are as follows:
* eliminates the policy of single uniform national tariffs;
* retracts guaranteed rate of return for power companies of 10% of the asset base;
* eliminates the compensation fund (CRC) which allowed the transfer of resources to
finance the cross-subsidies between companies implied by the single national tariff;
* obliges distribution utilities to enter into long-term (10 years) contracts with the regional
(federal) generators, at tariffs defined by the regulator;
* requires distribution utilities to create consumer commissions to supervise the quality of
services; and
* regulates the CCC (Conta de Consumo de Combustiveis) a compensation fund that
covers the additional fuel cost of some existing plants using oil products and national
coal.
Law         The law is primarily concerned with creating conditions conducive to competition. The main
9074/95     dispositions of the law are as followed:
* foresees the creation of an independent regulator (ANEEL);
regulates concessions, authorizations and permissions for electricity services;
* defines the basic rules for the extension and extinction of concessions then in force;
* foresees the creation of an independent system operator (ONS);
* creates independent power producers and free consumers:             -
* establishes principle of free access to all transmission and distribution networks;
a defines the concept of the Basic Network, and allocates responsibility for its expansion
to the respective concessionaires on the basis of publicly tendered contracts; and
* requires new hydro generation to be developed according to the "optimal design" defined
by the regulator.
The law has been complemented by the fbllowing regulations:
* Decree 2003/96 which establishes the rules for free-consumers, self-producers and
Independent Power Projects; and
* Decree 1717/95 which defines the Basic Network and conditions for extending existing
concessions and requires accounting separation of generation, transmission and
distribution activities.
Law         Regulates Article 175 of the Federal Constitution, which requires concessions for public
9887/95     service to be competitively tendered. Allowable criteria for bid evaluation include least
price, maximum premium or a combination of both.
Law         Creates ANEEL and establishes that it will be financed by a supervision tax of 0.5% on the
9427/96     revenue of all power utilities. Simultaneously, it ruled that the RGR should be reduced from
3.0% to 2.5% of the utilities revenue.
Law         Creates CNPE and ANP and defines national energy policy.
9678/97    1
68



Brief summary.
Law        ':This is the central piece of legislation for th  B'riian power 'sector refotr. It defines the
9648/98      new structure of the setor;and the rules governing contracting and,pricing .of power. Tbe,'
main dispositioxns are as follows:
- defines the unbundling of the ELETROBRAS subsidiaries and outlines the division.of..
ELETROBRAS itself into 20 new companies;
* defines the.basic rules for competition and ,foresees restrictions to avoid market power
and to protect: captive consumers, (namely. Valor Normativo see Resolution 266/98);.
* establishes that'energy exc hanges wi11 be freely negotiated among utilitie, lPPts and free;
consumers, and creates wholesale power traders;
, c,reates fle i-holesale electricity market (MAE) to facilitate exchanges of power net of
,lon,g-t,ercontracts;
substitutes Initial Contracts for the previous long-term contracts, at prices defined by
ANEEL, but envisages that these would be gradually phased out between 2002 and 2006;
* establishes that as Initial Contracts are extinuished, the utilites and consumes will enter..
into freely negotiated Bilateral Contracts, subject to regulatory oversight;
* creates the national system operator (ONS) to, be responsible for administering dispatch:
.ad controlling access to the,transmission network;
- establishes that Basic Network transmission should be provided:by ONS at an.average
"postage stamp" price for the,entire6interconnected system,. to be determined by ANEEL;
* .estblishes that existing special riules for ft  trading of power from Itaipu should be
'maintained, and thit ANEEL should define the corresponding rules for nuclear power;
and
* foresees the elimination of the Fuel Cornpensation Account (CCC) by 2006 for the
interconnected system and by 2013 for isolated-systems, as well as the elimitiation of the
RGR by 2002.
Decree 2655/98 regulates those aspects of thae law which relate to ONS and MAE. The main
pouits are as follows:
; *..defines thie goVernnce angement"' for ONS. an  ;
;. r:equires separate accounting" of'distribution,and commercialization services to free and
captive consumers and of Basic Network and'other transmission facilities services;
'* estalishes that ONS wllU rent the utilities fities that belong in the Basic Network;.and.'.
* incorporates in the MAE the MRE (Energy Reallocation Mechanisim) that provides  J
protection with regard to hydrological uncertainties to hydro generators by pooling their
surpluses with respect to their rated' guaranteed capacity.
69



Table A3.4: Overview of planned new generating               lants
Type of MW     Date
Plant          Commnissioned         MAIN INVENTORS           TYPE OF  STATE       RIVER        ENV'TAL
INVESTO
R                            Status
Serra da Mesa'.     H:      1275.  1:998      - FURNAS, Camrgo Gorra(otrco)               00>'     Tocantins      01,
Rio NegwIPP;        DIG     1582  J998          WARTSILA                                  J - JPL M               O
Canoas l and 11     H       154    199          Compan-hia Bras. de Alminio and CESP  LC  SP       Paranapanema   OL
El Paso EPP         T       246    1999         El Paso/ ELETRONORTE              EPP     AM                      OL
IGAAPVA    H        210    1999        CVRD, CSN and CEMIG                LC      MG       Grande         OL
W. Mona             G       75     1999         ENERSUL                           D        Ms                     OL
Sobragi             H       60     1999         Comanhia Paraibuna de Metais      LC       MG      Parafba do Sul  OL
It~~~~~~~~~~~~  H ~~~~~~~~~~ 1450  2000  CSN, OdebreChLlQmdusb) and contractor)  LC.IG  SCIRS  rungum i
and ELETROSULJGERASUL
Uruguaiana          (        0     20 .                                           D        RSOL
Cuiaba     D/G     480   ~~~~~~~2000 ~  ENRON                            Ipp      MT       -              O
Camno oGrande       G:      12O - 2000    -      NERSUI.                         -D        NISQI
Lageado             H       850   2001          REDE Group, EDP                   D        TO      Tocantmis      IL
Macae Merchant      G3      720   2001          El Paso                           IPP      RJ                     IL
Electrobolt Merchant  G3    350   2001          ENRON                             IPP      Ri                     OL
Dona Franc isca     H       125   2001          GERDAU                            LC       RS      Jacuf          OL
Porto Estrela       H       112   2001          CEMIG/CVRD/COTEMINAS              D/LC     MG      Santa Antonio  OL
Machadinh'         H   -   1140   22           Alunminum uidustnes and GJERASUL  LC/G     SC      Pelotas        OL
Ara~~~zeiri~~  (3 ~  470    2002         PETROBRAS, COPEL                  GS5      PR                     IL
h~iz de Fora        3        4     2002         CFLCL                             D        MG                      IL
Plr~~~~~~~j~~~x0 H   70    2002          Companhia Brasileira de Aiumlnio  LC       SP      Paranapanema   Il
S8anta Clara        H       60     2002         Construtora Qucir6z Galvio                 BA       Mucun          PL
FAFEN  -  -  (3     ~~~    ~~56  2002    PETROBRAS,                        GS       BA           IOL
TERMORIO            G       920   2003          PETROBRAS,                        GS       Ri                     IL
Norte Fluminense    G       720   2003          EDE/Light                         D        Ri                     IL
Piratininga         G       600   2003          AES                               EPP/D    SP                     IL
COFEPAR             RR      500   2003          PETROBRAS,                        D        PR
lbiritd            G3       480   2003          PETROBRAS, CEMIG                  GS       MG                     IL
Termnobahia         G       460   2003          PETROBRAS,                        GS       BA                     IL
Cana Brava          H       450   2003          GERASUL/TRACTEBEL                 G        GO      Tocantins      IL
Quebra Queixo       H       120   2003          Companhia Energ6tica Chapec6      D        SC      Chapec6        IL
Queimado            H       105   2003          CEMIG/CEB                         D        MG/GO   Preto-
Ourinhos            H       44    2003          Ourinhos Energia                           PR      Paranapanema   IL
Espora              H       32    2003          Fuad Rassi Eng. Ind. & Corn               -GO      Corrente
ltapebi             H        5     04-          CEMG                              D        MG,     Juinhha         I
Potde Pedra      H        17    2004-        Ioifte'de: cdmanrgt                         M/T     Corrente       I
-Candonga           H       95     2004         CVD                                LC      MG       Doce           1
Itwuirint     ~~~H 50         2004         Conipanhi EnegE c hut ni                   GO       Corrente       PL ecaceled
Pexe Aia           H      42     2005         Cons6rcio ENERPEIXE                         TO      Tocantins      -
Itaocara            H       195   2005          LIGHT                                      RJ/MG   Paraiba do Sul 
Corumnb& IV         H       127   2005          Corumbi ConcessOes                         GO      Conunbd        PL
Murta               H       120   2005          Murta Energ6tica                           MG      Jequitinhonha
Picada              H       50    2005          Companhia Paraibuna de Metais     LC       MG      Peixe          PL
Barra do BraCina    H       39    2005          Cataguazes-Leopoldina             D        MG      Pomba           PL
:Canipos Novas4     H       880    2006         CanpsNos EegaSC                                     Canoas'       IL
IrapE         ~~      ~~H 360  2006        CEMIlG                            D        MG       Jequitinhoriha  PL
FundWoSanta Claral  H ff     3    2006       -   LJR        -,-      --PR                          Jordla o
Baut~~~~~' H            10    206          CaiagiiamA-e ~ op:o:larina        D        MG       Doce-
ConunbAll HI, -             94    206             er 6iaamb-                   -            O      Corumnbi        NA
Barra Grande        H       690   2007          VBC/ALCOANVALESUIJCCCim. -        LC       SC      Pelotas 
Capim Branca        H       450   2007          CEMlG/CVRD/CMM/CCCjrn.            D/LC     MG      Araguari
CERAN               H       360   2007          CERAN                                      RS      Antas           NA
Seffa do Fac5o      H       210   2007          ALCOA/CBA/DMLJVotorant. Cim.      LC       GO      Sao Marcos     NA
F6z do Cbapec6      H       855   2008          CVRD/F6z do Chapec6 Enffgia       LC       SC       UrguiNA
70



Type of MW    Date
Plant         Comnissioned            MAIN INVESTORS              TYPE OF  STAT     RIVER     ENV'TAL
IINVETOR    E
______ _____ Status
Sao Joao/Cachoeira  H      105   tbd          Enterpa Engenharia                              PR    Chopim      NA
Traira 11          H       60    tbd          CEMIG                                D          MG    Grande       NA
Simplicio'         H       324   tbd          EDF                                  D          RJ    Paraiba do Sul NA
Salto Pilao'       H       181   tbd          CPFLUALCOANotorantim                  D/LC      SC    Itajai      NA
Sao Salvador'      H       241   tbd          TRACTEBEL Sul                        G          TO    Tocantins   NA
Monjolinho'        H       67    tbd          ENGEVIX Engenharia                              RS    Passo Fundo  NA
Pedra do Cavalo    H       160   tbd          Votorantim Cimentos                  LC         BA    Paraguaqu   NA
Pai Quere          H       292   tbd          CPFL/ALCOA/CEEEIDME/Vot.             DILC       SC    Pelotas     NA
Cubatao            H       45                 U. H. Cubatao                                   SC    Cubatao      -
Sao Jeronimo"      H       331                COPEL and other                      D          PR    Tibagi      NA
Couto Magalhaes    H       150   tbd          CELTINS/Enerpaulo                    D          GO/   Araguaia     NA
MT
Santa Isabel'      H       1087  tbd          Billiton Metais/CVRD/CCCimentos      LC         PA/T  Araguaia     NA
Notes:
Tvpe of plant:                                     Localitv:
H-hydro;                                           AC Acre
G-gas;                                             AL Alagaos
T-thermal;                                         AM Amazonas
D-distribution;                                    AP AmapA
RR-refinery res                                    BA Bahia
CE Ceara
Type of investor:                                  DF Distrito Federal
D-distributor;                                     ES Espirito Santo
LC-large industrial customer;                      GO Goias
GS-gas supplier;                                   MA Maranhao
IPP-independent power producer.                    MG Minas Gerais
MS MatoGrosso do Sul
Environmental status:                              MT Mato Grosso
NA-recently granted concessions not yet listed by  PA Para
MMA                                                PB Parafba
NL-listed by MMA but not yet licensed;             PE Pernambuco
PL-preliminary license;                            PI Piaui
IL-implementation license;                         PR Parann
OL-operating license                               RG Rio Grande do Sul
RJ Rio de Janeiro
RN Rio Grande do Norte
RO Rondonia
RR Roraima
SC Santa Catarina
SE Sergipe
SP Sao Paulo
TO Tocantins
71



72



ANNEX 4: ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL ISSUES IN THE POWER SECTOR:
CONTEXT, ISSUES AND PROPOSED PROGRAM
The Energy Sector Reform Project
The Energy Sector Reform Project is an adjustment operation which focuses on legal, regulatory
and institutional reforms in the Brazilian power sector. The hydrocarbons sector is covered only
as regards the provision of natural gas for electricity generation. The operation finances a part of
Brazil's current account deficit. Its proceeds are integrated into the reserves of the Central Bank.
No part of the loan is used for investments or other budget expenditures in the power sector.
There are also no indirect impacts on power sector budgets as a result of possible fungibility of
resources across public sector budgets, for the following reasons:
*  The proposed loan does not increase resources available for public sector spending.
Under Brazil's fiscal regime, an adjustment loan from the Bank substitutes financing from
alternative, more expensive debt sources and substitutes foreign for domestic lending. It
does not increase aggregate fiscal resources available since the fiscal envelope is defined
by the binding primary fiscal surplus targets determined under the Fiscal Responsibility
Law and agreed with the IMF. These targets have been diligently complied with for the
last three years. There is no indication whatsoever that they are being relaxed. The
proceeds of the adjustment loan thus cannot even indirectly increase public spending
(including investments). Also, the resulting savings on interest do not influence the
primary balance and will thus reduce the public debt and cannot contribute to increased
spending. This is an essential point in Brazil's fiscal management framework and is well
documented in several Bank and IMF documents.
* There are no national budget transfers to the power sector. National government
investments in the power sector are undertaken by Eletrobras, which is a listed joint-stock
company with 30% private capital participation. These companies cannot legally receive
budget transfers for their investments. Their investments are financed through internally
generated resources and bond issues. There is no fungibility with fiscal resources (and
certainly not with proceeds from the Bank's proposed adjustment lending).
The project has no direct or indirect adverse environmental or social impacts, since it focuses
entirely on legal, regulatory and institutional reforms. It is accordingly rated as C for
environmental/social safeguards purposes. Nonetheless, the Bank and the Government propose
to take a proactive approach and have designed a strengthening program in line with the ongoing
sectoral reforms. Environmental and social planning tools and institutional responsibilities will
be revisited and updated as needed to fit the new, largely private sector-based model which has
been adopted by the Government of Brazil, with the objectives of (i) ensuring appropriate
73



mainstreaming of environmental and social concerns in expansion planning and operation of
power sector projects, and (ii) facilitating the timely licensing of future investment projects.
This annex sumnmarizes the findings of an environmental issues paper, interviews and
discussions conducted during preparation of the Energy Sector Reform Project with
representatives of the power and environment sectors in Brazil. (A full version of the issues
paper is available in Portuguese in project files.) The annex also describes the program that has
been designed to strengthen the mainstreaming of environmental and social issues in the power
sector and to improve the licensing process.
Regulatory Framework
Power sector projects (i.e., generation plants, transmission and distribution systems), depending
on their nature, scale and location, can potentially occasion involuntary population displacement,
loss of livelihoods, impacts on indigenous peoples, destruction of natural habitats, displacement
of regional infrastructure (such as roads and bridges), and impacts on health, among others.
Generation also contributes to climate change, positively or negatively, depending on the source
of primary energy being used.
In accordance with Brazilian legislation, all power plants with capacity above 10 MW, whatever
the source of primary energy used, and transmission lines above 230 kV must be licensed by
environmental authorities. The licensing process (its scope, timing and procedures) is regulated
by resolutions issued by the National Environment Council (CONAMA). Of special relevance
are Resolutions 001/86 (general licensing framework), 006/87 (licensing of power sector
projects), 009/87 (public hearings), and 237/97 (licensing of infrastructure projects). This
regulatory framework is complemented by extensive legislation pertaining to water, fisheries,
forests, wildlife protection, gaseous emissions, and water discharges, among others. Table A4.1
in Annex 4 provides a brief summary of the key pieces.
Three environmental licenses (Preliminary, Installation and Operation) are required at successive
stages of the project cycle (respectively, before the conclusion of feasibility studies, before
construction begins, and before filling of the reservoir, in the case of hydropower plants, or
commercial operation, in the case of thermal plants). A detailed and comprehensive
environmental impact assessment (EIA) should be presented to environmental authorities
approximately six months before conclusion of the feasibility study. An environmental impact
statement (RIMA), summarizing project objectives, impacts, and mitigation/compensation plans
presented in the EIA, is also prepared and forms the basis for discussions with government
agencies and the general public.
Review of power sector projects by environmental authorities and discussion with potentially
affected people may take place as early as the inventory stage, i.e., before feasibility studies are
undertaken. The legislation stresses the importance of public participation and recommends that
the dialogue with stakeholders begin with a formal request for the Preliminary License, early in
the feasibility stage. It also requires public disclosure of all EIAs. Public hearings, although not
mandatory, have frequently been called for at the end of the feasibility stage to address public
74



concerns and other issues before the Preliminary License is issued. They may be called for either
by the licensing agency, an NGO, the Public Prosecutor (Ministerio Pzblico) or by a group of at
least 50 people.
Specific technical guidelines for managing environmental and social impacts in power sector
projects have been developed, over the years, to instruct project preparation, licensing,
implementation and operation, notably: Environmental Impact Studies Manual (1986), policy
guidelines (for resettlement, indigenous peoples, flora and fauna, coal-fired thermal plants,
among others) featured in the Power Sector Environmental Master Plan (1990), methodological
guidelines for river basin inventory studies (1984; 1997 update), public consultation and
negotiation (1993), and environmental/social cost accounting (1995). Such guidelines, largely
developed by Eletrobras working in close collaboration with regional and state utilities and the
power sector's research center (CEPEL), continue to be used as technical references, although
not mandatory for plants being designed since the transition to the new sectoral model.
Institutional Framework
Licensing and enforcement by the environment "sector."   Primary responsibility for
environmental licensing and enforcement lies with the states. The Ministry of Environment,
through the Brazilian Environment Institute (IBAMA), has responsibility for licensing binational
projects, projects on national rivers or developed in two or more states, and projects which
impact national protected areas. State agencies are in charge in all other cases. Box 1 describes
the basic components of Brazil's National Environment System.
An assessment of the effectiveness of the licensing system in Brazil was recently conducted by
UNDP and MMA. Overall, the results are positive, although there is considerable variation in the
capacity of agencies across states. Strengthening their capacity is a long-term proposition. To
this end, a number of initiatives are currently underway, including the National Environmental II
Project - NEP II (Loan 45240-BR), financed by the Bank. One of NEP II's components is
dedicated to institutional strengthening of state agencies and includes a sub-component focusing
specifically on environmental licensing, enforcement and post-license monitoring capabilities.
Activities financed under this sub-component include: (i) assessment of the current status and
future needs of state licensing systems; (ii) priority setting; (iii) development of streamlined
procedures; (iv) production of technical manuals; (v) staff training; and (vi) the development of
improved post-license monitoring and enforcement techniques, among others. It is also foreseen
that this sub-component could provide support for the development of innovative instruments
such as compliance agreements, self regulation, voluntary compliance and tradable permits. At
the federal level, the strengthening of environmental licensing, enforcement and post-license
monitoring capabilities are supported by the National Environment Program financed by the
IDB.
75



Box 1 The Brazilian Environmental System
The Ministry of the Environment and Renewable Resources (MMA) is the central agency in
charge of the national policies for the environment (PNMA), water resources (PNRH) and the
Legal Amazon. The Minister presides over councils in each area: CONAMA, CNRH and
CONAMAZ.      All other regulatory and fiscal agencies fhat make up the National
Environmental System (SISNAMA) are located within the structure of the MMA, states and
municipalities.
The MMA's specific secretariats include: Environmental Quality of Urban Settlements
(SQA), Water Resources (SRH), and Coordination of the Amazon Region (SCA). Also
linked to the MMA are the Brazilian Environmental Institute (IBAMA), which is the
executing agency of the PNMA as well as the licensing agent for projects which have regional
and national impact; and the Federal Water Regulatorv Agency (ANA), which is responsible
for implementing the PNRH, for granting water rights in bodies of water belonging to the
federal government, and for oversight/coordination of the National System of Water
Resources Management The latter includes the River Basin Committees and their respective
Water Agencies which are responsible for raional use of water resources in each basin
highlighted by the federal and/or state governments as the subject of individualized
management.-
Memnbers of CONAMA the country's foremost normative body in matters pertaining to te
environment, include representatives from various segments: each ministry, each secretariat
of the Office of the President of Brazil, each state, the National Association of Municipalities
and Environment, associations of employes and workers, the Brazilian Steel Industy
Institute, the Brazilan Association of Saniary and Environmental Engineering (ABES), and
the Brazilian Foundation for Nature Conservation (PBCN) among odher NGOs.
Environmental management in the power sector. The institutional framework described above
for the environment sector is supplemented by planning functions carried out within the power
sector itself. In the configuration that was in place prior to the reform of the power sector, state-
owned and operated utilities with extensive generation programs (roughly eight of the nearly
thirty companies that were in place through 1995) had developed, over the years, in-house
capacity to design, implement and operate environmental and social programs to address
minimization, mitigation, and/or compensation of the impacts of power projects. Functions
carried out by utilities with regard to specific projects and expansion of their power systems were
complemented by others carried out by the Ministry of Mines and Energy (definition of sectoral
policy), Eletrobras (coordination of power sector expansion planning and operation; generation
of technical and methodological specifications for project design and operation), and CEPEL
(research and modeling).
Under the new model of the Brazilian power sector, projects are concessioned to operators
(public or private), whose responsibility it becomes to design the project and carry out the
necessary impact assessments, develop mitigation/compensation plans, secure the appropriate
licenses from the environmental authorities, and implement the approved action plans. Annex 3
presents a summary of the power sector's institutional framework. Box 2 highlights the
responsibilities on the part of the relevant entities in charge or policy making, regulatory and
planning functions as regards environmental and social issues in the sector today.
76



Box 2 Envirmnmental functions of power sector entities
National Energy Policy Council (CNPE): Advises the President on matters relating to energy
policy and formulates guidelines for the rational use of energy resources. Among its eight
Technical Committees, one is the Environment Committee.
Power System Expansion Coordinating Committee (CCPE): Responsible for sectoral
planning, including the 10-year expansion plans for generation and transmission systems.
Generation plans are only indicative, thus there is no certainty that projects will in fact
materialize. Of CCPE's various sub-committees, one (CTSA) focuses on Environmental and
Social Studies.
Ministry of Mines and Energy (MME): Responsible for guidelines for the development of
national energy policy and strategic coordination of energy sector development plans, including
as regard appropriate handling of environmental and social impacts of sector activities.
Promotes research and development in the energy sector, including collection of hydrological
data, and development of renewable resources. The Energy Secretariat is subdivided in two
Departments (Energy Policy and Energy Development) and has an Environment Unit that
supports both departments. The Secretariat supervises ANEEL and supports both CNPE and
CCPE.
Federal Electricity Regulatory Agency (ANEEL): Issues regulations, awards concessions to
sector operators, supervises concession contracts, revises tariffs, and monitors service quality.
Prepares some river basin inventories. Monitors the physical implementation of environmental
and social programs associted to power sector -projects, although from a technical and
normative perspective, responsibility for ensuring compliance with mitigation/compensation
plans rests with the licensing agency.
National System Operator (ONS): Conducts the dispatch of all generating plants larger than
50 MW connected to the national grid, and coordinates the operation of the interconnected
system (transmission lines greater than 230 kV). Environmental licenses typically establish the
conditions under which generation plants will operate. These requirements must be respected by
ONS.
Energy Crisis Management Chamber (GCE): Is temporarily in charge of some of the
fimctions of MME, as a special body created to manage the national response to the energy
crisis. The MMA is part of the GCE.
The current pipeline of power sector projects was largely developed before the reform process
began. The licensing process is being carried out much as before privatization, following
established procedures. However, Eletrobras no longer carries out technical reviews of projects
before submission to the sector regulatory agency (formerly DNAEE, now ANEEL) and to
environmental licensing agencies at each pertinent stage of the project cycle. Its former role
entailed prior screening, quality assurance, and clearance of compliance with licensing
requirements, especially at the feasibility stage. Thus, under the current model, demands on the
technical expertise of environmental licensing agencies have increased significantly, in a context
in which the quality of EIAs are still sub-optimal.
77



The Power Sector in Transition: Issues for the Short and Medium-term
Since the beginning of the privatization process in 1995, the power sector has undergone
extensive revision of its regulatory and institutional frameworks. This process is still ongoing
and, as part of the transition, some revision of regulations and significant realignment of
institutional responsibilities with regard to the management of environmental and social issues in
the power sector will be needed. Because, as indicated above, a substantial pipeline of projects in
advanced stage of design was already available when the transition began, the need for such
changes in the regulatory and institutional frameworks did not immediately present itself.
However it has surfaced in the context of the current crisis and will be a potential bottleneck to
future system expansion if not addressed soon. The proposed sequence of adjustment operations
and the ESTAL are meant to support the completion of power sector reform as regards, among
other areas, the management of environmental and social issues.
Key issues faced by the power sector can be grouped under four areas (which are also discussed
in the main text):
(a) During the current energy crisis, the licensingframework has come underfrequent
attack as being untimely and unpredictable.
While there is a reasonably solid framework in place for handling environmental and social
issues in the power sector, licensing of power sector projects is guided by norms that were
adopted before the reform of the power sector and the establishment of the National Water
Policy. They thus need to be revisited and selectively revised to fit the current context. In
addition, some technical inconsistencies in the legislation also predate these changes and should
be addressed (e.g., with respect to the minimum area required for the protection of reservoirs or
for transmission line rights-of-way). Of special relevance is the fact that the uncertainties and
transaction costs associated with environmental licensing are perceived by many to be a serious
limitation to timely expansion of the system in a private sector-based model. Suggestions for
changes have emerged, ranging from a possible centralization at the federal level of the licensing
system, to the institution of special task forces to support state agencies in addressing critical
cases. "Quick fixes" run the risk of throwing away considerable advances made over the past
twenty years and of introducing ad-hoc measures into a basically consistent framework. There is
however room for improvement, making the licensing system more effective and responsive to
the dynamics of the private sector, for instance by institutionalizing the use of strategic EIAs, as
has occurred in the case of the oil and gas sector in the State of Rio de Janeiro. Another
promising development was the creation in September 2000 of the Environment Committee in
CNPE and in June 2001 of the Energy Committee in CONAMA to facilitate coordination across
sectors. In March 2002, the Ministers of Environment and of Mines and Energy signed a
Memorandum of Understanding establishing the scope and terms of a technical cooperation
program covering nine broad areas relating to the mainstreaming of environmental and social
concerns in energy sector activities, and placing special emphasis on the strengthening of
environmental licensing agencies, as well as on improved monitoring and ex-post evaluation of
the impacts of energy sector activities on the part of the energy sector. These coordination
78



mechanisms and agreements need to be fleshed out and consolidated to support effective and
timely planning and licensing of power sector projects.
A preliminary assessment of the current regulatory framework that applies to environmental
licensing was conducted recently by MMA, which, joined with the findings of the Special
Commission for Analysis of the Hydro-Thermal Power System, the work of the GCE, and other
agencies, should form the basis for an in-depth evaluation of the adequacy and possible
improvements in the current environmental licensing system as regards power sector projects.
This evaluation, the revision of Resolution 006/97 and other specific recommendations resulting
from the evaluation will be supported through the proposed ESTAL.
(b) There is considerable lack of clarity with respect to institutional responsibilities and
imbalance in the availability of technical capacity across agencies in the sector.
This is especially the case with respect to activities pertaining to the early stages of the project
cycle, e.g., river basin inventories, studies of alternative locations of thermal plants, and sectoral
expansion plans and strategies, for longer-term horizons. However it also applies to subsequent
stages, in which activities which were formerly the responsibility of utilities and Eletrobras have
been transferred to operators, ANEEL and the MME. While this shift was meant to sort out roles
and avoid conflicts of interest within institutions, the new agents do not necessarily have the
technical capacity to respond to their mandates. For instance, the Environment Coordination
Unit of MME's Energy Secretariat currently counts only two high-level staff. In this regard, it is
important to note that the technical capacity in environmental and social issues developed by the
sector in the past two decades or more represents a tremendous investment in human capital. It is
still largely available since the system is in transition and could be realigned under the new
model so as to minimize the uncertainties and delays currently associated to the licensing
process. It would also be expected that Eletrobras and the National Social and Economic
Development Bank (BNDES), as potential investors and financing agents of power system
expansion, would have a prominent role in assessing environmental and social risks and
mitigation projects and programs in which they are likely to be involved.
An independent assessment of the performance of regulatory agencies will be carried out under
the ESTAL. It should include the clarification of the institutional role of MME, CCPE, ANEEL,
ANA, and other government entities, with respect to the handling of environmental/social issues.
Recommendations with respect to the strengthening of the regulatory and other power sector
agencies would also be supported in the proposed ESTAL.
(c) In the longer term, dealing with the environmental and social externalities
generated by power sector projects, requires coordination on the part of energy,
water resource management and environmental agencies.
The available pipeline of projects will need to be revisited soon for a number of reasons, notably:
(i) the Brazilian system is strongly hydro-based and ad-hoc concessioning of individual projects
in disregard of a comprehensive study of the complete cascade has drawbacks in terms of
optimizing generating capacity; and (ii) optimal multiple use of water resources has gained
importance since the approval of the National Water Resources Policy in 1997 and the creation
of the CNRH and ANA; inventories of river basins will need to be systematically updated to
79



incorporate these as well as generally heightened concerns on the part of local communities and
Brazilian society with respect to environmental and social impacts. Several agencies (ANEEL,
ANA, MME and Eletrobras) are currently advancing methodological and other studies to
respond to what they perceive as their mandate. It is quite urgent that responsibility for extensive
iiver basin inventory work be clearly assigned, that methodologies be updated so as to fully
incorporate environmental, social and multiple costs and benefits, and that a mechanism for
institutional cooperation be put in place. Updating the inventories for the country's major river
basins would significantly minimize risks associated to power sector development. Given the
potential relevance of thermal plants in future expansion of the generation system, strategic
macro-siting (regional) studies are also a priority as an instrument to assess options and risks.
The Memorandum of Understanding between MMA and MME, referred to previously, also
places special emphasis on better mainstreaming environmental and social concerns during the
early stages of the planning process, and on better integration of multiple objectives in resource
development. Furthermore, a model of the longer-term planning responsibilities within the sector
has been proposed by MME. Broad-based discussion and agreement amongst the key
institutional stakeholders is needed but is likely to extend beyond the timeframe of the current
operation. Thus, this process, as well as specific recommendations to strengthen planning
functions, would be supported in the proposed ESTAL. The ESTAL would also support an
update/revision of river basin inventories, including the environmental/social impacts of
alternative cascade arrangements, as well as strategic EIA for the siting of thermal power plants.
(d) A vision of the environmental and social implications of longer-term expansion of
the power sector needs to be developed to reduce uncertainties and make best use of
resources and opportunities.
The power sector is currently operating in a "crisis mode," prioritizing immediate avoidance of a
major collapse in the supply of electricity. Beyond this phase however, both private sector
participation and consideration of the public interest in a capital intensive, long lead time sector
such as power require some strategic planning.
A clear identification of the likely expansion paths (e.g., fuel uses, comparative advantages
across regions), key issues and implications of alternative paths (e.g., likely impacts,
opportunities to participate in emerging markets for carbon emission reductions), and options for
addressing them (e.g., mitigation strategies, synergies with other initiatives, institutional,
regulatory and methodological requirements, financial implications, funding opportunities), is
needed. The ESTAL will support formulation of a methodology to conduct strategic ELA in the
power sector, based on a methodological proposal commissioned by MMA for strategic EIA
generally and on international best practice. It will also support the carrying out of a pilot
exercise to assess impacts and opportunities associated to alternative longer-term expansion
paths for the power sector.
The Proposed Program
Within the new sectoral framework, management of environmental and social issues will need to
reconcile public (i.e., societal) and sectoral interests (as previously was the case), but also private
80



interests. This entails balancing four objectives -- sustainable use of natural resources, social
equity in dealing with impacts, transparency in the decision making processes, and
responsiveness to the dynamics of the private sector (e.g., clear and simple "rules of the game,"
low and/or predictable transaction costs).
In line with the nature of the proposed operation, which focuses on legal, regulatory and
institutional reforms in the power sector, the issues identified in the previous section will be dealt
with in the ESTAL through a strategic, sectoral approach, covering:
(a) review and adjustment, as needed, of environmental requirements, procedures and
mandates for licensing of power sector projects;
(b) assessment of the performance of power sector regulatory agencies to clarify their
institutional roles and coordination requirements vis-a-vis other government entities, such
as the Ministry of Environment, the National Water Agency, and the Ministry of Mines
and Energy;
(c) revision and realignment of key institutions with regard to mandates and procedures for
mainstreaming of environmental and social issues in longer-term expansion planning,
including coordination with water resources management and environmental agencies;
(d) carrying out a set of studies on priority topics including: project preparation
methodologies; strategic assessment of longer-term system expansion paths; river basin
inventories; strategic assessment of the thermal power program; issues and options
relating to potential participation of the sector in markets for carbon emissions reductions
and other environmental services; and promotion of corporate responsibility;
(e) strengthening (number and qualification) of professional cadres within the power and
environment sectors, with special emphasis on the environmental licensing capacity in
regions/states where expansion of the sector is likely to be concentrated over the coming
years; and
(f) strengthening of monitoring and ex-post evaluation of environmental and social issues in
the power sector.
While the first three activities are of relevance in the very short-term, the last two sets of activities
address issues related to expansion of the sector in the longer term. Overall, these activities will
comprise a 'Program to Strengthen Planning and Management of Environmental and Social Issues
in the Power Sector', to be implemented in successive stages, over the medium-term. For the first
four-year period, the program will be supported by the ESTAL, to be appraised and negotiated in
parallel with the current operation.
Terms of Reference of the Program have been agreed between the Ministry of Mines and
Energy, the Ministry of Environment and the Bank. (See end of Annex 4) These terms of
reference were prepared in coordination with a working group of senior power sector
professionals. Detailed TORs will be prepared and discussed with a broader set of key
institutional stakeholders (including representatives of the environmental "sector", the private
sector, and academia) before the start of project implementation of the ESTAL. As currently
envisaged in the TORs, development of the Program itself will be undertaken in stages, with
consultations/validation carried out at each major stage (e.g., diagnostic, preliminary design and
81



overview of program priorities, formulation of a multi-year strategy, formulation of the first
phase action plan) and, as needed, in each one of the sub-projects. An advisory board, technical
groups and a consultation strategy have been outlined on a preliminary basis and will be detailed
and agreed in the final TORs of the Program during project implementation. This multi-year
program would extend over the medium-term, possibly supported by the Bank through
subsequent operations.
Table A4.1: Summary of Key Legal Framework with respect to Environmental and Social
Issues in the Brazilian Power Sector
Legislation  Brief Summary of Contents
Constitution  Enacted in 1988, it deals with the enviromnent, in several of its provisions, covering about
20 different articles, one of which, no. 225, deals exclusively with this subject. For this
reason, it has been called by some jurists the "Green Constitution." It defines the
environment, biodiversity and ecological systems and services as public goods, assigning
their guardianship to public authorities in the country's different political and administrative
units, to the Public Prosecutor (Ministdrio Publico), to communities and citizens. It
prescribes instruments and means to this end: environmental impact assessments (EIAs)
which will be publicized; concurrent federal, state and municipal legislation; and public
participation in processes relating to creation of environmental regulations, in the
formulation and implementation of environmental policies and in actions carried out through
the Judiciary.
Law         Institutes the National Environmental Policy (PNMA), creates the National Environmental
6938/81     System (SISNAMA), establishes as key instruments of the PNMA environmental impact
assessments (EIAs) and the licensing of projects and activities that are likely to have
environmental impacts, and requires public disclosure at different stages of the project cycle.
SISNAMA is comprised of: a Government Council (not created); the National Environment
Council (CONAMA), a consultative and deliberative body, responsible for establishing
national environmental guidelines and regulations; MMA, as central agency; IBAMA, as
executing agency; state environmental agencies and entities; and municipal agencies or
entities. This law was regulated by Decree 99.274/90, which confirmed the practices
recommended by CONAMA with regard to environmental licensing throughout the 1980s,
as well as the diverse, collegiate composition of CONAMA.
Law         Regulates citizens' suits regarding responsibility for environmental damages and provides
7347/85     other measures. It emphasizes injunctions under the initiative of the Public Prosecutor
(Ministerio Publico), the federal government, states and municipalities and environmental
associations. It calls for the Public Prosecutor be a law enforcement agent with respect to
the environment.
Law         Institutes financial compensations for states and municipalities for the development of water
7990/89     resources for purposes of power generation within their territories, as well as for mining.
Law         Institutes the National Water Policy (PNRH), the National Water Resources Council
9433/97     (CNRH) and the National System of Water Resources Management. It creates Water
Resources Plans for watersheds (PRHB), in observance of criteria for multiple use of water
resources and priorities established through shared decision-making processes, highlighting
River Basin Committees comprised of representatives of the country's various political and
administrative units involved in the basin under analysis, of water users and other
stakeholders. It creates various instruments for the PNRH, in addition to PRHBs,
_  highlighting the granting of and charges for the use of water and compensation to
82



municipalities.
Law         Establishes, among other things, penalties for citizens, companies and their responsible
9605/98     agents who cause damage to the environment, as well as for public employees who commit
crimes against environmental administration.
Law         Establishes the National System of Protected Areas (SNUC), considering various categories
9985/00     of sustainable management and integrated protection of natural resources. It provides the
government with instruments for the effective implementation of the System, calls for the
involvement of populations residing within and outside the protected areas (conservation
units), and establishes fines and penalties on offenders. It recognizes officially established
private reserves, and institutes incentives for collaboration of the private sector with
country's biodiversity conservation goals.
CONAMA      CONAMA established relevant environmental concepts, practices and requirements,
Resolutions  through numerous resolutions issued since 1986. Those having major sectoral repercussions
(and their relevance to the power sector) are as follows: 001/86, requiring ELAs for power
plants larger than 10 MW; 006/87, establishing guidelines for environmental licensing of
power sector projects; 009/87, regulating public hearings; 005/89, establishing the National
Air Pollution Control Program; 003/90, defining air quality standards; 008/90, defining
emissions standards for various gases in power plants larger than 70 MW; 002/96, requiring
ecological compensation/mitigation, in the amount of at least 0.5% of the plant's total
investments; 237/97, updating 001/86 and 006/87 and seeking to define jurisdictions under
the scope of licensing agencies.
83



Box 3 Program to Strengthen Planning and Management of Environmental and Social Issues
in the Power Sector
Prelimina view of poentil topics of study
A. Sectoral policy and planning
l) ,Adjustment and improvement of methodologies for:
(a) inclusion of environmental and social dimensions in the expansion plan;
(1) systemizadon of Strategic Environtnental Assessment in the sector.-
(c) preparation of river basin inventory studies;
(d) preparation of feasibilty studies for hydropower plants, thermal plants and transmission systems.
2) Study of the environmental and social implications of altenmative scenarios for expansion of supply in the mediumAnd
long-term (approx. 15 years), taking energy consevation into account.
(a) Development of methodologies for studies on macro-siting of thermal power plants;
(b) Strategic assessment of the Thermal Power Priority Program;
(c) Establishuent of guidelines for integrated management of water resources in the Amazon region; and
- (:*) Establishment of guideines for R&D in the power sector, deaing with envWnmental and social aspects.
B. Legal, regulatory and institutional framework related to environmental licensing
1) Preparation of a compendium of legal and regulatory provisions related to management of environmental and social
issues in the power sector;
2) Adjustment of licensing process:
(a) Evaluation of the environmental licensing process for the power sector, including institutional roles, regulatory
requirements and necessary managerial and operational adjustments;
(b) Revision of CONAMA Resolution 006/87; and
(c) Preparation of guidelines for environmental licensing of power sector projects;
C. Studies and research on priority technical issues
1) Incorporation of climate change considerations in power sector planning and evaluation of potential participation in
carbon emissions reduction markets;
2) Biodiversity;-
3) Raesttlement of populadton groups;
4) Benefits associated with plans and projects;
5) Environmental performance indicators associated with sectoral projects;
6) Development of methodologies to analyze the management of environmental risks in sectoral plans and projects;
: 7) G.6uidelines for preparation of economic and ecological zoning plans for reserves and their buffier zones; and
8) PrEparation of regulation for establishment of levels of electromagnetic fields.
D. Management instruments
1). Adjustment and complementing of guidelines and procedures for the promotion of institutional coordination in the
new model, with regard to:
(a) formulation of policies;
(1,) planning of sectoral expansion;
(c) systems operation;
(d) management of plants and transmission systems;
2) Adjustment and improvement of guidelines and instruments for enviromnental and social cost accounting and
consideration in tariffs;
3) Structuring of a geo-referenced information system to optimize planning and management activities;
4)-.. Adjustment and improvement of guidelines for social participation and negotiations;
.5) Esihment of instruments to disseminate and promote the use of ISO 14.000 Norms; and
6   Promotion of corporate accoutability on environmental and social issues among power sector ompanies.
E. Institutional strengthening
1)3 Definiton of a training program for sectoral staff and staff of other institutions related to environmental and social
. management of power sector projects and activities; and
2) Definition of a training program for researh institutions dealing with fte sector's environmental and social issues;
3) Promotion of a program to structure and strngthen the areas of pubihc and private sectoral enterprises dealing with
environmental and social issues;
4) Imnplementation of agreements aimed at the strengthening of environmental agencies.
84



TERMS OF REFERENCE
Program to Strengthen Planning and Management of Environmental and
Social Issues in the Power Sector
Context
Within the new sectoral framework, management of environmental and social issues will
need to reconcile not only public (i.e., societal) and sectoral interests (as previously was the
case), but also private interests. This entails balancing four key objectives -- sustainable use
of natural resources, social equity in dealing with impacts, transparency in the decision-
making process, and responsiveness to the dynamics of the private sector (e.g., clear and
simple "rules of the game," low and/or predictable transaction costs).
To achieve these objectives, the Ministry of Mines and Energy (MME) and the Ministry of
Environment and Natural Resources (MMA) recently signed an "Environmental Agenda,"
setting forth nine broad areas of collaboration for the coming years. In line with the Agenda,
the Government proposes to implement a "Program to Strengthen Planning and Management
of Environmental and Social Issues in the Power Sector."  The program would be
implemented in successive stages, the first of which would be within a four-year timeframe,
with support from the ESTAL from the World Bank.
A. Objectives
To promote adequate planning and operation of the Brazilian power system with regard to
environmental and social issues, under a management model in which participation of the
private sector is expected to increase over the coming years. Thus, more specifically:
1) To identify the main short-, medium- and long-term bottlenecks for the proper
functioning of the sector and alternatives for resolving them.
2) To propose a medium-term strengthening program, to be carried out in stages,
identifying priority actions of a legal, regulatory, institutional, methodological and
analytical (studies and research) nature, with the respective responsibilities,
timetables and budgets.
3) To design and carry out a select number of priority studies.
4) To promote consensus among the principal institutional stakeholders in the power,
environmental and other sectors, taking into account national, regional, local, public
and private interests.
B. Activities and Methodology
The process of preparing the medium-term Program and its first stage, the Priority Action
Plan (PAP) would unfold in the following manner:
85



1) Identification or establishment of coordination and consultation mechanisms.
including:
(a)   an Executive Committee, coordinated by the Secretariat of Energy and
comprised of representatives of institutions with relevant participation in the
planning and management of environmental and social issues in the power
sector; the Committee would be responsible for (i) supervising the preparation
of the Program, (ii) seeking its approval by relevant authorities, (iii) seeking
the allocation of resources needed to implement the Program, and (iv)
monitoring its implementation;
(b)   Technical Working Groups (for example, those of the CCPE), set up as
needed by the Executive Committee; the groups would conduct the
identification and discussion of priority problems, guide the work of
consultants in preparing reports, recommendations and terms of reference for
subsequent works, and follow up on execution as needed; and
(c)   Mechanism(s) for public consultation with collegiate bodies (for example,
CONAMA, CNRH, CNPE and other permanent or ad hoc forums),
associations of representatives of different sectoral agents (for example,
ABRAGE, ABRATE, ABCE and others) and environmental entities (for
example, MMA, IBAMA, OEMAs, ABEMA and others); such mechanism(s)
would allow discussion of priority issues and proposals to solve them, as well
as to build consensus around proposed courses of action.
2) Execution of a rapid diagnostic of the sector's main problems with regard to planning
and management of environmental and social issues:
Priority will be given to issues that correct distortions already identified before the
start-up of sector reform, as well as to new challenges arising from the process of
transition from a predominantly state-managed model to a model based on private
participation, among others:
(a) defining the mandates of management agencies (within and outside the power
sector) and seeking operational reconciliation among such mandates;
(b) balancing resources among management agencies;
(c) promoting institutional consolidation; and
(d) systemizing sectoral planning, with special emphasis on the strategic assessment
of alternative expansion paths and on promoting an integrated view of the use of
water resources.
These issues transcend the scope of environmental and social concerns, implying that
this rapid sectoral diagnostic should be closely coordinated with other initiatives
taking place in the power sector that are also focused on or can contribute to
addressing the above four points.
86



3) Discussion and validation of the rapid diagnostic:
The following, at least, should be included in the consultation/validation process:
(a) entities responsible for proper use of natural resources and for the fair treatment
of those potentially affected by power sector projects or decisions;
(b) entities responsible for decision-making and for allocating the (technical and
financial) resources needed to resolve problems relative to environmental and
social issues in the power sector; and
(c) entities with knowledge and information that are relevant to such problem-
solving.
4) Workshop on strategic environmental assessment methodologies:
In order to promote access to international "best practice" and provide expert input to
subsequent activities, a workshop will be held with the participation of sectoral and
environmental entities and international specialists, focusing  on  strategic
environmental assessment (SEA).  Besides reviewing the current thinking on
approaches to SEA and relevant case studies illustrative of such approaches, the
workshop will discuss:
(a) the sectoral diagnostic;
(b) a preliminary view of issues that could be potentially addressed in the medium-
term Program, as set forth in Box 3; and)
(c) study topics that, given their importance and relative urgency in the current
context of the sector, would configure a Priority Action Plan (PAP) to be carried
out over 2-3 years.
5) The topics that, in principle, are proposed as part of the PAP would be the following:
(a) revision and adjustment, as needed, of the legal, regulatory and institutional
frameworks;
(b) formulation and/or revision of power system expansion planning methodologies,
river basin inventories, and macro-location of thermal power plants;
(c) strategic environmental assessment of sectoral expansion alternatives;
(d) river basin inventory studies;
(e) strategic assessment of the thermal power program;
(f) potential participation of the sector in markets for carbon emissions reductions
and other environmental services;
(g) training of human resources in the power and environmental sectors and strategic
strengthening of the environmnental licensing capacity in regions/states where
expansion of the sector is likely to be concentrated over the coming years;
(h) strengthening of capacity for monitoring and ex-post evaluation of environmental
and social issues in the power sector; and
(i) promotion of corporate accountability.
87



6) Preparation of a medium-term Strengthenina Program and of the Priority Action Plan
(PAP) (preliminarv versions):
Based on the diagnostic and recommendations stemming from the consultation
process and the workshop, this activity would specify medium- and long-term
objectives and goals, as well as instruments to promote the strengthening of planning
and management of environmental and social issues in the power sector, identifying:
(a) priority actions of a legal, regulatory, institutional, methodological and analytical
nature (studies and research), as needed;
(b) implementation strategy for the Program, whose execution is planned in stages,
over the medium-terrn , with a tentative definition of respective institutional
responsibilities, timetables, budgets and monitoring arrangements; and
(c) terms of reference, methodology and indicators of expected results for the
projects/activities that would comprise the Priority Action Plan (PAP) to be
implemented in the first 2-3 years.
7) Discussion and validation of conclusions and recommendations:
An approach similar to that in item 3 (Discussion and validation of diagnostic) should
be used. Results achieved up to this stage (with emphasis on conclusions and
recommendations) should also be presented to relevant ministerial authorities (within
MME, MMA, Planning and Finance).
8) Detailed formulation of the Strengthening Program and Priority Action Plan:
The preliminary versions of the Program and the PAP should be adjusted to
recommendations stemming from their discussion, and final versions of the following
documents should be prepared:
(a) Medium-term Strengthening Program, including objectives, premises and general
implementation strategy (in accordance with item 5.b above); and
(b) Priority Action Plan for the first 2-3 years, with detailed terms of reference for all
the proposed projects and activities which are part of it, including institutional
arrangements, coordination mechanisms, budgets, sources of financing,
timetables, results indicators, and monitoring and evaluation mechanisms needed
for proper execution of projects and activities.
9) Approval of Medium-Term Strengthening Program and Priority Action Plan by
relevant ministerial authorities (within MME and MMA).
10) Execution of Program and of Action Plan: The Program will be implemented in
stages, by means of Action Plans agreed for each, according to the general process
88



defined above. Monitoring and evaluation of the implementation process and of the
results of one stage should provide information for the preparation of the next stage.
C. Timetable
The preparation of the Program and the Action Plan is expected to take 6-8 months, and the
priority studies which are part of the latter are expected to take 24-36 months, depending on
the scope of some items (for instance, river basin inventories).
D. Modality of Execution
Activities would be carried out with the assistance of consultants, under the guidance of the
Executive Committee and with the support of the Technical Working Groups mentioned in
item C.L.a and b of these terms of reference. Contracting of services would follow World
Bank procurement guidelines and the implementation arrangements specified in the Legal
Agreement for the ESTAL.
89



90



ANNEX 5: OPERATIONS PORTFOLIO (IBRD/IDA AND GRANTS)
as of May 14, 2002
CA0 Ana,t 99 - Brozlt
Oporatioss Portfolio (IBRDIIDA and Grats)
A. Of Onts, 09114J2002
Closed Protect           217
IQRO/CA'
Tatal Disburmed (Active)            2,748.47
of which, bas been repaid      416.28
Total Diob,pned (Cleeed)            21,909.55
of vdhicht baa been repaid     19,089.62
Total Disbarsed (Active . Closed)   24,749.02
nfnwhicht bos bean repaid      19,500.90
Tetal Undlbutood (RAtIo)            2,946.26
Total Undleb,arod (Closed)          11.19
Total Undlosbared (Actie. DAneM     2.657748
Active Pfokyft                                                                                                                                                     Olferec Betweean
LOI.Est P                                                                Eapwcted and Atuaea
Spamerslono Rating                   Orfelrml Amouent In U&I Millions .br                t
Preoat io                           ProJec Nam                                     Deneloserent  haslenventation  Facet Yer   IBRD   IDA   GRANT    Canelt.   Uedi.b.  CrIg. F.. R-Ad
2wmitlvs~o     Prosen
P006559                            (BF-RIOP.TSP                                   S                   S            I998         4520.0                                 25.0
P543873                            AG TECH 0EV.                                   S                   5            1997         60.                             33.6   352.7      21.0
POO 582                             AS4IA MUN.DIV                                 5                   5            1807        100                              51 .7   51.7       3.5
P037.2                              BJILA WTR RESOURCES                           S                   S            1998         51                              28.9   29.5        9.4
P006584                             BELO H M.TSP                                  S                                99t5s        99                               18.1  18.1
P037828                            OR (PR)R.POVERTY                              S                    0            1996        175                              94.0   83.3       67.3
P005`129                           BR EMER. FIRE PREVEIITIOld (ER).)              5                   5            199          Is                               8.9     6.9       8.9
P047309                            BR ENERGY EFFICIENCY (GEF)                     S                   S           2000                         15                11.9   3.0
P073204                             BR Fiscal & Fin. Mgmt TA.                     S                   0            2001        8.99                              7.9     1.7
P006474                             BR LAND MGT 3 (SAO PAULO)                     Hs                  5            1998         50                              51.8   30.1       22.0
P05791 0                            BR PENSION REFORM UIL                         HS                  S            1998          5                                3.1   3.A       -0.4
P543890                             BR SANTA CATNNA NATURAkL RESOURC & POV.      9                    6            2002        82.9                             82.8
P906541                            OR WTR CIPLN(SPIPR/FED)                        S                   5             993        240                      0.2      4.2    9.3        3.1
P054120                            BR. AJOS &STDCental oII                        S                   S1999                    185                      3.5     40.9    39.4
P043874                             BR. DISEASE SURVEILLANCE -'VAGISUS            S                   S            1999        100                              81.9    81.9
P00783                            BR- Fandesola t2                              S                    S           1999       202.03                             42.9  -27.5
P0586554                            BR- HEALTH SECTOR REFORM - REFORSUS           5                   5            1999        309                              104.t  194.1
P008S,43                           BR. MINAS GERMJS BASIC EDU.                    5                   0            1994        ISO                                3.7    3.7
P038947                             BR- SC. &TECH 3                               5                   0            19986       155                              121.3  121.3
P099589                            BR- BA BASIC EDU PROJECT (PHASE I)            5                    52001                    89.8                             37.0   -15.5
P059988                             BRt- CEARA 'BAESIC EDUCATION                 SS                                2001         90                               88:2   -1.9
P057990                             BR-FAMILY HEALTH EXtENSION PROJECT           If9                               2052         so                               8.0
P0482,57                           BRAZIL CEN.BANK TAL                            5                                1998         20                               '0.0    .0       .7.3
P046052                            C0ARAWATERPILOT(SIM)                           5                   5            1997         9.6                               2.2    2.2       1.7
P086449                            CEARA WTR MGT (PROGERIRH) (SIM)               5                    5            2000        138                              123.4   45.1
P006438                            CamreUrban Oonlop-edl& WatorResource           5                   5            1995        140                               18.8  l18.8      11.1
P038200                            ENERGY EFFICIENCY (ELETROBRAS)                 S                   5            3000        43.4                              42.7   12.9
PO08522                            ESP.SAN4TO WATER                              S                    S            1994        194                     04.0      11.9   65.9       6.2
POO8532                            FED) HWY DECENTR                              S                    U            1997        300                              100.7 I198.7      5o9.3
P038995                            FED.WTR MGT                                    5                   5            1998        199                              124.8  113.9      59.4
P980221                            FORTALEZA METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT PROJECT       5                   9            2002         85                               87.9    5.0
p00821                             GEF BR-NAT). BIODIVERSITY                      S                   S            1998                         19                2.2    4.4       5.1
p095954                            GoiAS STATE HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT                 0                   5            2002         95                               64.4    5.3
P02019                            INSS REF UL                                   S0                               2000         5.00                              1.1    05.       -0.7
P009I4705                          LAND RFM PILOT (SIM)                           0                                19007        99                               213.8  23.
P090772                            LAND-BASED POVERTY ALL.EVIATION I (SIM)       0                    5            2001       202.1                             180.9   20.7
P001701                            MANANHAOR.POVERTY                             S                    0            i99a         s0                               10.4    0.2
P0O8005                            MATO GROSSO MAT RES                           U                    5            1992        205                     195.0     12.1   27.1
P035741                            NATL EW 2                                      S                   HS           2000         IS                               13.1    9.8       6.7
P050776                            NE Microttnanco D"..lenonta                    HO                  0            2000         s0                               40.4   -9.6
P042989                            PARAIaA R.POVERTY                             5                    5            1999         so                               29.9   19.4
P039199                            PROSANEAR2                                    5                    5            2900        30.3                              29.6   -0.7
P038960                            FLR.OVERTY(RGN)                               HO                   5            1997         24                                5.6    5.6
P040028                            RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURG                           S                   S            1808        350                      75.0     1 7.6  82.6      17.8
P038882                            RECIFE M.TSP                                  S                    5            1986        100                               14.0   14.0
P034579                            RGS HWY MGT                                   S                    U            1997         70                               93.6   0.0.      38.9
P94398                             ROS LAND MGT/POVERTY                          5                    5            1997         100                              57.1   40.7      16.2
P043421                            RJ M.TRANSIT PRJ.                             S                    S            1998         199                    17.2     139.1  155.3
P009454                            RONDONIA NTRL RES. M                          U                    5            1992        197                      W0.      10.9   20.8
P050091                            RURAL POVERTY REDUCTION PROJECT.- PI          5                    5            2001        22.0                              21.1    7.4
P097649                            RarW Poverty Redactan P001.0 - B3A             S                   S            2001       54.35                              01.3    7.4
P0S8070                            Rrol Povetty RedacOe Projoc - CE               5                   5            2001        37.0                              32.5    3.4
P050880                            Rurod Poverty Reducta Project - PE            5                    5            2001        30.1                              29.9    1.0
P046699                            SALVADOR URBAN TRANS                           5                   5            1989         110                             1 07.7  74.3
P074085                            SeegIpe Rarol Povl Rdodacia                   6                    6            2002        20.9                              20.9
P05196%                            sAD PAULO METRO UNE 4 PROJECT                  0                   5            2002        200                              200.0    0.0
P0731 92                           TA Flcoecla Soctor                            5                    0            2002       14.46                              14.     0.0
P043420                            WATER S.MOD.2                                 U                    U            1999         ISO                             147.0  140.2      121.9
Onero roveR                                                                                                       Result    5797.47             25     17.8.   2891.4 1723.0      469.9
a. Intended disbursements tC dale minus a4tLsa) disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
91



92



D        lf !  ooOCeoN oooot.  0 00o000 CoCo C.§NCCCooooCoo toCoo 000000000000000000000CCCC-CCOCOCOCCC0
* otI       0 "a_ o2oe00-o-soeeveooo o 0   t.0          N6 d  ci d          -
- o  _  (o .  N f ¢  . X   r  f " -. . . -                      - . . . . . . .
fi  .o    ..o .o oooe .e0o Co  00ooeooo                0 0  ...                  L0  ...-o00.  30 0  .00 .0 . 0 00 0
0 2 3 0 0~~~~~  -  -C  C           c-ca.       c  0  c  0 .-  0 0R0
;~  }  i 1t u raeozoooo0e000_00000 3t.-000000c0~00c0c-0f0r03f0 000000o00000020f0000000C00I0F  000000000°
_  3  14  8^   g8 QQ    §| :Sg3 3^ e X3 XB t 0  30  5~ 0  0: '. -ea  3  3            -
0.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
<                    0  '   8ONC OC OO OO OO O0 00 00 00 00 00 00 000000ga  000000000000_0000__00 g000000000 00a   000000000 0a
n. 
4~~~~~~~6             ;6i4
S                                                                      -    0      0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EV. 
N   -   N-  -    -    -            ~~~~~~~~~~~- - -- -  



94



ANNEX 7: COUNTRY AT A GLANCE
Brazil at a glance                                                               9""01
Ladn    Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            America    middle-
Brazil  & Carib.   Income      Development dlamond-
2000
Population, mid-year (ilDlons)                        170.1       518       847                  LHfe expectancy
GNI per capita (Aflas method, US$S                    3,590      3,680     4.620
GNI (AYas method, US$ billions)                       610.1      1.895     2,986
Average annual growth, 1994-00
Populaton (XJ                                            1.3       1.6       1.3     G                                G
Labor force (S6)                                        1.9        2.3       2.0     GNI                              Gross
per                            primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1994-00)                                capita              /        enrollment
Poverty (% of populaffon below national povty line)      22
Urban population (9 of total population)                 81        75        76
Ufe expectancy at birth (Yeats)                          67        70        69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 five bitths)                 32        30        28
Child malnutriton (% of childrmn under 5)                 6         9          ..          Access to improved water source
Access to an Improved water source (36 ofpopulahon)      87        85         87
Illiteracy (6 ofpopulfiaon age 15+)                      15        12         10
Gross primary enrollment (36 ofschool-age populaDon)    125       113        107
Mate                                                   ..         ..      106               Upperninddle4ncone grup
Female                                                 ..         ..      105
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1950     1909       1999      2000
Erononic ratios
GDP (USS birlons)                            235.0    485.0      529.4     595.5
Gross domestic investment/GDP                 23.3     20.2       204       20.5                     Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP              9.1      &2        10.6      10.9
Gross dornestic savings/GDP                   21.1     21.4       19.3      19.3
Gross natonal savings/GDP                     17.8     18.9       16.1
Current account balance/GDP                   -.5      -0.8       -4.8      -4.1     Domesc 
Interest payments/GDP                          2.7      0.4        2.5       2.5     savings                      Investment
Total debt/GDP                                30.4     25.8       45.6      39.7
Total debt service/exports                    63.4     22.5      112.3      77.9
Present value of debt/GDP                        ..      ..       45.9
Present value of debt/exports                   ..       ,.      403.7
Indebtedness
1980-90  199040      1999       2000   200044
(average annual growth)
GDP                                   2.7      2.9      0.8        4.5       3.6         -     BrezDl
GDP per capita                        0.8      1.5     -0.5        3.2       2.3               Upper-middlea-ncome gnoup
Exportsofgoods and services           7.5      5.5     12.0       11.0      13.0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990       1999      2000      Growth of Investment and GDP (S)
(96 of GDP)
Agriculture                                   11.0       .1        7.2       7.4     1
Industry                                      43.8     38.7       27.5      28.6
Manufacturing                               33.5        ..      23.1      24.0                                        011_
Services                                      45.2     53.2       65.3      64.0      s7
Private consumpton                            69.7     59.3       61.8      62.5    -10
General govemment consumPtion                  9.2     19.3       18.9      18.2               -   GDI         e-GDP
Imports ofgoods and services                  11.3      7.0       11.7      12.1
w1980-S0  199040       1999      2000     Growth of exports and Imports %)
(average arnnual gtowth)
Agriculture                                    2.8      3.2        7.4       3.0     40      4
Industry                                       2.0      2.6       -1.6       5.0
Manufacturing                                 1.6      2.1      -0.7               20
Services                                       3.3      3.0        1.3       3.9
Prvate consumption                             1.2      5.7        6.1       9.9     s    6       90 S7       go oo
General govemment consumpton                   7.3     -1.7       -9.3      -5.4    -20 -
Gross domestic investment                      3.3      3.4       -3.0       50              -   E   ports     :Imports
Imports of goods and services                  0.5     11.9      -14.8      13.8
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators In the country ain bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
95



E                               -        - ----fi NACFis  90 $999  2000
ppjCES and GOVfRNl4MT              S9   6990 1980
gPo0esVc pricff                    8    2.947-7  84.     8.5    OC
873% 2-509'5                             =
IMP,Idl Gop delItOV.g                                    20.0          -GP~
Govemmp nDncludeS5 fnt gfntS)                     0.4    .3.2
(* of GDP, '                         .            ..8    3.
Curent revenue
Crn   iabudget bals11O8
Ove0B SUTusld rs                                 igoo   2
-rP,ADe  3O1414                                  7,240  3,8   75000
(US$ miio:  d oid(U2,65$ 2)746                      is
( rtJ s (job)                       2.891  35312  4    19   2
-Totlta IO                              j98024  4927i2  557 
71 2061379  1 .8.5 5ge
dandfand i,37                               4.258  83,32                           go s
-Total iMPOrts (cm)                      4,5     3,570  i3,53           9
Food                          5~~~~~~~~~~~,g32  97r3                     170t
uel andeb nerg                           81      11i
Capital goo"                                            11RD
65 74      8       82
Exotp~windex (1995"00           853           80
Cit Od peidOx (1995 543)         13   O18
9ALANC;E of PAYVOETS                0    1       j       00    c      A ot 5a205  to 
(US$  C goods and        21 857  34,85  532051  75.7410
(LJSS nlions) r.4cOs27.788      28,708  -823   .8,27i
soo ds and Ber ac5931             71407  .8W238  4
NePI  t goods and                     68MO  j4
imports of  of                    7,4   423    .18,84   A.52A
Resource                   42    834     a97  .24,642
r4,t Income                              372    25,3~   2.3
t currt  .semet2,933                    -3,7     34    33,85
aurvOnt 'acto                8.990  .5,043  i      g,763 79
FInBldngiwn ne3,943                      8,825  j~e
Changes In nelrGserves      q,j75  35,725  33,0`11
In net              ~~~~~~5,853  guS  1,8
memo;  InUI  odrs   iu )1 .92E-11      2.48E-5
Rbvrso rate (DEC, 1000LUU4                       199     2000  ~   psln.120dbtU$nU)
EMRLDeBT arnd RESOURCE FLOWS  198    eggo    j       20999r                    8
7150jig8lT  241,480 238.0                T?   18
7J,520    8,822  ~7,377         28488
,US$ n,dolOlos)  and disbursed  2,035   847    8, 
Trotal dblt Oltstandi09                           52    3.0
IBP(D                           64 88          71      J.351         .
IDA                      27~~~~~~~~~~~5 i097  1 0 0
TOWa debt oeMAcO                           0
ipsWIA  f l    Meou flOWSd         14     41     66o
r  -qou                  ~~~~~~~825  4273  A182  .32,875
Offildl Ogma                    3,745   989   32.859                 109275
OffIcIal crdtr                  1.911           ,6
privaeaeitoOSGor                 0      0    18
p  edlt QuitY                  820     s      53     .9
World Basik PrcrO9                  33 00152             BO
Deveop-eat pyentsi
96



LL6t,Pl  v  ! -,-     r S    ~    fIftlz                                                ENERGY SECTOR
r--tZ   2 > 8 '1!3U' A~~~w~ 4  ~~ i2-7 1 ,  ATLANTIC. OCEAN               REFORM LOAN
\            ,  r  r  1> / t4-l ,- ~~I =..S                                                   P oectVed Cu overage pof Rural Electrification
<| L                                              1                                                ............|'cLl-bfre unoCampo Prcar
,l1~~~4-                                                    ,       fc0.8.
f              ,          19.6        \  |   [  (;   | 1     |65.3|' 1 65 |   (3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i6  STATE CAPITALS
8                               g  \  t-  s < - - |-; ,2 Fe;f;uo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7   STATE BOUNDARIES
rj bF" r~~~~~ j '-1t; - - - / * < . :,t ;. 1-.: > ,_1^.-:' la~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'d
2 ._8 _ r    ;   1.-  * _1                      --'1'l            --        '|°'
PEFU~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NENTOA BOUNDARIES> '11   \egi
.,o f"                                      -  -   2         %-Su       ro
.jX   ~BOLIVIA          ,    ,   K               6H       \r|H?7W?I l(l0;
\      !        t  ~~~~~~~~'3A rr:/ J\. .13                 aeNl                      BRAZIL
#'A,_IFIL                  s        .{  -97    L          I,1,.'PARAUAYrU O  OL -\N  ~~,:    , 
CHL                    .     {;>  | loo6 -               43 lD,                  , ,-   w  A 
- b' .N. 4 . t<1   .   ~A.RGENTiNA     f .--llt ,,1_ 0                                                          .
\ --          , 0 ~~~~~~~UPLUGLJAY;,,-                                                               LP. ,-,, 



