Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 7120 - BR
Loan Agreement
(Energy Sector Reform Loan)
between
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated July 23, 2002
LOAN NUMBER 7120 - BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 23, 2002, between the FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF 
BRAZIL (the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter, dated May 6, 2002, from the Borrower: 
Page  2
(i) describing a program of actions, objectives and policies to restore the normal functioning of 
the Borrower’s power sector 
and to improve the efficiency of the Borrower's energy sector 
as a whole
 (the Program); (ii) declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the objectives of the 
Program; and (iii) requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during the 
execution thereof;
(B)
the measures and actions described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement have been 
carried out and taken in a manner satisfactory to the Bank;
(C)
the Borrower has maintained a macroeconomic policy framework satisfactory to 
the Bank; and
(D)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has decided in support of the 
Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the loan provided for in Article II 
of this Agreement (the Loan) as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements 
for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank, dated September 1, 1999, with the modifications set forth 
below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 41, is modified to read:
“‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the Loan 
Agreement, in support of which the Loan is made.”
(b)
Section 3.08 is modified to read:
“Each withdrawal of an amount of the Loan from the Loan Account shall be 
made in the Loan Currency of such amount.  If the Loan Currency is not the 
currency of the deposit account specified in Section 2.02 (b) of the Loan 
Agreement, the Bank, at the request and acting as an agent of the Borrower, shall 
purchase with the Loan Currency withdrawn from the Loan Account the 
currency of such deposit account as shall be required to deposit the withdrawn 
amount into such deposit account.”
Page  3
(c)
Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan from the 
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement and of 
these General Conditions.”
(d)
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted.
(e)
Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of the program referred to in the 
Preamble to the Loan Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the 
Bank of their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.”
(f)
Section 9.05 is deleted and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as modified above), 9.08 and 
9.09 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08.
Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth, and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“ANEEL” means 
Agência Nacional de Energia Elétrica
,
the Borrower’s 
electricity regulatory agency;
(b)
“Central Bank” means 
Banco Central do Brasil
, the Borrower's central bank;
(c)
“GCE” means 
Câmara de Gestão da Crise da Energia Elétrica
,
the Borrower’s 
commission, established pursuant to the Borrower’s 
Medida Provisória
 No. 2198-5, of August 
24, 2001, with responsibility and powers to manage the process of solving the energy crisis in 
Brazil;
(d)
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement;
(e)
“NEWAVE Model” means the computer program used by the ONS to determine 
the merit order for the dispatch process of generating plants, pursuant to ANEEL’s Resolutions 
Nos. 290/00, 334/00 and 202/01; and
(f)
“ONS” means the independent power system operator, created by the Borrower’s 
Law No. 9648/98, responsible for administering the dispatch of power from generation plants 
Page  4
with a capacity larger than 50 MW connected to the national grid, and coordinating the operation 
of the power interconnected system, comprising all power transmission lines with capacity larger 
than 230 kV.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set 
forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to four hundred fifty-four million five 
hundred fifty thousand Dollars ($454,550,000), as such amount may be converted from time to 
time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this 
Agreement.
Section 2.02.  (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the amount of four hundred fifty million four thousand 
five hundred Dollars ($450,004,500) from the Loan Account in support of the Program.
(b)
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank the first request for 
withdrawal from the Loan Account, and thereafter maintain in the Central Bank a deposit 
account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.  All withdrawals of the 
amount referred to in paragraph (a) above shall be deposited by the Bank into the Deposit 
Account.
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used to 
finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  If the 
Bank shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been used to 
make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from 
the Bank:  (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment, 
or (ii) if the Bank shall so request, refund such amount to the Bank.  Amounts refunded to the 
Bank upon such request shall be credited to the Loan Account for cancellation.
Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount equal to 
one per cent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount 
of said fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the principal 
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (a) eighty five 
one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which such charge 
commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of the General 
Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (b) seventy five 
Page  5
one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
Section 2.06.  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period, at the Variable 
Rate; provided that, upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on such amount in accordance 
with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Section 2.07.  Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears on June 
1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.08.  The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in full on June 
1, 2012.
Section 2.09.
(a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i)
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the 
Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency;
(ii)
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal 
amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a Fixed 
Rate, or vice versa; and 
(iii)
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion 
of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of 
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on 
said Variable Rate.
(b)
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) of the 
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the 
General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any proposed action 
to be taken after the disbursement of the Loan which would have the effect of materially 
reversing the objectives of the Program, or any measure or action specified in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.02.  Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall:
Page  6
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(b)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than four (4) 
months after the date of the Bank’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(c)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Deposit Account and 
the audit thereof as the Bank shall have reasonably requested.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Bank
Section 4.01.
Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified:
(a)
The Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework has become inconsistent with 
the objectives of the Program.
(b)
An action has been taken or a policy has been adopted to reverse any action or 
policy under the Program in a manner that would, in the opinion of the Bank, adversely affect the 
achievement of the objectives of the Program.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01.  The following is specified as an additional matter, within the meaning of 
Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be 
furnished to the Bank, namely, that this Agreement has been validly registered with the Central 
Bank.
Section 5.02.  The date September 23, 2002, is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Page  7
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01.  The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of 
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02.  The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministério da Fazenda
Procuradoria Geral da Fazenda Nacional
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco “P” - 8° andar
70048-900 Brasília, D.F.
Brazil
Facsimile: (011-55-61) 412-1740
With copy to:
Ministério do Planejamento, Orçamento e Gestão
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco "K" - 5 andar
70040-906 Brasília, D.F.
Brazil
Facsimile: (011-55-61) 225-4022
For the Bank:
International Bank for
 Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
  64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the city of 
Brasília, Brazil, as of the day and year first above written.
Page  8
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
By /s/ Sônia de Almendra Freitas Portella Nunes
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Vinod Thomas
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin American and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan shall not be 
used to finance any of the following expenditures:
1.
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower;
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the Association shall have financed or agreed 
to finance under another loan or a credit;
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the United Nations in 
Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or 
subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the 
Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112                          
-
Alcoholic beverages
Page  9
121                          
-
Tobacco, unmanu-
factured, tobacco
refuse
122                          
-
Tobacco, manufactured 
(whether or not
containing tobacco
substitutes)
525                          
-
Radioactive and 
associated materials
667
-
Pearls, precious and
semiprecious
stones, unworked
or worked
718                         
718.7
Nuclear reactors, and 
parts thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges),
non-irradiated, for
nuclear reactors
728                       
728.43
Tobacco processing
machinery
897                         
897.3
Jewelry of gold, 
silver or platinum
group metals (except
watches and watch
cases) and
goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’
wares (including 
set gems)
971                         
-
Gold, non-monetary
(excluding gold
ores and concentrates)
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption;
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph the 
term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, use or import of which 
is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which the Borrower 
is a party);
6.
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank or 
for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories, or (b) on account of any 
Page  10
payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or import is prohibited by 
a
decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and
7.
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Bank determines that corrupt or 
fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the 
Loan during the procurement or execution of such contract, without the Borrower having taken 
timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the situation.
SCHEDULE 2
Measures and Actions Referred to in
Whereas Clause (B) 
1.
The Borrower’s program for electricity rationing was successfully implemented with 
minimum social and economic impacts, and included, inter alia, the following features: (a) 
industrial consumers were given the flexibility to trade electricity consumption quotas on the São 
Paulo stock exchange; and (b) small (primarily low-income) domestic consumers were not 
required to reduce essential electricity consumption and were given financial incentives to 
conserve energy.
2.
The Borrower has contracted for 2 giga watts (GW) of short-term emergency electricity 
generating capacity to be made available to the country, starting in 2002, as a safeguard against 
continued shortages of hydroelectric energy.
3.
(a)
The financial disputes between electricity generation and distribution companies, 
in an aggregate amount of about US$2.6 billion equivalent, which were caused by the energy 
crisis in Brazil, have been settled.
(b)
The financial disputes between electricity distribution companies and ANEEL, 
in an aggregate amount of US$2 billion equivalent, regarding reduction of revenues of such 
companies as a result of the energy crisis in Brazil, have been settled.
4.
The Borrower has undertaken the following measures relating to the electricity 
wholesale market, established pursuant to the Borrower’s Decree No. 2655/98:
(a)
Transactions that took place in such market since its inception in September 
2000 until June 2001 have been registered.
(b)
A new governance structure for such market, which strengthened its 
decision-making process, increased its regulatory oversight, and created arbitration mechanisms 
for solving disputes between participants in such market, has been implemented pursuant to 
Borrower’s Law No. 10433, of April 24, 2002.
(c)
GCE has decided, on January 9, 2002, to develop proposals to establish 
mechanisms for de-linking the determination of electricity spot prices from the NEWAVE Model 
Page  11
in the medium term, and has created working groups to implement such proposals.
5.
Tracking accounts have been established, pursuant to the Borrower’s 
Medida Provisória
 
No. 2198-5, of August 24, 2001, and 
Portaria Interministerial
 No. 296/01, of the Borrower’s 
Ministers of Finance and of Mines and Energy
 
to ensure timely pass-through to the electricity 
distribution tariffs of costs incurred by electricity distribution companies, which costs are beyond 
the control of such companies.
6.
(a)
The 
Valor Normativo
 for new gas-fired power generation plants has been 
increased by 20 percent in real terms, pursuant to ANEEL’s Resolution No. 256/01. 
(b)
Regulations have been issued, pursuant to ANEEL’s Resolutions Nos. 022/01 
and 256/01, to cause the 
Valor Normativo
 system to reflect more accurately the cost of electricity 
purchased from power generation companies and to increase the transparency of adjusting the 
Valor Normativo
.
(c)
GCE has decided, on January 9, 2002, to formulate proposals for medium-term 
alternatives to the 
Valor Normativo,
 based on market mechanisms, and has created a working 
group to implement such proposals.
For purposes of this paragraph 6, “
Valor Normativo
”
means the price cap established for 
each of the major fuels used by power generation companies to produce electricity, the cost of 
which may be passed-through by the power distribution companies to form part of the electricity 
distribution tariffs.
7.
Law No. 10438, of April 26, 2002, has established that the tariff structure for electricity 
distribution services must reflect more accurately the cost differentials between servicing 
residential and industrial customers.
8.
GCE has decided, on January 9, 2002, to establish a methodology for review of the 
electricity distribution tariffs, including the determination of the X factor, the benchmarking of 
performance of electricity distribution companies, estimation of their weighted average cost of 
capital, and the valuation of their regulatory asset base. 
For purposes of this paragraph 8, “X factor” means the productivity growth factor that is 
incorporated into the price control formula for electricity distribution tariffs in ANEEL’s 
electricity distribution concession contracts; and “weighted average cost of capital” is the 
weighted average of the cost of debt and of equity of electricity distribution companies that is 
used to determine the allowed rate of return on those companies’ regulatory asset base.
9.
(a)
A diagnosis of the existing framework for the management of environmental and 
social issues has been carried out, including a review of environmental licensing requirements, 
procedures and mandates.
(b)
The Borrower’s Ministry of Mines and Energy and Ministry of Environment 
Page  12
have: (i) entered into a framework agreement (
Termo de Cooperação Técnica
), dated March 7, 
2002, regarding the collaboration and coordination between those two Ministries on 
environmental and selected social issues in the energy sector; and (ii) agreed on the terms of 
reference for a program to strengthen planning and management of environmental and selected 
social issues in the power sector.
10.
GCE has decided, on January 9, 2002, to create incentives for the provision of reliable 
electricity supply, using one or more of the following mechanisms: (a) higher contracting 
obligations on the part of power distribution companies; (b) fines on such companies for failure 
to supply electricity to customers; (c) revision of the firm electricity parameters governing the 
contracting of hydroelectric power; (d) introduction of power capacity payments for plants that 
make themselves available for dispatch; and (e) demand-side bidding.
For purposes of this paragraph 10, “demand-side bidding” means the practice of allowing 
large consumers of electricity to voluntarily offer to curtail demand for electricity in the 
electricity wholesale market in return for a specific level of compensation.
11.
(a)
GCE has decided, on January 9, 2002, to modify the governance structure of the 
ONS so as to replace the current system based on stakeholder representation with an alternative 
system in which decisions are made by a small number of independent technical experts who do 
not represent any of the commercial interests of the power sector.
(b)
The NEWAVE Model has been revised to better reflect the opportunity cost of 
water, pursuant to GCE’s Resolution No. 109, of January 24, 2002. 
12.
The Borrower has undertaken the following measures relating to the gas supply market:
(a)
Petróleo Brasileiro S.A. – PETROBRAS, the Borrower’s petroleum company, 
has negotiated at least one flexible gas supply contract with at least one power generation 
company offering a wider menu of options for gas supply, including linear pricing schemes and 
two-part tariff schemes incorporating capacity and energy charges.
(b)
The first round of auctions for new gas pipeline capacity on existing 
rights-of-way has been announced by 
Agência Nacional do Petróleo
 (the Borrower’s petroleum 
regulatory agency)
on October 1, 2001.
13.
(a)
The Borrower’s 
Conselho Nacional de Desestatização
 (the Borrower’s council 
for privatization)
 
has decided, pursuant to Resolution No. 35/01, to create separate legal entities 
to be respectively responsible for the electricity generation and transmission activities presently 
under the responsibility of:(i) Companhia Hidro Elétrica do São Francisco – CHESF; (ii) 
FURNAS – Centrais Elétricas S.A.; and (iii) Centrais Elétricas do Norte do Brasil S.A. – 
ELETRONORTE.
(b)
GCE has decided, on January 9, 2002, to: (i) revise the existing regulations 
regarding limitations by any company which generates and distributes electricity on the use of 
Page  13
the electricity it generates for purposes of its electricity distribution activities, in order to ensure 
a
competitive wholesale electricity market; and (ii) to create a working group to carry out such 
revision.
14.
The Borrower’s Law No. 10438, of April 26, 2002, has established targeted eligibility 
rules for the electricity tariff discounts applicable to the low-income population in urban areas in 
Brazil.
15.
(a)
Rural consumer connection targets have been made mandatory for electricity 
distribution companies, pursuant to the Borrower’s Law No. 10438, of April 26, 2002.
(b)
Substantial progress has been achieved in the development by the Borrower’s 
Ministry of Mines and Energy of a new national rural electrification strategy to establish 
appropriate financial, technological and institutional models for meeting rural consumer 
connection targets in an efficient, equitable and sustainable manner.
16.
Regulations to Law No. 10295/01, regarding energy efficiency, have been issued, 
pursuant to the Borrower’s Decree No. 4059, of December 19, 2001, providing, inter alia, for 
energy efficiency standards for certain equipment, such as motors, lamps, refrigerators, freezers, 
air conditioners, and water heaters.
17.
The Borrower’s Law No. 10438, of April 26, 2002, has established a program to create 
incentives for the development of renewable sources for electricity generation, with a primary 
focus on small hydro, wind and biomass (mostly sugar cane bagasse) sources.
18.
The Borrower’s Law No. 10438, of April 26, 2002, has determined that sales of 
electricity by power generation companies controlled by the Borrower be carried out under 
public auctions.
19.
GCE has determined, on January 9, 2002, the restructuring of the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Mines and Energy in order to strengthen such Ministry’s capacity to perform key policy-making 
and environmental planning activities in the energy sector.
20.
GCE has decided, on June 9, 2002, that the power transmission tariffs must be revised to 
reflect more accurately the costs of electricity transmission from different geographic locations.
