                   INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET
                         RESTRUCTURING STAGE

I. Basic Information
Date prepared/updated: 10/18/2011                                 Report No.: AC6482
1. Basic Project Data
Country: Africa                               Project ID: P116595
Project Name: Eastern Nile First Joint Multipurpose Program Identification (JMP1 ID)
Task Team Leader: Nihal Fernando
Estimated Appraisal Date: June 25, 2009       Estimated Board Date: July 1, 2009
Managing Unit: AFTWR                          Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance
                                              Loan
Sector: General water, sanitation and flood protection sector (40%);Irrigation and
drainage (30%);Power (30%)
Theme: Water resource management (67%);Regional integration (33%)
SPF Amount (US$m):                 0.00
GEF Amount (US$m.):                0.00
PCF Amount (US$m.):                0.00
Other financing amounts by source:
         Borrower                                                         0.60
         Nile Basin Initiative Trust Fund                                 7.00
                                                                          7.60
Environmental Category: B - Partial Assessment
Repeater []
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery)
                                                                    Yes [ ]      No [X]
or OP 8.00 (Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies)

2. Project Objectives
As originally planned, the JMP1 ID studies were to identify the first possible large
multipurpose dam and related watershed interventions on the Abbay/Blue Nile. Because
the Government of Ethiopia is proceeding with some major multipurpose infrastructure
development on the Blue Nile (for example the Renaissance Dam), the restructured
project does not identify a JMP Anchor project. Thus, the revised objective of this
Recipient-Executed Technical Assistance project is to assist the three Eastern Nile
countries in examining joint water resources development possibilities on the Abbay/Blue
and Main-stem Nile, taking economic, social and environmental sustainability issues into
account in an integrated manner.[footnote 1]

 The revised key performance indicators for the JMP 1 ID phase are: (i) the Strategic
Social and Environmental Assessment (SSEA) provides a sound basis for taking into
account social and environmental considerations in projects within the potential JMP
program; (ii) Eastern Nile governments have an improved knowledge base to sustainably
develop and manage the resources of the Blue and Main-stem Nile; and (iii) a roadmap
for a coordinated set of investments is identified at the end of the project.
  The planned main outputs of this technical assistance will include the following: (i) a
participatory SSEA, mainly of water resources development alternatives in the Blue-
Main Nile; (ii) Study of the potential investments on the Eastern Nile, taking into account
engineering, economic, social and environment considerations, including reservoir filling
and operating rule studies to optimize system benefits and best manage related risks; (iii)
identification of potential nationally-implemented JMP1 Non-Anchor Projects, including
irrigation modernization & development and watershed management centered on
agricultural productivity and livelihoods improvement and watershed sustainability as
well as floodplain management; (iv) a roadmap for advancing investment and addressing
critical issues for sustainable water resources development and management in the
Abbay/Blue and Mainstem Nile; and (v) opportunities for capacity building for ENTRO
and related agencies in the three countries for work related to their mandates.

 ENTRO has consulted with the three Eastern Nile countries on the proposed project
Restructuring.

 [Footnote 1: We would wish to clarify that, as usual with World Bank financing of
technical assistance, the inclusion and examination of ongoing and planned infrastructure
as part of the underlying premises for the JMP1 ID studies should in no way be construed
as an endorsement of any particular infrastructure projects by the World Bank, nor by any
of the parties involved with the JMP1 ID project, other than where such projects have
been specifically considered and expressly endorsed by the World Bank or any such
parties, such as through an actual project financing.]

3. Project Description
Project Components: The restructured Project will continue to include two components:
(i) JMP1 Identification Studies; and (ii) Capacity-Building and Implementation Support.
It will build on the previous studies and analytical work, and be coordinated closely with
other related studies as described below.

 Component 1 - JMP1 Identification Studies:

 Sub-component 1.1 - Information/Knowledge Base Enhancement: There are identified
gaps in the present knowledge and information base pertaining to the development of the
Eastern Nile Basin. This sub-component aims to bridge the information and knowledge
gaps to the extent needed to allow confident assessments of decisions on development
alternatives, and adequate studies for identifying the first priority set of investments. This
work will build upon the EN "One System Inventory" (OSI), and the Cooperative
Regional Assessments on watershed, irrigation, power, flood and irrigation, and will be
coordinated with modeling and information management activities planned under the
NBTF-funded ongoing Eastern Nile Planning Model (ENPM) and the Nile Basin Water
Resources Planning and Management Project (particularly the Nile Decision Support
System (Nile-DSS) Component), which includes development of databases and analytical
tools for the Eastern Nile and overall Nile basins.
  Sub-component 1.2 - JMP1 Identification Studies: These studies will build on the
related analytical work (as listed in Annex 1 of the Restructuring Paper). They are
intended to: (i) carry out strategic assessment of water resources development alternatives
(in the form of a Strategic Social and Environmental Assessment (SSEA); (ii) study of
the benefits and impacts of a Blue Nile cascade, which includes at least four possible dam
sites (Renaissance, Mandaya, Beko Abo and Karadobi)and the optimal cascade which
could be developed after the Anchor project; and (iii) identify the Non-Anchor Projects,
including high-priority irrigation, watershed and floodplain management interventions in
the Eastern Nile.

 1.2. i The Strategic Social and Environmental Assessment (SSEA), once completed, will
be a participatory assessment of the environmental and social issues associated with
various development options, to allow for informed and transparent decision-making in
identification and selection of investments for water resources development. It is divided
into two phases:

 (i) strategic scoping-level analysis of a spectrum of development alternatives for water
resources development of Blue-Main Nile, which includes, "no JMP" (continued
unilateral development), many small dams on Blue Nile tributaries and one or more
major multipurpose dam(s) on the Blue Nile main-stem, on the basis of the JMP Launch
Phase studies; and

 (ii) the identification/selection of a Cascade Development Option. Accordingly, the
SSEA will be conducted in two distinct and consecutive phases, with opportunities for
consultation with key stakeholders in Egypt, Ethiopia and Sudan. The first phase of the
SSEA is ongoing, and is expected to be disclosed by November 2011. Work on the
second phase of the SSEA would commence after project restructuring.

 In addition to safeguards assessment and impact mitigation measures, the SSEA will be
guided by the regional long-term socio-economic development and poverty reduction
goals, and explore options and mechanisms for benefit-sharing among countries and local
communities in the basin. Independent reviewers would advise ENTRO and the
Consultant throughout the SSEA. The results of the first phase will then serve as an input
to the Cascade Development and Sequencing Study.

 The SSEA is designed to inform, and be complemented by, a series of project-specific
Environmental and Social Impact Assessments (ESAs), detailed resettlement actions
plans, and other safeguards instruments. Any project-specific ESAs as part of investment
project design, would take place outside the scope of this project, and would need to
move beyond impact mitigation and help identify ways of inclusive development of
communities in the project areas, although these assessments are outside the scope of
JMP1 ID.

 1.2.ii. Optimal Cascade Assessment . Instead of identifying the anchor project, the
studies under this component will include study of the benefits and impacts of a Blue
Nile cascade, which includes the Anchor Project and the optimal cascade of possible
dams which could be developed after the Anchor project.

 1.2.iii. Non-Anchor Projects Identification Studies will include an irrigation
development and modernization study, and watershed and floodplain management
studies, building on the Cooperative Regional Assessments (CRAs) for irrigation and
watershed management and the EN Flood Preparedness and Early Warning Project
studies, among others. The irrigation studies are intended to: (a) develop good practice
for designing modern water-efficient irrigation system; (b) identify priority irrigation
schemes in the region for inclusion under JMP1 for national investments; and (c) identify
the areas of recession agriculture to be impacted by the first priority multipurpose project
and the likely costs of mitigation measures. The watershed management study is to
identify: (a) the most critical "hotspot" watersheds, from a larger area requiring watershed
interventions recommended by the CRA, through delineating micro-watersheds within
the broadly identified critical hotspots, for inclusion in the potential Anchor Project; and
(b) the remaining areas requiring watershed interventions, for national government
interventions. The floodplain management study is to identify: (a) areas prone to flooding
and bank erosion downstream of the Anchor Project, for possible inclusion in the
potential Anchor Project or national investments under JMP1; and (b) impact of potential
Anchor Project operation on downstream flooding, for factoring the impact into potential
Anchor Project definition.

 Sub-component 1.3- Special Studies. Five of the six originally envisioned special
studies will not be possible to undertake, given the short time remaining in the project.
The remaining study to be completed under the restructuring phase will examine possible
institutional, financial and benefit sharing aspects of a potential JMP1 package of
investments.

 Component 2 - Capacity Building and Implementation Support
 Sub-component 2.1 -Regional Consultation and Information Sharing: During the JMP
Launch Phase, broad consultations with key stakeholders took place at different levels. In
the JMP1 Identification Phase, the geographic/spatial focus will be more specific. The
Project will identify, in more refined and concrete ways, key stakeholders; develop
consultation strategies, information sharing mechanisms and instruments; and will
incorporate consultative activities and information-sharing into the implementation
program. The main output for this sub-component is a Stakeholder Involvement and
Communication Strategy with clear objectives, target audiences, timelines, organizational
arrangements and activities that have been satisfactorily implemented.

 Sub-component 2.2 - Project Management and Capacity-Building: This sub-
component seeks to strengthen the capacity of ENTRO and related agencies from the
three countries involved in the project. To successfully complete JMP 1 Identification
and to prepare for subsequent investments, ENTRO needs to strengthen its technical and
management capacity, and requires a dedicated multi-disciplinary project team including
a regional project coordinator and technical, economics, social, environmental,
communication, procurement, financial management and financing specialists. ENTRO
and country teams will be directly involved in the project implementation, management
of environment and social safeguards, and on the job training. Additional training will be
organized for ENTRO and three countries on different aspects of project planning and
preparation including social and environmental assessment and management.

 Sub-component 2.3 -"Development of a Roadmap for the Preparation of the JMP1" will
become "Development of a Roadmap for the Future Activities," rather than focusing
solely on project preparation. The roadmap will outline a plan for future studies that will
need to be undertaken after the JMP1 ID, to fill in data and information gaps understand
the benefits and impacts of large infrastructure development on the Abbay/Blue Nile, for
the preparation of ancillary investments, as well as for other activities to facilitate joint
development on the Abbay/Blue and main-stem Nile.

4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard
analysis
The project is located in the Eastern Nile Basin, and includes the countries of Ethiopia,
Egypt and Sudan. The region includes areas of tremendous poverty and
underdevelopment, while there is potential for cooperative development of shared water
resources. Uncoordinated unilateral development has led to loss of development
opportunities and enormous damages, and put the basin's natural resources and
populations at risk.

5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists
   Mr Yves Andre Prevost (AFTEN)
   Ms Maria Concepcion J. Cruz (AFTCS)
   Ms Paula F. Lytle (AFTCS)

6. Safeguard Policies Triggered                               Yes         No
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01)                          X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                              X
Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                       X
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                  X
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11)                                   X
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10)                                            X
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                      X
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                X
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP 7.50)               X
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60)                                    X

II. Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project.
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts:
There are no changes to Project Safeguards under the restructured project. No new
safeguards policies are triggered, and the mitigation measures originally planned (public
disclosure of the SSEA itself) remains the most appropriate way to manage stakeholder
and political risks. The project contains upstream studies, and does not include feasibility
studies, design, or other project preparatory works, nor does it contain any works, so the
project remains a category B. This recipient-executed technical assistance is not expected
to have any adverse environmental or social impacts. Environmental considerations will
be an integrated part of the identification studies, therefore OP 4.01 is triggered. The
technical assistance will help build the capacity of ENTRO and related agencies in the
three countries to better manage environmental and social issues in water resources
planning and development.

 A "Strategy for Addressing Environmental and Social Safeguards" was developed under
the NBI Institutional Strengthening Project, and first disclosed as its safeguards
instrument on April 11, 2008 in the Eastern Nile in the Nile Basin Initiative Libraries,
and in the InfoShop on April 23, 2008. This document is applicable to all technical
assistance projects that fall under NBI, such as JMP 1 ID, so the Strategy was disclosed
again as the primary safeguards instrument for JMP 1 ID in the three participating
countries through the ENTRO website on June 23, 2009 and in the InfoShop on June 10,
2009 Additionally, the NBI Institutional Strengthening Project is supporting the
development of a Nile safeguards framework that will set the ground rules for investment
operations in the Nile Basin, which will enhance the "Strategy for Addressing
Environmental and Social Safeguards." A draft framework is expected in mid-2012.

 While OP 7.50 is triggered by JMP1 ID, the project is exempt from OP 7.50 notification
requirements under paragraph 7.b, as the work is upstream in nature and does not include
engineering studies. However, given the importance and visibility of the JMP, and in
alignment with NBI information sharing policies, ENTRO will be strongly encouraged to
distribute project information describing the JMP1 Identification technical assistance
project and associated studies.

 OP 4.37 is not triggered because the JMP1 ID is a technical assistance operation of a
very upstream nature and, directly it does not support any dam, nor does it include the
design of any dam. However, the JMP1 ID is part of a process that may identify a future
multipurpose dam investment on the Blue Nile. As such, in the spirit of OP 4.37, JMP1
ID includes financing for an independent panel of international experts to review the
quality of key outputs of the JMP1 ID Study. The panel has been involved in the review
of early SSEA Phase I work and is expected to review future outputs emerging from the
restructured project.

2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area:
A key safeguards measure for the JMP1 ID will be completion of the first stage of the
Strategic Social & Environmental Assessment (SSEA), and to execute the second stage
of the SSEA. The SSEA will provide a preliminary view, in an integrated manner, of the
linkages and cumulative impacts of potential scenarios on physical, biological, socio-
economic and cultural issues. Key environmental and social safeguard issues, such as
natural habitats, pest management, physical cultural resources, involuntary resettlement,
and dam safety are broadly addressed as part of the SSEA preparation process. Multi-
level consultations and disclosure, including potential project affected communities, will
be supported through implementation of a Stakeholder Involvement and Communication
Implementation Plan (SICAS-IP).

 The ToRs for the SSEA were disclosed on June 23, 2009 on ENTRO's website and on
the Infoshop website on June 10, 2009. In addition, ENTRO will publicly disclose
executive summaries of final key technical reports and the SSEA reports in English.
Summaries of key technical reports and of SSEA reports will be translated into local
languages (i.e. Arabic and Amharic) before disclosure. In the disclosure of the SSEA
documents, ENTRO has agreed to add text stating that the SSEA is an upstream strategic
study, and is not intended to replace or satisfy the need for site specific environmental or
social studies, including but not limited to Environmental and Social Impact
Assessments, Resettlement Action Plans, or cumulative impact analyses.

  In addition to safeguards assessment and impact mitigation measures, the SSEA will
also outline mechanisms and options for benefit-sharing among countries and local
communities in the basin. The SSEA is meant to provide a preliminary overview of
issues, and is designed to inform, and not to replace project-specific Environmental and
Social Impact Assessments (ESAs), detailed resettlement actions plans, and other
safeguards instruments, although these assessments are outside the scope of JMP1 ID.

3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize
adverse impacts.
The SSEA would also include in connection with the Cascade Development Study an
examination of the environmental and social impacts of alternative power and energy
development to a JMP investment, such as thermal and renewable options, taking into
account the results of the Eastern Nile Power Trade Study.

4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described.
JMP1 ID is to be managed by the Eastern Nile Technical Regional Office (ENTRO),
which has in place the basic capacity for management of such projects, including
environmental and social safeguards. Although there are no main concerns regarding
management of environmental and social safeguards in the proposed technical assistance,
as it does not involve any physical interventions, the current capacity of ENTRO will be
augmented with the proposed international consultant support that is considered
adequate for managing the environmental and social aspects of the JMP1 ID.

 Furthermore, the SSEA will assess the institutional capacities in the three EN countries
with regard to implementation of environmental and social safeguards. The assessment
and analysis will draw on previous similar assessments carried out by other NBI projects,
and will focus on assessing capacity both for policy formation and for implementation.
The analysis of capacities covered in the SSEA will specifically recommend detailed
capacity building activities focusing on identified gaps for each EN institution. The
SSEA will also assess the current policies and laws on environment and social safeguards
and comment on any inadequacies therein.

5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
ENTRO has developed a "Stakeholder Involvement and Communication
Strategy"(SICAS-IP) for JMP1 identification, building on the successful experiences and
lessons learnt from the JMP Launch Phase. This strategy has been converted to a
Stakeholder Involvement and Communication Implementation Plan (SICAS-IP) to ensure
effective participation of key stakeholders and information-sharing with the stakeholders
concerned and general public. The Implementation Plan specifies the timing, channels,
methods and multi-layer stakeholders for different consultative, information-sharing and
disclosure activities.



B. Disclosure Requirements Date
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other:
  Was the document disclosed prior to appraisal?                   N/A
  Date of receipt by the Bank                                 04/11/2008
  Date of "in-country" disclosure                             04/11/2008
  Date of submission to InfoShop                              04/23/2008
  For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive
  Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework/Policy Process:
  Was the document disclosed prior to appraisal?
  Date of receipt by the Bank
  Date of "in-country" disclosure
  Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Plan/Planning Framework:
  Was the document disclosed prior to appraisal?
  Date of receipt by the Bank
  Date of "in-country" disclosure
  Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan:
  Was the document disclosed prior to appraisal?
  Date of receipt by the Bank
  Date of "in-country" disclosure
  Date of submission to InfoShop
* If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources,
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental
Assessment/Audit/or EMP.
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please
explain why:
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting)

OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report?              N/A
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector Manager (SM)          N/A
review and approve the EA report?
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the          N/A
credit/loan?
OP 7.50 - Projects on International Waterways
Have the other riparians been notified of the project?                         Yes
If the project falls under one of the exceptions to the notification           Yes
requirement, has this been cleared with the Legal Department, and the memo
to the RVP prepared and sent?
Has the RVP approved such an exception?                                        Yes
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's       No
Infoshop?
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a       No
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected
groups and local NGOs?
All Safeguard Policies
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard
policies?
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project
cost?
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies?
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal
documents?
  D. Approvals

Signed and submitted by:                             Name           Date
Task Team Leader:                   Mr Nihal Fernando             07/21/2011
Environmental Specialist:           Mr Yves Andre Prevost         08/26/2011
Social Development Specialist       Ms Maria Concepcion J. Cruz   08/26/2011
Additional Environmental and/or
Social Development Specialist(s):

Approved by:
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:    Ms Alexandra C. Bezeredi      09/06/2011
  Comments:
Sector Manager:                     Mr Jonathan S. Kamkwalala     09/08/2011
  Comments:
