                         Document of
                       The World Bank


                                               Report No: 65055 v1




                   RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                            ON A

              PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING
                            OF

                 NILE BASIN TRUST FUND GRANT
EASTERN NILE FIRST JOINT MULTIPURPOSE PROGRAM IDENTIFICATION
                        (JMP1 ID) PROJECT


                           TO THE

       EASTERN NILE TECHNICAL REGIONAL OFFICE (ENTRO)


                      September 30, 2011
                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
EN        Eastern Nile
ENSAP     Eastern Nile Subsidiary Action Program
ENTRO     Eastern Nile Technical Regional Office
ENSAPT    Eastern Nile Subsidiary Action Program Team
ENCOM     Eastern Nile Council of Ministers
ENPM      Eastern Nile Planning Model
FPEW      Flood Preparedness and Early Warning
JMP       Joint Multipurpose Program
JMP1 ID   First Joint Multipurpose Program Identification
MOIWR     Ministry of Irrigation and Water Resources (Sudan)
MOPE      Ministry of Power and Energy (Ethiopia)
MWRI      Ministry of Water Resources and Irrigation (Egypt)
NBI       Nile Basin Initiative
NBTF      Nile Basin Trust Fund
NRGs      National Reference Groups
OSI       One System Inventory (for Eastern Nile)
PSC       Project Steering Committee
RTC       Regional Technical Committee
SBA       Strategic Basin Assessment
SICAS     Stakeholder Involvement and Communication Strategy




            Regional Vice President:        Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili (AFR)
                   Country Director:        Yusupha Crookes
           Sector Manager / Director:       Jonathan Kamkwalala/Jamal Saghir
                 Task Team Leaders:         Nihal Fernando/Eileen Burke



                                        2
                              AFRICA
  EASTERN NILE FIRST JOINT MULTIPURPOSE PROGRAM IDENTIFICATION
                             (JMP1 ID)
                              P116595
                            CONTENTS

                                                                                                                     Page
A. SUMMARY ............................................................................................................... 4
B. PROJECT STATUS ................................................................................................. 4
C. PROPOSED CHANGES .......................................................................................... 6
D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY ....................................................................................... 9
ANNEX 1: RESULTS FRAMEWORK AND MONITORING.................................. 13
ANNEX 2: TIMELINE FOR PROJECT EXECUTION ............................................ 16
ANNEX 3: MAP……………………………..…………………………………………………………………17




                                                             3
    EASTERN NILE FIRST JOINT MULTIPURPOSE PROGRAM IDENTIFICATION
                               (JMP1 ID)

                                   RESTRUCTURING PAPER


SUMMARY
The proposed restructuring includes: (i) extension of the grant closing date from
September 30, 2011 to December 31, 2012; (ii) revision to the Project Development
Objectives and the Results Framework to reflect recent changes in Ethiopia's plans for
hydropower development on the Abbay/Blue Nile; (iii) revisions of project component
costs; (iv) adjustments to the grant expenditure categories, and (iv) additional measures to
reduce the risks of project delays and to enhance the quality of project outputs.

The First Joint Multipurpose Program Identification (JMP1 ID) is a recipient executed
technical assistance project currently having the objective, “to assist the three Eastern
Nile (EN) countries1 in identification of the JMP 1 investment package, through a series
of studies and consultative activities that take into account economic, social and
environmental sustainability issues in an integrated manner.? The project was designed
by the EN countries with the Bank’s assistance to ensure a regional perspective and
address riparian concerns, and is implemented under the auspices of the Nile Basin
Initiative (NBI) and guided by the Eastern Nile Council of Ministers (ENCOM). The
project received grant funding of US$7.0 million from the multi-donor Nile Basin Trust
Fund (NBTF) administered by the World Bank. The grant agreement was signed in
September 2009 and is currently due to close on September 30, 2011.

The project has two components: (i) JMP I ID studies; and (ii) Capacity Building and
Implementation Support. The Project is implemented by the Eastern Nile Regional
Technical Organization (ENTRO).


PROJECT STATUS
The JMP1 ID project is significantly behind schedule. The first major expected output of
the JMP1 ID is the “Strategic Social and Environmental Assessment – Phase 1? (SSEA).
The SSEA was duly undertaken by consultants mobilized by ENTRO in 2010 but had to
be rewritten a number of times by the consultant, and this subsequently prevented the
consultant from embarking on the other technical studies envisaged under the Phase 2
outputs of the project. The delay is in part caused by complications with the institutional
and technical complexities of the first phase of work. Additionally, there were significant
Nile-related political developments - which are outside the scope and control of the
1
  The three countries are Egypt, Ethiopia and Sudan. For a map of the project area, please refer to Annex 3.
South Sudan, which was formerly part of Sudan but became an independent country in July 2011, does not
occupy any territory comprising the Abbay/Blue Nile Sub-basin; and so is not being included within the
restructuring of this project.
                                                     4
project. To date, the most recent draft of the SSEA I, received in May of 2011, and
which has been reviewed by both the Bank and ENTRO and its independent panel of
reviewers, is still not viewed as being of a satisfactory quality. Substantive revisions are
needed to bring the SSEA to the level required before it will be ready for public
disclosure.

At the same time, in February 2011, Ethiopia announced the construction of a new dam
on the Blue Nile. The Renaissance Dam project – 145 meters high, with installed
capacity of 5,250 MW and 62 billion cubic meters storage – would be the first major
structure on the Abbay/Blue Nile in Ethiopia. The site of the Renaissance Dam is close
to, if not the same as, the Border Dam site studied at the pre-feasibility level by ENTRO
inthe EN Power Trade Study and which was also being studied under JMP1 ID. Because
the Government of Ethiopia is proceeding with the Renaissance Dam outside of the JMP
process, modifications to the JMP1 ID studies have been required to preserve the
relevance of the JMP1 ID results.

Because of the challenges experienced in the project to date, the Implementation Progress
and the Likelihood of Achieving the Project Development Objective (“PDO?) are both
rated Moderately Unsatisfactory. Given the current performance ratings, the default
operational option is to close the project in September 30, 2011, at the current grant
closing date. Notwithstanding this situation, ENTRO has requested World Bank to
consider a one-year extension of the Grant closing date from September 30, 2011 to
December 31, 2012, to allow sufficient time to carry out the studies with a revised Project
Development Objective and modified scope of the main SSEA study. There are strategic
and developmental merits in providing more time to complete the studies. Therefore, the
World Bank is considering ENTRO’s request for extension of the grant closing date and
project restructuring on an exceptional basis.

In that context, ENTRO has consulted the three EN countries on the proposed
restructuring, through meetings and written communications. ENTRO has informed the
World Bank that it has received no formal objections to the proposed restructuring. If
the JMP project were to continue to the planned second-phase work, the SSEA studies
could analyze an optimal cascade on the Blue Nile, taking into account existing and
ongoing infrastructure, from a regional perspective. In addition to cascade sequencing
studies, the Phase 2 studies would examine upstream and downstream impacts of the
cascade of large dams on the Abbay/Blue Nile, as well as considerations with dam filling
and operating. The studies also could provide further detail on other possible
investments, regional or national, in agriculture, water savings, watershed and flood
management. Finally, the SSEA and certain other aspects of the studies would be
disclosed publicly.

However, it is recognized that corporate and implementation risks of continuing the
JMP1 ID grant remain high. If the JMP1 ID grant is extended until December 31, 2012,
strong management oversight, meticulous attention to meet critical milestones of the
revised implementation plan, and arrangements to ensure quality of the final study reports
and outputs will be indispensable. This is not only because the implementation plan is
extremely time-tight, but also there will be no opportunity to further extend the grant

                                              5
closing date beyond December 31, 2012, as this date is also the closing date for recipient
executed activities for all activities funded by the NBTF.


PROPOSED CHANGES

•   Project’s Development Objectives. As originally planned, the JMP1 ID studies
    were to identify the first major joint investment -- the JMP “Anchor? Project - most
    likely a large multipurpose dam and related watershed interventions - on the
    Abbay/Blue Nile. Because the Government of Ethiopia is proceeding with major
    infrastructure development on the Abbay/Blue Nile (the Renaissance Dam) outside of
    the JMP process, there is no longer a need for a study to identify a possible first
    multipurpose infrastructure project on the Eastern Nile. The original Project
    Development Objective, “to assist the three Eastern Nile countries in identification of
    the JMP 1 investment package, through a series of studies and consultative activities
    that take into account economic, social and environmental sustainability issues in an
    integrated manner,? is no longer relevant. The proposed new Project Development
    Objective is “to assist the three Eastern Nile countries in examining joint water
    resources development possibilities on the Abbay/Blue and Main-stem Nile, taking
    economic, social and environmental sustainability issues into account in an integrated
    manner.? The revised PDO has been developed in consultation with ENTRO.

•   Results/indicators. The proposed changes to the results matrix as agreed with
    ENTRO are included in Annex 1.

•   Components. No major changes to the two project components are proposed.
    Component 1 will remain “JMP1 ID identification Studies.? Component 2 will
    remain “Capacity Building and Implementation Support.? Within the components,
    the scope of some planned activities has been reduced, to align the components with
    the proposed revised PDO and increase the likelihood that the project outputs can be
    completed on time and in a quality manner, including:

             o Subcomponent1.2.ii. Anchor Project Identification Studies. Instead of
               identifying the anchor project, the studies under this component will
               include study of the benefits and impacts of a Blue Nile cascade, which
               includes current and on-going infrastructure development (including
               existing dams in Egypt, and Sudan and the Renaissance Dam2 and the
               optimal cascade which could be developed after the Renaissance Dam.
             o Sub-component 1.3- Special Studies. Five of the six originally
               envisioned special studies will now not be possible to undertake, given the
               short time remaining in the project. The only remaining study will

2
  We would wish to clarify that, as usual with World Bank financing of technical assistance, the inclusion
and examination of ongoing and planned infrastructure as part of the underlying premises for the JMP1 ID
studies should in no way be construed as an endorsement of any particular infrastructure projects by the
World Bank, nor by any of the parties involved with the JMP1 ID project, other than where such projects
have been specifically considered and expressly endorsed by the World Bank or any such parties, such as
through an actual project financing.
                                                     6
             examine possible institutional, financial and benefit sharing aspects of a
             potential JMP1 package of investments.
           o Sub component 2.1 – Regional Consultations and Information Sharing.
             ENTRO may streamline the planned consultations and training
             opportunities provided under the project to better correspond with project
             outputs, taking into account the needs of the Eastern Nile governments and
             the limited time remaining in the project. All modifications to the plan
             will be detailed in the Stakeholder Involvement and Communication
             Strategy (SICAS).
           o Sub-component 2.3 – “Development of a Roadmap for the Preparation of
             the JMP1? will l become “Development of a Roadmap for the Future
             Activities,? rather than focusing solely on project preparation. The
             roadmap will outline a plan for future studies that will need to be
             undertaken after the JMP1 ID, to fill in data and information gaps,
             understand the benefits and impacts of large infrastructure development on
             the Abbay/Blue Nile, for the preparation of ancillary investments, as well
             as for other activities to facilitate joint development on the Abbay/Blue
             and main-stem Nile.

•   Safeguards. There are no changes to Project Safeguards. Since the project focuses
    on upstream studies, it does not include feasibility studies, design, or other project
    preparatory works, nor does it contain any works for which additional safeguards
    considerations would apply. However, the project remains category B because it is a
    technical assistance project, which will inform decision making regarding future large
    scale infrastructure on the Blue Nile/Abbay. The initially planned mitigation
    measures, including public disclosure of the SSEA and associated consultations, are
    sufficient and proportional relative to project safeguards risks.

•   Institutional arrangements. The core implementation arrangements for the project
    will remain unchanged. The project will be implemented by the Eastern Nile
    Technical Regional Office (ENTRO), acting on behalf of the three Eastern Nile
    countries, under the general auspices of the NBI. A dedicated JMP team coordinated
    by a full-time regional project coordinator will continue at ENTRO to manage JMP
    identification and consultative activities, supervise the consultants for the different
    studies, and coordinate related studies. In addition, ENTRO will continue to employ
    its internationally recruited Panel of Independent Reviewers and Technical Advisors,
    with water resources/hydropower development, environment and social specialists.

    ENTRO plans to continue to work to facilitate the governance meetings outlined in
    the Project Appraisal Document, including a regional technical committee, small ad-
    hoc technical task teams, and the national reference groups from the Eastern Nile
    experts in relevant fields. To mitigate the risk that Eastern Nile politics outside the
    scope of the project could affect the ability of governments to participate in the
    studies, ENTRO plans to work closely with the counties, to find ways to solicit
    country feedback in a manner acceptable to the Eastern Nile governments.

    Additionally, ENTRO has full time environment and social safeguards staff which
    supported preparation of the SSEA. Having been involved throughout SSEA
                                             7
      preparation, ENTRO is in the process of completing the consultations originally
      planned for the project. ENTRO is ensuring that the new schedule of the planned
      remaining consultations allows for ample time and opportunity to gather stakeholder
      feedback, including consultations needed for the SSEA. Because of the importance
      of such feedback and for greater transparency, the remaining consultation plans are
      going to be outlined in an amendment of the JMP1 ID Stakeholder Involvement and
      Communication Strategy, including a review by the World Bank.

•     Financing. The overall financing amount to the client remains the same ($7 million
      USD). There are minor changes to the allocation of project funds across the
      components and expenditure categories.

             o   Project Costs (financed from grant proceeds).

                                   Project Costs (US$m.)
                 Components/Activities                   Current            Proposed
    Component 1. JMP Identification Studies
           1.1 Information/Knowledge Base                 0.050               0.000
           Enhancement
           1.2 JMP1 Identification Studies                3.800               4.354
           1.3 Special studies                            0.485               0.146
    Component 2. Capacity building and
    implementation support
           2.1 Regional consultation and information      0.585               0.673
           sharing
           2.2 Project Management and Capacity            2.000               1.747
           building
           2.3 Development of Roadmap for                 0.080               0.080
           Preparing & Implementation of first
           JMP1 Investment Project
    Contingency                                           0.000               0.000
    Total                                                 7.000               7.000


         o Reallocations.

Category of Expenditure                  Allocation            % of Financing Relative
                                                                       to Total
   Current         Revised         Current        Revised       Current       Revised
      (i)           same            6.30           6.35          90%            91%
Consultant’s
  services,
   goods,
  training,
consultation
     and
workshops,

                                             8
  etc
  (ii)           same             0.70            0.65            10%               9%
Operating
 Costs
 Total                            7.00            7.00            100%            100%


 •   Closing date. It is proposed that the closing date is extended to December 31,
     2012, to allow sufficient time to complete the stakeholder consultations and
     studies. If the extension is not granted, the project would close at the current
     project closing date of September 30, 2011, and it would not be possible for
     ENTRO to embark on the second phase of the studies. This second phase would
     include: an SSEA of a cascade of dams on the Blue Nile; cascade sequencing
     study, reservoir filling and optimization analysis; identification of ancillary
     investments in the Blue and Main-stem Nile; and preparation of a roadmap of
     future activities and consultations on these outputs.

 •   Implementation schedule. Adjustments have been made to the implementation
     schedule to reflect the proposed closing date extension. Even with this extension,
     the timeline for project implementation is extremely tight as it cannot go beyond
     the closing date of Recipient Executed Activities of the Nile Basin Trust Fund on
     December 31, 2012. The proposed timeline for implementation is included in
     Annex 2.

 •   Risk mitigation plan. ENTRO is implementing a risk mitigation plan to improve
     the quality and timeliness of project delivery. This risk mitigation plan includes
     enhancing its technical study and safeguards teams and a supervision plan for
     more intensive management of consultants and field studies. ENTRO has also
     proposed a more realistic scope of work under the project, aligned more closely
     with the proposed timetable during the remainder of activities for completion of
     studies and stakeholder consultations, which were agreed with the Bank team.
     Finally, to mitigate the risk that Eastern Nile politics outside the scope of the
     project could affect the ability of governments to participate in the completion of
     the studies, ENTRO plans to work closely with the countries, to find ways to
     solicit proactively country feedback in a manner acceptable to the Eastern Nile
     governments.

 •   Grant conditions and covenants.        No changes are proposed to the grant
     conditions and covenants.


APPRAISAL SUMMARY

 •   Economic and financial analysis. The original PAD described direct and longer
     term benefits of the project, which provided the economic rationale for the award
     of the grant, which are described in the following paragraphs. While the direct
     benefits identified at the time of project Appraisal still hold, it is not clear if the

                                            9
    longer term benefit will be achieved. However, the direct benefits alone provide
    ample justification to continue with the project.

    The PAD outlined that, “in concrete (though unquantifiable) terms, the direct
    benefits of the project include the information base established through joint
    assessments and studies, a trained staff as a result of capacity building programs,
    more rigorous analytical tools, and a common understanding of the opportunities
    and risks built through stakeholder involvement.? This benefit still holds, as a
    common information base and understanding about the possibilities and impacts
    of large infrastructure development on the Abbay/Blue Nile is necessary, to
    maximize economic and development benefit, and to minimize social and
    environmental costs.

    The PAD went on to outline, “The longer-term associated benefits include all
    those generated by the package of investments that will be identified by this TA
    project. The costs of this TA are considered to be nominal when viewed relative
    to the scale of the investment package that it is expected to lead to (estimated to
    be in the range of US$ 4-5 billion).? It is less clear that this outcome will be
    achieved. As the bulk of the Anchor project, the Renaissance Dam, is already
    being undertaken by the government of Ethiopia independently, it will no longer
    be possible to use the JMP1 ID studies to identify the Anchor ; instead, the JMP1
    ID studies would be used to identify ancillary investments in water savings,
    agriculture and watershed management. However, if the findings and
    recommendations from the studies are adopted by the three Eastern Nile
    governments, the studies could be instrumental in enhancing the benefits and
    minimizing the negative impacts of Abbay/ Blue Nile development.

•   Technical. The proposed restructuring will not raise any additional technical
    demands and challenges or complex technologies more than those envisaged at
    original project appraisal. A major technical demand associated with the studies
    would be the modeling studies under Phase 2 of the work, for cascade
    development, simulating and sequencing. The international consultants assigned
    for this task were selected competitively after a rigorous review of capacity and
    capability for conducting modeling studies of similar nature. Moreover, well
    established generic models for simulation and optimization are readily available
    on the market for customization according to modeling needs. However,
    availability of reliable hydrological and other technical/environmental data and
    information and willingness of the three EN countries to share data with the study
    team are a fundamental requirement for quality completion of the studies. The
    assurance provided by the EN countries through the ENCOM mechanism at
    project appraisal to share hydrological and other data required for the JMP1 ID
    studies prevails. In the event that required data is not available to the consultant
    team, the consultant will be asked to propose alternate methods of analysis, and to
    note where gaps have limited the analysis.

    As a part of restructuring, a decision has been reached that if the project is
    restructured and extended, five out of the six special studies envisaged at original
    appraisal will not be conducted, but this decision will not affect the achievement
                                         10
    of the revised PDO. Given the tight time line of the extended project, this is a
    pragmatic decision.

•   Social. ENTRO proposed a more realistic timetable and plan for completion of
    stakeholder consultations by being more strategic in identifying a broadly
    representative set of participants; in scheduling of meetings; and in gathering and
    summarizing key feedback. Such feedback also recognizes the complex political
    issues associated with building consensus among government and non-
    governmental stakeholders. Additionally, ENTRO is enhancing the types of
    consultations with potential project-affected communities, for example, by adding
    some focus group discussions.

    ENTRO has developed a range of possible methods to receive feedback on
    findings from the studies. ENTRO will continue to work with countries to hold
    consultations as planned. In cases when government staff are not available to
    participate in regional or national consultations, ENTRO will use panels of
    experts and/or focus groups from the three countries. ENTRO will clearly
    describe in its reports the types of consultations completed and indicate if there
    are any significant changes from the SICAS Implementation Plan.

    ENTRO has begun revising its communications framework, to reflect the
    proposed changes under project restructuring. In this connection, the
    communications framework and the SICAS/SICAS Implementation Plan are to be
    reviewed by the World Bank once they are revised. Specifically, in the disclosure
    of the SSEA documents, ENTRO has agreed to add text stating that the SSEA is
    an upstream strategic study, and is not intended to replace or satisfy the need for
    site specific environmental or social studies. These would include, but not limited
    to, Environmental and Social Impact Assessments, Environmental and Social
    Management Plans, Resettlement Action Plans, or cumulative impact analyses, as
    needed.

•   Environment. Although there are no changes in the objectives assigned to the
    Phase 1 SSEA, there have been extensive discussions with the consultant to
    ensure that the SSEA will inform future decision making by identifying
    safeguard issues that might arise during the preparation and implementation of
    JMP infrastructure, identifying the constituencies that might be associated with
    these issues, and discussing how these issues will play out given the
    infrastructure’s footprint relative to the river’s original state.

    The SSEA will address 9 key issues: (i) Water Security; (ii) Access to Water and
    Livelihoods; (iii) Water Quality; (iv) Energy generation and supply; (v) Erosion
    and Sedimentation; (vi) Critical Habitats and Land Use; (vii) Vulnerable groups
    and resettlement; (viii) Dam Safety; (ix) Climate Change. The discussion will
    consider these issues in relation to the footprint of possible infrastructure,
    identifying any impact thresholds or tipping points.

    The objectives of Phase 2 SSEA are modified to take into account the decision by
    the Government of Ethiopia to build the Renaissance dam.
                                         11
•   Exceptions to Bank Policy. A Waiver from the Regional Vice President is being
    sought to Operational Policy 13.30 – Extension of Closing Date, as the Project is
    currently rated Moderately Unsatisfactory for Likelihood of Achieving Project
    Development Objective and for Implementation Progress. However, the
    restructuring was undertaken with a view towards improving project performance,
    including a reduction of the number of activities within the project and the PDO,
    and the client is executing an action plan to improve project performance.

•   Audit compliance. ENTRO is compliant with Audit requirements stipulated by
    the World Bank. It is in the process of procuring a firm to conduct an audit for
    the Fiscal Year which ended on June 30, 2011. Further information about
    fiduciary aspects of the project can be found in the Implementation Status Reports
    for the Project.




                                        12
                                                                   ANNEX 1:
                                                       Results Framework and Monitoring
                 AFRICA: EASTERN NILE FIRST JOINT MULTIPURPOSE PROGRAM IDENTIFICATION (JMP1 ID)



Project Development Objective (PDO): to assist the three Eastern Nile countries in identification of the JMP1 investment package, through a series of
studies and consultative activities that take into account economic, social and environmental sustainability issues in an integrated manner.


Revised Project Development Objective: to assist the three Eastern Nile countries in examining joint water resources development possibilities on the
Abbay/Blue and Main-stem Nile, taking economic, social and environmental sustainability issues into account in an integrated manner.

                                                                                                                                                         Data Source/
                                                                                                                                                                        Responsibi
                                                                                                                                                         Methodology
                                                                                                                                                                        lity for
                                          D=Dropped                               Cumulative Target Values**                          Frequency          (Data
                                                                                                                                                                        Data
PDO Level Results                         C=Continue   Unit of                                                                                           Collection
                                                                       Baseline                                                                                         Collection
Indicators*                                N= New      Measure                                                                                           Instruments)
                                          R=Revised                                                                    YR 3 and
                                   Core




                                                                                      YR 1              YR 2            project
                                                                                                                        closing
Indicator One: the SSEA
                                                                                                                                      ENTRO Semi-
provides a sound basis for                                                                          SSEA stage I      SSEA stage II
                                                                                  SSEA stage I                                         annual project                    ENTRO
understanding social and                                                                           completed and       completed                           ENTRO
                                                       SSEA reports,                in draft                                          progress report,                   Project
environmental considerations                  N                          None                       endorsed by       and endorsed                       project M&E
                                                       IPoR reports                 format                                               and review                       team
in projects within the potential                                                                       IPoR.            by IPoR.
                                                                                                                                        panel reports
JMP program

Indicator Two: Eastern Nile                                                         Report on            ToR                          ENTRO Semi-                        ENTRO
governments have an improved                                                      data gaps and    restructured and                   annual project        ENTRO        Project
                                                                                                                       Final Study
knowledge base to sustainably                                                     coordination         Contract                          progress        project M&E;     team;
                                                                                                                       completed
develop and manage the                        C          Reports         None     of gap filling   renegotiation on                       report;          ENCOM        National
                                                                                                                       and reports
resources of the Blue and                                                            strategy           phase II                       Stakeholder         Meetings     Reference
                                                                                                                      disseminated
Main-stem Nile                                                                     completed           complete                        consultation                      Groups
                                                                                                                                        workshop
                                                                                                                                          proceedings


Indicator Three: a roadmap                                                                                                               ENTRO Semi-         ENTRO
for a coordinated set of                                                                                                                 annual project   project M&E;
                                                                                                        Preliminary
investments is identified at the                                                                                                            progress        ENCOM        ENTRO
                                                         Roadmap                                        elements of       Road map
end of the project                          N                             None            None                                            report; Bank    Meetings and   Project
                                                          Drafts                                         Road map         completed
                                                                                                                                           supervision        Bank        Team
                                                                                                         identified
                                                                                                                                             reports       supervision
                                                                                                                                                            missions
INTERMEDIATE RESULTS

Intermediate Result (Component One): JMP1 Identification Studies
Identification of development alternative, preferred options, JMP1 investment sequence and package
Revised Intermediate Result (Component One): JMP1 Identification Studies
Information and analysis for strategic water resource planning, development and management provided.
Intermediate Result indicator                                                                           SSEA-Stage 1
                                                                                                                         SSEA-Stage 2
One: Strategic Social and                                                                                   report
                                                                                                                             report
Environmental Assessment                                                                               completed and                     ENTRO semi-
                                                                                                                           completed                       Consultant
(SSEA) of water resources                                                             Draft Stage I     stakeholder’s                    annual project                  ENTRO
                                                                                                                              and                            SSEA
development alternatives in the             N         SSEA Reports        None        SSEA Report         feedbacks                        progress
                                                                                                                         stakeholder’s                      Reports
Abbay/Blue and Mainstem                                                                                incorporated in                      reports
                                                                                                                           comments
Nile;                                                                                                    final report
                                                                                                                          incorporated

Intermediate Result indicator
Two: Study of the potential
                                                                                                                           Cascade
Anchor Project and subsequent                                                           Report on      ToR updated to
                                                         Cascade                                                         Development
cascade development, taking                                                           data gaps and       reflect the                    ENTRO semi-      Consultant
                                                       Development                                                       Assessment
into account economic, social                                                         coordination       current and                     annual project   Reports and
                                                        Assessment                                                           and                                         ENTRO
and environment                             N                             None        of gap filling   planned water                       progress        ENCOM
                                                           and                                                           Sequencing
considerations, including                                                                strategy       infrastructure                      reports        meetings
                                                        Sequencing                                                          Study
reservoir filling and operating                                                        completed        development
                                                       Study Report                                                       completed.
rule studies to optimize system
benefits and best manage
related risks
Intermediate Result indicator                            All non-                                      ToR updated to      All non-      ENTRO semi-      Consultant
Three:: identification of                                 anchor                                         reflect the        anchor       annual project   Reports and    ENTRO
                                            C                             None            None
potential nationally-                                   investment                                      current and       investment       progress        ENCOM
implemented JMP1 Non-                                     Reports                                      planned water     study reports      reports        meetings




                                                                                        14
Anchor Projects, including                                                                               infrastructure      completed
irrigation modernization &                                                                               development       and discussed
development and watershed                                                                                                     with key
management centered on                                                                                                      stakeholders
agricultural productivity and
livelihoods improvement and
watershed sustainability as
well as floodplain management
Intermediate Result (Component Two): Capacity Building and Implementation Support
Meeting project implementation milestones and getting ready for preparing the JMP1 investment project(s)

Revised Intermediate Result (Component Two): Capacity Building and Implementation Support
Opportunities for regional dialogue and capacity building created.

Intermediate Result indicator                                                                                                Program
                                                                                     A time-bound                                                           ENCOM/Nati
One: a well-conceived                                                                                                      implemented     ENTRO Semi-
                                                                                        program                                                                 onal
stakeholder involvement &                                                                               Program revised      as per the    annual project
                                                                                     developed and                                                           Reference    ENTRO
communication program                       C                             None                            and updated         SICAS          progress
                                                                                      operational                                                              Group
                                                                                                                           Implementati       reports
                                                                                                                                                              meetings
                                                                                                                              on plan

Intermediate Result indicator                                                                                 Core
Two: Number of opportunities                                                                            social/environm
for capacity building for                                                                                 ental staff (5
ENTRO and related agencies in                                                                            from ENTRO
                                                                                                                               Four
the three countries.                                                                                    and 9 each from                    ENTRO Semi-
                                                                                      Training need                         additional
                                                        Number of         Less                              the three                      annual project    Consultant
                                                                                       assessment                            training                                     ENTRO
                                            N          opportunities    opportun                           countries)                        progress         reports
                                                                                       completed                             offered.
                                                         offered          ities                            trained on                         reports
                                                                                                        Environmental/S
                                                                                                        ocial assessment
                                                                                                         & management
                                                                                                            planning

Intermediate Result indicator
Three:: a roadmap for                                                                                                                      ENTRO Semi-
                                                                                                          Preliminary
advancing investment and                                                                                                                   annual project
                                                                                                          elements of       Road map                         ENCOM        ENTRO
addressing critical issues for              N            roadmap          None            None                                               progress
                                                                                                           Road map         completed                        meetings
sustainable water resources                                                                                                                   reports
                                                                                                           identified
development and management
in the Abbay/Blue and




                                                                                         15
Mainstem Nile




                16
                                                      ANNEX 2:
                                         Timeline for Project Implementation
                                                                                 1   2      3     4      5     6     7     8     9     10    11    12    13   14     15      16     17    18    19    20
                                                                                                                                                                  2012
                                                                     Months
                                                                      from
                                                      Months from
                      Task                          commencement
                                                                     original   May June   July   Aug   Sept   Oct   Nov   Dec   Jan   Feb   Mar   April May June    July    Aug   Sept   Oct   Nov   Dec
                                                                    commence
                                                                      ment


                  Main Study
            1. Data Gathering, SICAS



                2a. SSEA Phase I
               Draft Final Report                                                ?
              Redrafting process                                                 ?   ?
                 Consultations                                                                    ?
                  Final Report                                                                           ?


               2b. SSEA Phase 2
                Inception Report                         1             6                                             ?
               Draft Final Report                        8             13                                                                                     ?
                 Consultations                           10            15                                                                                                    ?
                  Final Report                           11            16                                                                                                           ?


   3. Cascade Development Assessment and
                  Sequencing
               Inception report                          1             6                                             ?
                 Interim Report                          5             10                                                                    ?
               Draft Final Report                        9             15                                                                                                ?
                  Final Report                           12            18                                                                                                                  ?


 4. Irrigation and Modernization Development
                     Studies
Reccommendations on Mitigation Measures for
                                                         9             15                                                                                                ?
              Recession Agriculture
Final report incorporating results of draft final
                                                         12            18                                                                                                                  ?
                     report

       5. Watershed Management Study
  Interim Report on the delineation of micro-
watershed hotspots with seclection of the most
                                                         5             10                                                                    ?
   critical watershed areas in relation to the
                  Anchor project
       Draft final report for 1) identifying
   interventions to be included in the anchor
                                                         9             15                                                                                                ?
project and ii) ranking of remaining non anchor
              intervention hotspots
                   Final report                          12            18                                                                                                                  ?


        6. Floodplain Management Study
  Interim Report on identifying the flood prone
    areas and broad assessment of impact of              5             10                                                                    ?
     anchor project on downstream flooding
 Draft final report on impacts of filling/release
    schedules of the anchor project on flood
 impact downstream, identifying interventions            9             15                                                                                                ?
to be included in the anchor project and broad
                economic anaysis
                  Final Report                           12            18                                                                                                                  ?


 8. Economic and Financial Analyses of Cascade
       Development and Anchor Project
                  Interim Report                         5             10                                                                    ?


         10. Stakeholder consultations
ANNEX 3: Map




     18
