                                         Document of
                                     The World Bank

                              FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                         Report No: 49189-AFR




                            PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                            ON A

                     PROPOSED NILE BASIN TRUST FUND GRANT

                         IN THE AMOUNT OF US$7.00 MILLION

                                           TO THE

               EASTERN NILE TECHNICAL REGIONAL OFFICE (ENTRO)

                                           FOR A

     EASTERN NILE FIRST JOINT MULTIPURPOSE PROGRAM IDENTIFICATION

                                        June 24, 2009




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization.
                              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                         (Exchange Rate Effective June 22, 2009)


                             Currency Unit = Ethiopian Birr
                                11.34 Birr = US$1
                                 0.09 US$ = 1 Birr

                                      FISCAL YEAR
                                    July 1 ­ June 30

                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
PSC       Project Steering Committee
EN        Eastern Nile
ENSAP     Eastern Nile Subsidiary Action Program
ENTRO     Eastern Nile Technical Regional Office
ENSAPT    Eastern Nile Subsidiary Action Program Team
ENCOM     Eastern Nile Council of Ministers
ENPM      Eastern Nile Planning Model
FPEW      Flood Preparedness and Early Warning
JMP       Joint Multipurpose Program
JMP1 ID   First Joint Multipurpose Program Identification
MOIWR     Ministry of Irrigation and Water Resources (Sudan)
MOWR      Ministry of Water Resources (Ethiopia)
MWRI      Ministry of Water Resources and Irrigation (Egypt)
NBI       Nile Basin Initiative
NBTF      Nile Basin Trust Fund
NRGs      National Reference Groups
OSI       One System Inventory (for Eastern Nile)
RTC       Regional Technical Committee
SBA       Strategic Basin Assessment




                            Vice President:       Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili (AFR);
                                                  Daniela Gressani (MENA)
                         Country Director:        Richard Scobey (Regional) (Acting); Kenichi
                                                  Ohashi (Ethiopia, Sudan); Emmanuel Mbi
                                                  (Egypt)
                         Sector Director:         Inger Andersen (AFTSN)
                         Sector Manager:          Ashok K. Subramanian (AFTWR)
              Nile Program Coordinator:           Barbara Miller (AFTWR)
                      Task Team Leader:           Xiaokai Li (EASIN, TTL)/E.V. Jagannathan
                                                  (AFTWR, CO-TTL)
     EASTERN NILE FIRST JOINT MULTIPURPOSE PROGRAM IDENTIFICATION

                                                                 CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                               Page

A.        STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE ................................................................. 1
     1.      Country and sector issues.................................................................................................... 1
     2.      Rationale for Bank involvement ......................................................................................... 4
     3.      Higher level objectives to which the project contributes .................................................... 5

B.        PROJECT DESCRIPTION ................................................................................................. 5
     1.      Lending instrument ............................................................................................................. 5
     2.      Project development objective and key indicators.............................................................. 5
     3.      Project components ............................................................................................................. 6
     4.      Lessons learned and reflected in the project design............................................................ 9
     5.      Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection .............................................................. 9

C.        IMPLEMENTATION ........................................................................................................ 10
     1.      Partnership arrangements (if applicable) .......................................................................... 10
     2.      Institutional and implementation arrangements ................................................................ 11
     3.      Monitoring and Evaluation of Outcomes/Results ............................................................. 12
     4.      Sustainability..................................................................................................................... 12
     5.      Critical risks and possible controversial aspects ............................................................... 12
     6.      Loan/credit conditions and covenants ............................................................................... 14

D.        APPRAISAL SUMMARY ................................................................................................. 15
     1.      Economic and financial analyses ...................................................................................... 15
     2.      Technical ........................................................................................................................... 15
     3.      Fiduciary ........................................................................................................................... 16
     4.      Social................................................................................................................................. 16
     5.      Environment ...................................................................................................................... 17
     6.      Safeguard policies ............................................................................................................. 17
     7.      Policy Exceptions and Readiness...................................................................................... 19
Annex 1: Country and Sector Background .............................................................................. 20

Annex 2: Major Related Projects Financed by the Bank and Other Agencies ..................... 28

Annex 3: Results Framework and Monitoring ........................................................................ 30

Annex 4: Detailed Project Description ..................................................................................... 34

Annex 5: Project Costs ............................................................................................................... 39

Annex 6: Implementation Arrangements ................................................................................. 40

Annex 7: Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements ..................................... 45

Annex 8: Procurement Arrangements ...................................................................................... 50

Annex 9: Economic and Financial Analysis ............................................................................. 54

Annex 10: Safeguard Policy Issues ............................................................................................ 55

Annex 11: Project Preparation and Supervision ..................................................................... 63

Annex 12: Documents in the Project File ................................................................................. 64

Annex 13: Statement of Loans and Credits .............................................................................. 65

Annex 14: Country at a Glance ................................................................................................. 71

Annex 15: Maps........................................................................................................................... 76
                                                      AFRICA

           EASTERN NILE FIRST JOINT MULTIPURPOSE PROGRAM IDENTIFICATION (JMP1 ID)

                                        PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                                      AFRICA

                                                      AFTWR

Date: June 24, 2009                                        Team Leaders: Xiaokai Li, E.V. Jagannathan
Regional Integration Director: Richard G. Scobey           Sectors: General water, sanitation and flood protection
(Acting)                                                   sector (40%); Irrigation and drainage (30%); Power
Sector Director: Inger Andersen                            (30%)
Sector Manager: Ashok K. Subramanian                       Themes: Water resource management (67%); Regional
Project ID: P116595                                        integration (33%)
Lending Instrument: Grant                                  Environmental category: B (Partial Assessment)

                                               Project Financing Data
[ ] Loan    [ ] Credit     [X] Grant   [ ] Guarantee             [ ] Other:

For Grants (US$m.): 7.00
Total Operation Cost (US$m.): 7.60
                                              Financing Plan (US$m)
                         Source                            Local                Foreign               Total
Borrower                                                   0.60                  0.00                 0.60
Nile Basin Initiative Trust Fund                           0.00                  7.00                 7.00
Total:                                                     0.60                  7.00                 7.60

                                       Amount of financing to be provided by
Source                                                                                         Amount (US$m)
Trust Fund Program                                                                                   7.00
SPF                                                                                                  0.00
Borrower/Recipient                                                                                   0.60
External Funds, not Bank Managed                                                                     0.00
Financing Gap                                                                                        0.00
Total Project Cost                                                                                   7.60

Borrower: Eastern Nile Technical Regional Office (ENTRO)
Responsible Agency: Eastern Nile Technical Regional Office (ENTRO)

                                   Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$m)
FY                2010       2011       2012
Annual           3.45        3.50       0.65
Cumulative       3.45        6.95       7.60
 Project implementation period: Start: September 9, 2009 End: September 30, 2011
 Expected effectiveness date: September 9, 2009
 Expected closing date: September 30, 2011

Does the project depart from the CAS in content or other significant respects? Ref. PAD I.C.      [ ]Yes [X] No
Does the project require any exceptions from Bank policies?
Ref. PAD IV.G.                                                                                    [ ]Yes [X] No
Have these been approved by Bank management?                                                      [ ]Yes [ ] No
Is approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                                       [ ]Yes [X] No
Does the project include any critical risks rated "substantial" or "high"?
                                                                                                  [X]Yes [ ] No
Ref. PAD III.E.
Does the project meet the Regional criteria for readiness for implementation? Ref. PAD IV.G.      [X]Yes [ ] No

Project development objective: The objective of this Recipient-Executed Technical Assistance project is to assist
the three Eastern Nile countries in identification of the JMP1 investment package, through a series of studies and
consultative activities that take into account economic, social and environmental sustainability issues in an
integrated manner.

Project description: The EN JMP1 ID Project contains two components:

Component 1. JMP1 Identification Studies contain two sub-components: (i) Information/Knowledge Base
Enhancement; and (ii) JMP1 Identification Studies, which include a strategic social and environmental assessment
(SSEA), anchor project identification studies, non-anchor project studies and need-based special studies.

Component 2. Capacity-Building and Implementation Support covers three sub-components: (i) Regional
Consultation and Information Sharing; (ii) Project management and Capacity-building; and (iii) Development of a
Roadmap for the Preparation of the JMP1 Investment Project(s).

Which safeguard policies are triggered, if any? Given the upstream nature of this technical assistance, two
safeguards policies are triggered: Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01) and International Waterways (OP 7.50).
However, the SSEA will be used to broadly examine, in an integrated manner, the linkages and cumulative impacts
of potential scenarios on physical, biological, socio-economic and cultural issues. Key safeguard issues, such as
natural habitats, pest management, physical cultural resources, involuntary resettlement and dam safety would be
broadly addressed as part of the SSEA process.

While OP 7.50 is triggered by JMP1 ID, it is exempt from OP 7.50 notification requirements under paragraph 7.b.,
as the work is upstream in nature and does not include engineering studies.
Significant, non-standard conditions, if any, for:
Board presentation: None

Grant Approval: (i) A JMP1 Core Team, including a transitional staffing arrangement, is operational, in line with
the detailed staffing plan agreed upon at Appraisal with the World Bank;
(ii) The members of the Steering Committee and Regional Technical Committee will be appointed under TORs that
have been agreed upon with the World Bank;
(iii) Members of the panel of independent reviewers will be short-listed with TORs acceptable to the World Bank;
(iv) ENTRO will finalize the Stakeholder Involvement & Communication Strategy.

Loan/credit effectiveness: None.

Covenants applicable to project implementation: The following requirements specific to implementation of this
project are to be included in the Grant Agreement:

(i) ENTRO shall ensure that the JMP1 Steering Committee, ENTRO Project Team, Regional Technical Committee,
National Reference Groups in three EN countries are adequately staffed and maintained with appropriate terms of
reference agreeable to the Bank until project completion;
(ii) ENTRO shall appoint and maintain throughout the project period a panel of independent reviewers composed of
qualified experts in the fields of dam engineering, social development and environment, with terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank;
(iii) ENTRO shall develop and implement a detailed time-bound Stakeholder Involvement and Communication
Program agreeable to the Bank.


The following standard requirements are also to be included in the Grant Agreement:
(i) ENTRO shall maintain a financial management system for the Project, maintained by qualified staff comprising
an updated financial manual and a computerized project accounting and management information system throughout
the Project;
(ii) ENTRO will prepare and update a procurement plan covering an 18-month period that has been agreed upon
with the World Bank;
(iii) ENTRO shall ensure that independent private auditors are engaged to provide an assurance on the effectiveness
and application of internal controls over contractual payments and grant use. As part of the NBI institutional
harmonization process the independent external audit of ENTRO will be also harmonized. This process is currently
on-going under NBI Institutional Strengthening Project and will be finalized within the next few fiscal years;
(iv) ENTRO shall monitor the physical and financial progress of the Project, implementation of all project activities,
analyze the data on key performance indicators according to the Results Frameworks on a regular basis and prepare
and submit semi-annual progress reports, and by May 31 of each year, the annual work plans for the following year.
The annual work program for the following year will be finalized in agreement with the Bank not later than June 30
of each project year; (vii) A mid-term review (MTR) of the Project would be undertaken a year after effectiveness.
For this purpose, ENTRO needs to carry out a joint assessment with the EN countries, prepare and furnish to the
Bank a review report two months before the MTR;
(v) ENTRO shall prepare and furnish to the Bank an implementation completion report assessing the performance of
project implementation, the results of implementation as well as lessons learnt within three months of Grant Closing
Date.
A.         STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE

 1.   Country and sector issues

 1.       The Eastern Nile (EN) Basin, located at the northeastern part of the African continent, is
 home to the most populous countries in Africa and some least developed countries in the world.
 Geographically it covers major part of Ethiopia, part of Sudan, Egypt and minor part of Eritrea
 (less than 3,500 km2). Its economy is about the same size as Greece, while its land area
 (estimated at 1.66 million km2) and population are some 35 and 20 times of Greece respectively.
 In spite of the impressive economic growth in recent years in the region, the poverty incidence is
 still very high with almost 15, 20 and 2 million people living on less than one dollar a day in
 Ethiopia, Sudan and Egypt respectively. The following table provides a brief summary of
 selected development indicators in Egypt, Ethiopia and Sudan (2007/08).

 Country     Populatio   Population   GDP      GNI Per   Agriculture   GDP/Agri.   Population     Access
             n           Growth       (US$b)   Capita    as % of       Growth      below          to clean
             (million)   Rate (%)              (US$)     GDP           (%)         national       water
                                                                                   poverty line   (%)
 Egypt       75.5        1.8          130.5    1,580     14.1          7.1/3.7     16.7 (2000)    98
 Ethiopia    79.2        2.7          25.5     220       44.6          11.6/7.5    38.7 (2005)    42
 Sudan       38.1        2.6          57.9     950       33.5          6.8/5.0     -              70

 Key Development Issues:

 2.      The population of approximately 135 million in the EN basin depends heavily on water
 for livelihoods and socio-economic development: agriculture is a source of income for the
 majority of the population in Egypt, Ethiopia and Sudan. Water has played, and will continue to
 play a central role in the history and political economy of the region. The key water-related
 development challenges of the EN basin can be grouped in two categories: (i) productive
 development - maximizing productive use of water resources to meet water security and food
 security requirements and rapidly growing renewable energy demands; and (ii) risk management
 - reducing the risks associated with water and climate-related disasters and shocks to minimize
 their destructive impacts on the regional economy.

 3.      Maximizing productive use of water resources to meet water security and food security
 requirements and rapidly growing renewable energy demands for continued socio-economic
 development. The major rivers which constitute the Eastern Nile form strategically important,
 shared resources linking Ethiopia, Sudan and Egypt. This includes the Abay-Blue Nile, the
 Tekeze-Atbara, the Baro-Akobo-Sobat, and the Main Nile tributary systems. These rivers have a
 rich endowment of water resources, with a mean annual flow of 84 billion m3 (BCM) at Aswan
 High Dam, and with a high potential for hydropower development. The Blue Nile alone has a
 potential installed capacity in the order of 4,000-5,000 MW and annual firm energy output of
 15,000-20,000 GWh. The productive potential of this valuable resource is underutilized and river
 system losses (mainly from evaporation) are extremely high, representing 35-40% of total
 available water. Additional regulation capacity upstream of Aswan Dam could help substantially
 reduce system water losses, and benefit the agricultural production and environmental
 management in the region.


                                                  1
4.       The long history of tensions over sharing of these resources among EN countries has led
to uncoordinated development of water resources and contributed to constrained economic
growth. The region is characterized by extreme poverty, political instability, rapid population
growth, and environmental degradation. Access to water and energy services are generally
unreliable and inadequate. Less than 20% of the population in Ethiopia and 30% of the
population in Sudan has access to electricity. In existing irrigated agricultural areas of the basin,
crop intensities, yields and irrigation efficiencies are comparatively low, and have large potential
for improvement through better flow regulation, irrigation infrastructure development, water
management upgrading, and agricultural inputs. No more than 5% of the hydropower potential
in Ethiopia has been developed, less than 5% of cultivated land in Ethiopia has been developed
for irrigation, and Sudan has developed less than half of its irrigation potential. Energy demands
are projected to increase dramatically in the near future: power demand in Egypt is expected to
increase by 6-7% annually over the next 10 years, and in Sudan and Ethiopia power demands are
expected to double every 5-10 years. Hydropower in the EN basin, being renewable and low
cost, has a comparative advantage over other sources of energy in contributing to energy security
in the region.

5.      Reducing the risks associated with water and climate-related disasters and shocks will
minimize the destructive impacts on the regional economy and livelihoods. Hydrological and
climate variability risks are significant in the Eastern Nile basin, with frequent droughts and
floods taking their toll on the economy. Rainfall and river flows in the basin are highly variable,
with annual rainfall ranging from over 2,000 mm concentrated in a few months in the Ethiopian
highlands to no more than 100 mm in Egypt where the evaporation is extremely high (annual
evaporation at Aswan is over 10 BCM). The infrastructure and institutions (both national and
regional) needed to manage water in the basin are far from adequate. Flooding along the Blue
Nile in Sudan is a major issue. For example, the 1999 floods alone led to an estimated loss of up
to USD 450 million, with over 1 million people affected. Similarly, it is estimated that a single
drought event in Ethiopia in a twelve year period would decrease average GDP growth rates by
7-10%. Further, it is estimated that Ethiopia loses over 150 million tons of soil annually in Blue
Nile sub-basin because of deforestation and poor natural resource management practices. The
heavily silt-laden flows from upper reach of Blue Nile are causing rapid reduction in the storage
capacity of existing reservoirs for irrigation and power generation in Sudan, land and
environmental degradation, and low soil productivity in Ethiopia. This contributes to droughts,
floods, chronic poverty and food shortages. Over 5 million people in Ethiopia require food
assistance in a normal year.

Government Strategy and Action:

6.      The trans-boundary nature of the Eastern Nile offers a unique opportunity for cooperative
water resources development and management to address the abovementioned issues. An
investment program of cooperative development on the Eastern Nile with joint institutions and
infrastructure in Egypt, Ethiopia, and Sudan could have major linkages into regional relations
and trade and provide transformational socio-economic benefits. Regional and multi-sector
infrastructure projects can achieve economies of scale and enable access to wider markets,
producing synergistic effects and increased benefits relative to national, single purpose projects



                                                 2
undertaken unilaterally. Cooperation will enable joint management of water and climate related
risks (in particular floods, droughts and climate change risks) and optimal development of
productive opportunities for irrigation, hydropower and environmental services.

7.      Recognizing the lost opportunities from unilateral development and huge potential
benefits of cooperative development and integrated management of the basin ­ and building
upon an initial set of agreed `fast track' EN investments successfully under implementation -
the three EN countries have decided to pursue more complex, large-scale, joint development of
EN water resources. Their collective vision is multi-country, coordinated and collective
investments in development of important water and energy infrastructure, irrigation and
agriculture, environmental services, institutions and human resources. Initial selection of this
joint multipurpose program (JMP) of investments is guided by three agreed principles:
development must benefit all three countries, be multipurpose in nature, and cause no regret. The
Eastern Nile Regional Technical Office (ENTRO) ­ the first joint EN institution, established in
2002 by the three governments to oversee the identification and preparation of an EN
projects/programs, is charged with the responsibility to facilitate the development of the JMP.

8.       In 2005 the Eastern Nile Council of Ministers (ENCOM), comprising the water ministers
from three countries, jointly with their energy ministers mandated a "JMP Launch Phase". The
Launch Phase was intended to initiate efforts to "identify and prepare a major initial project,
within a broader multipurpose program, to demonstrate the benefits of a cooperative approach
to the management and development of the Eastern Nile". It has included a series of analytical
and consultative activities: (i) conceptualization of the JMP; (ii) establishment of a `no-borders'
One System Inventory of natural resources and related information across the Eastern Nile basin;
(iii) a scoping study which principally examined hydrological and water resources matters in
order to broadly establish a `development space' within which further water developments might
be contemplated; (iv) preparation of thematic papers on financing and implementation
arrangements, and on institutional and broad legal considerations; (v) broadly defining and
locating a first set of potential investments ­ first joint multipurpose program (JMP1); and (vi)
wide consultations, including with specially formed multi-sectoral Regional Working Group and
a Regional Parliamentary Committee. JMP's long term objective has been defined as `a long-
term program which includes a coordinated set of investments and enabling institutional
environment that facilitates the sustainable development and management of the Eastern Nile
shared water resources to provide a range of transformational development benefits across
sectors and countries.'

9.       The analytical work during the Launch Phase has also led to a general consensus that,
although the other two EN sub-basins, Tekeze-Atabara and Baro-Akobo-Sobat, offer
opportunities for local development and for future joint development, the best opportunities for a
first set of major investments lie in the Blue Nile (Abbay River) sub-basin. Because the Blue-
Main Nile system contributes sixty-five percent of the flows at the Aswan High Dam, it presents
the best development opportunity for maximum joint benefits from hydropower, irrigation, flood
and drought management, and substantial reduction of water losses. Within the Blue-Main Nile
sub-basin, the Launch Phase identified the following potential generic components of JMP1:
     · A regional `Anchor Project' for joint multipurpose water resources development that
         offers benefits of low-cost hydropower, irrigation enhancement, flood and drought



                                                3
         management, and water saving, etc. It could potentially include a major reservoir on the
         Blue Nile with associated hydropower facilities, a regional power transmission system,
         and catchment management (including high erosion `hotspots') associated with the
         reservoir, all within a sustainable development framework;
     ·   Regional institutions associated with planning, financing, implementing and operating the
         Anchor Project and other regional projects of JMP1;
     ·   Watershed and floodplain management, including (a) watershed management for
         livelihoods improvement and poverty reduction (in upstream catchments in Ethiopia) and
         (b) Floodplain management downstream of the Anchor Project, including river erosion
         and channel protection works (primarily in Sudan);
     ·   Agriculture water management, including (a) Irrigation reform, modernization and
         selected development with focus on improving water use efficiency and productivity
         (projects likely to be agreed regionally and nationally implemented), and (b) productivity
         enhancing investments in rain-fed agriculture; and
     ·   "Ancillary Projects" essentially related investments (e.g. transport, navigation, rural
         electrification etc) to leverage growth.

10.     Following conclusion of the Launch Phase studies and encouraged by the benefits of
cooperation, the three EN countries formally requested assistance from the World Bank in JMP1
identification and preparation through an historical letter to World Bank President Robert
Zoellick from the Minister of Investment in Egypt, written as a collective request on behalf of
ENCOM in Egypt's capacity as chair. This was followed by a confirmatory letter from Minister
of Finance and Economic Development of Ethiopia (February 2009).

2.       Rationale for Bank involvement

11.     EN cooperation and joint investment are aligned with the Bank's mission of poverty
alleviation and facilitation of economic growth. Regional cooperation furthered by the JMP
could provide the kinds of transformational opportunities required to help the countries achieve
their MDG targets and sustain their economic growth, all of which are central to the Bank's
Africa Action Plan. Furthermore, the high-risk high-reward regional development opportunities
of the Eastern Nile are in line with the Bank's Water Resources Strategy, and the focus on
sustainable economic development and poverty alleviation is in alignment with the Egypt
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), Ethiopia CAS, the Joint Assistance Memorandum (JAM)
for Sudan, and the Regional Integration Assistance Strategy (RIAS) for Sub-Saharan Africa.

12.     The Bank has a comparative advantage for further fostering cooperation on the Eastern
Nile because of experiences in inclusive and sustainable development of regional and trans-
boundary water resources investment programs, and provision of financing and guarantees for
large and complex infrastructure projects. The Bank has also been the primary facilitator of the
Nile Basin Initiative, since 1999; coordinates the NBI donor partnership (17 partners) ; and
supervises the Eastern Nile Subsidiary Action Program (ENSAP) Fast Track projects, a series of
regionally agreed and primarily nationally implemented investments in irrigation, watershed
management, flood management, and power interconnection, as well as regional analytical work.
The Bank is also conducting a Strategic Basin Assessment (an AAA work) to quantify the
economic benefits of joint investments. In these processes, the Bank has developed a close


                                                 4
 working relationship with the NBI, ENTRO, and the countries involved, and fostered a strong
 regional integration program. The World Bank has also recognized that development of large-
 scale regional investments is a critical factor in facilitating conclusion of on-going legal and
 institutional discussions on the Nile. This is evidenced by the World Bank's support of the JMP
 process, expressed in recent letters from President Zoellick (March 2009), as well as the Vice
 Presidents of the Middle East and North Africa and the Africa Regions (January 2009), to the
 Egyptian and Ethiopian Ministers of Finance.

 13.    The Bank has also been one of the region's largest development partners and has strong
 sector and multi-sector development programs in Egypt, Ethiopia, and Sudan. These diverse
 country programs would be an essential part of any joint multipurpose program to align with and
 influence regional investments.

 3.     Higher level objectives to which the project contributes

 14.     The project is a critical step towards materializing cooperative investments of the ENSAP
 in the Eastern Nile region under the NBI framework. Not only is this project the result of
 cooperation, but it can also help further cement this cooperation through identifying regional
 projects and national priority projects in a regional context. The results of this technical
 assistance will contribute to implementation of the cooperative strategy of integrated water
 resources development and management of the Eastern Nile, regional integration and stability,
 and sustainable socio-economic development.

B.      PROJECT DESCRIPTION

 1.     Lending instrument

 15.    This technical assistance will be recipient-executed with grant funding of US$7.0 million
 from the multi-donor Nile Basin Trust Fund (NBTF) administered by the World Bank. About
 US$0.6 million will be in-kind contributions from the EN countries/ENTRO.


 2.     Project development objective and key indicators

 16.     The objective of this Recipient-Executed Technical Assistance project is to assist the
 three Eastern Nile countries in identification of the JMP1 investment package, through a series of
 studies and consultative activities that take into account economic, social and environmental
 sustainability issues in an integrated manner. By the end of the JMP1 Identification project,
 ENCOM will be in a position to commission detailed preparation for the selected JMP1
 investments, as appropriate. At that time and under separate funding, preparation would include
 full feasibility studies and designs for the selected projects, along with detailed environmental
 and social assessments, financing studies, implementation planning, etc.

 17.     The key performance indicators for the JMP 1 ID phase are: (i) the SSEA provides a
 sound basis for the inclusion of social and environmental considerations in the selection of
 projects within the JMP program; (ii) Eastern Nile governments have an improved knowledge



                                                 5
base to sustainably develop and manage the resources of the Blue and Main-stem Nile; and (iii)
the first set of coordinated investments is identified at the end of the project.
18.      The planned main outputs of this technical assistance will include the following: (i) a
participatory strategic social and environmental assessment of water resources development
alternatives in the Blue-Main Nile; (ii) identification of a regional Anchor Project, taking into
account engineering, economic, social and environment considerations, including reservoir
filling and operating rule studies to optimize system benefits and best manage related risks; (iii)
identification of potential nationally-implemented JMP1 Non-Anchor Projects, including
irrigation modernization & development and watershed management centered on agricultural
productivity and livelihoods improvement and watershed sustainability as well as floodplain
management; (iv) a roadmap for preparation of the first set of investment projects under JMP1;
and (v) increased capacity of the ENTRO and related agencies in the three countries for
preparation of the JMP1 investment projects and other work related to their mandates.

3.     Project components

19.     Project Components: The Project will include two components: (i) JMP1 Identification
Studies; and (ii) Capacity-Building and Implementation Support. It will build on the previous
studies and analytical work, and be coordinated closely with other related studies as described
below.

Component 1 ­ JMP1 Identification Studies:

20.     Sub-component 1.1 - Information/Knowledge Base Enhancement: There are identified
gaps in the present knowledge and information base pertaining to the development of the Eastern
Nile Basin. This sub-component aims to bridge the information and knowledge gaps to the extent
needed to allow confident assessments of decisions on development alternatives, and adequate
studies for identifying the first priority set of investments. This work will build upon the EN
`One System Inventory' (OSI), and will be coordinated with modeling and information
management activities planned under the NBTF-funded ongoing Eastern Nile Planning Model
(ENPM) and the Nile Basin Water Resources Planning and Management Project (particularly the
Nile Decision Support System (Nile-DSS) Component), which include development of databases
and analytical tools for the Eastern Nile and overall Nile basins.

21.     Sub-component 1.2 - JMP1 Identification Studies: These studies will build on the
related analytical work listed in Annex 1. They are intended to: (i) carry out strategic assessment
of water resources development alternatives (in the form of a Strategic Social and Environmental
Assessment (SSEA); (ii) identify the optimum cascade development scenario and first priority
project, and subsequently define an Anchor Project; and (iii) identify the Non-Anchor Projects,
including high-priority irrigation, watershed and floodplain management interventions in the
Eastern Nile.

22.     1.2.i. The Strategic Social and Environmental Assessment (SSEA) will be a
participatory assessment of the environmental and social issues associated with various
development options, to allow for informed and transparent decision-making in identification
and selection of investments for water resources development. It will inform two key decision


                                                6
making points: (i) strategic analysis of different development alternatives for water resources
development of Blue-Main Nile, namely, "no JMP" (continued unilateral development), many
small dams on Blue Nile tributaries and one or more major multipurpose dam(s) on the Blue Nile
main-stem, on the basis of the JMP Launch Phase studies; and (ii) the identification/selection of
a Cascade Development Option. Accordingly, the SSEA will be conducted in two distinct and
consecutive phases, in close consultation with key stakeholders in Egypt, Ethiopia and Sudan. In
addition to safeguards assessment and impact mitigation measures, the SSEA will be guided by
the regional long-term socio-economic development and poverty reduction goals, and explore
options and mechanisms for benefit-sharing among countries and local communities in the basin.
The SSEA is designed to inform, and be complemented by, a series of project-specific
Environmental and Social Assessments (ESAs), detailed resettlement actions plans, and other
safeguards instruments. The project-specific ESAs as part of investment project design would
need to move beyond impact mitigation and help identify ways of inclusive development of
communities in the project areas, although these assessments are outside the scope of JMP1 ID.
Independent reviewers would advise ENTRO and the Consultant throughout the SSEA. The
results of the first phase will then serve as an input to the Cascade Development and Sequencing
Study.

23.    1.2.ii. Anchor Project Identification Studies have four parts: (a) cascade and
development sequencing study; (b) identification of critical hotspot watershed interventions; (c)
economic and financial analysis of the Anchor Project; and (d) defining the Anchor Project. The
studies are intended to identify the optimum cascade development scenario for integrated
regional water resources management providing a high degree of regulation of Blue Nile flows,
water loss reduction, drought mitigation, flood alleviation along the Blue-Main Nile and reliable
energy generation. Subsequently the studies will identify the first priority project through a
sequencing study on the basis of techno-economic comparison of individual projects, under the
constraints of power generation requirements and acceptable downstream impacts. The studies
will be closely coordinated with the Norway-supported site-specific feasibility studies to be
implemented by the Ministry of Water Resources, Ethiopia.

24.      1.2.iii. Non-Anchor Projects Identification Studies will include an irrigation
development and modernization study, and watershed and floodplain management studies,
building on the Cooperative Regional Assessments (CRAs) for irrigation and watershed
management and the EN Flood Preparedness and Early Warning Project studies, among others,.
The irrigation studies are intended to: (a) develop good practice for designing modern water-
efficient irrigation system; (b) identify priority irrigation schemes in the region for inclusion
under JMP1 for national investments; and (c) identify the areas of recession agriculture (and
other recession activities) to be impacted by the first priority multipurpose project and the likely
costs of mitigation measures. The watershed management study is to identify: (a) the most
critical `hotspot' watersheds, from a larger area requiring watershed interventions recommended
by the CRA, through delineating micro-watersheds within the broadly identified critical hotspots,
for inclusion in the Anchor Project; and (b) the remaining areas requiring watershed
interventions, for national government interventions. The floodplain management study is to
identify: (a) areas prone to flooding and bank erosion downstream of the Anchor Project, for
possible inclusion in the Anchor Project or national investments under JMP1; and (b) impact of




                                                 7
Anchor Project operation on downstream flooding, for factoring the impact into Anchor Project
definition.

25.    Sub-component 1.3- Special Studies. These studies will be undertaken on need basis,
and will likely include, among others: (i) studies of water saving measures to minimize system
water losses; (ii) socio-economic studies on recession agriculture (and other recession activities)
along the Blue Nile in Sudan. This will be coordinated with the on-going Bank-executed EN Strategic
Economic Assessment as part of the EN Strategic Basin Assessment to ensure both direct and indirect
benefits and costs are accounted for to the extent practical; and (iii) studies on financing and
institutional arrangements for the Anchor Project. Upon completion of the SSEA, additional
studies on benefit sharing mechanisms may be pursued.

Component 2 ­ Capacity Building and Implementation Support

26.     Sub-component 2.1 -Regional Consultation and Information Sharing: During the
JMP Launch Phase, broad consultations with key stakeholder took place at different levels. In the
JMP1 Identification Phase, the geographic/spatial focus will be more specific. The Project will
identify, in more refined and concrete ways, key stakeholders, develop consultation strategies,
information sharing mechanisms and instruments, and will incorporate consultative activities and
information-sharing into the implementation program. The main output for this sub-component is
a well-implemented Stakeholder Involvement and Communication Strategy with clear
objectives, target audiences, timelines, organizational arrangements and activities.

27.     Sub-component 2.2 - Project Management and Capacity-Building:                  This sub-
component seeks to strengthen the capacity of ENTRO and related agencies from the three
countries involved in the project. To successfully complete JMP 1 Identification and to prepare
for subsequent investments, ENTRO needs to strengthen its technical and management capacity,
and requires a dedicated multi-disciplinary project team including a regional project coordinator
and technical, economics, social, environmental, communication, procurement, financial
management and financing specialists. The ENTRO and country teams will be directly involved
in the project implementation and on the job training. Additional training will be organized for
ENTRO and three countries on different aspects of project planning and preparation including
social and environmental assessment and management.

28.     Sub-component 2.3 - Development of a Roadmap for the Preparation of the JMP1
Investment Project(s): This will include a recommended approach, process, time schedule,
financing options, and implementation modalities and arrangements for preparation. Detailed
financing and institutional options will be developed to provide sufficient information for
potential bi-lateral and multi-lateral donors and private investors eventually considering financial
assistance or investment in JMP1.

29.    The project period is two years starting from second half of 2009, with an estimated cost
of US$7.6 million, of which US$7.0 million will come from the NBTF and the three countries
are expected to contribute about US$0.6 million in kind. ENTRO requested for a retroactive
financing of US$300,000 to cover eligible expenditures on agreed activities of JMP1 ID project
incurred since May 1, 2009 until the date of signing the Grant Agreement.



                                                 8
4.        Lessons learned and reflected in the project design

30.    Lessons learned from past and ongoing similar activities in the Nile Basin and elsewhere
have been incorporated in the project design to the extent practical, which include:

     ·    Integrated approach for water resources development is made central to the project
          design. This technical assistance integrates the engineering, economic, social and
          environmental aspects in the assessment and analytical studies with focus on
          sustainability of investments to be identified. Multi-criteria analysis will be used for the
          assessment of development alternatives and for the selection of the preferred option.
          Identification and definition of the joint investments will be undertaken on the basis of
          careful evaluation and optimization of various trade-offs and benefit-sharing options, so
          that the benefits and costs are accounted. The watershed and floodplain management and
          irrigation modernization investments to be identified under the project will have a strong
          livelihood enhancing support activities. By the same token, both structural and non-
          structural measures will be considered in the irrigation and flood management studies for
          achieving the development goals of JMP1 investments; both soil and water conservation
          and livelihood development measures will be included for watershed management to
          ensure sustainability.

     ·    Stakeholder involvement, consultation and communication form an integral part of
          the project. Strategy and plan for such activities will be developed to engage the
          stakeholders and obtain their inputs throughout the project, to ensure government
          ownership, consensus of the outputs of the identification studies and their acceptance by
          the general public.
     ·    A roadmap for preparing the identified investments and special studies on recession
          agriculture (and other recession activities), and financing and institutional arrangements
          of JMP1 are included in the project to provide for smooth transition to the next phase ­
          JMP1 Preparation. This will speed up the pace of cooperative investment program
          without sacrificing quality.

     ·    Consultancy services under the project would be packaged to the extent possible
          into bigger contracts to reduce the lengthy recruitment procedures and capacity over-
          stretch in monitoring and management of these contracts.


5. Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection

31.    The key alternatives considered for identifying the first joint multipurpose program for
development of Eastern Nile water resources include the following:
         Select a First Project and Proceed with Investment Preparation. One option to quickly
         advance the JMP1 is to select a potential first multipurpose hydropower dam (such as
         Mendaya or Karadobi) as the core of the Anchor Project based on pre-feasibility and other
         work-to-date, and then conduct analysis and consultation to confirm this selection as part
         of the preparation process. This would focus the preparatory work and perhaps be an
         efficient means to get to investment quickly. This option was rejected, because given the


                                                   9
      complex, multi-sectoral, multi-country nature of JMP, upstream analytical and
      consultation work was deemed essential to ensure the appropriate package of projects is
      selected, broad understanding of and support for the Program is built, and social
      development and environmental issues are well integrated into program/project design.
      Over the long-term, the extra two years of study and consultation supported by this
      technical assistance project will likely result in smoother and more effective project
      preparation later on.

      SSEA as a First TA Project: This option was rejected because bulk of the SSEA-related
      analytical work and information collection are done through previous studies, and
      undertaking an SSEA in isolation would lose the opportunity to interact and integrate with
      the related technical and economic studies. Further, a separate SSEA TA followed by
      another TA for JMP1 investment identification would substantially increase the total time
      needed for the identification phase.

      Site-specific Feasibility Studies before JMP1 ID: It will be very expensive and time-
      consuming to carry out full feasibility studies of all the potential sites before the optimal
      cascade development option and sequence are decided. Also it is essential that the critical
      information is collected for strategic and systematic assessment and analysis before
      intensive detailed feasibility study is embarked upon. For example, the identification study
      is expected to inform and make recommendations for the site-specific feasibility studies
      which will be undertaken in phases by Ethiopia MoWR starting with updating and pre-
      feasibility study work. Hence this option was not adopted.

      Continued Unilateral Development: In the absence of a cooperative approach to
      development, the EN countries would likely pursue their current path of unilateral
      development. Given the current level of water stress in the system, coupled with increasing
      water demands and the uncertainty of climate change, continued unilateral development is
      risky and would likely result in increased tension and instability in the region. The EN
      countries recognize this risk, and hence have committed to this next phase of studies to
      identify a package of investments that benefits all three countries. For now, the EN
      countries have chosen to pursue a cooperative approach to development over unilateral
      development. Therefore this is not a valid option.

C.   IMPLEMENTATION

1. Partnership arrangements (if applicable)

32.    The technical assistance project is a result of a partnership in NBI and among the EN
countries. The multi-donor Nile Basin Trust Fund (NBTF) has committed to financing this
project. The project also seeks to promote partnerships with the Government of Norway that is
going to fund separate site-specific feasibility studies of two potential multipurpose dam sites on
the Blue Nile with the Ministry of Water Resources, Ethiopia as the implementing agency. Close
coordination and communication mechanism has been established between the JMP1 ID and
site-specific studies to ensure synergy.




                                                10
2.     Institutional and implementation arrangements
33.     The project will be implemented by the Eastern Nile Technical Regional Office
(ENTRO). ENTRO, acting on behalf of the three Eastern Nile countries, under the general
auspices of the NBI, will enter into a project Grant Agreement with the World Bank for NBTF
grant financing. A dedicated JMP team headed by a full-time regional project coordinator will be
established within ENTRO to manage JMP identification and consultative activities, supervise
the consultants for the different studies, and coordinate related studies. ENTRO will form a
regional technical committee, small ad-hoc technical task teams, and strengthen the national
reference groups from the Eastern Nile experts in relevant fields to ensure ownership,
consultations and quality. A JMP national coordinator, appointed during the launch phase of the
JMP-1 in each country will continue to coordinate and oversee activities at the national level.
ENTRO will work with the EN countries to identify the target stakeholders, and develop and
implement a stakeholder involvement & communication strategy to engage and consult multi-
layer stakeholders in option assessment, identification studies and definition of the Anchor
Project and associated investments as well as in exploration of costs and benefit-sharing options
and mechanism among the countries and local communities in the project areas. In addition,
ENTRO will organize regional consultation and facilitate information sharing for the site-
specific feasibility studies of potential multipurpose dam sites on the Blue Nile to be
implemented under the Ministry of Water Resources, Ethiopia through Norwegian funding.

34.     A JMP1 Steering Committee, comprised of senior decision-making officials representing
Ministry of Water, Ministry of Finance, Environment Protection Agency and Power Utility, will
provide overall strategic and technical oversight, clear final JMP1 Identification reports for
submission to the ENCOM (and relevant Ministers), and ensure country commitment and
integration with ongoing national programs/projects. ENCOM will provide overall policy
guidance and take policy decisions, with Joint Ministerial meetings as required. Further, the
Regional Parliamentarian Committee formed in the JMP Launch Phase will continue through the
Identification Phase to enhance political engagement.

35.     A panel of independent reviewers (PIR) to provide an independent and high level
technical, environmental and social evaluation of the strategic assessment, JMP 1 identification
process, selection of the preferred cascade and of the anchor project will be established. The
reports of the PIR will be the basis for identifying deficiencies or areas of potential improvement
in the plans and outcomes of the JMP 1 identification phase. The PIR will consist of members
with expertise in key domains such as water resources and hydropower planning; dam
engineering, and environment and social impact assessments. An appropriate mechanism will
also be established for independent reviews of the site specific feasibility studies being
undertaken by the Ministry of Water Resources (MOWR) of Ethiopia. Separate from JMP1 ID,
MOWR, at the Bank's suggestion, has agreed to establish two independent review panels, one
for dam safety and a second for the social and environmental review, in connection with the site
specific feasibility studies it is conducting. It has been suggested that ENTRO and the MOWR
would draw from the same pool of experts, to the extent practical, for the independent review
related to JMP 1 ID and the separate site specific studies, to ensure coordination and consistency
of good practice advice.




                                                11
36.     The World Bank team will supervise the implementation of the project and take part in
the review of the consultants' key outputs, provide technical advice to ENTRO team and
selectively participate in the consultation process.

3. Monitoring and Evaluation of Outcomes/Results

37.     Overall monitoring of project activities will be undertaken by ENTRO. Following the
NBI-Secretariat's introduction of result based planning for the NBI programs, ENTRO has
introduced this system into its work programming and reporting. In order to strengthen the M&E
capacity, ENTRO has engaged an M&E Officer to support M&E activities for all ENSAP
projects including the JMP1 ID. The monitoring and evaluation framework for the JMP1 ID
project as included in Annex 3 will be the basis of the M&E work covering technical, financial
and procurement aspects, etc. A panel of independent reviewers comprising of technical, social,
and environmental experts will be appointed to review the outputs of the main study consultants.
In addition, the Bank will supervise this technical assistance the same way as a regular lending
operation. The Bank will also carry out a mid-term review and post-completion assessment.


4.     Sustainability

38.     Sustainability is the central theme of the project design and focus. It is the single most
important criterion for development alternative screening, option assessment and various studies,
covering all aspects of the project: technical, economic, institutional, and social and
environmental. First, a top notch international firm will be hired to undertake the main
identification studies, and a panel of independent reviewers will be engaged to review the
outputs of studies, both to ensure the quality of the project products. Second, a widely accepted
economic analysis methodology will be adopted to evaluate the costs and benefits of various
development options and scenarios to identify the investments that provide the maximum net
joint benefits to EN countries. Last but not the least, wide range of stakeholders will be engaged
throughout the TA project to consult them and seek inputs and feedbacks on the strategic
assessments and identification studies, etc so as not to miss major development issues related to
the EN JMP1.

39.     Finally, the EN countries and ENTRO have both demonstrated strong commitment to the
JMP 1. Extensive and structured stakeholder consultation through targeted multilayer
involvement and communication efforts, included under the project will help secure strong
ownership of the EN countries and other stakeholders, and lead to good results in public
acceptance and mitigating the critical risks identified. Finally, regarding social and
environmental sustainability, the main mechanism is the SSEA to be carried out in two phases
for screening out the socially unacceptable and/or environmentally unsustainable options, and for
assessing the cumulative social and environmental impacts and benefit-sharing options to ensure
sustainability of investments.

5.     Critical risks and possible controversial aspects

40.     The main risks with mitigation measures identified at this stage and risk ratings after
mitigation are summarized below:


                                                12
                                                                                             Rating after
        Risk                      Mitigation Measure
                                                                                             Mitigation
                        (i) Task team will ensure that adequate attention be given to
                        social and environmental aspects of the studies by all parties
                        concerned throughout the technical assistance. This includes
                        production of a credible Strategic Social and Environment
Bank's reputation in    Assessment (SSEA) by qualified international consultants;
associating with        (ii) A well conceived communication strategy will be developed
                        with the help of Bank's EXT team to ensure effective
potentially
                        communication and information sharing with interested parties;       High
controversial large     (iii) This project will be on the Corporate Risk Watch List for
multipurpose storage    Africa Region, to maintain high level of vigilance;
dams                    (iv) An Internal Group of Advisors with representation from
                        Legal, Safeguards, Communication, and Social (currently filled
                        by Charles Di Leva, Stephen Lintner, Maninder Gill and Jill
                        Wilkins), will be used to seek guidance and strategic support on
                        pertinent issues
                        (i) Egypt, Sudan and Ethiopia may continue their cooperative
                        efforts in the Eastern Nile, even in the absence of a more
                        comprehensive Nile basin agreement. (ii) The joint work that
                        has already been undertaken and shared understanding of the
                        potential benefits from cooperation point to a continued
Cooperative efforts     commitment among EN countries to pursuing a more optimal
                        development path.
among Eastern Nile      (iii) Following October 2008 ENCOM meeting, an official joint
                                                                                             Substantial
riparian stall          letter has been sent to the Bank by Egypt Minister of Investment
                        on behalf of ENCOM to confirm the commitment of three
                        countries to JMP1 and request Bank support. Confirmed by
                        Ethiopia Minister of Finance.
                        (iv) Bank will continue working closely with other development
                        partners to safeguard the cooperative efforts
                        (i) A well-conceived communication strategy and program for
                        consultation and information-sharing throughout the project will
                        be developed and implemented early on in the implementation
No consensus on         stage.
investment project      (ii) All the stakeholders will be adequately consulted at the each
                        of the key points of the project with their inputs taken into
selection under         account in the decision process to ensure their commitment
                                                                                             Substantial
JMP1, including         and/or support, and build consensus on the project products as
public acceptance       the project proceeds.
                        (iii) The senior officials of key ministries (water, power and
                        finance) of three countries will sit on the JMP1 Steering
                        Committee to ensure the government ownership.
                        (i) The countries will be urged to continue with their practice of
                        sharing data as during development of the EN One-System
                        Inventory, and NBI projects.
                        (ii) Formal procedures for sharing information on NBI
Difficulty in getting   programs, prepared at the request of Nile COM, are in draft final
                        form and are scheduled to be presented to the Nile COM at their
access to critical      next regular meeting (iii) Numerous previous studies readily
                                                                                             Moderate
data (data gap)         accessible provide rich sources of data needed for JMP1 studies.
                        (iv) ENTRO will continue to facilitate with information sharing
                        through different channels.
                        (v) International consultants will hire national partners with
                        local work and data gathering.
Complexity level of     (i) Project design will be kept simple with realistic targets.
                        (ii) Detailed project implementation plan (PIP) will be prepared
project design and
                        and appraised before Grant negotiations.                             Moderate
compatibility with      (iii) Qualified international consultants will be recruited to
implementation          undertake the project studies, supplemented by independent



                                                           13
capacity (ENTRO      reviewers;
and in-country)      (iv) The Bank team will comprise staff and consultants with
                     experiences of similar studies.
                     (v) Bank team will continue to monitor progress,
                     complementarity and quality of relevant studies and reviews
                     being taken outside the scope, but in parallel, of JMP1 ID.
                     The risk with fluctuating procurement performance at ENTRO
ENTRO's              may be partly mitigated through (i) additional procurement staff;
fluctuating          (ii) training, and (iii) the use of consultants, where capacity gaps
                     exist. The roles and responsibilities of the existing procurement
                                                                                            Moderate
procurement
capacity             staff be clearly defined and their work carefully monitored and
                     facilitated by ENTRO management.
Overall Rating                                                                              Substantial

6.     Loan/credit conditions and covenants

41.     The following are the conditions to be met prior to Grant Approval, to ensure readiness
for timely implementation:
        (i) A JMP1 Core Team, including a transitional staffing arrangement, is operational, in
        line with the detailed staffing plan agreed upon at Appraisal with the World Bank;
        (ii) The members of the Steering Committee and Regional Technical Committee will be
        appointed under TORs that have been agreed upon with the World Bank;
        (iii) Members of the panel of independent reviewers will be short-listed with TORs
        acceptable to the World Bank;
        (iv) ENTRO will finalize the Stakeholder Involvement & Communication Strategy.

42.     The following requirements specific to implementation of this project are to be included
in the Grant Agreement:
        (i) ENTRO shall ensure that the JMP1 Steering Committee, ENTRO Project Team,
        Regional Technical Committee, National Reference Groups in three EN countries are
        adequately staffed and maintained with appropriate terms of reference agreeable to the
        Bank until project completion;
        (ii) ENTRO shall appoint and maintain throughout the project period a panel of
        independent reviewers composed of qualified experts in the fields of dam engineering,
        social development and environment, with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank;
        (iii) ENTRO shall develop and implement a detailed time-bound Stakeholder
        Involvement and Communication Program agreeable to the Bank.

43.    The following standard requirements are also to be included in the Grant Agreement:
       (i) ENTRO shall maintain a financial management system for the Project, maintained by
       qualified staff comprising an updated financial manual and a computerized project
       accounting and management information system throughout the Project;
       (ii) ENTRO will prepare and update a procurement plan covering an 18-month period
       that has been agreed upon with the World Bank;
       (iii) ENTRO shall ensure that independent private auditors are engaged to provide an
       assurance on the effectiveness and application of internal controls over contractual
       payments and grant use. As part of the NBI institutional harmonization process the
       independent external audit of ENTRO will be also harmonized. This process is currently




                                                        14
       on-going under NBI Institutional Strengthening Project and will be finalized within the
       next few fiscal years;
       (iv) ENTRO shall monitor the physical and financial progress of the Project,
       implementation of all project activities, analyze the data on key performance indicators
       according to the Results Frameworks on a regular basis and prepare and submit semi-
       annual progress reports, and by May 31 of each year, the annual work plans for the
       following year. The annual work program for the following year will be finalized in
       agreement with the Bank not later than June 30 of each project year; (vii) A mid-term
       review (MTR) of the Project would be undertaken a year after effectiveness. For this
       purpose, ENTRO needs to carry out a joint assessment with the EN countries, prepare
       and furnish to the Bank a review report two months before the MTR;
       (v) ENTRO shall prepare and furnish to the Bank, an implementation completion report
       assessing the performance of project implementation, the results of implementation as
       well as lessons learnt within three months of Grant Closing Date.

D.     APPRAISAL SUMMARY

1.     Economic and financial analyses

44.     This technical assistance project will advance cooperative development of joint
investments in the Eastern Nile basin by building the foundation that is critical for making sound
decisions on the first package of investments under the JMP. In concrete (though unquantifiable)
terms, the direct benefits of the project include the information base established through joint
assessments and studies, a trained staff as a result of capacity building programs, more rigorous
analytical tools, and a common understanding of the opportunities and risks built through
stakeholder involvement. The longer-term associated benefits include all those generated by the
package of investments that will be identified by this TA project. The costs of this TA are
considered to be nominal when viewed relative to the scale of the investment package that it is
expected to lead to (estimated to be in the range of US$ 4-5 billion).

2.     Technical

45.     The project does not involve use of complex technologies, except the modeling studies
for cascade development and sequencing. Even for the modeling studies, well established generic
models for simulation and optimization are readily available on the market for customization
according to modeling needs. To make the studies successful and well accepted by the countries
stakeholders, three technical factors are critical. First is an experienced study team. For that,
ENTRO is in the process of recruiting a consortium of international consultants. Second is
availability of reliable data. Assurance has been obtained from the EN countries through the
ENCOM mechanism to share hydrological and other data required for the JMP1 ID studies.
Third is the choice of decision criteria for making trade-offs among different multiple benefits
and beneficiaries, to identify the optimal JMP1 investments. Structured decision making
technique will be used to build consensus among stakeholders on the decision criteria to be used.
In addition, purpose driven special studies, such as studies on recession agriculture (and other
recession activities), financing and institutional arrangements for JMP1 implementation, will be
undertaken to supplement the main identification studies. Further, the numerous existing and
ongoing related studies and projects will provide substantial inputs to the project.


                                               15
3.     Fiduciary

46.     Financial Management: The overall responsibility for the financial management aspects
of the Project rests with ENTRO. ENTRO is now managed by strong management team and has
good experience in implementation of Bank and NBTF financed projects. It is now managing
several NBTF-funded projects and studies satisfactorily. The Finance and Administration Unit
has experienced and qualified staff to handle the financial management of the Grant. ENTRO
uses Microsoft Dynamic Solomon accounting software which can produce financial statements
of the project. The project activities are recorded according to its computerized accounting
systems by setting separate ledger books so as to report the project activities. The annual audited
financial statements, along with the management letter, will be submitted to the Bank not later
than six months after the end of the fiscal year. The external auditors are expected to issue a
single audit opinion on the consolidated financial statements of ENTRO, including financial
transactions of this project. ENTRO will submit IFRs 45 days after the end of each calendar
Quarter. ENTRO will open and manage a Designated Account in US dollars in a commercial
Bank on terms and conditions that are satisfactory to the Bank.
47.    Procurement: Procurement for the Project would be managed by the ENTRO
Procurement Unit. The Unit has a detailed procurement manual produced in March 2007
containing details on procurement objectives, policy, organization, and procedures. There is
under development a draft harmonized procurement manual for NBI that when finalized will
replace the ENTRO procurement manual and will be used for all NBI projects including JMP1
ID. Two procurement professionals in the ENTRO are currently in place: a Senior Procurement
Specialist and a Junior Procurement Specialist. The procurement staff has demonstrated
reasonable capacity to manage procurement activities under the project, based on their
performance during the project preparation. The JMP1 ID has one main consultancy contract of
US$3.8 million to be procured using the Quality Based Selection (QBS) method and a number of
smaller consultancy contracts and goods contracts. All the procurements are to be carried out by
the ENTRO following the Bank procurement guidelines as detailed in Annex 8.
4.     Social

48.     Social analysis will build on previous socio-economic studies (such as the One System
Inventory) and will inform the JMP1 ID studies. The studies to identify the Anchor Project will
focus on potential positive and negative impacts on communities in various locations. Similarly,
studies on the options of the Non-Anchor Projects will look into potential benefits and mitigation
of adverse impacts. Issus such as displacement, impacts on access to natural resources, potential
for improvement in incomes and livelihoods, and impacts on social cohesion, and potential to
benefit vulnerable groups such as indigenous peoples, female headed households, and youth, etc.
will inform the choices of the Anchor and non-Anchor Projects.

49.     Specifically, the SSEA will examine three broad scenarios: continued unilateral
development, having the JMP, or having smaller dams on the tributaries of the Abbay/Blue Nile,
and analyze the potential differential impacts this will have on communities. It will examine
each alternative and build detailed scenarios of the social impacts - both the potential for positive
social development and the measures needed to mitigate adverse impacts.


                                                 16
50.      Stakeholder Involvement and Communication: Stakeholder involvement, consultation
and communication have been viewed as a crucial corner stone to the success of the JMP process.
The aim is to inform, involve and consult relevant stakeholders on the studies and follow-up
investments which can be of a potentially controversial nature. To this end, a detailed
Stakeholder Involvement and Communication Strategy has been developed for the identification
phase of JMP. This strategy identifies target groups of stakeholders at the regional, national and
basin level. However, during this phase, interaction is largely with secondary stakeholders as the
exact location of the project remains to be determined. The strategy outlines the main
instruments that are being used to engage the stakeholders (e.g. specific forums, communication
materials, participation in studies, dissemination of study results, etc.), with a time-line of
activities. Communication materials and outputs are also identified. The recent completion of
the Database of Nile Secondary Stakeholders (DaNSS) is a significant achievement and serves as
the primary resource to implement the Stakeholder Involvement and Communications Strategy.

51.      The communications strategy is based on the following key principles: (i) to inform while
respecting stakeholders opinions in terms of concerns and lack of awareness; (ii) to create an
open and reliable dialogue with the stakeholders in order to get the feedback and readjust the
strategy as needed; (iii) to use a multimedia approach to ensure that all related segments of
stakeholders are reached; (iv) to encourage the Project staff and management to keep themselves
informed and be accessible to both the media and the public; and (v) to build on the
implementation of the Project activities and give visibility to implementing agencies as credible
institutions with a clear vision in addressing issues. The strategy outlines detailed activities and
outputs within the time-line of the identification phase.

5.     Environment

52. This technical assistance is not expected to have any adverse environmental impacts.
Environmental considerations will be an integrated part of the identification studies. The main
instrument for mainstreaming environmental considerations in the JMP1 identification
assessment and studies is the SSEA. The SSEA will be undertaken by an experienced
international team in two stages throughout the identification process of the JMP1 investments.
In addition, the project will help build the capacity of ENTRO and related agencies in the three
countries to better manage environmental and social issues in water resources planning and
development. As for preparation for the next phase of JMP1, the ongoing NBI Institutional
Strengthening Project will support the development of a Nile safeguards framework that will set
the ground rules for investment operations in the Nile Basin. A draft framework is expected
before May, 2010.

53.    The project will also prioritize technical support, training and upgrading of skills within
ENTRO and other partner agencies in the areas of social and environmental analysis and
safeguards.

6.     Safeguard policies

54.     Given the upstream nature of this technical assistance, two safeguards policies are
triggered: Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01) and International Waterways (OP 7.50). The


                                                17
main vehicle for OP 4.01 under JMP1 ID is the SSEA to integrate social and environmental
considerations into options assessments and Anchor Project related studies. While OP 7.50 is
triggered by JMP1 ID, it is exempt from OP 7.50 notification requirements under paragraph 7.b,
as the work is upstream in nature and does not include engineering studies. However, given the
importance and visibility of the JMP, and in alignment with NBI information sharing policies,
ENTRO will be strongly encouraged to distribute project information describing the JMP1
Identification technical assistance project and associated studies. In keeping with best practice,
this may be accomplished through a letter and associated project profile distributed to all Nile
riparians by the NBI Secretariat. Alternatively, as customary practice, a project profile for the
JMP1 Identification studies may also be minuted at a Nile-COM meeting.

55. OP 4.37 is not triggered because the JMP1 ID is a technical assistance operation of a very
upstream nature and, directly it does not support any dam, nor does it include the design of any
dam. However, the JMP1 ID is part of a process that may identify a future multipurpose dam
investment on the Blue Nile. As such, in the spirit of OP 4.37, JMP1 ID provides for independent
review of key outputs of the JMP1 ID Study.

Safeguard Policies Triggered                                       Yes          No         TBD
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01)                               X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                                   X

Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                            X

Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                       X

Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11)                                        X

Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10)                                                 X

Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                           X

Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                     X

Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP 7.50)                    X

Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60)                                         X


56.     Disclosure: JMP 1 ID is a technical assistance project, and does not include physical
investments. A `Strategy for Addressing Environmental and Social Safeguards' was developed
under the NBI Institutional Strengthening Project, and first disclosed as its safeguards instrument
on April 11, 2008 in the Eastern Nile, and in the InfoShop on April 23, 2008. This document is
applicable to all technical assistance projects that fall under NBI, such as JMP 1 ID. Thus the
Strategy has been disclosed again as the primary safeguards instrument for JMP 1 ID in the three
participating countries and in the InfoShop.

57.    A key safeguards measure for the JMP1 ID will be the preparation during project
implementation of the Strategic Social & Environmental Assessment (SSEA). The SSEA will
broadly examine, in an integrated manner, the linkages and cumulative impacts of potential


                                                18
scenarios on physical, biological, socio-economic and cultural issues. Key safeguard issues,
such as natural habitats, pest management, physical cultural resources, involuntary resettlement
and dam safety would be broadly addressed as part of the SSEA process. Multi-layer
consultations and disclosure will be supported through implementation of a Stakeholder
Involvement and Communication Strategy/Program.

58.     The ToRs for the SSEA was disclosed before appraisal. In addition, ENTRO will
publicly disclose executive summaries of final key technical reports and the SSEA reports in
English when available. Summaries of key technical reports and of SSEA reports will be
translated into local languages (i.e. Arabic and Amharic) before disclosure.

7.     Policy Exceptions and Readiness

59.    There are no policy exceptions required.

60.     In terms of readiness, the project design, schedule and cost estimates, as well as
approaches and arrangements for different components and sub-components have been agreed
upon between ENTRO and the Bank. The ENCOM has authorized the ENTRO to proceed with
the identification phase and has endorsed the proposed implementation arrangements. A JMP1
Steering Committee, a Regional Technical Committee, National Reference Groups and a JMP1
team within ENTRO, as well as a panel of independent reviewers, are being established with
terms of reference acceptable to the Bank. Important documents for guiding project
implementation such as Project Implementation Plan (PIP, draft) and Stakeholder Involvement &
Communication Strategy (draft final) have been prepared. Recruitment of the main identification
study consultants is at proposal stage and is expected to be completed by September, 2009. The
conceptual TORs for potential special studies have been prepared with the understanding that the
final scope and timing would be determined later in the project period when the needs are clearly
identified in light of the closely related studies.




                                               19
Annex 1: Country and Sector Background

                  Eastern Nile First Joint Multipurpose Program Identification


The Eastern Nile and Three EN Countries:

The Eastern Nile (EN) Basin, located at the northeastern part of Africa continent, is home to the most
populous countries in Africa and some least developed countries in the world. Geographically it covers
major part of Ethiopia, part of Sudan, Egypt and minor part of Eritrea (less than 3,500 km2). Its economy
is about the same size as Greece, while its land area (estimated at 1.66 million km2) and population are
some 35 and 20 times of Greece respectively. A brief background of the three EN countries, Egypt,
Ethiopia and Sudan, is as follows:

Egypt is the most downstream riparian of the Eastern Nile river basin with close to 99 per cent of the
population residing along the banks of the Nile, or in the Nile Delta. There is a highly sophisticated
understanding and implementation of irrigation resulting in increased agricultural productivity seven
times that achieved by the other riparian, which due to limited agricultural land and salinity among other
issues, still does not meet domestic requirements leading to Egypt's needs to import food. However, due
to a strong industrial base the Egyptian economy is able to register continued growth; this industrial base
has been identified as a major consumer of electricity which at present Egypt generates though
hydropower and natural gas. The present levels of supply and the limited opportunity for the increase in
power production mean that Egypt needs to look for options such as nuclear power for future power
generation requirements predicted to increase to 82Twh by 2020. This will drive up the cost of electricity
for industries and households leading to dis-savings throughout the economy.

Ethiopia is the most upstream country of the three riparian, and is also the poorest. The incidence of
poverty is high among the rural population. A large number of the rural poor live in the Ethiopian
Highlands where the Eastern Nile river system starts yet lack the financial and labor requirements to
utilize the resources base around them to improve their livelihood. Compounding the problem is the
environmental degradation, resulting in 150 million tons of sediment crossing the border annually to
Sudan annually, from poor resources management and utilization. Moreover, the population's dependence
on erratic rain-fed agriculture coupled with poor farming practices and environmental degradation, has
placed more than 5 million Ethiopians into a vicious cycle of droughts and chronic poverty. The
Ethiopian economy in recent years has been showing double-digit growth which has been attributed to
increasing industrialization, agricultural productivity and exports. The effects of the growth in agricultural
activity have been generally overshadowed by the global food prices crisis and the high local inflation
rate. The growth in industry is however evident in the power shortages the country is experiencing due to
shortage of power supply to meet growing demand.

Sudan is best suited for large scale irrigation, with a potential area of 2.7 million hectares1, due to the flat
lay of the land, and the relatively low population density, along the Nile River and other rivers. The
presence of the large irrigation schemes, including Gezira, covering about 800,000 hectares along the Nile
River comes therefore as no surprise. However, agricultural productivity is limited to a small range of
crops cultivated which results in poorly utilized potential. Cereal productivity in Sudan is way below that
in Egypt. The government of Sudan is keen on modernizing the existing schemes to improve the
productivity and diversity of the irrigation schemes. Impacting power generation and irrigation has also
been the rapid reduction in the storage capacity of reservoirs by the high influx of sediment from the

1
    AQUASTAT 2005 Sudan Country Profile


                                                      20
highly degraded Ethiopian Highlands, and the ensuing high maintenance costs. Operating rules to reduce
the impact of sediment laden high flows compounded by the flat land along the rivers has meant that,
flooding is a major issue for inhabitants along the river channel with high potential of heavy economic
and human life losses based on the experiences of recent history.


Macro-economy in The Eastern Nile Basin2

Economic growth in recent times in all three countries has been impressive, but the region is
characterized by macroeconomic disparity. The three Eastern Nile countries, Egypt, Ethiopia and Sudan
have achieved considerable progress in economic development in the last decade. The combined GDP of
the three countries reached approximately $214 billion in 2007. However, with the notable exception of
Egypt, it is clear that Ethiopia and Sudan represent two of the least developed countries in the world. In
Ethiopia, with a GDP per capita of $145 in 2007 (constant 2000 US$.), about 50 percent of people fall
below the basic needs poverty line. Similarly, in Sudan with a GDP per capita of $462 in 2007, although
rich in natural resources, poverty remains widespread and delivery of social services inadequate. Egypt
with a GDP per capita of $1,617 has positioned itself as a middle-income country although regional
disparity is still significant.

Following the 2002-03 droughts, economic growth in Ethiopia has rebounded strongly with 11 percent
growth in 2003-04 and 8.9 percent growth in 2004-05. On the strength of agriculture (12.1 percent
growth), exports of goods and services also grew 24.5 percent in 2004-05. However, the GDP per capita
has remained relatively stagnant due to high population growth, despite the substantive growth. In Sudan,
growth has been hampered by civil war, social dislocation, deterioration of basic infrastructure services
and a lack of access to aid and foreign investments. Nevertheless, thanks to a strong economic reform
package (e.g. government containment of fiscal deficits, limits on monetary growth and a reduced
inflation rate), construction activities linked to investments in oil production, and high agricultural output,
GDP growth rates since 1995 have averaged above 5 percent. In Egypt, after rapid growth from 1976 to
1986, plummeting oil prices led to lower growth rates, but recent reform policies and heavy borrowing, as
well as prudent stabilization efforts and structural reforms, have reversed this trend. The first half of 2005
registered GDP growth rates above 5 percent. This recovery has mainly been fueled by the tourism
industry, significant natural gas findings, and an increase in exports.

                                                                   Ethiopia   Sudan      Egypt       Year
                   Population (million)                            79.2       38.1       75.5        2007
    Population     Population growth (annual %)                    2.7        2.6        1.8         2007
    and income     Surface area (thousand sq. km)                  1,104      2,505      1,001       2005
                   Gross national income per capita ($)            220        950        1,580       2007
                   Life expectancy at birth (years)                43         57         71          2007
                   Infant mortality rate (per 1,000 live births)   80         62         28          2007
    People         Youth literacy rate (% of population ages 15-
                   24))                                            no data    60.9       71.4        2004
                   GDP ($ billions)                                25.5       57.9       130.5       2007
    Economy        GDP growth (annual %)                           10.2       8          4.5         2007
                   Exports of goods and services (% of GDP)        16         18         30          2007
                   Forest area (% of land area)                    13         28.4       0.1         2005
    Environment    Access to improved sanitation (% of             13         34         70          2004


2
 Most of this Annex is taken from the draft Strategic Basin Assessment on the Eastern Nile entitled "REALIZING
OPPORTUNITIES AND MANAGING RISKS ON THE EASTERN NILE: An Overview Strategic Basin Assessment"
May 2007




                                                           21
                        population)
                        Energy use per capita (kg of oil equivalent)            298.9             476.7           734.6          2003
                        Time required to start a business (days)                16                39              19             2007
                        Fixed-line and mobile subscribers (per 1,000
 States and             people)                                                 14                69              325            2007
 markets                Road Density (road km per 1,000 sq km of land
                        area))                                                  36                no data         93             2007
                        Terms of Trade (2000=100)                               75                90              108            2007
                        Foreign direct investment, net inflows ($
 Global links           millions)                                               150               2,355           3,863          2007
                        Workers' remittances received ($ millions)              174               0               4,330          2007
Source: http://devdata.worldbank.org/atlas-mdg, The Little Data Book on Africa 2007, data from the PREM unit in the Ethiopia Country Office



Water Resources in the Eastern Nile

Water is central to the history and political economy for the three countries in the Eastern Nile region-
Egypt, Ethiopia and Sudan. The major rivers which constitute the Eastern Nile, which include the
Abbay-Blue Nile, Tekeze-Setit-Atbara, and the Baro-Akob-Sobat, form an important, shared resource
linking Egypt, Ethiopia, and Sudan (see maps in Annex 15). However, non-cooperation in sharing these
resources are long-standing and continue today. This has been a major constraint to economic growth as
the region is characterized by extreme poverty, political instability, rapid population growth, and
environmental degradation. Rainfall and river flows are highly variable while the infrastructure and
institutions (both national and regional) to manage water are limited. This results in recurrent droughts,
intense flooding, and massive erosion, which have major social and economic impacts. The productive
potential of water is also limited. Access to water and energy services are generally unreliable and
inadequate and only a small percentage of the irrigation and hydropower potential has been developed. In
existing agricultural areas, yields, crop intensities and irrigation efficiencies are low. Lastly, deforestation
and land degradation are serious, contributing to low soil productivity and increased downstream
sedimentation.

Summary Statistics for the EN Sub-basins
                          Area           Flow        Annual rainfall
    Sub-basin                                                                                    Salient Features
                          (km2)         (BCM)            (mm)
Baro-Akobo-                                                                       Important wetland areas
                           205,775              13           500 ­ 1,750
Sobat                                                                             Complex array of tribes
                                                                                  Contributes majority of the water to EN system
                                                                                  Sediment flows are high
Blue Nile/Abbay            311,548              54           500 ­ 1,800
                                                                                  Hydrologic variability is high
                                                                                  Significant potential for economic development
                                                                                  Water availability is erratic
Tekeze-Setit-                                                                     Few water infrastructure
                           227,128              12           200 ­ 1,500
Atbara                                                                            Sediment flows are high
                                                                                  Potential for small and medium-scale projects
Main Nile                  656,398              84                0 ­ 200
                                                                                  Vulnerable Delta
                                                                                  Significant pollution

As shown in the above table very little of the water supply in Egypt comes from rainfall; the vast majority
originates from surface water flows from Sudan and Ethiopia. Evapotranspiration in Egypt (includes crop
water use, evaporation losses from reservoirs, and other system evaporation losses) amount to about 57
BCM annually; another 13 BCM flows into the sea. Southward and upstream, rainfall in sub-basins
within Sudan plays a greater role but is still only about 30% of total inflows; evapotranspiration there is
about equal to surface water (outflows). In all three of the Ethiopian sub-basins the hydrology is
dominated by rainfall. However, evapotranspiration losses still far exceed surface water outflows.


                                                                    22
It is estimated that in the EN system abstractions (approximately 60 BCM demanded for irrigation) from
the system occur in the form of net consumptive use, net groundwater loss, and further losses (e.g.
reservoir losses, conveyance losses in rivers, canals, irrigation systems, and through crops). Evaporation
losses from man-made reservoirs in the system are high and estimated to be almost 20 BCM annually.
Annual conveyance losses directly from the river channel are estimated at 20 ­ 23 BCM.


Energy in the Eastern Nile

The three EN countries are endowed with rich resources for energy production, but only a small
percentage has been utilized. These include biomass, hydropower, geothermal, and hydrocarbon (oil,
natural gas, and coal), that is evident from the statistics table below. These energy resources have the
potential to create supply far in excess of energy needs in the future. However, current generation as a
share of the potential is remarkably low. In particular, only a small percentage of the potential
hydropower, with the exception of Egypt (with over 50%), has been developed in Ethiopia and Sudan.
Ethiopia has considerable hydropower potential, about 30,000 MW (second largest gross theoretical
hydropower potential in Africa of 650 TWh/yr). Only one percent of the economically feasible
hydroelectric power thus far has been developed. This generated hydropower, however, represents a
large majority of total power production in Ethiopia. For Ethiopia, Sudan, and Egypt, total installed
capacity from all sources is currently 814, 2,200, and 15,300 MW respectively.

Energy Resources in Eastern Nile
 (in physical units)                                              Ethiopia                  Egypt                      Sudan
 Hydropower (MW)                                                  30,000                    2,810                      5,100
 Oil (million tons oil equivalent)                                                          522                        65
 Natural Gas (billion m3)                                         114                       1135                       80
 Coal (million tons)                                              15                        27
 Geothermal (MW)                                                  up to 1,000
 Wood fuel (million m3)                                                                                                12
 Electricity generation potential (GWh/yr)                        260,000                   260,401                    42,407
 Electricity generation (GWh/yr)                                  3,500                     57,561                     2,063
 Utilization (%)                                                  2                         22                         5
Note: Hydropower and geothermal are technically exploitable potential. Oil, gas, and coal are estimated recoverable reserves. Wood fuel
estimates are approximate.


Energy consumption per capita is low compared to the developed world. Electricity consumption per
capita in the Eastern Nile is low compared to the world average of 2,423 KWh per capita. In 2004, per
capita electricity consumption in Ethiopia, Egypt, and Sudan was 30, 1110, and 91 KWh respectively. In
Ethiopia, presently 95 percent of national energy consumption is derived from fuel wood, dung, crop
residues, and human and animal power. The remaining 5 percent is from electricity. Sudan relies mainly
on biomass such as fuel wood, charcoal, and animal residues for its energy provision. The government
estimates total energy consumption at about 13 million tons of oil-equivalent, out of which biomass
accounts for about 78 percent, 15 percent is from oil fuel, and the remaining 7 percent is from hydro and
thermal power. In Egypt, almost all of the energy that is consumed is from hydrocarbons and hydropower.
Energy intensity, defined as the energy consumption per unit of GDP in Egypt was equal to 0.75
KWh/USD, which is comparable to other oil producing countries in the region (Algeria: 0.41) and lower
than others (Iran: 1.08) but higher than Western European countries such as Germany (030) and France
(0.34). Energy intensity in Ethiopia and Sudan were 0.21 and 0.29 KWh/USD respectively. Moreover,
energy intensity has increased significantly for Egypt and moderately for Sudan.



                                                                     23
Access to electricity is low but demands are projected to increase dramatically. With the exception of
Egypt, access to electricity as of 2000 also remains low (10% in Ethiopia and 15% in Sudan). Demand
for electricity is forecasted for 2020 to be 4285, 191220, and 14212 GWH for Ethiopia, Egypt, and Sudan
respectively. In Egypt alone, demand is expected to increase by about 6-7% over the next 10 years. To
meet these growing demands, the countries in the Eastern Nile are planning ambitious development of
national sources, for example, the Universal Access Project funded by the Bank in Ethiopia.

Although the countries in the EN have undertaken ambitious expansion plans, grids are isolated,
power trade is currently limited, and transmission losses are high. In general, the infrastructure for
generation and transmission is poor. The Ethiopian grid represents about 2.5 percent of the installed
capacity and is isolated. The importance of developing reliable energy supplies is clear in Ethiopia where
power interruption is common in years of severe drought. A one day interruption was estimated to result
in a loss of 10-15 percent of the GDP for the day (EEPRI, 2003). Distances to the grids in Sudan and
Eritrea are about 500 km whereas the distances to the grids in Kenya and Uganda are approximately
double that. The Ethiopian Electric Power Corporation (EEPCo) is currently working on interconnections
with Sudan Kenya, Tanzania, Djibouti and Yemen to export electricity. The grid in Sudan is also isolated
with a distance to the Egyptian grid of approximately 800 km. Transmission electricity system losses are
estimated at around 31 percent (of total output) in 1998. In Egypt, the grid represents more than 80
percent of the installed capacity in the region and is well developed with a strong 500 kV transmission
line from Aswan to Cairo. Both Egypt and Sudan are currently net exporters of energy while Ethiopia is a
net importer. There are existing interconnections (began 1998) between Egypt and neighboring Libya and
Jordan. ENTRO has recently completed Feasibility Study for regional transmission system.


Agriculture in the Eastern Nile

The agriculture sector represents a significant contribution to the economies of the Eastern Nile
countries. The agriculture value added as a percentage of GDP (in 2005) for Ethiopia, Egypt, and Sudan
was 48, 14, and 34 percents respectively. Current irrigated areas (with the exception of the Nile Delta) in
the EN are low. Moreover, the agriculture sector also represents a substantive source of employment for
these countries (25, 8.5, and 7.8 million agricultural workers in Ethiopia, Egypt, and Sudan respectively).
Moreover, agriculture value-added has been relatively constant for Egypt (approximately 2-4% per year)
in strict comparison to Sudan and Ethiopia which have experienced a range of annual growth rates from -
20% to +30%. This is in large part due to the hydrologic variability described in the previous sections.
Some basic agricultural and irrigation statistics are summarized below:

Because water is limited, efficiency improvements and development of high-value export crops are
critical to the agriculture sector. An estimated 3.5 million farmers cultivate average holdings of 0.85
hectares, making the agriculture sector the largest employment sector in Egypt. Almost all agriculture in
Egypt is irrigated. Farming is made difficult with an irregular and insufficient supply. Although the
completion of the Aswan High Dam made more irrigation possible, the resulting rise in the water table
increased water logging and the salt content of the irrigation water. Principle crops currently include
wheat, cotton, sugarcane, and vegetables. Egypt has a cropping intensity of about 230% with crop yields
for wheat (5.4 t/ha), rice (7.7 t/ha), and cotton (1.2 t/ha) among the highest in the world. The total water
managed area is 3.2 million ha of which more than 90 percent is in the Nile valley and delta. The total
potential for irrigation development can be estimated as 4.4 million ha. Farmers are not charged for
irrigation water but pay taxes based on the size of the irrigated land. Lastly, the private sector has been
involved with introducing water-saving technologies to support high-value export-oriented crops.

There is high dependence on rainfed low-productivity agriculture which makes the economy of
Ethiopia vulnerable to climate variability. In Ethiopia, the dominant agricultural system is small-holder


                                                    24
(generally less than a hectare) production of cereals under rain-fed conditions (approximately 10 million
ha), leaving the population and economy extremely vulnerable to the hydrologic cycle. Much of this
agriculture is of the subsistence nature. Half of GDP and over 80 percent of employment depend on
agriculture. Hydrologic variability is reflected in the annual GDP growth rates (quote some data from
Country Water Assistance Strategy). These small-holder farmers account for about 95 percent of the
agricultural output. Principal crops include coffee, pulses (e.g., beans), oilseeds, cereals, potatoes,
sugarcane, and vegetables. Exports are almost entirely agricultural commodities, and coffee is the largest
foreign exchange earner. Income levels from agricultural production are not only low but highly variable,
with livestock as the primary asset to adapt. Ethiopia has the largest livestock population in Africa with
72 percent owning cattle. For example, the Baro-Akobo-Sobat basin in Ethiopia is home to 1.2 million
cattle, 0.4 million sheep, 0.24 million goats, 0.09 million equines and 1.1 million chicken. Lastly, only
limited irrigation has been developed. It is estimated that less than 5 percent of the cultivated land in
Ethiopia has been developed for irrigation.

Despite being an important agricultural producer for the region, agricultural productivity and
efficiencies in Sudan are low. Sudan has a vast and diverse agricultural resource base that provides
various means of sustaining livelihoods. Its irrigation schemes, such as Gizera, are among the largest in
the world, providing cotton and food crops. Rain fed areas produce livestock, lumber, grain, and tree
crops, and rivers, lakes, and coastal areas offer rich fishing opportunities. Sudan's economic growth is
much dominated by agriculture. Of the main agricultural systems, irrigated agriculture contributes about
50 percent of the total crop production (mostly cotton, sugar cane, legumes, orchard crops, peanuts, and
wheat) and 27 percent of agricultural GDP. Sudan has an irrigation potential of about 4.8 million ha.
Although there is room for expansion of agricultural areas, there are severe water resource,
environmental, financial, technical and management constraints. For example, the Gezira scheme in
Sudan (one of the biggest contiguous irrigation systems from a single outlet in the world covering about
880,000 ha) is assumed to produce a little more than one-quarter of the GDP from all irrigation schemes
(most of the cotton, sugar cane, legumes, orchard crops, peanuts and wheat), accounts for 7 percent of
agricultural GDP, and about 3 percent of national GDP. Although Sudan has invested heavily in irrigated
agriculture, returns have been much below potential. From 1976 ­ 1989, yields were low and extremely
variable, and cultivated areas suffered a gradual decline. Cropping intensity in the Gezira scheme
dropped from 75 to 57 percent, as 126,000 ha were taken out of production due to siltation and
mismanagement of the canals. Moreover, upstream soil erosion has resulted in increased sedimentation in
this irrigation system. In 1991, it was estimated that some 10 million cubic meters of silt was deposited
into the irrigation system, of which some 60% remained in the canals. Desilting of some 17,244 km of
irrigation and 10,650 km of drainage canals in this scheme alone was estimated to cost in 1997/98 SD1,
366.8 million. These large publicly owned capital-intensive irrigation schemes have not been sustainable
financially and regularly require budget subsidies and government guaranteed credit. With the priority
given to irrigation, funding for basic support services as well as credit for small-scale rainfed agriculture
that supports the majority of the rural poor have been neglected.


Environmental Reality in the Eastern Nile

The Eastern Nile is a critical environmental asset for the region. The linkages between environmental
conditions and human welfare are complex. Human development depends on the ability of the
environment to provide a variety of goods and services and to sustain these into the future. People rely on
the environment for food, drinking water, shelter, and energy. Ecological processes maintain soil
productivity, nutrient cycling, and clean air and water. A number of environmental problems threaten the
economic and social sustainability of the region and need to be seriously managed in any scenario of the
future development.




                                                     25
Watersheds are highly degraded and deforestation rates are high in Ethiopia resulting in high
downstream sedimentation. The catchments of many of the sub-basins of the EN are highly prone to
erosion, accelerated by deforestation, overgrazing and poor land management. For example, Ethiopia
loses about 141,000 hectares of natural forest each year due to firewood collection, conversion to
farmland, overgrazing, and use of forest wood for building material. Ethiopia faces a difficult future,
because the agricultural sector, which forms the backbone of the economy, is totally dependent on forest
resources. Between 1990 and 2005, Ethiopia lost 14 percent of its forest cover or 2.1 million hectares.
Deforestation rates have increased by 10.4 percent since the close of the 1990s. Consequently, in Ethiopia
the erosion from the Blue Nile alone results in about 150 million tons of sediment making it across the
border to Sudan. Ethiopia is estimated to lose up to 400 tons of fertile soil per hectare from lands devoid
of vegetative cover as well as form lands where no soil conservation has been carried out. About 130
metric tons of soil per year is lost from the Abbay sub-basin alone. This impacts the rest of the EN
system in multiple ways. First, the highlands in Ethiopia lose very scarce land. Second, the
sedimentation results in reduction in life of reservoirs and siltation of irrigation systems downstream (for
example, half the O&M budget for the Gezira Scheme is for de-siltation of irrigation canals). Thirdly, the
reservoirs downstream are operated to reduce silt accumulation, dumping their water before the expected
rains, increasing vulnerability to droughts and reducing hydropower generation.

           Sub-basin Area (Km2)
                                                                                  High risk (> 200 t/ha/annum)
                 800,000
                                                                                  Medium (100 ­ 200 t/ha/annum)
                 700,000
                                                                                  Low risk (20 ­ 100 t/ha/annum)
                 600,000

                 500,000                                                          Tolerable (< 20 t/ha/annum)

                 400,000

                 300,000

                 200,000

                 100,000

                     -
                                  Main Nile     Baro-Akobo-Sobat         Blue Nile       Tekeze-Atbara-
                                                  and White Nile                              Setit

                                        Soil erosion characterization by EN sub-basin
The major environmental problem in the lower parts of the Eastern Nile is degrading water quality.
The main threats to basin-wide water quality are insufficiently treated domestic, urban, and industrial
wastes, non-point source pollution from pesticide and fertilizer residues, siltation and sedimentation, and
increased salinity. Increasingly, serious waterborne diseases are prevalent throughout much of the EN.

Domestic: Although the population served by adequate sewage treatment plants is expected to double by
2017, the number of people not served is expected to remain unchanged at about 42 million due to
corresponding growth in populations. The Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD) lowers in the system
dissolved oxygen demands, especially near large settlements.

Industrial: It is estimated that about 550 MCM of untreated industrial waste makes its way to the Nile in
Egypt, contaminating the waters with further oxygen demand, heavy metals and other toxics. Although
water quality is mostly good in most reaches of the Eastern Nile, pollution from tanneries and textile
industries, from mining, manufacturing and other industries is increasing.

Agricultural: About 6.5 million tons of fertilizer and substantial quantities of pesticide (for cotton,
vegetables and rice) are used in Egypt that results in significant water quality problems in the surface and


                                                            26
groundwater of the EN delta. In Sudan, agricultural runoff containing high loads of fertilizers and
pesticides, industrial wastes and domestic effluents cause deterioration of water quality in the irrigation
drains, especially if discharged during low flow periods.

Other: Dumping of solid waste and other sources of water pollution could also contribute significantly to
further deteriorating water quality, although data regarding this is not readily available.

A significant threat to irrigated agriculture in the EN is that of salinity, especially in Egypt and
perhaps Sudan. Historically, many highly productive irrigation systems the world over have collapsed
due to issues of salinity management. In the EN, this is critical not only from the need to have adequate
freshwater "flushing" of salt in the irrigation systems and its export to the sea, but also to ensure that salt-
water intrusion from the Mediterranean is kept at bay. Traditionally, water in the system has been reused
many times over in the EN system in the delta region. However, there are also reported to be spills at
Aswan that would help flush the salt and good drainage systems that take away un-reusable water to the
sea. As water availability is increasingly stressed, the water available for dilution or flushing is reduced,
resulting in less that can be reused safely or more land at risk of salinization if the reuse patterns do not
adapt. In addition, over pumping of groundwater and rising sea levels could increase salt-water intrusion
inland, putting more land at risk of salinization and reducing crop yields.

Malaria is the single most important cause of death in most Nile countries. Ethiopia is the worst
affected, with 50 million people, representing 65% of its population, living in 75% of its land area being
susceptible to Malaria. In 2003 in Ethiopia, there were 16 million cases of Malaria (usually the number is
9 million annually of which only half is treated). It contributes to a fifth of the deaths of children under
five years - it is not uncommon to find that 100,000 children have fatally succumbed to parasites in a
given year. In 2005, there were two million cases in Sudan, 23 "imported" cases in Egypt. This also
makes the population more susceptible to other diseases such as AIDS. Rapid scaling-up of Insecticide-
Treated Mosquito Nets (ITNs) and proper design of water/irrigation projects is essential to treat this
scourge.

Climate change can impact the Eastern Nile in a number of ways. First, in the Delta it is estimated that
climate change will result in sea-level rise. Much of the delta area in Egypt is at risk, with important
implications on agriculture and tourism. Second, climate change may result in substantive changes in
precipitation and runoff. Some GCMs forecast an increase in precipitation in the upper part of the Nile
Basin. However, since temperatures are also expected to increase, and hence evapotranspiration, it is
unclear how this will impact the green and blue water balances in the EN3. A significant reduction in
flows could have a major impact on agriculture and power sectors as past droughts have demonstrated.
The increased evapotranspiration due to increased temperatures (average temperatures in Egypt and
Sudan are forecast to increase 2.5°C by the year 2100) concomitant with increased CO2 in the atmosphere
could significantly impact agricultural production in complex ways. Moreover, increased evaporation
rates may increase evaporation from reservoirs by about 4% and increase crop water requirements by
about 10%.




3
 Water vapor in the form of transpiration, interception and evaporation from the soil and vegetation is considered
green water and runoff and groundwater recharge is considered blue water.


                                                         27
          Annex 2: Major Related Projects Financed by the Bank and Other Agencies
                                          Eastern Nile Planning Model

Investment Project/AAA                 Sector Issues Addressed                Latest Supervision (ISR) Ratings
                                                                             Implementation    Development
                                                                             Progress (IP)     Objective (DO)
IBRD/IDA Financed Investment Projects
Egypt: West Delta Water      Groundwater Management and                      MU                       MU
Conservation and Irrigation  Irrigation Modernization
Rehabilitation
Egypt: Integrated Irrigation Irrigation and drainage                         MU                       S
Improvement &Management management
Ethiopia: Tana & Beles       Lake/river basin management                     MS                       S
Integrated Water Resources
Development
Ethiopia: Irrigation and     Water/Agriculture                               S                        S
Drainage Project             Productivity Improvement
Ethiopia: Productive Safety  Watershed development                           S                        S
Net APL I & II
Ethiopia-Sudan: Ethiopia     Inter-country power                             S                        S
Sudan Interconnector Project transmission line development
Other Financing
Sudan: Gezira Irrigated      Rural policies and institutions,                Completed
Agriculture Reforms          water resources management
Sudan: Reforming Irrigated   Irrigation Management reform                    Completed
Agriculture
Nile Basin Trust Fund        Water resources planning and                    On-going
(NBTF): SVP Water            management
Resources Planning
&Management
NBTF: NBI Institutional      Capacity-building for river-                    On-going
Strengthening Project        basin management
NBTF: EN Flood Prevention Capacity-building for flood                        On-going
and Early Warning Project I: management in 3EN countries
AfDB: Eastern Nile           Power trade                                     Phase I
Regional Power Trade                                                         Completed, Phase
Study-Phase I and II                                                         II on-going
NBTF: EN Cooperative         Watershed management                            Completed
Regional Assessment (CRA)
for Watershed Management
NBTF: EN Cooperative         Irrigation Management                           Completed
Regional Assessment (CRA)
for Irrigation Management
Norway: Pre-Feasibility      Multipurpose water resources                    Completed
Study for Karadobi           development
Multipurpose Dam
IP/DO Ratings: HS-highly satisfactory; S-satisfactory; MS-moderately satisfactory; MU-moderately unsatisfactory; U-
unsatisfactory; HU-highly unsatisfactory




                                                            28
               Prior and Ongoing Work Relevant to JMP1 Identification

The following is a list of some of the related studies undertaken and/or ongoing by different agencies
which will provide input to JMP1 Identification.

a. Eastern Nile Subsidiary Action Program (ENSAP) ­ Fast Track Projects
· Ethiopia Irrigation and Drainage Project (IDA funded)
· Egypt West Delta Water Conservation and Irrigation Project (IBRD Funding)
· Ethiopia/NBI Power Export Project: Ethiopia-Sudan Interconnector (IDA Funding)
· Watershed Management (Ethiopia, Sudan, LakeNasser-Nubia)
· Flood Preparedness and Early Warning (NBTF Funded)
· EN Planning Model (NBTF Funded)

b. ENSAP Analytical Studies and Related Activities --- JMP Regional Studies
· JMP Launch Phase Report
· Eastern Nile One-System Inventory (hydrologic, environmental and socio-economic data)
· Scoping Study: Opportunities for Cooperative Development of the Eastern Nile: Risks and Rewards
· Comments on the Scoping Study of the JMP (Egypt, Aug 2008)
· JMP Briefing Note: Financing Options for an Anchor project
· Institutional and Legal Considerations Associated with Achieving a JMP
· Watershed Management Cooperative Regional Assessment (CRA)
· EN Regional Power Trade Study Phase 1, with pre-feasibility studies of Mendaya, Border and Dal
· EN-Regional Power Trade Study Phase 2
· Irrigation and Drainage Cooperative Regional Assessment, and related pre-feasibility studies
· Implications of Climate Change on Potential Multipurpose Storage on the Blue Nile
· Other Eastern Nile (e.g., Tana Beles Growth Study; Lake Tana hydrologic studies)
· Nile Decision Support System (Nile DSS), particularly data compilation
· Other NBI/SVP (.e.g., NTEAP Nile Transboundary Environmental Analysis; EWUAP Irrigation Case
    Studies; WRPM Water Policy baseline studies and good practices)

c. Country Studies
· Pre-feasibility study of Karadobi project (Ethiopia, MOWR)
· Beko Abo Reconnaissance Study (Ethiopia MOWR)
· Tana Beles Integrated Water Resources Development Project (IDA funded)
· Feasibilities Studies for Mandaya and Beko Abo sites (to be conducted by Ethiopia MOWR)
· Gezirea studies (Sudan)
· Basin Master Plans
· Sector Studies
· Water Resources Assessment

d. Bank-related Analytical Work
· Final and Interim CASs (Ethiopia and Egypt)
· Country CEMs (Ethiopia and Sudan)
· Final and Interim PRSPs
· Country Water CASs (Ethiopia)
· EN Strategic Basin Assessment, including Strategic Economic Assessment
· Poverty Assessments
· Risk and Vulnerability Studies


                                                 29
                                      Annex 3: Results Framework and Monitoring
                                                   Eastern Nile Planning Model

                                                          Results Framework
                                                                                                                           Use of Outcome
           PDO                                                 Outcome Indicators
                                                                                                                            Information
To assist the three Eastern
Nile countries in
identification of the JMP1    (i) the SSEA provides a sound basis for the inclusion of social and environmental         Need for the design and
investment package,           considerations in the selection of projects within the JMP program;                       preparation of JMP1
through a series of studies                                                                                             investment projects, and
and consultative activities   (ii) Eastern Nile governments have an improved knowledge base to sustainably              related risk
that take into account        develop and manage the resources of the Blue and Main-stem Nile;                          management
economic, social and          (iii) the first set of coordinated investments is identified at the end of the project.
environmental
sustainability issues in an
integrated manner.
                                                                                                                          Use of Monitoring
  Intermediate Results                              Results Indicators for Each Component
                                                                                                                               Results
Component One:       JMP1 Identification Studies
                              (i)       a participatory strategic social and environmental assessment of water          · Informing on the
                              resources development alternatives in the Blue-Main Nile;                                   preferred
                              (ii)      identification of a regional Anchor Project, taking into account                  development options
Identification of
                              economic, social and environment considerations, including reservoir filling and            and impacts
development alternative,
                              operating rule studies to optimize system benefits and best manage related risks;         · Measuring the
preferred options, JMP1
                              and                                                                                         robustness of
investment sequence and
                              (iii)     identification of potential nationally-implemented JMP1 Non-Anchor                investments identified
package
                              Projects, including irrigation modernization & development and watershed                  · Identifying needs of
                              management centered on agricultural productivity and livelihoods improvement                additional studies and
                              and watershed sustainability as well as floodplain management                               project activities
                                                                                                                           Use of Monitoring
  Intermediate Results                              Results Indicators for Each Component
                                                                                                                                 Results
Component Two:       Capacity Building and Implementation Support
                                                                                                                        · Monitoring
Meeting project               (i) a well-conceived stakeholder involvement & communication program                        effectiveness of
implementation milestones     (ii) capacity of the ENTRO and related agencies in the three countries for                  Stakeholder
and getting ready for         preparation of the JMP1 investment projects and other work related to their                 consultation and
preparing the JMP1            mandates; and                                                                               information-sharing
investment project(s)         (iii) a roadmap for preparation of the first set of investment projects under JMP1.       · Identifying and
                                                                                                                          bridging capacity gaps


      Arrangements for results monitoring

      1.      Overall monitoring and coordination of project activities will be performed by ENTRO, both by
      the JMP1 ID Project team as well as by ENTRO's M&E Officer who would oversee monitoring for all
      ENTRO activities. In addition, financial management and procurement for the project would be
      monitored by specialized ENTRO officers. The Regional Technical Committee and National Reference
      Groups and other key stakeholders are expected to contribute substantially towards the process and results
      of the various assessments and studies under the Project. The many ongoing analytical work and projects
      in the water sector being managed by ENTRO and the three EN countries also provide opportunities of
      cross-learning among different project teams.
      2.      Further, the Bank will carry out the normal review procedures for procurement and conduct
      regular supervision missions. Supervision will include the review of Interim Un-audited Financial Reports


                                                                       30
quarterly reports provided by ENTRO, independent annual financial audits of the project and financial
statements of ENTRO. The Bank will also carry out a mid-term review and an ICR mission.
3.       The ENTRO will also appoint a panel of experienced independent reviewers with expertise in the
fields of engineering, social development and environment to provide guidance and quality review for the
critical project activities, particularly the study consultants' outputs. The costs of all these monitoring,
evaluation, and adaptive management approaches have been fully factored into the project costs.




                                                    31
                                                                  Arrangements for results monitoring
                                                                                                                                                      Data Collection      Responsibility for
      Outcome/Results Indicators                  Baseline           Year 1                       Year 2                 Frequency and Reports
                                                                                                                                                       Instruments          Data Collection
(i) the SSEA provides a sound basis        None              Stage 1 completed (and     Stage 2 concluded             ENTRO Semi-annual project      ENTRO project        ENTRO Project team
for the inclusion of social and                              consultation done)         successfully (and final       progress report, and review    M&E
environmental considerations in the                          successfully               report disclosed)             panel reports
selection of projects within the JMP
program;
(ii) Eastern Nile governments have an
                                           None              Consultation and           Consultation and              ENTRO Semi-annual project      ENTRO project        ENTRO Project team ;
improved      knowledge    base    to
                                                             communication carried      communication carried out     progress report; Stakeholder   M&E; ENCOM           National Reference
sustainably develop and manage the                           out on SSEA-Stage 1        on SSEA-Stage 2 and           consultation workshop          Meetings             Groups
resources of the Blue and Main-stem                          and Cascade                Cascade Development           proceedings
Nile; and                                                    Development                Sequencing Study and
                                                             Assessment conducted       Non-Anchor Studies
(iii) the first set of coordinated                           per Strategy/Plan          conducted per
investments is identified at the end of                                                 Strategy/Plan
the project.                               None              Interim reports for                                      ENTRO Semi-annual project      ENTRO project        ENTRO Project Team
                                                             Cascade Development        Final Reports of Anchor       progress report; Bank          M&E; ENCOM
                                                             study, Irrigation,         Project definition and non-   supervision reports            Meetings and Bank
                                                             Watershed, Floodplain      anchor project                                               supervision
                                                             Management completed       identification accepted by                                   missions
                                                                                        EN countries (ENCOM)
Component One: JMP1
Identification Studies

(i) a participatory strategic social and   None              SSEA-Stage 1 report        SSEA-Stage 2 report           ENTRO semi-annual project      Consultant SSEA      ENTRO
                                                             completed and              completed and                 progress reports               Reports
environmental assessment of water
                                                             stakeholder's feedbacks    stakeholder's comments
resources development alternatives in                        incorporated in final      incorporated
the Blue-Main Nile;                                          report
(ii) identification of a regional
Anchor Project, taking into account
economic, social and environment           None              Preferred Cascade          Cascade Development           ENTRO semi-annual project      Consultant Reports   ENTRO
considerations, including reservoir                          Development                Sequence determined and       progress reports               and ENCOM
filling and operating rule studies to                        Scenario/Option            Anchor Project defined                                       meetings
                                                             identified
optimize system benefits and best
manage related risks; and
(iii) identification of potential
nationally-implemented JMP1 Non-           None              All non-anchor             All non-anchor investment     ENTRO semi-annual project      Consultant Reports   ENTRO
Anchor Projects, including irrigation                        investment studies reach   study reports completed       progress reports               and ENCOM
modernization & development and                              an advanced stage          and discussed with key                                       meetings
watershed management centered on                                                        stakeholders
agricultural productivity and
livelihoods improvement and
watershed sustainability as well as



                                                                                            32
                                                                                                                                                Data Collection      Responsibility for
      Outcome/Results Indicators                 Baseline          Year 1                     Year 2                  Frequency and Reports
                                                                                                                                                 Instruments          Data Collection
floodplain management.

Component Two: Capacity
Building and Implementation
Support

(i) a well-conceived stakeholder
                                          None              A time-bound program    The Program fully              ENTRO Semi-annual project   ENCOM/National       ENTRO
involvement & communication                                 developed and           implemented with good          progress reports            Reference Group
program                                                     operational             results                                                    meetings

(ii) capacity of the ENTRO and            Weak              Capacity gaps for       Core social/environmental      ENTRO Semi-annual project   Consultant reports   ENTRO
related agencies in the three countries                     safeguards              staff (2 each from ENTRO       progress reports
for preparation of the JMP1                                 management identified   and three countries) trained
investment projects and other work                                                  on Environmental/Social
                                                                                    assessment & management
related to their mandates; and
                                                                                    planning
(iii) a roadmap for preparation of the    None              Activities on main      Roadmap developed and          ENTRO Semi-annual project   ENCOM meetings       ENTRO
first set of JMP investment projects                        components of the       endorsed by the ENCOM          progress reports
                                                            `roadmap' initiated




                                                                                        33
                           Annex 4: Detailed Project Description
             Eastern Nile First Joint Multipurpose Program Identification


Project Objective:       The objective of this Recipient-Executed Technical Assistance project is
to assist the three Eastern Nile countries in identification of the JMP1 investment package,
through a series of studies and consultative activities that take into account economic, social and
environmental sustainability issues in an integrated manner. By the end of the JMP1
Identification project, ENCOM will be in a position to commission detailed preparation for the
selected JMP1 investments, as appropriate. At that time and under separate funding, preparation
would include full feasibility studies and designs for the selected projects, along with detailed
impact assessment, financing studies, implementation planning, etc.

Key Performance Indicators: The key performance indicators for the JMP 1 ID phase are: (i)
the SSEA provides a sound basis for the inclusion of social and environmental considerations in
the selection of projects within the JMP program; (ii) Eastern Nile governments have an
improved knowledge base to sustainably develop and manage the resources of the Blue and
Main-stem Nile; (iii) the first set of coordinated investments is identified at the end of the project.

Main Outputs: The planned main outputs of this technical assistance will include the following:
(i) a participatory strategic social and environmental assessment of water resources development
alternatives in the Blue-Main Nile; (ii) identification of a regional Anchor Project, taking into
account economic, social and environment considerations, including reservoir filling and
operating rule studies to optimize system benefits and best manage related risks; (iii)
identification of potential nationally-implemented JMP1 Non-Anchor Projects, including
irrigation modernization & development and watershed management centered on agricultural
productivity and livelihoods improvement and watershed sustainability as well as floodplain
management; (iv) a roadmap for preparation of the first set of investment projects under JMP1;
and (v) increased capacity of the ENTRO and related agencies in the three countries for
preparation of the JMP1 investment projects and other work related to their mandates.

Project Components: The Project will include two components: (i) JMP1 Identification
Studies; and (ii) Capacity-Building and Implementation Support. It will build on previous studies
and analytical work, and be coordinated closely with other related studies as described below.

Component 1 ­ JMP1 Identification Studies:

Sub-component 1.1 - Information/Knowledge Base Enhancement: There are identified gaps in
the present knowledge and information base pertaining to the development of the Eastern Nile
Basin. This sub-component aims to bridge the information and knowledge gaps to the extent
needed to allow confident assessments of decisions on development alternatives. This work will
build upon the EN `One System Inventory' (OSI), and will be coordinated with modeling and
information management activities planned under the NBTF-funded ongoing Eastern Nile
Planning Model (ENPM) and Nile Basin Water Resources Planning and Management Project,
which include development of databases and analytical tools for the EN and overall Nile basins.

Sub-component 1.2 - JMP1 Identification Studies: Theses studies will build on the related
analytical work listed in Annex 1. They are intended to: (i) carry out strategic assessment of water
resources development alternatives (in the form of a Strategic Social and Environmental

                                                  34
Assessment (SSEA); (ii) identify the optimum cascade development scenario and first priority
project, and subsequently define an Anchor Project; and (iii) identify the Non-Anchor Projects,
including high-priority irrigation, watershed and floodplain management interventions in EN.

1.2.i. The Strategic Social and Environmental Assessment (SSEA) will be a participatory
assessment of the environmental and social issues associated with various development options,
to allow for informed and transparent decision-making in identification and selection of
investments for water resources development. It will inform two key decision making points: (i)
strategic analysis of different development alternatives for water resources development of Blue-
Main Nile, namely, "no JMP" (continued unilateral development), many small dams on Blue Nile
tributaries and one or more major multipurpose dam(s) on the Blue Nile main-stem; on the basis
of the JMP Launch Phase studies, and (ii) the identification/selection of a Cascade Development
and Investment Sequencing option. In addition, the SSEA TOR includes, in connection with the
Cascade Development Study, an examination of the environmental and social impacts of
alternative power and energy development to a JMP investment, such as thermal and renewable
options, referring to the Eastern Nile Power Trade Study.

Accordingly, the SSEA will be conducted in two distinct and consecutive stages, the first
focusing on the comparison of development options explored in the Scoping Study, and the
second focusing on the Cascade Development and Sequencing Study. The SSEA will be
undertaken in close consultation with key stakeholders in Egypt, Ethiopia and Sudan.
Independent reviewers would advise ENTRO and the Consultant throughout the SSEA. The
results of stage 1 will then serve as an input to the Cascade Development and Sequencing Study.

The SSEA will broadly examine, in an integrated manner, the linkages and cumulative impacts of
potential scenarios on physical, biological, socio-economic and cultural issues. Key safeguard
issues, such as natural habitats, pest management, physical cultural resources, involuntary
resettlement and dam safety should be broadly addressed as part of the SSEA process. In addition
to safeguards assessment and impact mitigation measures, the SSEA will explore options and
mechanisms for benefit-sharing among countries and local communities in the basin. The SSEA
is designed to inform, and be complemented by, a series of project-specific Environmental and
Social Impact Assessments (ESAs), detailed resettlement actions plans, and other safeguards
instruments, although these assessments are outside the scope of JMP1 ID.

1.2.ii. Anchor Project Identification Studies have four parts: (a) cascade and development
sequencing study; (b) identification of critical hotspot watershed interventions; (c) economic and
financial analysis of the Anchor Project; and (d) defining the Anchor Project. The studies are
intended to identify the optimum cascade development scenario for integrated regional water
resources management providing a high degree of regulation of Blue Nile flows, water loss
reduction, drought mitigation, flood alleviation along the Blue-Main Nile and reliable energy
generation. Subsequently the studies will identify the first priority project through a sequencing
study on the basis of techno-economic comparison of individual projects, under the constraints of
power generation requirements and acceptable downstream impacts. The studies will be closely
coordinated with the Norway-supported site-specific feasibility studies to be implemented by the
Ministry of Water Resources, Ethiopia.

1.2.iii. Non-Anchor Projects Identification Studies will include an irrigation development and
modernization study, and watershed and floodplain management studies, building on the
Cooperative Regional Assessments (CRAs) for irrigation and watershed management and the EN
Flood Preparedness and Early Warning Project studies, among others,. The irrigation studies are
intended to: (a) develop good practice for designing modern water-efficient irrigation system; (b)


                                               35
identify priority irrigation schemes in the region for inclusion under JMP1 for national
investments; and (c) identify the areas of recession agriculture (and other recession activities) to
be impacted by the first priority multipurpose project and the likely costs of mitigation measures.
The watershed management study is to identify: (a) the most critical `hotspot' watersheds, from a
larger area requiring watershed interventions recommended by the CRA, through delineating
micro-watersheds within the broadly identified critical hotspots, for inclusion in the Anchor
Project; and (b) the remaining areas requiring watershed interventions, for national government
interventions. The floodplain management study is to identify: (a) areas prone to flooding and
bank erosion downstream of the Anchor Project, for possible inclusion in the Anchor Project or
national investments under JMP1; and (b) impact of Anchor Project operation on downstream
flooding, for factoring the impact into Anchor Project definition.

Sub-component 1.3- Special Studies. These studies will be undertaken on an as needed basis,
and will likely include, among others: (i) studies of water saving measures to minimize system
water losses; (ii) socio-economic studies on recession agriculture (and other recession activities)
along the Blue Nile in Sudan. This will be coordinated with the on-going Bank-executed EN
Strategic Economic Assessment as part of the EN Strategic Basin Assessment; and (iii) studies on
financing and institutional arrangements for the Anchor Project. Following the completion of the
SSEA, if needed additional studies on benefit sharing mechanisms may also be pursued.

Synergy between JMP1 ID Studies and Site-Specific Feasibility Study: The Ministry of Water
Resources (MoWR) of Ethiopia is to undertake, outside JMP1 ID TA, Mandaya and Beko Abo
site-specific feasibility studies with funding from Norway. The studies include an environmental
and social assessment (ESA). There is a strong need for synergy between the two set of studies.
ENTRO, with the assistance of the Bank and Norwegian teams, is expected to play a key role in
regional coordination and the facilitation of information-sharing between the project teams study.
In addition, the independent panels of experts (technical, social and environmental) to be
appointed for both projects are expected to function in a coherent way to ensure consistency in
their review and recommendations.

Component 2 ­ Capacity Building and Implementation Support

Sub-component 2.1 -Regional Consultation and Information Sharing:             During the JMP
Launch Phase, broad consultations with key stakeholders took place at different levels. In the
JMP1 Identification Phase, the geographic/spatial focus will be more specific. The Project will
identify, in more refined and concrete ways, key stakeholders, develop consultation strategies,
information sharing mechanisms and instruments, and will incorporate consultative activities and
information-sharing into the implementation program. The main output for this sub-component is
a well-implemented Stakeholder Involvement and Communication Strategy with clear objectives,
target audiences, timelines, organizational arrangements and activities.

Since JMP1 is still at an early stage, neither the exact location of the projects nor the specific
form it will take has been decided, any impacts at this stage can only be discussed in the form of
possibilities and options. It is therefore important not to raise unrealistic expectations and risk
misinterpretation stemming from incomplete information. The general approach should focus on
information sharing and soliciting inputs, rather than promising specific deliverables. Considering
this, it is prudent to be selective on the degree of information sharing, and to channel project
engagement through appropriate local intermediaries. The general information on the JMP1
program will take the form of pamphlets, media reports, and key technical summary reports
available through public libraries, at ENTRO and through the ENTRO's JMP website, in line
with the JMP1 ID Stakeholder Involvement and Communication Strategy/Program. The Program


                                                36
would build on the earlier EN stakeholder analysis and the related regional consultation processes
already established.

Sub-component 2.2 - Project Management and Capacity-Building: This sub-component seeks
to strengthen the capacity of ENTRO and related agencies from the three countries involved in
the project. To successfully complete JMP 1 Identification and to prepare for subsequent
investments, ENTRO needs to strengthen its technical and management capacity, and requires a
dedicated multi-disciplinary project team including a regional project coordinator and technical,
economics, social, environmental, communication, procurement, financial management and
financing specialists. The ENTRO and country teams will be directly involved in the project
implementation and on the job training. Additional training will be organized to train the staff
from ENTRO and three countries on different aspects of project planning and preparation
including social and environmental assessment and management. Further, the NBI Institutional
Strengthening Project will support the development of a Nile safeguards framework that will set
the ground rules for investment operations in the Nile Basin. A draft framework is expected
before May, 2010.

Sub-component 2.3 - Development of a Roadmap for the Preparation of the JMP1
Investment Project(s): This will include a recommended approach, process, time schedule,
financing options, and implementation modalities and arrangements for preparation. Detailed
financing and institutional options will be developed to provide sufficient information for
potential bi-lateral and multi-lateral donors and private investors eventually considering financial
assistance or investment in JMP1.

Project Costs: The project costs are estimated to be about US$7.6 million, of which the three
countries are expected to contribute about US$0.6 million in kind, and the remainder will come
from the NBTF (See Annex 5 for details).

Implementation Schedule and Approach: The project period is roughly two years starting
from the second half of 2009 (See Attachment 1). The JMP1 ID studies which forms bulk of this
project, is going to be undertaken in two phases with a 2-stage SSEA and a 2-stage Cascade
Development & Sequencing Study, and Non-Anchor (watershed and floodplain management, and
irrigation modernization and ancillary) studies. The first phase comprising mainly SSEA 1 will be
carried out over a period of 3-4 months to identify the optimal development alternatives. It will be
followed by the Cascade Development and Sequencing Studies in two stages: first to identify the
preferred cascade scenario; second to decide on the cascade development sequence. The SSEA 2
focusing on cumulative impact assessment and options and mechanism for benefit sharing, and
economic and financial analysis, will be carried out as integrated parts of cascade, anchor and
non-anchor project identification studies. The special studies will be initiated when needs are
clearly identified to fill in important gaps, enhance the identifications studies, and contributes
towards laying a good foundation for JMP1 investment project preparation in the next phase of
JMP1. The rest of the main activities under different sub-components, such as
information/knowledge base enhancement, regional consultation and information-sharing, project
management and capacity-building will be undertaken throughout the project period. Further,
necessary measures will be taken to ensure synergy with Ethiopia MoWR's site-specific studies
(SSS), in terms of timing of JMP1 ID studies and SSS, and organizational arrangements for
coordination, consultation and independent reviews by the PoEs. It is expected that the SSEA
under JMP1 ID will guide the environmental and social assessments, and SSS provides inputs to
the Cascade Development and Sequencing Study, Anchor Project identification and definition.




                                                37
Attachment 1

                                             Annex 4: EN JMP1 Identification Project: Implementation Schedule

                                                                                                        Months after Commencement of Main Consultancy
                            Phase/Task
                                                                       1   2     3   4    5     6   7    8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24

   1 JMP Identification Studies

 1.1 Information/Knowledge Base Enhancement

 1.2 Consultancy Studies for Identifying Projects of JMP1 (1 Main Consultancy)
     Phase I
     Task 1: Data Gathering and Development of Stakeholder
     Consultation Strategy/Programs SEA (including Consultation)
     Task 2: SSEA (including Consultation)
     Phase II
     Task 3: Cas cade Develop. Assessment & Sequencing Study
     Task 4: Irrigation Modernization & Development Study
     Task 5: Watershed Management Study
     Task 6: Floodplain Management Study
     Task 7: Defining Anchor Project
     Task 8: Economic and Financial Analysis
     Task 9: Ancillary Investments Identification
     Task 10: Stakeholder Consultation

 1.3 Special Studies (Separate Consultancies)
     1. Institutional/Legal and Financing Option Studies
     2. Water Saving (loss reduction) Study
     3. Socio-economic study on recession agriculture in Sudan
     4. Other special studies needed

   2 Capacity Building and Implementation Support

 2.1 Regional/National Consultation and Information Sharing

 2.2 Project Management and Capacity Building

 2.3 Road Map for the Preparation of the JMP1 Investment Package

                                                  Legend:        JMP1 Study Phase I Ac tivity           JMP1 Study Phase II Activity   Special Studies   Activity by ENTRO




                                                                                         38
                                      Annex 5: Project Costs
                Eastern Nile First Joint Multipurpose Program Identification


                            Component-wise Project Cost Estimates

Component          Description of item                      Costs                             Total
                                                           (US$m)                             Costs
                                                                         NBTF      In-kind   (US$m)
Component 1:       JMP1 Identification Studies
                   1.1 Information/Knowledge Base               0.050      0.050
                   Enhancement
                   1.2 JMP1 Identification Studies              3.800      3.800
                   1.3 Special studies                          0.485      0.485
Sub-Total                                                                                     4.335
Component 2:       Capacity building and
                   implementation support
                   2.1 Regional consultation and                0.585      0.585
                   information sharing
                   2.2 Project Management and                   2.000      2.000
                   Capacity building
                   2.3 Development of Roadmap for               0.080      0.080
                   Preparing & Implementation of first
                   JMP1 Investment Project
Sub-Total                                                                                     2.665
                   Contingency                                  0.600                0.600    0.600
TOTAL                                                           7.600      7.00      0.600    7.600




                                 Detailed Project Cost by Category

            Expenditure           Total Amount           FY10           FY11       FY12
            Category              in US$ million
            (i) Consultant's           6.30              2.90           2.90       0.50
            services, goods,
            training,
            consultation and
            workshops, etc
            (ii) Operating             0.70              0.35           0.30       0.05
            Costs
            (iii) Contingency          0.60              0.20           0.30       0.10
            TOTAL                      7.60              3.45           3.50       0.65




                                                   39
                         Annex 6: Implementation Arrangements

             Eastern Nile First Joint Multipurpose Program Identification


ENTRO is established in Addis Ababa under a Headquarters Agreement with the Government of
Ethiopia, which awards to ENTRO the legal personality, privileges and immunities of a regional
organization. The ENCOM approved legal status of ENTRO (December 2002) and invested
ENTRO with the legal personality to perform the functions entrusted to it, including the power to
receive and administer grant funding, in the territories of all three EN countries. ENTRO has
been designed as an NBI institution by Nile-COM (Extraordinary Nile-COM Meeting, Addis
Ababa, Ethiopia, September 12, 2003).

The Executive Director (ENTRO) will sign a Grant Agreement with the World Bank on behalf of
the ENTRO/EN Countries and thus be responsible for the implementation and associated
coordination of all activities, procurement of equipment and consultants, and management of
funds. ENTRO will have final responsibility for the quality of outputs and will work in close
cooperation with both the Bank's Nile Team in supervising the activities and with the already
existing JMP National Coordinators under the National Focal Point (in the respective Ministry of
Water Affairs in each EN country).

JMP1 ID Institutional Arrangements: Given the regional nature of the project, its
multipurpose dimension, perceived import of this project in EN Countries, and its technical
complexity in identifying the best option for the first anchor project to be identified through a
series of key studies, it is evident that the institutional/implementation arrangements should be
such as to ensure adoption of best international practice wherever relevant and to follow a highly
consultative process permeating all the key levels in the policy/technical levels of ENTRO/EN
Countries. This in essence means the need for ENTRO to have a strong project team to
implement and facilitate the project identification with intensive interactions with
ENCOM/ENSAPT, EN Countries' technical groups, independent reviewers of international
expertise in relevant disciplines, and the Ethiopian Ministry of Water Resources team in charge of
the site specific studies. Accordingly, the proposed institutional/implementation structure is
designed as follows.




                                               40
                                 ENCOM
                                 ENSAPT


                                  JMP 1                       Regional             National
                                 Steering                     Technical            Reference
                                                              Committee            Group
                                Committee

                                                  Communication-
                                  ENTRO                                        Ethiopia MoWR
   A Panel of                                     Information exchange
                                JMP 1 Team                                     Site Specific Studies
   Independent                 (incl. Technical
   Reviewers                      Advisors)              Task Teams



   Special and                                         Main JMP 1 ID
   Related Studies                                     Consultants


                     Fig. 1 : Implementation Arrangements ­ Organogram



The existing Eastern Nile Committee of Ministers (ENCOM) consisting of the Ministers of Water
Affairs from Egypt, Ethiopia, and Sudan will provide overall policy guidance and decision
making. Other related ministries (Finance, Energy, Agriculture, Environment, etc.) will be invited
to participate in joint meetings, as needed. While ENCOM will normally meet at least once a
year, special meetings on JMP-1 ID could be convened as considered necessary. ENCOM will be
supported by the existing Eastern Nile Subsidiary Action Program Team (ENSAPT). ENSAPT
which comprises of 3 senior officials from each country mainly on water, finance, and foreign
affairs will provide strategic guidance and oversight to ENTRO, advice to ENCOM on JMP 1 as
sought, and also advise on disclosure of documents in public domain. ENSAPT will meet at least
once a year (with ENCOM meeting) and special JMP meetings as needed. Sub-group meetings
may also be held as needed.

The proposed project specific regional and national institutional structures are as follows:

(A) Regional Level:

JMP1 Team: ENTRO will establish a project specific JMP1 Team to carry out the day-to-day
implementation of the project. The Team will liaise with other projects of relevance to JMP-1
(site specific study, ENPM, Nile DSS, FPEW, Irrigation/watershed, etc). It will coordinate with
ENSAPT/ENCOM, EN Countries, various committees/task teams specifically established for
project implementation, and donors. Its tasks will also include to (a) develop detailed work plan
and monitor its implementation; (b) manage fund flow and disbursements; (c) recruit consultants
and manage their contracts; (d) convene and provide logistics support on consultation/workshop
at various appropriate stages to review and clear consultant study reports; (e) ensure



                                                  41
implementation of stakeholder consultation and communication action plan, based on the agreed
strategy for these; (f) support the national offices on JMP-1 ID project implementation; (g)
facilitate hiring of staff for JMP-1 team at ENTRO; (h) monitor physical and financial progress of
the project and report it at quarterly interval to ENSAPT/ENCOM and World Bank; and (i)
financial reporting including audit to World Bank, as per standard practice.

The JMP1 Team will be composed of a core team consisting of dedicated staff that will spend full
or nearly full-time on JMP1 ID. The key staff of the core team will include a full-time Regional
Project Coordinator, a Project Financing Specialist, a Senior Water Resources Planner, a
Hydropower Engineer, an Economist, an Environmental Specialist, Procurement Assistant and
Finance Professional, a Social/Communication/Consultation Specialist, and a Senior Secretary (of
whom the Water Resources Planning, Hydropower, Project Financing, and Environmental
Specialists will be funded from sources outside JMP1 ID). The extended team members who will
provide support, as and when needed, will include: Regional Watershed Coordinator, Regional
Flood Coordinator, Regional ENPM Coordinator, Regional Power Coordinator, Regional
Irrigation/Drainage Coordinator, Senior Operations Officer, Social Development Officer,
Communication Officer, Financial/Administration Head, Monitoring and Evaluation Officer, and
Procurement Officer.

                JMP Core Team                                          JMP Extended Team
                                                               (existing or planned ENTRO Staff)

JMP Coordinator (project manager)1                       Regional Watershed Regional Coordinator
Project Financing Expert (Financial analyst)2            Regional Irrigation & Drainage Coordinator
Sr. Water Resources Planner2                             Regional Power Coordinator Social
Hydropower Engineer3                                     Development Officer
Economist1                                               Communications Officer
Environment Specialist4                                  Regional ENPM Coordinator
Finance Professional1                                    Regional Flood Coordinator
Procurement assistant1
Social, Communication & Consultation                     Finance and Administration Head
Specialist1                                              Procurement Officer
Senior Secretary1                                        M&E Officer

Source of Funding: 1= JMP1 grant; 2=NBI ISP grant; 3=Norwegian grant; 4- NBI (NTEAP)


Technical Advisors: A number of technical advisors will be contracted individually or as a
group to advise the JMP1 ID team on resolving complex issues that may arise during the key
identification study consultancy in the following fields: water resources ­ planning, modeling,
hydropower planning, environmental economics, social and environmental assessment/, , flood
management, and financial and institutional aspects. Additional international/regional advisers
may be hired on an as-needed basis for specific tasks, including but not limited to inputs
for/review of consultant ToRs; study outputs, training, and quality control, etc.

The Technical Advisors will be selected from a pool of international experts with significant
experience in dealing with multi-purpose and complex water resources development projects in
each of the above fields. ENTRO will contract their services based on agreed arrangements for
the number of days their services are required during each consultation, which may include travel
as needed.




                                                       42
A panel of independent reviewers: The engagement of independent reviewers is to ensure
international good practice through independent reviews of key outputs as needed, such as the
Strategic Social and Environmental Assessment (SSEA) and Cascade Development and
Sequencing Studies. It will also help ENTRO liaise with the Panel of Experts (PoEs) of site-
specific studies on relevant issues. The Panel will consist of members with expertise in each of
the following four disciplines; (i) water resources and hydropower development planning
(including cascade systems); (ii) dam engineering; (iii) environmental impact assessment; and
(iv) social impact assessment.

JMP1 Steering Committee (JMP1 SC): For providing strategic guidance and direction, a high
level committee (JMP1 SC) will be established to ensure that the project objectives are achieved
through pro-active overall project oversight. The JMP1 SC will review project process and
recommend appropriate measures to ENTRO/ENSAPT, ensure country commitments and provide
high level liaison to national development programs. The JMP1 SC will consist of 13 members: 3
from each country (ENSAPT member, senior representatives of power utilities, and finance
ministries); one member from each EN country to be nominated as per the country interest on
environment, agriculture/irrigation, natural resources etc., and Executive Director (ENTRO). The
Chairperson would be the ENSAPT members as nominated by ENSAPT Committee members
with the Senior Regional Project Coordinator as secretary. ENTRO/EN Countries may decide to
have special invitees as observers from development partners (WB; Norway): independent
reviews, technical advisors, regional technical committee members as appropriate. It is envisaged
that there would be at least 3 meetings (at inception, interim and final report phases of the main
identification consultancy). Each of the meetings may be held in a different EN Country.
Meetings will be organized by the ENTRO.

Regional Technical Committee (RTC): A regional, multi-sectoral advisory and consultative
body, viz., RTC, will be established to ensure country ownership and support. RTC will review
technical reports, synthesize information, and provide national insight to regional issues. It will
also serve as liaison for technical inputs from national ministries, and ensure information
exchange. It will be composed of 26 multidisciplinary members. This will include senior
technical officials 5 from each country (ENSAPT member specialized in water resources; senior
experts from the ministries of water, energy, utilities, finance/planning, and environment),
National Coordinators of Watershed Management Project, Irrigation/drainage Project, Eastern
Nile Planning Model, ENTRO Executive Director, and Senior Regional Project Coordinator. The
JMP1 RTC ENSAPT member will serve as chairperson as nominated by other ENSAPT
members. Other observers/invited guests may include task team members; development partners,
additional technical experts as considered appropriate. RTC will meet at least five times, at the
kick off, inception, interim, draft final, and final report stages of the key identification
consultancy. Meetings will be organized by JMP1 Regional Project Coordinator, who will also
serve as secretary of the RTC.

Regional Parliamentarian Committee (JMP RPC): Since consensus on Joint Multipurpose
Program requires high-level political commitment, ENTRO intends to brief and consult with
members of parliament in all 3 Eastern Nile Countries at early stage of the process. The JMP
RPC, has already been established to strengthen cooperation among the EN Parliaments, during
the launch phase. The RPC consists of 5 Parliamentarians from each country plus one ENSAPT
Member. It had already visited the three EN countries and held meetings with the related
institutions. In August, 2007, the Committee called for accelerating action on the EN cooperation,
and in April 2009 following visits to Lesotho Highland Water Project reaffirmed their
commitment to continue supporting the JMP development and the water sector. The JMP RPC
will continue through the Identification Phase to enhance political engagement and to raise the


                                                43
Parliamentarians' understanding of the potential benefits of regional cooperation and of JMP 1
investment. The RPC will meet at least once per year.

The EN Ministers of Energy supported the Eastern Nile Power Trade studies and guided the
process. The EN utilities also financed the Power Coordination Unit. The Ministers held 8
meetings, including two joint meetings with the ENCOM. The Power Trade Study was finalized
in December 2008 and the recommendations duly factored under the JMP1 ID and the site
specific studies. The joint Ministerial Meeting will continue during the JMP1 ID phase.

Task Teams: These will be ad-hoc teams to assist the Regional Technical Committee in
providing technical inputs and review specific issues as and when referred by RTC. These teams
will also support information exchange and work closely with JMP-1 team. It will consist of
experts from the following groups (3-9 members: some of these could be from in-house
ENTRO/Country resource persons and some from outside as needed):
· SSEA Task Team consisting of Regional Environment Specialist, National Coordinators for
    Social Development, Environment Specialist from RTC, ENTRO's Social Development
    Officer, one member from each EN countries specialized in environment economics,
    anthropology, environmentalist, technical advisers for social and environment assessment and
    environment economics. Cascade Studies and Knowledge Management Task Team
    consisting of Regional and National Coordinators for ENPM; one member from each country
    specialized in areas such as economics, hydrology, power, environment, social development
    etc; technical adviser for water resources/hydropower. Irrigation and Drainage Task Team
    consisting of Regional and National Coordinators for Irrigation and Drainage.
· Watershed Task Team consisting of Regional and National Coordinators for Watershed
    Management.
· Flood Management Task Team consisting of Regional and National Coordinators for FPEW-I
    project.
· Finance and Institutional Task Team consisting of Regional Coordinator for Finance;
    ENTRO Senior Operations Officer; ENTRO Finance and Administration Head; and
    Technical Adviser for Finance and Institutional aspects.

The teams would meet 1-3 times a year and the meetings will be organized by JMP1
Regional/National Coordinator

(B) National Level
JMP1 National Coordinator: The existing JMP National Coordinator under the National Focal
Point (in the Ministry of Water Affairs) will coordinate the project at national level. He/She will
serve as primary focal point for JMP 1 activities at the national level, liaise between national and
regional activities, provide overall coordination of national level activities, facilitate consultation
and information exchange, and organize meetings as needed at national level.

National Reference Groups: (NRGs): The existing NRGs will be suitably expanded to serve as
broad, multi-sectoral and multi-stakeholder consultative bodies at the national level to provide a
national forum to discuss opportunities for joint multipurpose development in the Eastern Nile.
They will build broad-based understanding of, and confidence in the benefits of regional
cooperation and help enhance ownership of the JMP process. NRGs will be a multi-sectoral (30-
50 members) body composed of people from government, CSO, academia, and media, etc. They
will meet at least twice during the course of the study.




                                                  44
            Annex 7: Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements

                Eastern Nile First Joint Multipurpose Program Identification


Financial Management
1.       The financial management assessment was carried out in accordance with the Financial
Management Practices Manual issued by the Financial Management Board on November 3, 2005.
The objective of the assessment was to determine whether the implementing entities have
acceptable financial management arrangements, which will ensure: (1) the funds are used only for
the intended purposes in an efficient and economical way, (2) allow for the preparation of
accurate, reliable and timely periodic financial reports, (3) safeguard the entities' assets; and the
existing capacity of ENTRO as the implementing agency is capable of handling the Project's
financial transactions. The Financial management assessment was conducted in November 2008
and was updated in May 2009 at Eastern Nile Technical Regional Office (ENTRO) located in
Addis Ababa. The results indicate that the proposed financial management arrangements for this
project are adequate and meet the Bank's requirements as per OP/BP10.02.


Risk Assessment and Mitigation

2.      The table below outlines respective perceived risks to the program and requisite
mitigating measures:
                                                          Conditions of
                                    Risk Mitigating
                                                          Negotiations,
                        Risk           Measures                           Residual
 Risk description                                              or                           Remarks
                       Rating      incorporated into                       Risk
                                                          Effectiveness
                                  the Project Design
                                                           (Yes or No)
Inherent Risk
Entity Level-project
is implemented in
three different                 Simplification in                                    The grant has some
countries. FM                   design, ensuring key                                 activities to be
documents are                   fiduciary staff are                                  implemented by the
                         M                                     N             L
transmitted using               present, and close                                   consultants in the three
courier services but            supervision during                                   countries (Ethiopia,
services may get                implementation                                       Sudan and Egypt)
delayed or
documents get lost.
Overall inherent
                         M                                                   L
Risk
Control Risk
                                 ENTRO prepares a
Budgeting-weak                   five-year strategic
budgeting and                    plan, which is the
                         M                                     N             L
monitoring process               basis for annual
                                 budget.
                                                                                     NBI FM and Admin
Accounting-The                                                                       manual are under
Financial                        Continued training of                               preparation under NBI-
management               M       staff and close               N             L       ISP. Expected to be
manual has not yet               supervision                                         finalized and approved
been updated.                                                                        by TAC by November
                                                                                     2009




                                                         45
                            Annual audits will
Internal Control-
                            help check on the                                  NBI is considering the
Non existence of
                            extent of internal                                 establishment of an
Internal audit unit
                       M    control in the               N            L        audit unit that could
and low capacity in
                            respective                                         serve ENTRO in this
the internal audit
                            implementing                                       capacity.
profession.
                            agencies
                            ENTRO is familiar
Financial
                            with the reporting
Reporting-Non
                       M    formats and is               N
regular reports                                                       L
                            supposed to submit
being submitted
                            the reports timely.
Auditing-low                Standard ENTRO
capacity in the        M    auditing                     N            L
auditing profession         arrangements in place
Overall control Risk   M                                              L
Overall FM Risk
                       M                                              L
Assessment

3.       In view of the above risk assessment, the overall residual financial management risk
rating for ENTRO is low.


Strengths and Weaknesses

4.       ENTRO is now managed by a strong management team. The Finance and Administration
Unit (FAU) has well experienced and qualified staff. The Finance Unit has three staff, excluding
the Head of FAU. ENTRO has now recruited Head of Finance and Administration starting May
1, 2009. ENTRO uses Microsoft Dynamic Solomon accounting software which has adequate
capacity to produce financial statement of the project The project activities are recorded
according to its computerized accounting systems by setting separate ledger books so as to report
the project activities. The existing system is capable of timely recoding and reporting of
transitions on a timely manner. The existing financial management manual needs to be updated
and this is planned to be done under the standardization and harmonization initiative of the NBI
institutional strengthening project.
5.       As the activities of ENTRO increase, there is a need to strengthen its internal control
system. One of the means to strengthen the internal control system is to establish a strong Internal
Audit Unit. NBI is mandating the establishment of an Internal Audit unit throughout all NBI
Institutions including ENTRO. The Financial Management and Admin Manual which is being
developed under NBI Institutional Strengthening project (also funded by the Nile Basin Trust
Fund) will address this issue and provide strategy for the NBI Internal Audit. The Manual is
expected to be finalized and approved by November 2009.

Staffing

6.      ENTRO has adequate accounting staff. At present the accounting department has three
accounting staff of whom two have degrees in accounting and one has diploma in accounting.
This staffs are responsible for undertaking the financial transactions of the program as a whole.
ENTRO has employed a qualified accountant as head of Finance and Administration Department.
The Head of the Finance and Administration is responsible for the overall financial management
of ENTRO. All of the existing finance staff has a long period of relevant experience and adequate
qualifications.



                                                    46
Budgeting

7.      ENTRO prepares a five-year strategic plan, which is the basis for its annual budget.
ENTRO has adequate internal budgeting procedures and these will be applicable to the project.
In the budget procedure each year, budget is initiated by each department and is submitted to the
budget committee. Each department defends its budget with the budget committee. Subsequently
the budget is presented to Eastern Nile Subsidiary Action Plan Team (ENSAPT) and reviewed by
its members before it is sent to Eastern Nile Council of Ministers (ENCOM) for approval. Budget
execution analysis will explain any exceptions and overruns. Variance analysis and comparison
of budget with actual are done on monthly basis and actions are taken based on these analysis.

Accounting

8.        ENTRO uses a double entry accounting system based on cash basis of accounting. All
revenue and expenditures are accounted for on cash basis of accounting. Cost of fixed assets and
stock are expensed at the time of purchase, but memorandum records are maintained to control
the assets and stock. ENTRO has a Finance manual which is used as a reference guide for the
staff working in the Finance Unit. This manual will be replaced by a new financial and
administrative manual which is being developed under the NBI Institutional Strengthening
project. The Manual is expected to be finalized and approved by November 2009. ENTRO uses
Microsoft Dynamic Solomon accounting software which has adequate capacity to produce
financial statements of the project. The project activities are recorded according to its
computerized accounting systems by setting separate ledger books so as to report on the project
activities. The existing system is capable of timely recoding and reporting of transitions on a
timely manner. ENTRO produces financial statements on monthly basis after five days of the end
of the month. The monthly financial statements are produced from the accounting system.
ENTRO moved towards modified cash basis of accounting from a cash basis accounting system
starting July 1, 2008.
Internal Control

9.      Internal control comprises the entire system of control, financial or otherwise, established
by management in order to (a) carry out the project activities in an orderly and efficient manner,
(b) ensure adherence to policies and procedures; and (c) safeguard and the assets of the project
and secure as far as possible the completeness and accuracy of the financial and other records.

10.      The financial management system for the project has sufficient controls to minimize the
possible misuse of funds. The authorization and approval procedures are in place. There is
sufficient separation of duties in the payments approval cycle. As noted earlier, ENTRO has a
finance manual. Considering the increasing number of projects implemented by ENTRO and the
need to further strengthen its internal control system, it is recommended that ENTRO establish an
Internal Audit System to help enhance the internal control system. NBI is considering the
establishment of an internal audit unit that could serve ENTRO in this capacity.

Fund Flows and Disbursement Arrangements

Funds flow

11.     ENTRO will open a Designated Account (DA) in US dollars in a commercial Bank on
terms and conditions that are satisfactory to the Bank for the receipt of grant proceeds and will



                                                47
communicate banking details to the World Bank. The DA will be managed by ENTRO. The
agreed ceiling for the DA will be determined during negotiation.
-
Disbursement Methods
12.      The disbursement methods the project will employ are: Advances, Direct Payments,
Reimbursements and Special Commitment. At the beginning of the project, the designated
account will be replenished on the basis of statements of expenditures. It is possible to use the
interim unaudited financial reports for the replenishment of the DA after the Bank is satisfied
with the adequacy of the financial arrangements, i.e. (a) sustain satisfactory financial
management rating during the project's supervision; (b) submit Interim Financial Reports
consistent with the agreed form and content within 45 days of the end of each reporting period,
and (c) submit Audit Reports by the due date.

Minimum Value of Applications
13. The minimum value for Direct Payment and Special Commitment will be determined
during the grant negotiations.

Reporting on Use of Grant Proceeds
14.     The supporting documentation for reporting eligible expenditures paid from the
designated account should be a summary report of the Statements of Expenditure (SOEs) and
records evidencing eligible expenditures for payments against 100,000 for goods, USD 200,000
for consulting firms and USD 100,000 for individual consultants. The supporting documentation
for direct payment should be records evidencing eligible expenditures (copies of receipt,
supplier's invoices, etc). The allocation of grant proceeds is shown in the table below.
15.     The project will submit a bank statement and a reconciliation of the designated account
together with the withdrawal application at least on quarterly basis. All supporting documentation
for SOEs will be retained at ENTRO and must be made available for review by periodic World
Bank review missions and external auditors. The format and content of the interim unaudited
financial report (IFR) will be agreed during negotiations.
16.    ENTRO and the three beneficiary countries will provide contribution in-kind amounting
to USD 600,000. In-kind contribution will include office space, staff time, etc.


                                    Allocation of Grant proceeds
Expenditure Category                    Amount in US$ million Financing Percentage (NBTF)
(i) Consultant's services, goods,               6.30                          100%
training, consultation and
workshops, etc
(ii) Operating Costs                            0.70                          100%
TOTAL                                           7.00                          100%



Reporting and Monitoring

17.       According to the financial manual of ENTRO, quarterly and annual financial statements
will be produced. The statements mainly include statement of cash receipts and payments, budget
utilization and trial balance. These statements are presented to management of ENTRO and to the


                                                48
external auditors for review. ENTRO produces regular financial reports on timely basis to be used
by various stakeholders, including the Bank.
18.      For the grant, ENTRO will produce interim unaudited Financial Reports (IFRs) and will
submit the IFRs to the Bank 45 days after the end of each quarter. At a minimum, the financial
reports must include the sources and uses of funds, expenditures by main expenditure
classifications, beginning and ending cash balances and other supporting schedules.

External Audit
19.       In order to enhance the credibility of the financial statements, the annual financial
statements are subject to external audit. The annual financial statements of ENTRO have been
audited by an independent audit firm. Currently, there are no outstanding reports. The audit of the
project will be carried out in accordance with international standards issued by the International
Federation of Accountants (IFAC). The terms of reference for the external audit had been cleared
by the Bank for other TFs and that will be applicable for this Project as well. The annual audited
financial statements, along with the management letter, will be submitted to the World Bank
not later than six months after the end of the fiscal year. According to the audit policy of the
Bank, external auditors are expected to issue a single audit opinion on the consolidated financial
statements of ENTRO, including financial transactions of the Project along with management
letter if ENTRO will integrate the project financial statements within its financial statements. The
audit Terms of Reference was discussed and agreed upon during appraisal.

Financial covenants
20.      ENTRO shall submit audited project financial statements including management letter no
later than six months after the close of each fiscal year. ENTRO will submit IFRs 45 days after
the end of each calendar quarter.

Supervision plan
21.      Considering the nature of the project and the risk level, the Bank's supervision mission
should be as regular as possible-mainly once a year. The supervision will review the Project's
financial management systems and capacity, in accordance with the FM Manual, including but
not limited to the operation of Designated Account, evaluating quality of budgets, financial
reports, assessing relevance of FM Manual, statement of expenditures, internal controls, reporting
and follow up of audit and mission findings. Special attention to review of soft expenditures to
check whether they are spent on authentic activities will also be undertaken. Intensity of
supervision will be reassessed after the first year of implementation.




                                                49
                           Annex 8: Procurement Arrangements
             Eastern Nile First Joint Multipurpose Program Identification


A. General

1. Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out in accordance with the World
Bank's "Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated May 2004 revised
October 2006; and "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated May 2004 revised October, 2006, and the provisions stipulated in the Legal
Agreement. The various items under different expenditure categories are described in general
below. For each contract to be financed by the Grant, the different procurement methods or
consultant selection methods, the estimated costs, prior review requirements, and time frame are
agreed between the Eastern Nile Technical Regional Office (ENTRO) and the Bank in the
Procurement Plan. The Procurement Plan will be updated at least annually or as required to
reflect the actual project implementation needs and institutional capacity.

2. Procurement of Works: No works are expected to be procured under this project.

3. Procurement of Goods: Goods procured under this project would include mainly computer
hardware, software (licenses), data sets, office equipment and consumables, at a total estimated
cost of USD 90,000. The procurement will be done through shopping and direct contracting,
using the Bank's SBDs where applicable.

4. Procurement of non-consulting services: None expected.

5. Selection of Consultants: The project is expected to finance a number of consultancies ­ a
main study consulting firm, a number of individual consultants to be hired on a long and short
term basis (including a panel of independent reviewers, key JMP1 ID development personnel, and
interns). Consulting services estimated to cost USD 200,000 or more per contract will be
procured through Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) or Quality Based Selection (QBS).
The main study consultant is proposed to be procured by QBS with a fixed budget to obtain the
best quality of services and the request for proposals has already been cleared by the Bank and
issued to a short list of consultants. A few other consultants are proposed to be hired
competitively to support some of the activities under this grant through short term consultancies
(individuals or firms), workshops, training and possible study visits. Small Consultants' Services
with an estimated value of less than US$200,000 equivalent for firms may be selected on the
basis of Consultants' Qualifications (CQs). Individual consultants will be selected on competitive
basis (IC). Short lists of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent
per contract may be composed entirely of consultants who are nationals of the Eastern Nile (EN)
countries in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.

6. Operating Costs: The project would contribute about $700,000 to support ENTRO in
implementation (including administrative, office space, procurement/financial management
support, logistical, communication, and other office expenses). In addition, the project would
support logistics and travel expenses for conducting consultation workshops, training and field
visits. ENTRO's administrative procedures have been reviewed by the Bank Procurement
Specialist and suggestions for improvement made as described in the next section.




                                                50
7. ENTRO shall carry out the workshops, training activities and study visits on the basis of
programs, which shall have been approved by the Bank and which shall, inter alia, identify the:

(a) Workshop/training/study visit program envisaged;
(b) Personnel to attend the workshop/training/study visits;
(c) Selection method of institutions conduction such workshops/training/study visits;
(d) Duration of the workshop/training/study visit; and
(e) Estimated detailed cost of the workshop/training/study visit.

B. Assessment of the agency's capacity to implement procurement

8. Procurement activities will be carried out by ENTRO. The agency is staffed by an Executive
Director, senior regional project coordinator, JMP1 regional project coordinator, social
development specialist, watershed, ENPM and FPEW coordinators, environmental specialist,
communications specialist, financial management and administrative staff, etc., and the
procurement function is staffed by a procurement officer and a junior procurement officer.

9. An assessment of the capacity of the Implementing Agency to implement procurement
actions for the project has been carried out by the Bank procurement specialist in November
2008. The assessment reviewed the organizational structure for implementing the project and the
interactions between the project's procurement Officer and other staff in ENTRO.

10. The key issues and risks concerning procurement for implementation of the project have been
identified along with corrective measures which have been agreed. Recommendations of the
assessment are reflected in the table below. Procurement actions under this grant are well within
the type and size generally performed by ENTRO. ENTRO's key technical staff, the Procurement
Officer (PO) and assistant PO, and financial management staff has attended Bank procurement
clinics in Addis Ababa. ENTRO is receiving advice and support on procurement actions through
the World Bank's Country Office as and when needed and has been managing several other
NBTF and donor funded projects. The agreed actions to address the identified issues are listed in
the table below.

           Expected outcome /                              Target
                                           Status                                             Comments
           Activity Description                             Date
         Creation of a                                                  The Committee needs to be headed by a senior
                                                        June 30,
1.       tender/evaluation             In Progress
                                                        2009
                                                                        project staff with members from EN countries and
         committee at ENTRO                                             ENTRO's project team
                                                                        Evaluation committee members need to attend
         Organizing training on        Under
2.       Proposal evaluation           preparation
                                                        July, 2009      training before commencement of evaluation for
                                                                        the main study consultancy
                                                                        Procurement training will be a part of ENTRO
         Training needs to be
                                                        To be           training needs currently being assessed.
3.       assessed and conducted        Recurrent
                                                        determined      Procurement Officer and assistant PO will get
         as required
                                                                        additional refreshment training.
                                                                        ENTRO undertakes some unnecessary steps in its
         ENTRO to review its                                            procurement processes due to its set up and
         internal processes to                          To be           reporting requirements, e.g. 17 steps# to recruit an
4        make them more
                                       Recurrent
                                                        determined      Individual Consultant. The harmonized NBI
         efficient                                                      procurement manual will address this and once
                                                                        adopted will be implemented by ENTRO
# 17 Steps: 1. Position identified; 2. TOR Prepared; 3. Request for EOI drafted; 4. TOR and Request for EOI approved; 5.
Advertisement placed in 3 or 9 member countries; 6. Applications opened in a formal meeting; 7. Long list prepared; 8. Short List
prepared; 9. Short List approved; 10. Interviews conducted; 11. Interview Report; 12. Interview Report approved; 13. Contract
Negotiated; 14. Contract drafted and Initialed; 15. Draft Contract approved; 16. Contract Awarded; 17. Contract signed.




                                                              51
11. The overall project risk for procurement is moderate.

C. Procurement Plan

12. The ENTRO has developed a procurement plan for project implementation which provides
the basis for the procurement methods. This plan has been agreed between the Borrower and the
Project Team in June 2009 and is available at the ENTRO office in Addis Ababa (also attached at
the end of this Annex). It will also be available in the project's database and in the Bank's
external website. The Procurement Plan will cover an 18 month period and will be updated in
agreement with the Project Team annually or as required to reflect the actual project
implementation needs and institutional capacity.

D. Frequency of Procurement Supervision

13. In addition to the prior review, supervision to be carried out from Bank Addis Ababa Office,
the capacity assessment of the Implementing Agency has recommended annual supervision
missions to visit the field to carry out post review of procurement actions.

E. Details of the Procurement Arrangements Involving International Competition

1. Goods and Non Consulting Services

(a) List of contract packages to be procured following ICB and direct contracting:
None expected. Goods to be procured through other methods are outlined in the Procurement
Plan included at the end of this Annex.

(b) ICB contracts estimated to cost above $500,000 per contract and all direct contracting will be
subject to prior review by the Bank.

2. Consulting Services

(a) List of consulting assignments with short-list of international firms.

1            2                      3           4             5               6            7

Ref. No.     Description of         Estimated   Selection     Review          Expected     Comments
             Assignment             Cost        Method        by Bank         Proposals
                                                              (Prior/ Post)   Submission
                                                                              Date
1            Main     ID    Study   3,800,000   QBS           Prior           July, 2009   18 months
             Consulting Services

(b) Consultancy services estimated to cost above US$ 200,000 per contract and single source
selection of consultants (firms) as well as for assignments estimated to cost above $ 100,000 for
individuals will be subject to prior review by the Bank.

(c) Short lists composed entirely of national consultants who are nationals of the EN member
countries: Short lists of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent
per contract may be composed entirely of consultants who are nationals of the EN member
countries in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.




                                                    52
                                               Procurement Plan

                     Procurement Packages with Methods and Time Schedule

                          2                             3             4         5             6           7
     1

         Description of Assignment             Estimated         Selection   Review     Expected       Time
Ref.
                                               Costs             Method      by Bank    Proposals      Period
No.
                                                                             (Prior /   Submission
                                                                             Post)      Date
I        Consulting Firm
1        Main ID Study Consulting Services     3,800,000         QBS         Prior      July, 2009     18
                                                                                                       months
II       Individual Consultants
2        Regional Project Coordinator          180,000           IC          Prior      Completed      24
                                                                                                       months
3        Economist                             144,000           IC          Prior      July, 2009     24
                                                                                                       months
4        Project Financing Specialist          144,000           IC          Prior      July, 2009     24
                                                                                                       months
5        Social Dev & Communication            120,000           IC          Prior      July, 2009     24
         Specialist                                                                                    months
6        Independent Reviewers                 3 Persons *       IC          Post       September,     6 person-
                                               45,000                                   2009           month
7        Individual Advisors                   3 Persons *       IC          Post       December,      6 person-
                                               40,000                                   2009           months
8        Roadmap Dev. Consultant               80,000            IC          Post       December,      3 months
                                                                                        2010
III      Goods
9        IT Equipment and Software:            42,360            Shopping    Post       December,
         6 laptops, 9 desktops, 1 scanner, 1                                            2009
         color printer, flash drives, etc
10       Office Equipment: 1 photocopier, 1    26,100            Shopping    Post       March, 2010
         projector, etc
11       Office furniture and Supplies: 10     21,540            Shopping    Post       July, 2010
         tables, 30 chairs, 20 bookshelf, 10
         telephone sets, reference books,
         carpets, etc
IV       Consultation Workshops and
         Meetings
12       ENTRO Workshops                       50,000/each*10                           Sept, 2009 ­   Multiple
                                                                                        Sept, 2011




                                                            53
                        Annex 9: Economic and Financial Analysis
             Eastern Nile First Joint Multipurpose Program Identification


1.      This technical assistance project will advance cooperative development of joint
investments in the Eastern Nile basin by building the foundation that is critical for making sound
decisions on the first package of investments under the JMP. In concrete (though unquantifiable)
terms, the direct benefits of the project include the information base established through joint
assessments and studies, a trained staff as a result of capacity building programs, more rigorous
analytical tools, and a common understanding of the opportunities and risks built through
stakeholder involvement.

2.       The longer-term associated benefits of this project include all those generated by the
package of investments that it will help to identify. Preliminary work has found that the potential
benefits of joint multipurpose investments in the EN could be substantial, and would be critical to
both maximizing the productive uses of water and reducing the risks associated with water-
related impacts and shocks. These include hydropower production, enhancement of irrigation and
municipal water supply, reduction in floods, droughts and other water and climate-induced risks,
and water savings from non-beneficial evaporation, in addition to such broad benefits of
promoting regional integration, trade and peace process.

3.      The costs of this TA are considered to be nominal when viewed relative to the scale of
the investment package that it is expected to lead to (investments potentially reaching billions of
USD). Taking a broader view, one can assess the impact of the TA project in identifying joint
regional investment opportunities compared to the alternative of `no cooperation'. Selecting a set
of joint investments that is technically feasible, economically viable, and socially and
environmentally sustainable well outweighs the costs of `business as usual', including continued
unilateral development that creates significant negative externalities.

4.       For the economic analysis of potential investments, a methodology will be developed ­
drawing on the ongoing EN Strategic Economic Assessment and international best practices ­ for
the economic assessment of multi-purpose water resources developments in trans-boundary river
basins. The benefits and costs of the potential interventions (including social and environmental)
will be identified through an SSEA and structured stakeholder consultations, and be quantified in
monetary terms to the extent possible (and where not possible, included in qualitative terms).
Methodologies for allocating benefits and costs for multi-purpose and multi-country projects will
also be applied in order to evaluate tradeoffs between the different beneficiary functions of the
investments, and between the beneficiaries and potentially affected parties. The financial analysis
will focus on a financing options assessment, the fiscal impacts on EN countries of respective
financing arrangements, and the financial sustainability of the future anchor project entity.




                                                54
                             Annex 10: Safeguard Policy Issues
   Eastern Africa: Eastern Nile First Joint Multipurpose Program Identification


1.       This recipient-executed technical assistance project will focus on helping the Eastern Nile
Riparian to identify, taking into account economic, social and environmental sustainability, a
package of investments that will comprise a first set of Joint Multipurpose Investments in the
Eastern Nile. All activities will be assessment, studies and capacity building in nature. This
project is expected to lead to a next phase (JMP1 Preparation Phase) which will prepare details of
these JMP1 investments (that could include a large multipurpose storage on the Blue Nile,
watershed management, and irrigation modernization, etc.). This project is not expected to have
any adverse environmental or social impacts, and environmental and social development
considerations will be an integrated part of the identification studies. However, feasibility studies
for some of the potential multipurpose dam sites will be undertaken by the Ministry of Water
Resources of Ethiopia in parallel under separate financing from Norway, with ENTRO playing
the role of regional coordination and facilitation in communication and information sharing. In
consideration of the linkage between the two sets of studies and the nature of subsequent
investments to be identified through this project, the project is categorized as Category B.


2.      The key safeguards instrument for the JMP1 ID is the Strategic Social & Environmental
Assessment (SSEA). The SSEA will broadly examine, in an integrated manner, the linkages and
cumulative impacts of potential scenarios on physical, biological, socio-economic and cultural
issues. Key safeguard issues, such as natural habitats, pest management, physical cultural
resources, involuntary resettlement and dam safety should be broadly addressed as part of the
SSEA process. In addition to safeguards assessment and impact mitigation measures, the SSEA
will also outline mechanisms and options for benefit-sharing among countries and local
communities in the basin. The SSEA is designed to inform, and be complemented by, a series of
project-specific Environmental and Social Assessments (ESAs), detailed resettlement actions
plans, and other safeguards instruments, although these assessments are outside the scope of
JMP1 ID. The SSEA will also include in connection with the Cascade Development Study an
examination of the environmental and social impacts of alternative power and energy
development to a JMP investment, such as thermal and renewable options, taking into account of
the results of the Eastern Nile Power Trade Study (See Attachment 1 to this annex for the SSEA
TOR).


3.       The SSEA will assess the institutional capacities in the three EN countries with regard to
implementation of environmental and social safeguards. The assessment and analysis will draw
on previous similar assessments carried out, and will focus on assessing capacity both for policy
formation and for implementation. The analysis will specifically recommend capacity building
activities focusing on identified gaps for each institution. The SSEA will also assess the current
policies and laws on environment and social safeguards and comment on any inadequacies
therein. The project will contribute towards building the capacity of ENTRO team and related
agencies in the EN countries to better manage environmental and social issues of investment
projects in the Eastern Nile basin.




                                                 55
4.       Over the period of the identification studies under the Project, a panel of independent
reviewers composed of engineering, social and environmental experts will be appointed to guide
the project team and review the consultants' study outputs. This panel will be drawn from the
same pool of experts for the Panels of Experts for the feasibility studies as much as practical to
ensure consistency and good coordination. From the donor side, the Bank (as manager of NBTF)
and Government of Norway will coordinate closely on safeguards related issues to make sure
good international practices are followed in undertaking the identification studies and feasibility
studies.


5.       Furthermore, a `Strategy for Addressing Environmental and Social Safeguards' was
developed under the NBI Institutional Strengthening Project in 2008. This document is applicable
to all technical assistance projects that fall under NBI, such as JMP 1 ID. The ongoing NBI
Institutional Strengthening Project will support the development of a Nile safeguards framework
that will set the ground rules for investment operations in the Nile Basin. A draft framework is
expected before May, 2010.


6.      Also as a very important part of the project design and preparation, ENTRO has
developed a `Stakeholder Involvement and Communication Strategy' for JMP1 identification,
building on the successful experiences and lessons learnt from the JMP Launch Phase. This
strategy is going to be converted to a stakeholder involvement and communication program
before the start of the main identification study to ensure effective participation of key
stakeholders and information-sharing with the stakeholders concerned and general public. The
program to be synchronized with consultants' work schedules will specify the timing, channels,
methods and multi-layer stakeholders for different consultative, information-sharing and
disclosure activities.

7. Finally, with regard to OP 7.50, while this policy is triggered by JMP1 ID, it is exempt from
OP 7.50 notification requirements under paragraph 7.b, as the work is upstream in nature and
does not include engineering studies. However, given the importance and visibility of the JMP,
and in alignment with NBI information sharing policies, ENTRO will be strongly encouraged to
distribute project information describing the JMP1 Identification technical assistance project and
associated studies. In keeping with best practice, this could be accomplished through a letter and
associated project profile distributed to all Nile riparians by the NBI Secretariat. Alternatively, as
customary practice, a project profile for the JMP1 Identification studies could be minuted at a
Nile-COM meeting.




                                                 56
Attachment 1
              EN JMP1 ID: TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR
     STRATEGIC SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT (SSEA)


Background: The Strategic Social and Environmental Assessment is a process that promotes the
inclusion of environmental and social criteria in policy-making and planning, by helping to assess
the environmental and social impacts of development options, thus reducing upfront planning and
preparation costs, screening out inappropriate or unacceptable projects at an early stage, and
minimizing the risk that projects encounter serious problems due to environmental and social
considerations. The SSEA is a critical building block in the development of bankable projects as a
result of JMP1 identification studies. It is an integral part of the JMP1 identification study
consultancy.

Objective: The objective of this task is to provide a participatory SSEA of Cooperative Water
Resources Development in the Blue Nile/Abbay-Main Nile. The outcome would be an
assessment of the environmental and social issues associated with various development options,
to allow for informed and transparent decision-making in identification and selection of
investments for water resources development.

The SSEA will be used to broadly examine, in an integrated manner, the linkages and cumulative
impacts of potential scenarios on physical, biological, socio-economic and cultural issues. Key
safeguard issues, such as natural habitats, pest management, physical cultural resources,
involuntary resettlement and dam safety should be broadly addressed as part of the SSEA
process. In addition to safeguards assessment and impact mitigation measures, the SSEA will
also outline mechanisms and options for benefit-sharing among countries and local communities
in the basin. The SSEA is designed to inform, and be complemented by, a series of project-
specific Environmental and Social Assessments (ESAs), detailed resettlement actions plans, and
other safeguards instruments, although these assessments are outside the scope of JMP1 ID.

Scope of Work: The SSEA will target two key decision making points: (i) the strategic decisions
that will be taken on water resources development of Abbay/Blue-Main Nile with strategic
analysis of different options, on the basis the JMP Launch Phase studies, and (ii) the
identification/selection of a Cascade Development and Investment Sequencing option.
Accordingly, the SSEA will be conducted in two distinct and consecutive stages, the first
focusing on the comparison of other development options with the JMP options recommended by
the Launch Phase, and the second focusing on the Cascade Development and Sequencing Study,
which is also financed under JMP1 Identification Project. Draft results for each stage would be
publicly disclosed and finalized following extensive consultations, in line with ENTRO JMP
consultation and communication strategy. SSEA consultations will fit within the Consultation
Strategy and Program to be developed by ENTRO and this Consultant respectively.

The SSEA will be undertaken in close consultation with key stakeholders in the three countries
involved (Egypt, Ethiopia and Sudan). Independent reviewers would advise ENTRO and the
Consultant throughout preparation of the SSEA. During the first stage of the study the Consultant
will use the information already available at ENTRO (see section B of the TOR) and from
secondary sources, and is not expected to conduct extensive primary fieldwork. The results of the
first stage will then serve as an input to the Cascade Development and Sequencing Study.




                                               57
The second stage of the SSEA will start once the Cascade Development and Sequencing Study
has identified specific cascade development options. The Consultant will then analyze potential
social and environmental impacts for these development options, and propose possible mitigation
measures. Throughout the second stage, the Consultant's staff involved in the SSEA will
regularly consult with the staff working on the Cascade Development and Sequencing Study, and
receive inputs from the staff working on other studies, such as watershed and floodplain
management and irrigation studies, etc.

It is expected that detailed Environmental and Social Assessments (ESA) will be conducted under
separate site-specific studies after the preferred cascade development scenario has been identified.
Such ESA is beyond the scope of the SSEA.

1.1.    STAGE 1. STRATEGIC ASSESSMENT
1.1.1 Screening

Take stock of existing information. The Consultant will prepare an environmental and social
baseline based on existing information (existing sources are summarized in section B of this
TOR) focusing on those aspects and geographic areas (mainly along the Blue Nile/Abbay and
Main Nile rivers) on which JMP1 investments impinge. He will identify data and information
gaps.
Identify relevant safeguard policies. The Consultant will review the national and international
safeguard policies that investments to be identified through JMP1 studies might trigger, and that
will need to be considered in the Environmental and Social Assessment of the Cascade Study, as
well as in the Environmental and Social Assessments (ESA) of future investments. In addition to
national environmental regulations on environmental assessments, the review would take note of
the World Bank's safeguard policies, the Equator Principles and related IFC performance
standards, and the safeguard policies of potential bilateral and multi-lateral donors.
Scope key environmental, social and developmental issues on the Blue Nile/Abbay and Main Nile
in a regional context: collect information and meet key stakeholders, and define/refine
appropriate indicators for development decision making (social, environmental, and economic)
based on a consultative process for strategic assessment of investment options. Most importantly,
the Consultant will identify: (i) crucial social issues such as potential vulnerable groups, social
institutions and community structures; (ii) major environmental services provided by the
Abbay/Blue-Main Nile, most particularly the importance of annual floods on recession
agriculture, pastoralism, fisheries, forestry, wetlands and biodiversity; and (iii) the revenue and
livelihoods that depend on these environmental services.
Inception report. The Consultant will prepare an inception report that will be submitted and
discussed with ENTRO. The report will summarize the conclusions and results of the above
activities, and propose a work program for the remaining activities of SSEA.
1.1.2 Analyze key environmental and social issues

Assess environmental and social externalities and risks for each of the following development
alternatives:
           A. No JMP (continued unilateral development);
           B. Many small dams on Abbay tributaries; and
           C. One or more Major Multipurpose Dams on the Abbay




                                                58
The Consultant will analyze the impacts of the various alternatives on livelihoods and
environmental services, taking into account potential vulnerable groups, social institutions and
community structures, and possible winner and losers. The analysis should be in quantitative
terms as far as possible, and the economic tradeoffs associated with each scenario should be
identified and cost out.
For each externality and risk identified, the Consultant will describe key relationships between
stakeholders, analyze how these relationships play in major social or environmental decision-
making processes, propose monitoring systems to detect and correct any problems, and assess
recent performance and major causes of any systemic capacity limits or constraints (physical,
human, financial, managerial). The analysis of decision-making process will describe the types
of choices made, the accountability assigned and actions taken, in each of the following seven
areas: setting goals or standards, setting priorities, allocating resources, consuming resources,
improving productivity, evaluating performance, and revising or reconsidering decisions.
The Consultant should also look at the environmental and social impacts of alternative
power/energy development using thermal options.
Assess the institutional and policy framework for the management of environmental and social
issues. The Consultant would identify the strengths and weaknesses of national institutions and of
ENTRO, and assess their capacity to satisfactorily manage the environmental and social risks and
externalities that might arise from future investments.
Draft final report. The report will summarize the results and conclusions of the assessment of
social and environmental issues associated with different development options, including a
comparative matrix. It would define measures to ensure sufficient capacity within national
institutions and ENTRO to manage the environmental and social risks and externalities that might
arise from future investments. It would also include draft TORs for studies required to fill major
data and information gaps on social and environmental issues, with a note explaining why this
information is needed.
This report will be disclosed on the NBI/ENTRO web site, and functionalities will be developed
on the web site by ENTRO to collect public views and comments. The disclosure will follow
ENTRO JMP consultation and communication strategy.
1.1.3. Organize public consultations and finalize report

Consultations. The Consultant will assist ENTRO in preparing consultative workshops for
stakeholders of the three countries of Eastern Nile, to get inputs on the key findings of the
assessment.
Finalize report. The Consultant will finalize the report on the basis of comments collected
through the ENTRO web site, and the stakeholder consultations.


1.2 STAGE 2. ASSESSMENT OF CASCADE DEVELOPMENT OPTIONS AND INVESTMENT SEQUENCING
OPTIONS

1.2.1. Inception Report

The Consultant will prepare an Inception Report as part of the Inception Report for PHASE 2,
providing a detailed work program and timetables for the Environmental and Social Assessment
of the options proposed for the Cascade Development and Sequencing Study, and indicating how




                                                59
 coordination will be ensured with the team conducting the Cascade Study, as well as the
 watershed and irrigation studies, etc. The report will be submitted and discussed with ENTRO.
 1.2.2. Assessment of impacts

 Comparative environmental and social assessment of the options proposed for the Cascade
 Study. The assessment will include: (i) an overall baseline for key issues; (ii) a description of the
 footprint for each option, (iii) identification of the impacts for each option, according to
 applicable safeguard policies and principles identified in Phase 1; (iii) an analysis of the impacts
 for each option , including cumulative, induced and indirect impacts; (iv) measures to mitigate
 these impacts or to enhance benefits, either by rehabilitating lost environmental services, by
 compensating affected populations for their loss, or by providing alternative livelihoods; and (vi)
 an indication of the cost of the mitigation measures, institutional responsibilities and monitoring
 and evaluation arrangements. Preparation of the assessment will require visits to each of the three
 countries, as well as visits of the potential dam sites.
 The assessment of impacts for the different options will include, but not be limited to, the
 following issues:
              · Hydropower generation of the cascade development options and power demand;
              · Reservoir inundation causing land take, population displacement, loss of natural
                habitats and biodiversity, commercial minerals and cultural/historical sites;
              · Transmission lines of the cascade development options;
              · Access roads and bridges of the cascade development options;
              · Air pollution and downstream water quality of the cascade development options;
              · Public health, including waterborne diseases (including urban flooding and
                irrigation);
              · Reservoir evaporation losses from reservoirs;
              · Dam safety considerations;
              · Downstream environmental flows (i) during first-filling, (ii) during subsequent
                normal operations and (iii) during exceptional circumstances
              · Flood control, flood forecasting and flood warning systems
              · Drought management and mitigation
              · Groundwater development
              · Climate change mitigation through storage and cooperative management
              · Reservoir sedimentation
              · Erosion control and watershed management
              · River morphology changes
              · Ecological services derived from floods, particularly for recession agriculture,
                pastoralism, fisheries, and forestry
              · Biodiversity conservation ,particularly in wetlands
              · Upstream and downstream hydropower generation, irrigation, water supplies, and
                navigation.
              · Carbon emissions reduction associated with hydropower project development
              · Aquatic weed infestation

The social assessment will include, but not be limited to, the following issues:
     · Loss of livelihoods because of reductions in environmental services that affect carrying
         capacity;
     · The capability of those losing to assert their rights;



                                                  60
    ·   The capacity and opportunities for those losing to move or change occupation or
        livelihoods strategies or to access benefits, including rural-urban migration;
    ·   Who is authorized to enter into agreements on behalf of vulnerable groups;
    ·   The power relations within societies, social differentiations within and between groups,
        and ownership structures.

The assessment would also include, in connection with the Cascade Development Study, an
examination of the environmental and social impacts of alternative power and energy
development to a JMP investment, such as thermal and renewable options, taking into account of
the results of the Eastern Nile Power Trade Study.
The consultants are expected to design a road map for the management of environmental and
social issues during the preparation of first priority JMP1 investment projects, including the
desirable arrangements and processes for stakeholder consultations, communications and social
and environmental protection including benefit enhancement and mitigation opportunities at
national, regional, and global levels. The arrangements for social and environmental protection
will include environmental management, monitoring and reporting of the first priority JMP1
investment projects by the project owner, the civil contractor, regional and national
environmental protection agencies, and will be reviewed by a Panel of Independent Reviewers
that combines the functions of the independent panel of experts for environmental and social
issues and of the panel of experts on dam safety.


Draft final report. The report will summarize the results and conclusions of the assessment of the
options proposed for/defined by the Cascade Development and Investment Sequencing Study,
including a comparative matrix of social and environmental issues associated with the different
options and drawing attention to which impacts are beneficial and which are adverse, and the road
map for the management of environmental and social issues during the preparation of the first
priority investment package of JMP1.


1.2.3. Organize public consultations and finalize report
Consultations. The Consultant will assist ENTRO in preparing consultative workshops for
stakeholders of the three countries: Egypt, Ethiopia and Sudan, to get inputs on the key findings
of the assessment study.
Finalize report. The Consultant will incorporate into the final report comments from the three
countries on the Draft Report, as well as comments collected during the consultations or though
the NBI/ENTRO web site. ENTRO will facilitate the Consultant in obtaining written comments
from the three countries.
ENTRO will make the report available to the consultants carrying out the site-specific feasibility
studies, in order for them to ensure that any significant issues raised in the SSEA are taken into
account in the ESA.
Deliverables and Time Lines: The time lines for delivering the various outputs are given below:
Stage 1. Strategic assessment

        Inception report                                   1 month after commencement
        Draft final report                                 3 months after commencement
        Stakeholder/public consultations                   4 months after commencement



                                                61
       Final report                                       6 months after commencement
Stage 2. Assessment of Cascade Development & Sequencing options

       Inception report (as part of Phase II Inception)   6 months after commencement
       Draft final report                                 13 months after commencement
       Stakeholder/Public consultations                   15 months after commencement
       Final report                                       16 months after commencement

Once cleared, the two final reports should be disclosed through ENTRO's web site, in line with
ENTRO JMP consultation and communication strategy.




                                               62
                  Annex 11: Project Preparation and Supervision

A. Proposed preparation schedule
 Key Process/Activity                                             Actual/Expected Date
 Project Identification Mission                                   September 13, 2008
 ENTRO submits final Proposal to Bank for review                  October 5, 2008
 Project Concept Note review                                      April 13, 2009
 Decision Meeting                                                 May 28, 2009
 Project Appraisal                                                June 15-21, 2009
 Grant Negotiations                                               June 24, 2009
 NBTF Grant Agreement Signing/Effectiveness                       September 2009

Key institutions responsible for preparation of the project:
   (i)       The Eastern Nile Technical Regional Office (ENTRO), Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
   (ii)      The Ministry of Irrigation and Water Resources, Government of Egypt
   (iii)     The Federal Ministry of Water Resources, Government of Ethiopia
   (iv)      The Ministry of Irrigation and Water Resources, Government of Sudan

B. Team composition (extended team)

                    Name                                              Area of specialty
 Xiaokai Li                                         TTL, Sr. Water Resources/Hydropower Specialist
 Barbara Miller                                     Lead Water Resources Specialist, Nile Program
                                                    Coordinator
 E.V. Jagannathan                                   CO-TTL, Senior Irrigation Specialist
 Yves Andre Prevost                                 Lead Environmental Specialist
 Roxanne Hakim                                      Senior Anthropologist
 Daryl Fields                                       Senior Hydropower Specialist
 Halla Qaddumi                                      Water Economist
 Richard Olowo                                      Senior Procurement Specialist
 Tafesse Freminatos Abrham                          Financial Specialist
 Raihan Elahi                                       Senior Energy Specialist
 Evarist Baimu                                      Legal Counsel
 Kimberly Versack                                   Communications Specialist
 Eileen Burke/Duncan Burrell                        Operations Analyst
 Mikael A Ketsela                                   Operations Analyst
 D. Guo                                             Hydropower Consultant
 D. Gunaratnam                                      Water Resources Planning Consultant
 Thembi Kumapley                                    Program Assistant
Peer Reviewers: Alessandro Palmieri (Lead Dam Specialist, OPCQC); Douglas Olson (Lead Water
Resources Specialist, LCSEN); Glenn Morgan (Lead Environmental Specialist, LCSEN); Reynold Duncan
(Lead Energy Specialist, AFTEG)

C. Project Cost ­ Bank Funds and Trust Funds

The estimated costs for project preparation and supervision are as follows:
                                                    Bank Budget          Nile Basin Trust Fund
Preparation up to Grant Agreement signing              $35,000                 $150,000
Supervision (annual budget)                           $100,000                 $200,000


                                               63
                          Annex 12: Documents in the Project File

The Key Documents in the Project File include those related to the projects and analytical work
listed below:

A. JMP1 ID Specific Documents
· NBTF Financing Proposal for JMP1 ID from ENTRO (October 2008)
· Letters from Governments of Egypt and Ethiopia to World Bank President in January/March 2009
· ENCOM's March 2009 Meeting Minutes (endorsing ENTRO to proceed with JMP1 ID)
· Terms of Reference for JMP 1 ID Identification Mission
· Aide Memoire from JMP 1 ID Identification Mission
· JMP1 ID Project Concept Package and Review Meeting Minutes
· Terms of Reference and Aide memoire from JMP1 ID Preparation mission
· Draft Project Implementation Plan (PIP)
· Final Draft Stakeholder Involvement and Communication Strategy
· Terms of Reference for the main identification study consultancy

B.Other Related Documents
· JMP Launch Phase Summary Reports
· Eastern Nile One-System Inventory (hydrologic, environmental and socio-economic data)
· Scoping Study of Opportunities for Cooperative Development of the Eastern Nile (2008).
· Comments on the Scoping Study of the JMP (Egypt, Aug 2008)
· JMP Briefing Note: Financing Options for an Anchor project
· A Report on Institutional and Legal Considerations Associated with Achieving a JMP
· EN Watershed Management Cooperative Regional Assessment (CRA) Report
· Reports of EN Regional Power Trade Study Phase 1, including pre-feasibility studies of Mendaya,
  Border and Dal multipurpose dams
· EN Irrigation and Drainage Cooperative Regional Assessment (CRA) Report
· A Report on the Implications of Climate Change on Potential Multipurpose Storage on the Abbay/Blue
  Nile
· Initial Rapid Appraisal of Flood Damages along the Blue and Main Nile in Sudan (by Cawood &
  Associates, 2005)




                                                 64
                                          Annex 13: Statement of Loans and Credits
             EASTERN AFRICA: Eastern Nile First Joint Multipurpose Program Identification
                                           (JMP1 ID)

                                                                                                                                                Difference between
                                                                                                                                                expected and actual
                                                                  Original Amount in US$ Millions                                                 disbursements
Project ID   FY      Purpose                                    IBRD      IDA         SF            GEF       Cancel.       Undisb.         Orig.           Frm. Rev'd




                                                       Total:    0.00         0.00    0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00            0.00             0.00




                                                         EASTERN AFRICA
                                                       STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                                      Held and Disbursed Portfolio
                                                       In Millions of US Dollars

                                                                  Committed                                                Disbursed
                                                                 IFC                                                  IFC
       FY Approval      Company                      Loan       Equity        Quasi    Partic.       Loan            Equity             Quasi           Partic.




                                  Total portfolio:    0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00           0.00            0.00           0.00             0.00




                                                                                 Approvals Pending Commitment
                         FY Approval   Company                                Loan         Equity           Quasi           Partic.




                                             Total pending commitment:        0.00          0.00            0.00             0.00




                                                                         65
              EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF: Eastern Nile First Joint Multipurpose Program
                                  Identification (JMP1 ID)

                                                                                                                               Difference between
                                                                                                                               expected and actual
                                                                    Original Amount in US$ Millions                              disbursements
Project ID   FY     Purpose                                      IBRD       IDA         SF       GEF     Cancel.   Undisb.    Orig.     Frm. Rev'd
P101103      2009   EGYPT-RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING                270.00           0.00   0.00      0.00     0.00    270.00       0.00        0.00
P100047      2009   EG-Ain Sokhna Power                         600.00           0.00   0.00      0.00     0.00    600.00       0.00        0.00
P095392      2008   EG-NATURAL GAS CONNECTIONS                    75.00          0.00   0.00      0.00     0.00      75.00      0.00        0.00
P094311      2008   EG INTEGRATED SANITATION &                  120.00           0.00   0.00      0.00     0.00    120.00       1.00        0.00
                    SEWERAGE INFR
P087970      2007   West Delta Water Conserv. & Irrig. Rehab    145.00           0.00   0.00      0.00     0.00    145.00      90.00        0.00
P093470      2007   EG-MORTGAGE FINANCE                           37.10          0.00   0.00      0.00     0.00      12.27     -3.57        0.00
P091945      2006   EG-EL TEBBIN POWER                          259.60           0.00   0.00      0.00     0.00    159.46      58.26       32.08
P090073      2006   EG-Second Pollution Abatement                 20.00          0.00   0.00      0.00     0.00      16.74     10.74       10.74
P082952      2005   EG-Early Childhood Education                  20.00          0.00   0.00      0.00     0.00      16.05     12.48        0.00
                    Enhancement
P073977      2005   EG-INTEGRATED IRRIGATION IMPR.              120.00           0.00   0.00      0.00     0.00    111.57      36.57        2.83
                    & MGT
P082914      2004   EG-AIRPORTS DEVELOPMENT                     375.00           0.00   0.00      0.00     0.00      40.24      0.24       21.63
                    PROJECT
P049702      2004   EG-SKILLS DEVELOPMENT                          5.50          0.00   0.00      0.00     0.00       1.69      1.69       -0.53
P045499      2000   EG-NATIONAL DRAINAGE II                       50.00          0.00   0.00      0.00     0.00       0.63      0.63        0.65
P050484      1999   EG Secondary Education Enhancement             0.00         50.00   0.00      0.00     0.00      19.92     16.89        2.54
                    Proj
P049166      1998   EG East Delta Ag. Serv.                        0.00         15.00   0.00      0.00     0.62       3.30      2.28        2.02
                                                       Total:   2,097.20        65.00   0.00      0.00     0.62    1,591.87   227.21       71.96




                                                                           66
                                               EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF
                                                  STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                                Held and Disbursed Portfolio
                                                 In Millions of US Dollars

                                                           Committed                                 Disbursed
                                                         IFC                                      IFC
FY Approval   Company                           Loan     Equity        Quasi   Partic.   Loan     Equity    Quasi   Partic.
1996          ANSDK                             1.33       0.00         0.00     0.00      0.56     0.00     0.00     0.00
2004          Alexandria Fiber                  8.00       0.00         0.00     0.00      7.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
2001          Amreya                            4.69       0.00         0.00     0.00      4.69     0.00     0.00     0.00
2006          CIB LLC                           0.00       0.72         0.00     0.00      0.00     0.48     0.00     0.00
1999          CIL                               0.00       0.74         0.00     0.00      0.00     0.74     0.00     0.00
2004          CIL                               0.00       0.15         0.00     0.00      0.00     0.15     0.00     0.00
1992          Carbon Black-EGT                  0.00       1.48         0.00     0.00      0.00     1.48     0.00     0.00
1997          Carbon Black-EGT                  0.00       1.48         0.00     0.00      0.00     1.48     0.00     0.00
1998          Carbon Black-EGT                  4.00       0.00         0.00     0.00      4.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
2000          Carbon Black-EGT                  5.00       0.00         0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
2002          Ceramica Al-Amir                  3.33       0.00         0.00     0.00      3.33     0.00     0.00     0.00
2006          Cmrcl Intl Bank                   0.00     23.28          0.00     0.00      0.00   23.03      0.00     0.00
2006          EFG Hermes                        20.00      0.00         0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
2004          EHF                               0.00       1.70         0.00     0.00      0.00     1.70     0.00     0.00
2005          Egypt Factors                     0.00       3.00         0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
2006          Gippsland                         0.00       4.61         0.00     0.00      0.00     2.03     0.00     0.00
2001          IT Worx                           0.00       2.00         0.00     0.00      0.00     2.00     0.00     0.00
2004          Lecico Egypt                      8.94       0.00         0.00     0.00      8.94     0.00     0.00     0.00
1986          Meleiha Oil                       0.00       8.62         0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
1988          Meleiha Oil                       0.00       9.20         0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
1992          Meleiha Oil                       0.00     13.00          0.00     0.00      0.00     0.94     0.00     0.00
2005          Merlon Egypt                      1.00       0.00         0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
2002          Metro                             10.50      0.00         0.00     0.00     10.50     0.00     0.00     0.00
1992          Misr Compressor                   9.70       0.00         0.00     0.00      9.70     0.00     0.00     0.00
              Orix Leasing EGT                  4.00       0.00         0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
1996          Orix Leasing EGT                  0.00       0.53         0.00     0.00      0.00     0.53     0.00     0.00
2001          Orix Leasing EGT                  1.09       0.00         0.00     0.00      1.09     0.00     0.00     0.00
2001          Port Said                         41.07      0.00         0.00   132.53     41.07     0.00     0.00   132.53
2002          SEKEM                             4.18       0.00         0.00     0.00      4.18     0.00     0.00     0.00
2006          SONUT                             10.00      0.00         4.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
2004          SPDC                              18.40      0.00         0.00     0.00     18.40     0.00     0.00     0.00
2001          SUEZ GULF                         40.40      0.00         0.00   129.07     40.40     0.00     0.00   129.07
1997          UNI                               2.05       0.00         0.00     0.00      2.05     0.00     0.00     0.00
2001          UNI                               2.06       0.00         0.00     0.00      2.06     0.00     0.00     0.00
2005          Wadi Group                        15.00      0.00         0.00     0.00      7.50     0.00     0.00     0.00
                            Total portfolio:    214.74   70.51          4.00   261.60    165.47   34.56      0.00   261.60




                                                                  67
                                                      Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval   Company                              Loan     Equity     Quasi     Partic.
2004          ACB Acrylic                     0.00           0.00      0.00          0.00
2004          Merlon Egypt                    0.00           0.00      0.00          0.02
2000          ACB Expansn III                 0.00           0.00      0.00          0.00
2006          Rally Energy                    0.01           0.00      0.00          0.00
                  Total pending commitment:        0.01      0.00      0.00          0.02




                                              68
              ETHIOPIA: Eastern Nile First Joint Multipurpose Program Identification (JMP1
                                                  ID)

                                                                                                                              Difference between
                                                                                                                              expected and actual
                                                                   Original Amount in US$ Millions                              disbursements
Project ID   FY     Purpose                                      IBRD      IDA        SF        GEF     Cancel.   Undisb.     Orig.    Frm. Rev'd
P113156      2009   ETHIOPIA GLOBAL FOOD CRISIS                   0.00    250.00       0.00      0.00     0.00       9.41      -9.00       0.00
                    RESPONSE PRO
P106855      2009   ET-General Educ Quality Improv. (FY09)        0.00     50.00       0.00      0.00     0.00      51.60       0.00       0.00
P096323      2008   ET-Tana &Beles Int. Wat Res Dev Project       0.00     45.00       0.00      0.00     0.00      37.91      -3.00       0.00
P101474      2008   ET-Urban Local Govt Development               0.00    150.00       0.00      0.00     0.00    122.67       -5.31       0.00
                    (FY08)
P101556      2008   ET-Elect. Access Rural II SIL (FY07)          0.00    130.00       0.00      0.00     0.00    132.72      43.19        0.00
P074011      2008   ET/Nile Basin Initiative:ET-SU Interconn      0.00     41.05       0.00      0.00     0.00      36.16       4.85       0.00
P106228      2008   ET- Ethiopia Nutrition SIL (FY08)             0.00     30.00       0.00      0.00     0.00      26.69      -3.00       0.00
P107139      2008   ET-Sustainable Land Mngt SIL (FY08)           0.00     20.00       0.00      0.00     0.00      18.10      -0.50       0.00
P108932      2008   ET-Pastoral Community Develpt II              0.00     80.00       0.00      0.00     0.00      63.52       1.00       0.00
                    (FY08)
P101473      2007   ET-Urban WSS SIL FY07)                        0.00    100.00       0.00      0.00     0.00      87.29       8.66       0.00
P098031      2007   ET-Multi-Sectoral HIV/AIDS II (FY07)          0.00     30.00       0.00      0.00     0.00      17.63     17.37        0.00
P092353      2007   ET-Irrigation & Drainage SIL (FY07)           0.00    100.00       0.00      0.00    10.00      77.03     33.73        0.00
P091077      2007   ET-APL3-RSDP Stage III Proj (FY07)            0.00    225.00       0.00      0.00     0.00    200.50      25.97        0.00
P079275      2006   ET- Cap. Building for Agric. Serv (FY06)      0.00     54.00       0.00      0.00    13.00      27.44       5.52      -1.80
P094704      2006   ET-Financial Sector Cap Bldg. Project         0.00     15.00       0.00      0.00     0.00      12.51       7.04       0.00
P097271      2006   ET-Electricity Access (Rural) Expansion       0.00    133.40       0.00      0.00     0.00    111.34      95.85        0.00
P074015      2006   ET-Protection of Basic Services (FY06)        0.00    430.00       0.00      0.00     0.00      20.21    -209.88       0.00
P082998      2005   ET-Road Sec Dev Prgm Ph 2 Supl 2              0.00    248.20       0.00      0.00     0.00    137.35      22.57       -6.87
                    (FY05)
P078692      2005   ET-Post Secondary Education SIL (FY05)        0.00     40.00       0.00      0.00    15.00       7.70     20.58        0.00
P078458      2005   ET-ICT Assisted Dev SIM (FY05)                0.00     25.00       0.00      0.00     0.00      15.31     13.63        6.22
P050272      2005   ET-Priv Sec Dev CB (FY05)                     0.00     24.00       0.00      0.00     7.00      10.30       8.85       2.71
P074020      2004   ET-Pub Sec Cap Bldg Prj (FY04)                0.00    100.00       0.00      0.00    20.00      15.00     29.05        0.00
P076735      2004   ET-Water Sply & Sanitation SIL (FY04)         0.00    100.00       0.00      0.00    13.00      44.86     39.97        0.00
P049395      2003   ET-Energy Access SIL (FY03)                   0.00    132.70       0.00      0.00     0.00      96.92     71.88       69.35
P044613      2003   ET-RSDP APL1 (FY03)                           0.00    126.80       0.00      0.00     0.00      19.45       4.74       0.00
P050383      2002   ET-Food Security SIL (FY02)                   0.00     85.00       0.00      0.00    35.00       2.06     17.15      -13.87
                                                        Total:    0.00   2,765.15      0.00      0.00   113.00    1,401.68   240.91       55.74




                                                                         69
                                                              ETHIOPIA
                                                       STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                                      Held and Disbursed Portfolio
                                                       In Millions of US Dollars
                                                                  Committed                                                Disbursed
                                                                 IFC                                                  IFC
       FY Approval      Company                      Loan       Equity        Quasi    Partic.       Loan            Equity             Quasi           Partic.




                                  Total portfolio:    0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00           0.00            0.00           0.00             0.00



                                                                                 Approvals Pending Commitment
                         FY Approval   Company                                Loan         Equity           Quasi           Partic.




                                             Total pending commitment:        0.00          0.00            0.00             0.00




             SUDAN: Eastern Nile First Joint Multipurpose Program Identification (JMP1 ID)
                                                                                                                                                Difference between
                                                                                                                                                expected and actual
                                                                  Original Amount in US$ Millions                                                 disbursements
Project ID   FY      Purpose                                    IBRD      IDA         SF            GEF       Cancel.       Undisb.         Orig.           Frm. Rev'd




                                                       Total:    0.00         0.00    0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00            0.00             0.00


                                                               SUDAN
                                                      STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                                     Held and Disbursed Portfolio
                                                      In Millions of US Dollars
                                                                  Committed                                                Disbursed
                                                                 IFC                                                  IFC
       FY Approval      Company                      Loan       Equity        Quasi    Partic.       Loan            Equity             Quasi           Partic.




                                  Total portfolio:    0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00           0.00            0.00           0.00             0.00



                                                                                 Approvals Pending Commitment
                         FY Approval   Company                                Loan         Equity           Quasi           Partic.




                                             Total pending commitment:        0.00          0.00            0.00             0.00




                                                                         70
                                                    Annex 14: Country at a Glance
EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF: EN First Joint Multipurpose Program Identification

                                                                                                 M . East       Lo we r-
     P O VE R T Y a nd S O C IA L                                                                & N o rt h    m iddle -
                                                                                                                               D e v e lo pm e nt dia m o nd*
                                                                                  Egypt           A fric a     inc o m e
     2007
     P o pulatio n, mid-year (millio ns)                                              75.5             313         3,437
                                                                                                                                                Life expectancy
     GNI per capita (A tlas metho d, US$ )                                           1,580           2,794         1,887
     GNI (Atlas metho d, US$ billio ns)                                                1
                                                                                     1 9.5             876         6,485

     A v e ra ge a nnua l gro wt h, 2 0 0 1-0 7
     P o pulatio n (%)                                                                     1.8          1.8            1 .1
                                                                                                                               GNI                                           Gro ss
     Labo r fo rce (%)                                                                     2.8          3.6            1.5
                                                                                                                               per                                          primary
     M o s t re c e nt e s t im a t e ( la t e s t ye a r a v a ila ble , 2 0 0 1- 0 7 )                                       capita                                    enro llment
     P o verty (% o f po pulatio n belo w natio nal po verty line)                        ..             ..              ..
     Urban po pulatio n (% o f to tal po pulatio n)                                     43              57             42
     Life expectancy at birth (years)                                                    71             70             69
     Infant mo rtality (per 1,000 live births)                                          29              34              41
     Child malnutritio n (% o f children under 5)                                         5              ..            25            A ccess to impro ved water so urce
     A ccess to an impro ved water so urce (% o f po pulatio n)                         98              89             88
     Literacy (% o f po pulatio n age 1 5+)                                              71             73             89
     Gro ss primary enro llment (% o f scho o l-age po pulatio n)                      105             105             11
                                                                                                                        1                 Egypt, A rab Rep.
       M ale                                                                           107             108            121                 Lo wer-middle-inco me gro up
       Female                                                                          102             103            109

     KE Y E C O N O M IC R A T IO S a nd LO N G - T ER M T R E N D S
                                                                      19 8 7        19 9 7          2006          2007
                                                                                                                               E c o no m ic ra t io s *
     GDP (US$ billio ns)                                                40.5          78.4            107.5         130.5
     Gro ss capital fo rmatio n/GDP                                      26.1          17.6           18.7           20.9
                                                                                                                                                        Trade
     Expo rts o f go o ds and services/GDP                               12.6          18.8           29.9           30.3
     Gro ss do mestic savings/GDP                                        15.9          1 .5
                                                                                         1             17.1          16.3
     Gro ss natio nal savings/GDP                                        1 9.1         17.3           22.0           22.5
     Current acco unt balance/GDP                                        -2.3          0.2             1.6            2.1
                                                                                                                               Do mestic                                 Capital
     Interest payments/GDP                                                 1.2          1.0            0.6            0.6
                                                                                                                               savings                                   fo rmatio n
     To tal debt/GDP                                                   108.9          38.2            26.8           23.3
     To tal debt service/expo rts                                        17.9         10.6             5.4            5.0
     P resent value o f debt/GDP                                             ..           ..          24.0              ..
     P resent value o f debt/expo rts                                        ..           ..          63.1              ..
                                                                                                                                                  Indebtedness
                                                    19 8 7 - 9 7 19 9 7 -0 7        2006            2007       2 0 0 7 - 11
     (average annual gro wth)
     GDP                                                    4.1           4.4           6.8            7.1             6.5                    Egypt, A rab Rep.
     GDP per capita                                         2.0           2.5           5.0            5.2             5.4                    Lo wer-middle-inco me gro up
     Expo rts o f go o ds and services                      6.3          12.0          21.3           23.3            21.6



     S T R UC T UR E o f the E C O N O M Y
                                                                      19 8 7        19 9 7          2006          2007         G ro wth o f c a pit a l a nd G D P (%)
     (% o f GDP )
                                                                                                                               30
     A griculture                                                       20.5           17.0            14.1           14.1
     Industry                                                           27.1           31.2           38.4           22.8      20
       M anufacturing                                                   16.5           17.6           16.6           15.7      10
     Services                                                           52.4           51.8           47.5           63.1
                                                                                                                                0
     Ho useho ld final co nsumptio n expenditure                        69.9          77.2            70.6           72.4     -10
                                                                                                                                         02       03         04   05     06      07
     General go v't final co nsumptio n expenditure                     14.3            1
                                                                                       1 .3           12.3             1
                                                                                                                      1 .3                             GCF              GDP
     Impo rts o f go o ds and services                                  22.8          24.9            31.6           34.8


                                                                  19 8 7 -9 7 19 9 7 - 0 7          2006          2007
                                                                                                                              G ro wt h o f e xpo rt s a nd im po rt s (%)
     (average annual gro wth)
     A griculture                                                         2.8              3.4         3.2             3.7    40

     Industry                                                             6.3              4.4          1
                                                                                                       1 .5            7.9    30
       M anufacturing                                                     5.3              4.9         5.8             7.6    20
     Services                                                             2.7              4.8          5.1            7.4    10

     Ho useho ld final co nsumptio n expenditure                          4.7              3.1           5.1          5.2      0
     General go v't final co nsumptio n expenditure                       2.3              3.0           3.1          0.2     -10       02        03         04   05     06      07

     Gro ss capital fo rmatio n                                           -1.3             4.3         13.3          23.8                        Exports               Imports
     Impo rts o f go o ds and services                                    2.5              8.4         21 .8         28.8


     No te: 2007 data are preliminary estimates.
     This table was pro duced fro m the Develo pment Eco no mics LDB database.
     * The diamo nds sho w fo ur key indicato rs in the co untry (in bo ld) co mpared with its inco me-gro up average. If data are missing, the diamo nd will
       be inco mplete.




                                                                                           71
                                                                                                                                     Egypt, Arab Rep.
P R IC E S a nd G O V E R N M E N T F IN A N C E
                                                   19 8 7    19 9 7         2006      2007
                                                                                                Inf la tio n ( %)
D o me s t ic pric e s
                                                                                                15
(% change)
Co nsumer prices                                       ..       6.2            4.2        1
                                                                                         1 .0   10
Implicit GDP deflato r                               31.1       9.9            7.4       12.6
                                                                                                5
G o v e rnm e nt f ina nc e
(% o f GDP , includes current grants)                                                           0
Current revenue                                     20.3       22.8           23.4      23.2                02             03         04         05          06            07
Current budget balance                               -5.4       2.8           -6.8      -3.2
                                                                                                                           GDP deflator                         CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                             -15.0      -0.9           -8.2      -7.3

TRADE
                                                   19 8 7    19 9 7         2006      2007
                                                                                                E xpo rt a nd impo rt le v e ls ( US $ m ill.)
(US$ millio ns)
To tal expo rts (fo b)                             2,264      5,345         18,455    22,01 8   40,000
  Co tto n                                           458      2,578         10,407    10,223
  Other agriculture                                  343        107             146        1
                                                                                          10    30,000
  M anufactures                                      665      1,302          5,1 72    7,51 9
                                                                                                20,000
To tal impo rts (cif)                              7,323     15,565         30,441    37,834
  Fo o d                                           2,338      2,885           1,921    2,671
                                                                                                10,000
  Fuel and energy                                    884      1,909          5,443     4,336
  Capital go o ds                                  1,764          1
                                                               4,1 4         7,888     9,845          0
                                                                                                            01        02        03         04        05      06       07
Expo rt price index (2000=100)                        87        126            150       157
Impo rt price index (2000=100)                        86         1
                                                                16             135       138                           Exports                       Import s
Terms o f trade (2000=1 00)                           101       108              1
                                                                                11        1
                                                                                         13


B A LA N C E o f P A Y M E N T S
                                                   19 8 7    19 9 7         2006      2007
                                                                                                C urre nt a c c o unt ba la nc e to G D P (%)
(US$ millio ns)
Expo rts o f go o ds and services                  5,667     14,534         33,891    39,381    5
Impo rts o f go o ds and services                  9,468     19,528         38,217    44,935
                                                                                                4
Reso urce balance                                  -3,801    -4,994         -4,326    -5,554
                                                                                                3
Net inco me                                         -480       967             531       ,1
                                                                                        1 88
Net current transfers                              3,356      4,145          5,547      7,611   2

Current acco unt balance                            -924        19
                                                                1            1,752     2,696    1

Financing items (net)                                106      1,793          1,502     2,587    0

Changes in net reserves                              819      -1 2
                                                                ,91         -3,253    -5,282           01        02        03         04        05         06         07
                                                                                                -1

M emo :
Reserves including go ld (US$ millio ns)                ..        ..        26,660    30,320
Co nversio n rate (DEC, lo cal/US$ )                  1.3       3.4             5.7       5.7

E X T E R N A L D E B T a nd R E S O UR C E F LO WS
                                                  19 8 7     19 9 7         2006      2007
                                                                                                C o mpo s itio n o f 2 0 0 7 de bt ( US$ mill.)
(US$ millio ns)
To tal debt o utstanding and disbursed            44,122     29,951         28,763    30,444
  IB RD                                            1,703        869            544       ,1
                                                                                        1 81                      G: 1,451           A: 1,181
  IDA                                                892      1,206           1,481    1,490                                                          B: 1,490
                                                                                                     F: 4,083
To tal debt service                                1,660      2,1 3
                                                                 1            2,211    2,422                                                               D: 2,610
 IB RD                                               244       297              93       144
 IDA                                                  10        24              53        58
Co mpo sitio n o f net reso urce flo ws
 Official grants                                     560      1,028            639         ..
 Official credito rs                                 753         -10        -1,040        56
 P rivate credito rs                                 574        -37           -250      -103
 Fo reign direct investment (net inflo ws)           948        891         10,043         ..
 P o rtfo lio equity (net inflo ws)                    0        51 5           502         ..
                                                                                                                                E: 19,629
Wo rld B ank pro gram
 Co mmitments                                          0        75             817         0    A - IBRD                                                  E - Bilat eral
 Disbursements                                       163       260             164       737    B - IDA           D - Other multilat eral                 F - Private
 P rincipal repayments                               125       241             108       144    C - IM F                                                  G - Short-term
 Net flo ws                                           38         19             56       593
 Interest payments                                   129        80              39        58
 Net transfers                                       -91        -61             18       535


No te: This table was pro duced fro m the Develo pment Eco no mics LDB database.                                                                                  1/28/09




                                                                       72
                       Country at a Glance
    ETHIOPIA: EN First Joint Multipurpose Program Identification

                                                                                                S ub-
P O VE R T Y a nd S O C IA L                                                                Sa ha ra n       Lo w-
                                                                                                                          D e v e lo pm e nt dia m o nd*
                                                                            E t hio pia       A fric a    inc o m e
2007
P o pulatio n, mid-year (millio ns)                                                79.1           800          1,296
                                                                                                                                         Life expectancy
GNI per capita (A tlas metho d, US$ )                                              220            952            578
GNI (Atlas metho d, US$ billio ns)                                                 17.6           762            749

A v e ra ge a nnua l gro wt h, 2 0 0 1-0 7
P o pulatio n (%)                                                                     2.6          2.5            2.2
                                                                                                                          GNI                                        Gro ss
Labo r fo rce (%)                                                                     2.9          2.6            2.7
                                                                                                                          per                                       primary
M o s t re c e nt e s t im a t e ( la t e s t ye a r a v a ila ble , 2 0 0 1- 0 7 )                                       capita                                 enro llment
P o verty (% o f po pulatio n belo w natio nal po verty line)                          ..           ..             ..
Urban po pulatio n (% o f to tal po pulatio n)                                        17           36             32
Life expectancy at birth (years)                                                      52           51             57
Infant mo rtality (per 1,000 live births)                                             77           94             85
Child malnutritio n (% o f children under 5)                                          35           27             29           A ccess to impro ved water so urce
A ccess to an impro ved water so urce (% o f po pulatio n)                            42           58             68
Literacy (% o f po pulatio n age 1 5+)                                                36           59             61
Gro ss primary enro llment (% o f scho o l-age po pulatio n)                          91           94             94                      Ethio pia
  M ale                                                                               97           99            100                      Lo w-inco me gro up
  Female                                                                              85           88             89

KE Y E C O N O M IC R A T IO S a nd LO N G - T ER M T R E N D S
                                                                  19 8 7         19 9 7         2006         2007
                                                                                                                          E c o no mic ra t io s *
GDP (US$ billio ns)                                                  10.4             8.9         15.2           19.4
Gro ss capital fo rmatio n/GDP                                       16.1          19.8           24.2          25.0
                                                                                                                                                Trade
Expo rts o f go o ds and services/GDP                                 6.0           1
                                                                                   1 .4           13.8          12.8
Gro ss do mestic savings/GDP                                         10.5          13.2             1.5          5.5
Gro ss natio nal savings/GDP                                          1
                                                                     1 .9          17.8            15.1         20.7
Current acco unt balance/GDP                                        -4.2           -2.2            -9.1          -4.5
                                                                                                                          Do mestic                              Capital
Interest payments/GDP                                                0.6            0.5            0.4              ..
                                                                                                                          savings                                fo rmatio n
To tal debt/GDP                                                     70.5           1
                                                                                  1 3.3           15.3              ..
To tal debt service/expo rts                                        38.3            9.5             7.1             ..
P resent value o f debt/GDP                                            ..             ..           5.9              ..
P resent value o f debt/expo rts                                       ..             ..          38.7              ..
                                                                                                                                           Indebtedness
                                               19 8 7 - 9 7 19 9 7 -0 7         2006            2007      2 0 0 7 - 11
(average annual gro wth)
GDP                                                    2.0            6.2          10.9            1 .1
                                                                                                    1               ..                     Ethio pia
GDP per capita                                         -1.3           3.3           8.0            8.4              ..                     Lo w-inco me gro up
Expo rts o f go o ds and services                       1.2          12.8          -0.2           10.2              ..



S T R UC T UR E o f the E C O N O M Y

                                                                  19 8 7         19 9 7         2006         2007         G ro wth o f c a pit a l a nd G D P (%)
(% o f GDP )
                                                                                                                          30
A griculture                                                        54.3          57.6            47.9          46.3
Industry                                                            13.3          10.7            12.7          13.4      20
  M anufacturing                                                     5.5           5.0             4.5           5.1      10
Services                                                            32.5          31.7            39.4          40.3
                                                                                                                           0
Ho useho ld final co nsumptio n expenditure                         79.0          78.8            86.4          83.9     -10
                                                                                                                                   02      03         04   05    06       07
General go v't final co nsumptio n expenditure                      10.6           8.0             12.1         10.6
                                                                                                                                                GCF              GDP
Impo rts o f go o ds and services                                     1
                                                                     1 .7         17.9            36.5          32.2


                                                              19 8 7 -9 7 19 9 7 - 0 7          2006         2007
                                                                                                                         G ro wt h o f e xpo rt s a nd im po rt s (%)
(average annual gro wth)
A griculture                                                           3.1            4.3         10.9            9.4    40

Industry                                                              -1.5            7.8         10.2            1
                                                                                                                 1 .0    30
  M anufacturing                                                     -2.8             5.7         10.6           10.5    20
Services                                                               1.5            7.7         12.9           13.9    10

Ho useho ld final co nsumptio n expenditure                           3.1           6.4           14.3            8.9     0
General go v't final co nsumptio n expenditure                       -2.9           6.4            8.1           -3.8    -10       02     03          04   05    06       07

Gro ss capital fo rmatio n                                           -0.8           6.6           18.5           17.4
                                                                                                                                          Exports               Imports
Impo rts o f go o ds and services                                     0.7          10.4           18.0            3.8


No te: 2007 data are preliminary estimates.
This table was pro duced fro m the Develo pment Eco no mics LDB database.
* The diamo nds sho w fo ur key indicato rs in the co untry (in bo ld) co mpared with its inco me-gro up average. If data are missing, the diamo nd will
  be inco mplete.




                                                                                      73
                                                                                                                                                     Ethiopia
P R IC E S a nd G O V E R N M E N T F IN A N C E
                                                   19 8 7    19 9 7     2006       2007
                                                                                             Inf la tio n ( %)
D o me s t ic pric e s
                                                                                             20
(% change)
Co nsumer prices                                     -9.5      -6.4       12.3       17.8
                                                                                             10
Implicit GDP deflato r                                -6.1      4.5        1
                                                                          1 .6       16.8
G o v e rnm e nt f ina nc e                                                                   0
(% o f GDP , includes current grants)                                                                        02          03            04    05        06            07
Current revenue                                      14.5      15.4       16.7       16.3    -10
Current budget balance                                2.3       5.5        5.2        5.9
                                                                                                                          GDP deflator                    CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                              -4.1      -1.3       -5.5       -4.9

TRADE
                                                   19 8 7    19 9 7     2006       2007
                                                                                             E xpo rt a nd impo rt le v e ls ( US $ m ill.)
(US$ millio ns)
To tal expo rts (fo b)                                391       599      1,000       ,1
                                                                                    1 85     6,000
 Co ffee                                             253        355        354       424
 P ulses and o il seeds                                 9        23        248       258
                                                                                             4,000
 M anufactures                                         74        75         94        105
To tal impo rts (cif)                               1,081     1,309      4,592     5,1 26
 Fo o d                                               194         17       333       259     2,000

 Fuel and energy                                      109       147        861       875
 Capital go o ds                                     466        528      1,552     2,020           0
                                                                                                            01     02         03        04    05       06       07
Expo rt price index (2000=100)                        1
                                                      15        132         1
                                                                           10          1
                                                                                      18
Impo rt price index (2000=100)                        99         87        139        151                              Export s              Imports
Terms o f trade (2000=1 00)                           1
                                                      16        152         79        78

B A LA N C E o f P A Y M E N T S
                                                   19 8 7    19 9 7     2006       2007
                                                                                             C urre nt a c c o unt ba la nc e to G D P (%)
(US$ millio ns)
Expo rts o f go o ds and services                    623        ,01
                                                               1 1       2,105      2,486     0
Impo rts o f go o ds and services                    ,21
                                                    1 7       1,589      5,548      6,266              01         02      03           04    05      06         07
                                                                                             -2
Reso urce balance                                   -594      -578      -3,443     -3,780
Net inco me                                          -48       -97         -38        13     -4
Net current transfers                                204       484       2,095     2,885
                                                                                             -6
Current acco unt balance                            -437       -191     -1,386      -882
                                                                                             -8
Financing items (net)                                416       -94        989       1,050
Changes in net reserves                               21       285        397        -168    -10

M emo :
Reserves including go ld (US$ millio ns)             224       558         ,1
                                                                          1 58      1,326
Co nversio n rate (DEC, lo cal/US$ )                  2.1       6.5         8.7        8.8

E X T E R N A L D E B T a nd R E S O UR C E F LO WS
                                                  19 8 7     19 9 7     2006       2007
                                                                                             C o mpo s itio n o f 2 0 0 6 de bt ( US$ mill.)
(US$ millio ns)
To tal debt o utstanding and disbursed             7,364     10,077      2,326         ..
  IB RD                                               57          0          0         0
                                                                                                                              G: 114
  IDA                                                601      1,532        553        711
                                                                                                                                                   B: 553
                                                                                                       F: 316
To tal debt service                                  249         99        164          ..
 IB RD                                                13          0          0          0
 IDA                                                   9         26         39          6
Co mpo sitio n o f net reso urce flo ws
 Official grants                                     346       357       5,015          ..
 Official credito rs                                 422       104        306           ..
 P rivate credito rs                                  72        23         -45          ..
                                                                                                       E: 783
 Fo reign direct investment (net inflo ws)            -3       288        364           ..                                                         D: 560
 P o rtfo lio equity (net inflo ws)                    0         0           0          ..

Wo rld B ank pro gram
 Co mmitments                                         50          0        281       520     A - IBRD                                               E - Bilat eral
 Disbursements                                        86         65        179       132     B - IDA              D - Other multilat eral           F - Private
 P rincipal repayments                                13         15         23         0     C - IM F                                               G - Short-term
 Net flo ws                                           73         50        157       132
 Interest payments                                    10          11        16         6
 Net transfers                                        64         38        140       126


No te: This table was pro duced fro m the Develo pment Eco no mics LDB database.                                                                            9/24/08




                                                                  74
                                          Country at a Glance
                         SUDAN: EN First Joint Multipurpose Program Identification
                                                                                              S ub-       Lo we r -
P OV ER TY and S OC IAL                                                                   Sa ha ra n     m iddle -
                                                                                                                       D ev e lo pme nt diam o nd*
                                                                           Suda n           A f ric a    inc o me
2007
Po p ulatio n, m id-year (milli o ns)                                          3 8.6             80 0        3,43 7
                                                                                                                                        Life expectan cy
GN I per c apita (Atl as me tho d, US$ )                                        950              95 2         ,88
                                                                                                             1 7
GN I (Atla s me th o d, US$ b ill io ns)                                       3 6.7             76 2        6,48 5

Av e ra ge a nnua l gr owt h, 2 0 0 1-0 7
Po p ulatio n (%)                                                                  2.1            2.5            1.1
                                                                                                                        GN I                                          Gros s
Lab o r fo rce (%)                                                                 2.7            2.6           1.5
                                                                                                                        per                                          p rimary
M o s t r e c e nt e s tim a t e (la t es t ye a r a v a ila ble , 2 0 0 1-0 7 )                                        capi ta                                  e nro llme nt
Po v erty (%o f po pula tio n b elo w na tio nal po verty l ine)                    ..              ..            ..
Urban po pulatio n (%o f to ta l po pu latio n )                                   43             36            42
Life expec ta ncy at birth (yea rs )                                               58              51           69
Infa nt mo rtal ity (per 1,000 liv e bi rth s)                                     61             94             41
Ch ild mal nutritio n (% o f children und er 5)                                     ..            27            25           A ccess to im pro ved water so u rce
Ac cess to an imp rov ed wa ter so urc e (% o f po pu latio n)                     70             58            88
Lite racy (% o f po pul atio n age 1 )5+                                            ..            59            89
Gro s s pri mary enro ll ment (% o f sch oo l-age po pula tio n)                   66             94            11
                                                                                                                 1                Sud an
  M ale                                                                            71             99             1
                                                                                                                12                L owe r-m iddl e-inc o me gro u p
  Fema le                                                                          61             88            0
                                                                                                               1 9

KE Y E C ON OM IC R A TIOS a nd LON G-T E R M T R EN D S
                                                                198 7         9
                                                                             1 97             20 0 6        2 00 7
                                                                                                                       E c ono m ic r a tio s *
GD P (US$ bil lio ns )                                            20.6              1
                                                                                   1 .7         36.4          46.2
Gro s s ca pital fo rmatio n/GDP                                   5
                                                                  1 .1          15.8            24.8          24.2
                                                                                                                                                Tra de
Exp o rts o f go o ds and serv ices /GD P                          5.5           5.3            16.5          20 .1
Gro s s do me stic savings/GDP                                     9.5           8.6            13.9          20.5
Gro s s na tio nal savi ngs/GD P                                  12.0           9.5             9.7            1
                                                                                                               1 .9

Cu rrent a cco unt bala nce/GDP                                    -2 .1        -6.3              5
                                                                                                -1 .1         -12.4
                                                                                                                        Do me stic                              Capita l
Inte rest p aym ents/GDP                                            0 .1         0.0              0 .1            ..
                                                                                                                        savi ngs                                fo rmation
To tal d ebt/GDP                                                  54.5         3
                                                                              1 9.8             52.6              ..
To tal d ebt s ervic e/expo rts                                   12.0           9.0             4.8              ..
Pre sent valu e o f d ebt/GDP                                         ..           ..           56.4              ..
Pre sent valu e o f d ebt/expo rts                                    ..           ..          336.4              ..
                                                                                                                                         Inde btedne ss
                                                          9
                                             19 87 - 9 7 1 9 7 -0 7         2006              20 0 7     2 0 0 7- 11
(ave rage annu al g rowth)
GD P                                                  4.2          6.6              1
                                                                                   1 .3         10.2            8.8                  Sudan
GD P per capi ta                                      1.7          4.3             8.9           7.7            7.3                  Lo wer-middle -i nco me gro up
Exp o rts o f go o ds and serv ices                  -1.2         21.7             0.4          33.6              ..



ST RU C TU RE of the E C ONOM Y
                                                                19 8 7       19 9 7           2006          2007       Growth of capital and GDP (%)
(% o f GDP )
                                                                                                                       30
A griculture                                                      32.8         46.8              30.1          28.3
Industry                                                          16.3         14.6              29.2          30.7    20
  M anufacturing                                                   8.8          8.8               6.3           6.1    10
Services                                                          50.9         38.6              40.8          41.0
                                                                                                                        0
Ho useho ld final co nsumptio n expenditure                       77.8         86.0              69.4          64.8
                                                                                                                                  02       03         04   05      06      07
General go v't final co nsumptio n expenditure                    12.8          5.4              16.7          14.8                             GCF             GDP
Impo rts o f go o ds and services                                   1
                                                                   1 .1        12.5              27.5          23.9


                                                            19 8 7 -9 7 19 9 7 - 0 7          2006          2007
                                                                                                                       Growth of exports and imports (%)
(average annual gro wth)
A griculture                                                       4.7           2.0              4.4            3.1   60

Industry                                                           4.8          12.5             16.4          20.0    40
  M anufacturing                                                   4.5           3.4               1.5          6.0
Services                                                           3.0           8.2             1 4.1         10.0    20

Ho useho ld final co nsumptio n expenditure                         3.6          4.7               1
                                                                                                 1 .4           1.4     0
General go v't final co nsumptio n expenditure                       1.3          1
                                                                                1 .4               1
                                                                                                 1 .7          -3.0               02       03         04   05      06      07
                                                                                                                       -20
Gro ss capital fo rmatio n                                         10.5           1
                                                                                1 .7             15.9           7.4
                                                                                                                                           Exports              Imports
Impo rts o f go o ds and services                                   3.4         14.6              8.2          -4.4


No te: 2007 data are preliminary estimates.
This table was pro duced fro m the Develo pment Eco no mics LDB database.
* The diamo nds sho w fo ur key indicato rs in the co untry (in bo ld) co mpared with its inco me-gro up average. If data are missing, the diamo nd will
  be inco mplete.




                                                                                                   75
                                                                                                                                                                                 Sud an
P R IC E S and GO VE R N M EN T FIN A N C E
                                                         19 8 7      19 9 7       20 0 6      2007
                                                                                                         Inf la tio n (%)
D o m es t ic pric e s
                                                                                                         20
(% chan ge)
Co n sume r pric es                                        2 0.6      4 6.7             ..         ..    15
Imp lic it GDP de fl ato r                                 2 5.9      4 7.6           6.5        7.0     10
Go v er nm e nt f ina nc e                                                                                5
(% o f GD P , in clud es current grants )                                                                 0
Cu rrent re venu e                                           1
                                                            1 .1        5.8         20.0        19.9                    02             03         04          05            06         07
Cu rrent b udge t bal ance                                   1
                                                           -1 .0       -0.2         -0.4         1.0
                                                                                                                                       GDP def lato r                       CPI
Ov erall su rplus /defic it                                    ..      -0.7         -4.4        -3.1

TR A D E
                                                         19 8 7      19 9 7       20 0 6      2007
                                                                                                         E xpo rt a nd im po rt le ve ls ( US $ m ill.)
(US$ millio ns )
To tal exp o rts (fo b)                                    265          594        5,8 13     8 ,902     10,000
  Sesam e                                                    ..           ..       5,24 4     8 ,443
                                                                                                         8,000
  n.a .                                                      ..           ..            ..         ..
  M anufa ctures                                             ..           ..            ..         ..    6,000
To tal impo rts (cif)                                      832        1,422           0
                                                                                   7,1 5      7 ,722
                                                                                                         4,000
  Fo o d                                                   140          243          65 6        723
  Fuel and ene rgy                                         184          299          36 4        256     2,000
  Ca pital go o ds                                         189          261        3,78 5     4 ,099           0
                                                                                                                        01        02        03       04        05       06        07
                               00
Exp o rt pric e in dex (200 0=1 )                              ..        93             ..         ..
                               00
Imp o rt pric e in dex (200 0=1 )                              ..       104             ..         ..                             Exp ort s                    Imp ort s
Terms o f trade (200 0=1 )  00                                 ..        90             ..         ..

B A LA N C E o f P A YM EN TS
                                                         19 8 7      19 9 7       20 0 6      2007
                                                                                                         C ur r ent a c c ount ba la nc e to GD P ( %)
(US$ millio ns )
Exp o rts o f go o ds an d se rvice s                       450         624        6,0 15     9 ,287       0
Imp o rts o f go o ds an d se rvice s                       923       1,462        9,99 5      1 ,0 41
                                                                                                1                  01        02         03         04         05       06         07
Re so urce bal ance                                        -474        -838       -3,98 0     -1,754      -5
Ne t in co me                                              -629       -345        -2,89 8     -4 ,546
Ne t curre nt tran sfers                                    676        452          ,39
                                                                                   1 0            582    -10

Cu rrent a cco un t balance                                -427        -731       -5,48 9          8
                                                                                              -5,7 1
                                                                                                         -15
Fina ncin g ite ms (n et)                                  176         754         5,5 19          ..
Ch ange s i n ne t rese rves                               250         -23           -3 0          ..
                                                                                                         -20
M emo :
Re serve s inclu ding go ld (US$ mil lio ns )               77          82              ..         ..
Co n versi o n rate (DEC , l o cal/US$ )                .76E-3
                                                        1               1.6           2.2        2.0

EX T ER N A L D EB T a nd R ES OU R C E FLOWS
                                            19 8 7                   19 9 7       20 0 6      2007
                                                                                                         C o m pos it ion o f 2 0 0 6 de bt ( US $ m ill.)
(US$ millio ns )
To tal debt ou tstand ing and dis bursed     1
                                            1 ,249                  16,326          9,1
                                                                                   1 58            ..
  IB R D                                        49                        6             0          0                                             B : 1, 271
  ID A                                         688                    1 98
                                                                       ,1           1 71
                                                                                     ,2        1,307                                                               C: 518

To tal debt servi ce                                         97         58           29 2          ..                                                                 D: 1,4 46
                                                                                                               G: 6, 53 5
 IB R D                                                       8          0              0          0
 ID A                                                         8          0              3          0
Co m po sition o f ne t reso urc e flo ws
 Officia l g ra nts                                        564           1
                                                                        18          ,77
                                                                                   1 6             ..
 Officia l c re dito rs                                    160            5           93           ..
 P rivate cred ito rs                                        0            0             0          ..                                                                  E: 6, 587
 Fo reig n direct i nve stment (net i nflo ws)              12          98         3,53 4          ..
 P o rtfo l io eq uity (net inflows )                        0            0          -3 5          ..                   F : 2, 801
Wo rld Ba nk p ro gram
 C o mmitme nts                                              49           0             0          0
                                                                                                         A - I B RD                                                  E - B i lateral
 D isbu rseme nts                                            62           0             0          0     B - I DA                        ult
                                                                                                                             D - Ot her m i lateral                  F - P riv at e
 P rinci pal repa yme nts                                     8           0             2          0     C - IMF                                                     G - Short -t erm
 N et flo ws                                                 55           0            -2          0
 In terest payments                                           8           0             1          0
 N et tran sfers                                             46           0            -3          0


No te : Thi s tab le wa s pro d uced fro m the De velo p ment Ec o no mic s LD B datab ase.                                                                                  9/24 /08




                                                                                       76
                      Annex 15: Map
Eastern Nile First Joint Multipurpose Program Identification




                            77
