 IEG
                                                                                                Report Number: ICRR14873

                    ICR Review
                    Independent Evaluation Group




        1. Project Data:                                       Date Posted: 11/18/2015

               Country: Africa
             Project ID: P116595                                                    Appraisal               Actual
         Project Name: Eastern Nile First            Project Costs (US$M):                      7.60                 3.47
                         Joint Multipurpose
                         Program Identification
  L/C Number:                                          Loan/Credit (US$M):
      Sector Board:      Water                         Cofinancing (US$M):

           Cofinanciers:                               Board Approval Date :                                  07/01/2009
                                                               Closing Date:             09/30/2011           12/31/2012
          Sector(s):       General water; sanitation and flood protection sector (40%); Power (30%); Irrigation and
                           drainage (30%)
          Theme(s):        Water resource management (67%); Regional integration (33%)


Prepared by:               Reviewed by:            ICR Review                  Group:
                                                   Coordinator:
Santhadevi Meenakshy Ridley Nelson                 Christopher David          IEGPS1
                                                   Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

 a. Objectives:
  The objective of the project was to: ”assist the Eastern Nile ( EN) countries in identification of a package of
investments for the first joint multi-purpose program (JMP1), through a series of studies and consultative activities that
take into account economic, social and environmental sustainability issues in an integrated manner” ( Schedule 2,
Grant Agreement 2009)

The revised Project Development Objective was: “to assist the three Eastern Nile countries in examining joint water
resources development possibilities on the Abbay/Blue and Main-stem Nile, taking economic, social and
environmental sustainability issues into account in an integrated manner.” (Restructuring Paper 2011. P. 6)

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
Yes
 If yes, did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
Yes
 Date of Board Approval: 09/30/2011

 c. Components:
  The original two project components were maintained during the restructuring. But the scope of some planned
activities were reduced to align the components with the revised PDO and increase the likelihood of completing the
project outputs effectively and on time.

Component 1: JMP1 Identification Studies (Appraisal estimate US $ 4.35 million and Actual cost US $1.74 million)
Pre-restructuring
The component included two sub-components, the Information/Knowledge Base Enhancement and the First Joint
Multipurpose Program (JMP) Identification Studies.
The first sub-component aimed to bridge the existing information and knowledge gaps needed to allow assessments
of decisions on development alternatives and to provide adequate studies for identifying the first priority set of
investments.

The second sub-component aimed to carry out JMP Identification Studies that consisted of: (i) a Strategic Social and
Environmental Assessment (SSEA); (ii) “Anchor Project” Identification Studies; and (iii) “Non-Anchor Projects”
Identification Studies.

Post-restructuring
As part of the 2011 restructuring the content of sub- component 1 remained unchanged. For reporting purposes, the
budget for these activities was moved and included in the second sub-component because one joint venture (JV) was
contracted to undertake both tasks under the first and second sub-components and the work and costs were difficult
to disaggregate between the sub-components.

The second sub-component of the JMP Identification Studies was revised. Instead of identifying the Anchor Project
as planned, it investigated the benefits and impacts of a cascade of dams on the Blue Nile. This included current and
on-going infrastructure development (dams in Egypt, Sudan, and Ethiopia) and the optimal cascade that could be
developed after the construction of the Renaissance Dam. Further, five of the six special studies that were originally
envisioned were cancelled due to the limited time that was left before project closure. The remaining study examined
possible institutional, financial and benefit sharing aspects of a potential JMP1 package of investments.

Component 2: Capacity Building and Implementation Support (Appraisal estimate US $ 2.66 million and Actual cost
US$1.12 million)

Pre-restructuring
The component included three sub-components: (i) Regional Consultation and Information Sharing; (ii) Project
Management and Capacity Building; and (iii) Development of a Roadmap for the Preparation of JMP1 Investment
Project(s).

The first sub-component aimed to: (i) identify key stakeholders in more refined and concrete ways; (ii) develop
consultation strategies, information sharing mechanisms and instruments; and (iii) incorporate consultative activities
and information-sharing into the implementation program.

The second sub-component aimed to strengthen the capacity of ENTRO (Eastern Nile Technical Regional Office) and
related agencies from the three Eastern Nile (EN) countries, to successfully prepare the JMP1 investments.

The third sub-component included a recommended approach, process, time schedule, financing options, and
implementation modalities and arrangements for preparation of the JMP1 investment project(s).

Post-restructuring
As part of restructuring, the scope of the first and third sub-components was reduced and altered, with no change to
the content of the second sub-component.

The first sub-component was revised to include ENTRO for streamlining the planned consultations and training
opportunities under the project to better correspond with the project outputs taking into account the needs of the
Eastern Nile governments and the possible need for alternate consultation arrangements if the issues in Eastern Nile
politics persisted.

The third sub-component was modified from the original Development of a Roadmap for the Preparation of JMP1
Investment Project(s) to indicate a change in focus, away from solely project preparation. The revised roadmap
outlined a plan for future studies to be undertaken following the JMP1 ID, to: (i) fill in data and information gaps; and
(ii) understand the benefits and impacts of large infrastructure development on the Abbay/Blue Nile, for the
preparation of ancillary investments. It also included other activities to facilitate joint development on the Abbay/Blue
and Main-stem Nile.

Restructuring Summary:
The project was restructured once, on September 30, 2011. The following changes were made.

1. The grant closing date was extended from September 30, 2011 to December 31, 2012.

2. The PDO and Results Framework (RF) were revised to reflect the recent changes in Ethiopia’s plans for
hydropower development in the Abbay/Blue Nile, which included construction of the Renaissance Dam outside of the
JMP1 process. This in turn, required modifications to the JMP1 ID studies to preserve the relevance of the JMP1 ID
results.

3. The Project costs of the components were amended, adjustments were made to the grant expenditure categories
and additional measures were included to reduce the risk of project delays and to enhance the quality of project
outputs.

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

Project Cost:
The total actual project cost was US$ 3.47million as compared with a total appraised project cost of US$ 7.60 million.
The project was proposed for a second restructuring to cancel approximately US$ 3.6 million in project funds that
would not be used before project closure. However, this did not eventuate as ENTRO was unable to obtain the
mandate from its governance to submit the official request for project restructuring. The difference of US$ 0.66 million
in the total cost is attributed to excluding the borrower’s contribution of US$ 0.60 million and exchange rate (XDR)
changes.

Financing:
The funding was the Nile Basin Trust Fund (NBTF) grant. The total actual NBTF grant was US$ 2.87 million as US$
3.6 million was cancelled (see section above on project cost).

Borrower Contribution:
The Borrower contribution remained as planned at US$ 0.60 million (ICR, Annex 1).

Dates:
The project closed on 12/31/2012 instead of 09/30/2011 as originally planned ( See Section 2 C)


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

 a. Relevance of Objectives:
Original
Rated Substantial
At appraisal the original PDO was consistent with the World Bank’s Africa Action Plan, including helping the Eastern
Nile (EN) countries to achieve their Millennium Development Goal (MDG) targets. The high-risk, high reward focus in
the PDO was in line with the World Bank’s Water Resources Strategy. The focus on sustainable economic
development and poverty alleviation supported the Egypt Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)(2005-2009), the
Ethiopia CAS (2008-2011), the Sudan Joint Assistance Memorandum (2005), and the Regional Integration Assistance
Strategy (RIAS) for Sub-Saharan Africa (2008).

Specifically, the objective directly contributed towards:
1) Pillar one and three of the RIAS. Pillar one aimed to increase regional infrastructure. Pillar three coordinated
interventions to provide regional public goods.

2) The Ethiopian Interim CAS approved in 2006 aimed to unlock the growth potential of small towns and high potential
rural areas and build interdependencies among nations and thereby help promote regional stability through
multi-country infrastructure projects.
Revised
Rated Modest
The revised objective was not inconsistent with the Region’s evolving plans for infrastructure development through the
duration of the project and at closure and it was not inconsistent with the WB country and sectoral assistance
strategies and corporate goals. It contributed in a modest way towards: (i) the Nile engagement program by
supporting cooperative initiatives that advanced responsible and sustainable development and management of the
shared Nile waters; (ii) the Regional Integration Assistance Strategy (RIAS) and the Africa Region strategy by
developing regional approaches; and (iii) the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) by supporting the goals of the
three EN countries that included the promotion of economic growth, improved food security, and regional integration.

At closure it was not inconsistent with the Ethiopia Country Partnership Strategy approved in 2012 and the Egypt
CAS for the period ending FY09. The former indicated that the Government of Ethiopia plans to play a major role in
the East African Power Pool and supported the need for multi-disciplinary approaches to respond to climate change,
droughts and floods, the latter noted “Improving water resource management” as a priority.
However, the shift of objective from identifying investment packages to merely “examining joint water sources
development possibilities” was a substantial retreat in ambitiousness and left no clear basis for measurability.
Moreover, it fell short of the level of ambition articulated in the member countries’ and the Bank’s strategies.

b. Relevance of Design:
Original
Rated Negligible
The components were appropriately selected and included analytical work and capacity building activities to enable
achievement of the PDO.

However, implementation arrangements designed were complex. They involved a number of structures at various
levels in three countries notwithstanding the weak capacity of ENTRO. The design also failed to consider a longer
duration for the project given the complexity and the already well-known difficult operating environment.

The original results framework failed to effectively link the outcomes with the PDO and to reflect the on-the-ground
reality of the Project. The ICR suggests (p. 31) that the weak design was partly attributable to the output, as opposed
to outcome, level formulation of the PDO, both before and after restructuring.
Revised
Rated Negligible
Post restructuring there were similar weaknesses in design and in the results framework. There was no indication how
“examining possibilities” would be measured. While the content of the two components was revised, restructuring did
not conceive the components in terms of changes of processes or investments. The design anticipated outputs that
were reports for the majority of the work under the project.

Implementation arrangements were insufficiently adjusted in the revised design although political circumstances had
changed and the approach proved to be largely inoperable politically one year after the project’s effectiveness.

The results framework, although it was revised as part of restructuring, continued to be deficient in terms of linking
the outcomes with the PDO. It did not clarify how “examining joint water resources development possibilities” within
the revised PDO would be interpreted or measured. While ENTRO recognized the issue of the weak results
framework, it did not attempt to address this as it would have required lengthy negotiation between ENTRO member
countries (p. 27 ICR).


 4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):
   As noted above, the original objective of the project was: " to assist the Eastern Nile ( EN) Countries in identification
of a package of investments for the first joint multi-purpose program (JMP1), through a series of studies and
consultative activities that take into account economic, social and environmental sustainability issues in an integrated
manner” ( Schedule 2 Grant Agreement 2009)

The revised Project Development Objective was “to assist the three Eastern Nile countries in examining joint water
resources development possibilities on the Abbay/Blue and Main-stem Nile, taking economic, social and
environmental sustainability issues into account in an integrated manner.” (Restructuring Paper 2011. P. 6)

Original Objective

Identification of a package of investments for the first joint multi-purpose program (JMP1) through a series of studies.
Rated Negligible
Outputs

The main outputs against indicators were the following:

1) The SSEA provides a sound basis for the inclusion of social and environmental considerations in the selection of
projects within the JMP program. Not achieved ( SSEA not completed).
2) A roadmap for preparation of the first set of JMP investment projects. Partially Achieved . Draft Road map
completed.
3) Identification of potential nationally-implemented JMP1 Non-Anchor Projects, including irrigation modernization &
development and watershed management centered on agricultural productivity and livelihoods improvement and
watershed sustainability as well as floodplain management. Not Achieved. Reports not completed or discussed with
key stakeholders.
4) Capacity of ENTRO and related agencies in the three countries enhanced for preparation of JMP1 investment
projects and other work related to their mandates. Probably Partially Achieved . A total of six trainings for 164
participants were conducted, in addition to training for the three JMP visiting professionals. However, it is not clear
from the ICR what the target was.
5) Provision of information and analysis. Partially Achieved . Two draft Working Papers (WPs) were prepared under
the alternate plan but were not finalized; and (ii) a Social and Environmental Mapping and Spatial Analysis Report was
completed.
6) The first set of coordinated investments is identified at the end of the project. Not Achieved. A first set of
coordinated investments was not identified, furthermore, the pursuit of identification of a joint set of investments was
discontinued as part of project restructuring.
Outcome
No package of investments was identified for the JMP1.

Revised Objective

Examining joint water resources development possibilities on the Abbay/Blue and Main-stem Nile
Rated Modest
Outputs

The main outputs were the following (there was some overlap with pre-restructuring output indicators):

1) The SSEA provides a sound basis for the inclusion of social and environmental considerations in the selection of
projects in the JMP program. Not Achieved. As noted, the SSEA was not completed.

2) Provision of information and analysis. Partially Achieved . (i) A draft roadmap was completed but it only outlined the
critical issues, information gaps and analysis needed to promote sustainable development of the Abbay/Blue and
mainstream Nile; (ii) an Annotated Bibliography on Abbay/Blue Nile and Main Nile was completed; (iii) Eastern Nile
Water System Riverware Simulation Model Reports were completed;(iv) some Eastern Nile Water Resource Modeling
using "Mike Basin" was carried out; and (v) a Preliminary Assessment Report for Dam Safety Management in EN was
completed.

3) Study of the potential Anchor Project and subsequent cascade development, taking into account economic, social
and environment considerations, including reservoir filling and operating rule studies to optimize system benefits and
best manage related risks. Not Achieved. The Cascade Development Assessment and Sequencing Study was
cancelled.

Outcome
Overall the project managed to facilitate some degree of deeper understanding of the complex issues surrounding
water development in the EN. Key intermediate outcomes or outcomes reported included:
1) The ICR reports increased awareness about Eastern Nile issues and the need to jointly develop and use the
common resources of the Eastern Nile for the benefit of all. However, it is not clear how this was measured.

2) The “knowledge base” was improved somewhat in two ways: through the provision of information and analysis; and
by improving the capacity of key stakeholders.

3) The ICR reports an enhanced and consolidated knowledge base on the EN, including development of the analytical
tools for evaluating complex multipurpose water investments.

4) Developed skills among stakeholders through training and other capacity building activities. The draft JMP Working
Papers 1 provided a broad assessment of issues that should be explored in sustainable Eastern Nile development.
The draft roadmap outlined the critical issues, information gaps and analysis needed to promote sustainable
development of the Abbay/Blue Nile and Main Nile. However, this roadmap was not formally accepted and
consultation with the member countries was not achieved.

While the project development objectives were revised to a lower level of ambition with the changing external
circumstances (particularly the advancement of Ethiopia’s plans for hydropower development in Abbay/Blue Nile), the
Project not only did not achieve any tangible outcomes such as the investment package, but there is little evidence
presented that it created a significantly deeper understanding on the EN issues. Any modest advances in
understanding by some participating entities was largely overwhelmed by the political distancing.

5. Efficiency:
   Rated Negligible
Economic Efficiency
Neither the PAD nor the Restructuring Paper included an economic or financial analysis. The PAD simply recorded
the expected benefits such as: (i) an enhanced information base from joint assessments and studies; (ii) trained staff
as a result of capacity building programs; (iii) more rigorous analytical tools; and (iv) a common understanding of the
opportunities and risks built through stakeholder involvement. However, as noted above, the expected benefits were
not achieved. This was partly due to implementation lags coupled with a volatile political environment. Given the
difficulty of measurement, efficiency can only be judged here largely on the basis of implementation and
disbursement.

As noted, implementation efficiency was negatively affected by the changing political climate in the Nile Basin and the
technical complexity of the project design given those political circumstances. While some mitigation measures were
put in place, they were unable to do much about the significant implementation delays which extended through the life
of the project, even after formal restructuring.

Cost Effectiveness
 With regard to cost effectiveness, the project took an additional 15 months more than planned, created minimal
outcome and was unable even to cancel unrequired funds in a timely manner. In addition, the project was unable to
improve progress more than marginally during the very short life of the alternate plan. This suggests implementation
inefficiency and low cost effectiveness.
Administrative Efficiency
ENTRO was unable to create the required level of communication with the PoIR and was unable to obtain the
mandate from its governance to submit the official request for the second restructuring that would have allowed early
cancellation of the unused project funds (approximately US$ 3.6 million).

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                 Rate Available?                          Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                        No
    ICR estimate                     No
                                        * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



 6. Outcome:
   The overall outcome rating with a split rating between the before and after restructuring is determined by the
outcome based on ratings of relevance, efficacy and efficiency measured against the original objective and key
associated outcome targets assessed over the entire duration of the project; and similarly against the revised
objective. The two outcome ratings are weighted using disbursement for the periods before and after restructuring.

At the time of restructuring, there was a stepping back from the original objectives and associated indicators partly
arising from changes in Ethiopia’s plans for hydropower development in Abbay/Blue Nile and the political reactions to
this. While the development objective was changed to meet the altered situation, it significantly reduced the overall
scope of measurable outputs and intermediate outcomes. While there were advantages in terms of realism with
regard to matching the design to the country members' and the political situation, the new objective was weak in
identifying an outcome or intermediate outcome.
Original ratings - The relevance of the objective is rated substantial and original design is rated modest. The efficacy
of achievement of the original project objective is rated negligible since no investments were identified. Efficiency is
rated negligible. Therefore, outcome is rated Highly Unsatisfactory

Restructured ratings - The relevance of the objective is rated modest and revised design is rated negligible. The
efficacy of achievement of the project objective is rated modest since, although there is limited evidence there were
some modest achievements towards the reduced objective. Efficiency is rated negligible. Given the above, outcome is
rated Unsatisfactory.
At the time of Board approval of the first restructuring in 2011, 64% of the loan had been disbursed. Therefore the
weighted outcome rating is Highly Unsatisfactory.

 a. Outcome Rating: Highly Unsatisfactory
 7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:
   The potential of a worsening political environment is a concern. It would not advance the very limited achievement
of the development outcome and could even set it back further. As noted, the shift in the political environment
contributed to delaying project implementation progress and this seems likely to continue to cause difficulty. During
mid-2010, disagreements between the EN countries over the Cooperative Framework Agreement (CFA) led to two EN
countries freezing participation in NBI regional activities (including JMP1 ID), pending the clarification of aspects of the
disagreement.

Under a worsened political environment: (i) the enhanced knowledge base and capacity built over the project duration
is likely to deteriorate; (ii) stakeholder motivation is likely to decline; and (iii) stakeholder ability to benefit from the
opportunities for regional dialogue that allowed for broad transfer of information is likely to decline.


   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : High

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
    Project preparation evidenced strong commitment from the highest levels of all parties although in retrospect,
given the outcome, it may be questionable whether the depth of commitment was treated too optimistically at the
time. The upstream work and consultative activities during the Launch Phase established a potentially strong
foundation for the project, which provided an opportunity to leverage the momentum that had been gained. While
site-specific Feasibility Studies before JMP1 ID were not carried out due to cost and time, stakeholder
involvement, consultation and communications were considered during the preparation process.

The design accommodated lessons from relevant past initiatives. Key lessons included: (i) an integrated approach
for water resources development should be central to project design; (ii) stakeholder involvement, consultation
and communication should form an integral part of the project. (In this regard, a detailed Stakeholder Involvement
and Communication Strategy was developed for the identification phase of JMP. The strategy outlined the main
instruments used to engage the stakeholders e.g. specific forums, communication materials, participation in
studies, dissemination of study results, etc. with a time-line of activities); (iii) the need for a roadmap for preparing
the identified investments including special studies on recession agriculture..

Two safeguards policies were triggered: Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01) and International Waterways (OP
7.50). The main vehicle for OP 4.01 under JMP1 ID was the Strategic Social and Environmental Assessment
(SSEA) to integrate social and environmental considerations into the assessment of options. OP 7.50 was exempt
from notification requirements under paragraph 7.b of the operational policy, as the work was upstream in nature
in terms of preparation and design and did not include engineering studies. OP 4.37 was not triggered because
the JMP1 ID was a technical assistance operation, upstream in nature, and did not support any dam directly, nor
the design of any dam.

The preparation team consisted of a wide skill mix and preparation involved strong partnership with development
partners as it was funded through the multi-donor NBTF.

However, the design was weak in the following areas:

1) The short time frame for the project was overly ambitious given the technical complexity of the design and the
known sensitive operating environment.

2) It was not clear what the products in terms of outputs or intermediate outcomes would lead to and the second
sub-component of component 1, as a report-oriented output, was the highest cost among the three
sub-components so the team took a risk that any failure with this activity would greatly impact the overall project
performance.

3) The original design of JMP1 ID Studies was technically complex and there were few models to follow. This was
compounded by the lack of data and information.

4) With regard to the results framework, performance was mainly founded on the successful completion of the
second sub-component of Component 1. Most PDO level indicators were rooted in one study; the completion of
the SSEA study . Again, a weaknesses with this study’s design, the capacity of the selected consulting firm, or the
transition from this to the next stage, was likely to have a disproportionate impact on overall project performance.
Overall, it was a high risk design with insufficient allowance for failure or delay.

   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                         Moderately Unsatisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
    According to the task team, the skill mix of the supervision team was adequate. The Bank team scheduled
several interim missions and higher levels of Bank management were brought in when it became clear that the
project faced difficulties. The supervision records suggest that the supervision team identified issues and provided
recommendations to the client on ways to move forward. However, the Bank did not effectively address the core
implementation issues, even as part of restructuring, although the ICR argues that this was mainly due to the
political situation that was larger than the project. The supervision team navigated through the politically sensitive
environment, maintained open communication channels directly with the EN countries and kept the Bank
management appraised of the emerging implementation issues. Supervision reports continued to highlight the
challenges. These included those that affected the management of the main JMP1 ID Studies consultant, as well
as other consultants hired by ENTRO. By October 2011, the supervision documents were noting that, the Eastern
Nile Council of Ministers (ENCOM), the project governing body, had not met since July 2009, despite efforts by
ENTRO to convene a meeting. While mitigation measures were put in place, such as: more frequent technical
working meetings with ENTRO, the WB team input, the Joint Venture (JV) and the Panel of Independent
Reviewers (PoIR), they were not effective. Challenges persisted through project restructuring, the “alternate plan”,
and to the end of the project.

There were a number of specific supervision weaknesses:

1) Supervision was uneven in intensity, particularly at the early stages of the project when there were already clear
indications of problems.
2) The team failed to take timely actions, in particular as critical subcomponents failed to perform (e.g. SSEA
Phase 1).
3) The team failed to operationalize mitigation measures. For example, the Internal Group of Advisors (comprised
of legal, safeguards and communications experts) that was established to provide guidance and strategic support
met only infrequently and had high turn-over.
4) There were frequent changes in supervision team leadership causing an uneven approach and commitment to
the project.
5) There was slow handling of internal processing and lack of clarity on Bank policies. This included a long wait
and lack of response by the Bank on implications of the temporary suspension of one of the firms in the Joint
Venture, which was instituted in March 2012. This effectively delayed implementation by five to six months out of
the extended fifteen month period.
6) As the work took longer than expected the changing plans for development in the region rendered some results
out-of-date and this was reportedly not shared with ENTRO.

The challenge was certainly substantial but supervision could have been considerably better in several respects.



   Quality of Supervision Rating :                  Moderately Unsatisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :                Moderately Unsatisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

 a. Government Performance:
    The commitment of all three participating governments was initially high. As noted in the PAD, “JMP1 ID was
prepared at the request of the three EN countries, initiated through a letter to the WB President in 2008”. ENCOM
re-affirmed the commitment of the EN to the JMP process and to overseeing the successful implementation of the
JMP1 ID studies, and related site-specific studies. However, the commitment shifted as implementation
progressed.

The political events preceding preparation led to minimal participation from some governments in providing
feedback in the JMP1 ID studies and attending governance meetings. The ICR does not indicate which of the
participating governments was weak in this regard. The restructuring that included extending the closing date and
improving the relevance of the project received mixed support from the governments. Later, the second attempt at
restructuring was not formalized because ENTRO was unable to obtain the required authorization from ENCOM.
Finally, one of the countries asked for a halt to new work in the JMP process in November 2012 until larger
hydro-political issues could be resolved.

   Government Performance Rating                                Unsatisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:
    The implementing agency ENTRO was the direct borrower of the loan. ENTRO was an inter-governmental
regional organization and one of three centers under the Nile Basin Initiative (NBI). However, the responsibility to
provide policy guidance, project approvals, work plans and budgets was with ENTRO's governing body - (Eastern
Nile Council of Ministers- ENCOM), which comprised of water affairs ministers from the three EN countries (Egypt,
Sudan and Ethiopia). Thus there was a network of entities with roles in implementation.

ENTRO, initially met all legal covenants in accordance with the effectiveness conditions. Though several of the
project committees specified in the legal covenants were unable to formally meet in later stages of the project due
to the freeze in participation by two EN countries, ENTRO responded by seeking feedback from members of
these committees on an informal basis, through writing and telephone. ENTRO fully complied with the legal
covenant on carrying out project activities in accordance with the NBI’s “Strategy for Addressing Environmental
and Social Safeguards.” Even though it had to cancel consultations on JMP1 ID draft documents, ENTRO
developed an alternate plan for consultation, dissemination and disclosure once the hydro-political situation was
conducive. It also discussed some elements of its work at an outreach event in February 2013 (p.41 Section 5.2
(b).

ENTRO made efforts to enable consultation and communication in an exceptionally difficult political circumstance.
For instance, although the Stakeholder Involvement and Communication Strategy and Implementation Plan
(SICAS-IP) was not implemented, ENTRO disseminated project outputs by presenting them in modeling fora, NBI
meetings, and other conferences and workshops. In later stages of the project, ENTRO addressed coordination
issues with related projects, by working more closely with the ENPM project’s 'Visiting Professionals Program' to
produce useful products and disseminate these to the wider community. ENTRO took pro-active steps to arrange
for a sustainable transition, including developing a Strategic Plan for the next five years (part of NBI’s larger Plan)
and soliciting funding, including through country contributions.

ENTRO suffered from increased management issues due to a decrease in the number of management staff,
resulting in weakened capacity. This led to: (i) procurement problems that caused delays in the Bank reviews of
the proposed contract amendment after restructuring was settled with the JV at contract cancellation; and (ii)
difficulties in managing the JV for the Main JMP1 ID Studies and enabling timely outputs of 12 individual
consultants. This finally required executing an alternate plan within the short period before project closure. Earlier
decisive action by the governments to enhance ENTRO’s staffing structure could have improved its ability to
provide necessary management and technical oversight. It also maintained weak communication and coordination
with the PoIR. For instance, the adoption of the alternate plan itself was communicated to the PoIR several
months (October 2012) after the decision was taken, notwithstanding the fact that a meeting was planned as a
“next step” in the June 2012 Aide Memoire.

   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                     Moderately Unsatisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                        Unsatisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
   The design of the results framework was founded largely on the progress related to one sub-component of the
project. The design was not revised as part of the restructuring, because ENTRO wanted to avoid lengthy negotiation
of new indicators between ENTRO member countries. This resulted in making the changes to the already agreed
study design and adjusting only those indicators to capture the changing infrastructure plans in the basin and the
reduced project scope.

b. M&E Implementation:
  ENTRO’s M&E officer was responsible for all ENTRO activities, including JMP1 ID and worked closely with the
respective project teams. Data was collected in order to produce regular reporting on results, budgeting, work
planning, etc., for dissemination to key stakeholders. Workshops and communications were well documented. This
information was also disseminated to wider stakeholders through reports to the governments, donors and newsletters.



c. M&E Utilization:
  Collected data were evaluated and used to inform decision-making and resource allocation during restructuring and
was reflected in the alternate plan.

M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

 a. Safeguards:
Environment:
The Project was a category B project and triggered safeguard policy OP 4.01 on Environmental Assessment.
The Strategic Social and Environmental Assessment (SSEA) was the major tool to integrate social and environmental
considerations. This also included cumulative impacts into options assessments and Anchor Project identification
under the JMP1 ID Studies. But, SSEA was cancelled under the alternate plan and a partial assessment was
undertaken. As noted above, the results of the assessment were presented in two draft Working Papers.

The PoIR provided timely and substantial comments on the Working Papers. ENTRO also fully engaged its
environment and social team in the reviews of Working Paper drafts. Further, although the consultations on the draft
Working Papers and the Roadmap had to be cancelled, ENTRO held consultations on several inputs of the working
papers – including drafts of the SSEA – in various fora during the early part of project implementation. Additionally,
ENTRO presented some elements of its work at an outreach event in February 2013.

Projects on International Waterways (OP 7.50) was exempt from notification requirements under paragraph 7.b of the
operational policy. The nature of the preparatory work did not include engineering studies. However, the consultations
and communications program supported under the project were intended to keep all relevant parties informed on work
and outputs.

Safety of Dams (OP 4.37)
OP 4.37 was not triggered, also because of the upstream nature of the project. In this regard, the project provided for
independent review of key outputs by the PoIR, comprised of technical/water resources, environment
and social specialists.

Social:
The project did not trigger social safeguards.

 b. Fiduciary Compliance:
Financial Management:
ENTRO maintained adequate staffing arrangements for financial management throughout the project implementation.
The project consistently submitted audited financial statements and the associated management letter within the
stipulated deadlines. Audit reports were unqualified, although concerns were noted about the project’s inability to
execute planned activities. ENTRO maintained a computerized accounting system for all accounting operations and it
adequately produced all the relevant reports. The project submitted timely and acceptable quarterly interim financial
reports (IFRs) to the World Bank within the stipulated deadline of 45 days after the end of the each quarter. Due to the
issues with project implementation, withdrawal applications for funds were irregularly submitted. Internal audit
remained a challenge throughout project implementation. Budget execution was affected by the regional freeze of
project activities. The project’s final audit for the period July 1, 2012 – April 2013 (including the project grace period)
was underway during ICR preparation.

Procurement:
ENTRO’s procurement and financial management capacity and its corrective measures to mitigate potential risks,
were assessed as part of project preparation. While ENTRO maintained compliance with Bank procurement policies,
it had issues at the operational level. Procurement problems slowed implementation at several points in project
implementation. First, ENTRO’s proposed contract amendment with the JV, subsequent to the September 2011
restructuring did not adhere to standard procedures for costing of an amendment to a lump sum contract. This
resulted in a lengthy review of the proposal by the Bank in early 2012. Second, a temporary suspension was instituted
by the World Bank on one of the firms in the Joint Venture (JV) contracted to undertake the main study , for reasons
unrelated to the project.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):
None

d. Other:
None


12. Ratings:                               ICR                     IEG Review                  Reason for
                                                                                        Disagreement/Comments
                      Outcome: Moderately                   Highly Unsatisfactory Based on the highly unsatisfactory
                               Unsatisfactory                                     original outcome rating, on the
                                                                                  negligible achievement towards the
                                                                                  original objective, and on the
                                                                                  unsatisfactory revised outcome rating,
                                                                                  with some modest achievement of the
                                                                                  revised objective, an overall weighted
                                                                                  rating was calculated. This gives a
                                                                                  higher weighting to the pre-restructuring
                                                                                  rating since at that point about
                                                                                  two-thirds of the disbursement had
                                                                                  taken place. (Section 6)
          Risk to Development Negligible to Low             High                  The risk of continued problems in the
                     Outcome:                                                     political environment which would
                                                                                  weaken the already weak achievement
                                                                                  of the development outcome. ( Section
                                                                                  7)
           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                              Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory

                Quality of ICR:                             Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

These draw partly from the ICR evidence and findings but with adjustment of language.

Careful assessment at preparation and continued monitoring of government ownership , commitment and political
changes should be a priority in regional projects that involve a number of countries with possibly different and /or
conflicting agendas . In this project initial assessment of the depth of commitment may have been optimistic and
more sustained and deeper assessment of what was politically feasible would have been important to manage
expectations and to align targets to achievable results.
There is a need to be realistic about the time required to implement complex regional projects . In this case there
was excessive optimism about what could be achieved in a short project period in a project involving several
government partners with different agendas.
In a partnership project with several countries , it is important to secure at the outset a common understanding
among partners of the level and type of analysis needed , as well as the level of effort required of all parties . In the
context of this project, while SSEA’s are relatively new tools and therefore inherently challenging, the complexity of
the JMP1 ID SSEA in this case was further complicated by the size of the project area and its transboundary nature.
It is critical to develop and agree on terms of engagement which would specify the required resources, (financial
and personnel), the time frame of analysis, and the level of effort required from the implementing agency,
governments, local authorities, other stakeholders and those conducting the analysis.


14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The ICR was optimistic about ratings for a project that did not achieve most of its objectives. However, it is concise
and broadly consistent with OPCS guidelines and open about the problems. Overall, it provides some sound analysis
and an evidence based summary of project preparation and implementation. This was a difficult ICR to write given the
limited evidence, the weak performance and the political complexity. Stakeholders are well defined. Poverty, gender
and social issues are appropriately reported. The ICR records compliance with the safeguards. In terms of
appropriateness in capturing results, it openly recognizes the failures and reports various factors that contributed to
this.
Annex #6 provides a Borrower ICR.
The ICR fell short in the following specific areas: (i) reporting the specifics of the national and the Bank documents
reported to demonstrate PDO relevance ( Section 3.1 p.30); (ii) demonstrating how ENTRO responded to the
challenges and the need to maintain relevance by overhauling the project (p.42 Section 5.2 (b)); and (iii)
substantiating the lessons from project experience. For example, the first lesson in the ICR, although plausible, does
not really arise directly from the performance evidence of this particular project given the weak project project
performance even though it may be consistent with the range of Bank project experience.
a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
