Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14803
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAIRE
SNEL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 2293-ZR)
JUNE 30, 1995
Industry and Energy Operations Division
South Central and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUrVALENTS
6/30/89      1 US dollar = 383 Zr
6/30/90      1 US dollar = 579 Zr
6/30/91      1 US dollar = 4,650 Zr
6/30/92      1 US dollar = 370,000 Zr
6/30/93      1 US dollar = 5,000,000 Zr
MEASUREMENTS
GWh  gigawatt hour         =     1,000,000 kilowatt hours
km    kilometer            =     1,000 meters
kV    kilovolt             -     1,000 volts
kVA   kilovolt ampere      =     1,000 volt amperes
Kw    kilowatt             =     1,000 watts
Kwh  kilowatt hour         =     1,000 watt hours
MVA  megavolt ampere       =     1,000 kilovolt amperes
MW   megawatt              =     1,000 kilowatts
MWh megawatt hour          =     1,000 kilowatt hours
TWh  terawatt hour         =     1,000 megawatt hours
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CA           -      Credit Agreement
G6camines    -      Generale des Carrieres et des Mines (state-owned copper company)
ICM          -      Infra-Consult-Miinchen GmbH (a German consulting firm)
PA           -      Project Agreement
PCR          -      Project Completion Report
PPF          -      Project Preparation Facility
SAR          -      Staff Appraisal Report
SNEL         -      Societe Nationale d'Electricite (National Electricity Company)
TA           -      Technical Assistance
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
June 30, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Zaire
SNEL Technical Assistance Project
(Credit 2293-ZR)
Attached is the Project Completion Report (PCR) on the Zaire: SNEL Technical
Assistance project (Credit 2293-ZR, approved in FY92) prepared by the Africa Regional
Office. Part II of the Report was contributed by the Borrower.
The project aimed at preserving and protecting key sector assets and helping the
electric power utility, Societe Nationale d'Electricite (SNEL), develop into a well-managed,
technically competent and financially sound institution. A Performance Contract between
Government and SNEL was critical to the attainment of these broad objectives.
The SDR 7.5 million Credit was approved in August 1991 and closed five months
ahead of schedule when the Bank suspended all disbursements, placed the country in non-
accrual status and canceled SDR 1.8 million in November 1993. Owing to chaotic
conditions in Zaire, no field missions took place during project implementation. Supervision
consisted of desk reviews and meetings with SNEL officials outside Zaire. Compliance with
the Performance Contract was supervised in Zaire by consultants.
The rehabilitation of Inga, Kivu and Shaba power plants-one of the project's
components-was accomplished. But only two out of four units were rehabilitated at the
Ruzizi power plant. Also the procurement of equipment for preventive maintenance and
accounting systems was not completed due to early termination of the credit forced by
country conditions. Financial objectives were only partly met, with arrears representing a
particularly acute problem. Private participation may be necessary for the power sector in
Zaire to develop on a sustainable basis in the long run.
The outcome of the project is rated as unsatisfactory, its institutional development as
modest and, because of the prevailing macroeconomic and political conditions, the financial
viability of SNEL and the sustainability of the project are rated as unlikely.
The PCR presents a candid account of project implementation and results. No audit is
planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAIRE
SNEL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 2293-ZR)
TABLE OF CONT'ENTS
Page No.
PREFACE
EVALUATION  SUMMARY    ..........................................                                                               i
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  ..................  1
1. Introduction   ...................................................                                                          1
2.  Project Setting  ..................................................                                                         1
3.  Project Objectives and Description   .....................................                                                 4
4.  Project Preparation and Design   .......................................                                                   6
5.  Project Implementation   ............................................                                                      8
6.  Project Results   .................................................    10
7.  Bank Performance   ...............................................    13
8.  Borrower Performance .............................................    14
9.  Sustainability and Lessons Learned  .....................................    14
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ....                                                        ......... 16
1. Introduction  ....................................................    16
2. Project Objectives and Design   ........................................   16
3. Project Implementation  .............................................    17
4. Evaluation of the Bank's, SNEL's and Consultants' Performances   ..................   20
5. Future Prospects  .................................................    21
PART  II:  STATISTICAL  INFORMATION    ................................   22
Table 1:  Related Bank Loans and Credits ...................................   22
Table 2:  Project Timetable  ............................................   23
Table 3:  Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements   ........................  23
Table 4:  Use of Bank Resources   ........................................   24
Annex 1:  Status of Covenants  ..................................  .......    25
This docunent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
|oflicial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLiout World Bank authorization.



I



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAIRE
SNEL TECHICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 2293-ZR)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the SAEL Technical Assistance
Project, for which Credit 2293-ZR in the sum of SDR 7.5 million (US$9.89' million equivalent)
was approved on August 20, 1991. The Government of Zaire was the Borrower and SNEL, the
national electricity company, the executing agency. Since May 15, 1993 the Government had
been in arrears vis-a-vis the Bank, which led to a general suspension of disbursements on July
15 of that year. On November 15, 1993 Zaire was placed in non-accrual status and the
undisbursed Credit balance of SDR 1.8 million ($2.38 million) was cancelled. The Credit was
closed on February 3, 1994, five months ahead of schedule.
The Industry and Energy Division of the South Central and Indian Ocean Department
prepared Parts I and III of this report based, inter alia, on the following sources: President's
Report and Recommendation to the Executive Directors; Credit and Project Agreements;
supervision and back-to-office reports; project implementation and audit reports; correspondence
between the Bank and the Borrower; internal Bank memoranda; Project Completion Reports for
the Shaba Power System Rehabilitation, Ruzizi II Regional Hydroelectric and Second Power
Projects (Credits 1224-ZR, 1419-BU/1420-RW/1421-ZR and 1712-ZR); and discussions with
staff involved in the project. Part II of this report was prepared by the executing agency.
Throughout this report, $ refers to Uhited States dollars.






- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAIRE
SNEL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 2293-ZR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives and Design
1.       The adjustment process on which Zaire had embarked in 1983, after years of serious
financial crisis, lost momentum and went off track in 1988. After a failed attempt to resume
demand management policies in 1989, the country entered a period of acute political and
economic crisis. In response to the deteriorating economic performance, the Bank scaled back
its lending program to Zaire and suspended quick-disbursing assistance. At the same time, the
Bank decided to support a core program of high priority projects. This program was designed
to preserve long-term development potential by fighting poverty and developing human resources,
maintain key assets and institutional relationships, and preserve the Bank's ability to provide
more comprehensive assistance once macroeconomic conditions improved (Paras. 2.1 and 2.2).
2.        The SNEL Technical Assistance Project described in this report, which was one of
only four projects approved by the Board following Zaire's decision to abandon adjustment, fitted
well into this program. Its purpose was to preserve and protect key power sector assets and help
SNEL (the Societe Nationale d'Electricite) develop as a well-managed, technically competent and
financially sound institution. Its specific objectives were to assist SNEL in (i) completing
ongoing rehabilitation work on, and assuring the safety of, its hydroelectric facilities; (ii)
improving its management in the areas of preventive maintenance, commercial operations,
accounting, human resources and procurement; and (iii) maintaining a constructive IDA presence
in the energy sector, which would eventually play a key role in the country's economic recovery
(Para 3.1).
3.        The project had two sets of components: (1) engineering support ($6.75 million),
and (2) institutional strengthening ($2.59 million). These included the extension of works
undertaken under previous IDA credits. The Credit also provided funding for annual audits for
1991-1993, and refinanced advances extended for preparation of the power components of an
energy sector project which ultimately did not materialize. Total project cost was estimated at
$11.44 million, with a foreign exchange component of $9.89 million, representing 86 percent of
project cost. SNEL was to finance the remaining $1.55 million. One of the main features of the
project was the introduction of a Contrat-Programme between the Government and SNEL to
define their respective areas of responsibility and authority, and to introduce greater financial
discipline (Paras 3.2 and 3.3).
Implementation Experience
4.        The project was implemented over approximately two and a half years; overall, the
physical' implementation of the project proceeded well, despite a few shortcomings. Due to the
security situation prevailing in Zaire, the Bank resorted to non-field supervision missions. The



- ii -
task of direct field supervision of the execution of the Contrat-Programrne was delegated to
SEMA Group, a Belgian consulting firm whose basic mandate was to assist SNEL in improving
its comnmercial activities. The SEMA Group's performance, though impeded by delays in starting
the works, was more than satisfactory (5. 1).
5.        The Contrat-Programme.  SNEL met and even exceeded several of the targets
established and agreed upon in the Credit and Project Agreements.  These covered such
performance indicators as capacity utilization, number of customers, percentage of population
with access to electricity and growth of customer service centers. SNEL's performance did suffer
a few shortcomings, however, largely due to the failure of Government and parastatals (including
Gecamines, the national copper and cobalt company and SNEL's single largest customer) to settle
their electricity accounts within the agreed 2.5 months after receipt of bills. SNEL's weak
performance with respect to its collection rate serves as one example of the adverse effect of
inadequate Government commitment on project implementation (Para. 5.4).
6.        Electricity tariffs. The agreed policy to index tariff increases to changes in petroleum
product prices was only partially implemented by SNEL. As the indexation would have resulted
in increasing the thermal tariff up to 20 times existing levels, the Government did not allow
SNEL to apply it domestically. The lack of appropriate tariff adjustments contributed to a
substantial erosion, in real terms, of SNEL's revenues denominated in local currency, and
prevented the company from meeting its financial covenants under the Credit Agreement. This
situation ultimately moved the Government to action, however: since September 1993, SNEL's
billing has been based on an indexation formula that reflected the prevalent hyperinflation (Para.
5.5).
7.        Dredging equipment. SNEL's exaggerated technical specifications led to bid prices
well beyond those provided for in the Credit; as a result the Bank refused to finance this
purchase. Although bids were resubmitted, upon the Bank's recommendation, on the basis of
revised specifications and a transparent Limited International Bidding procurement method, the
Bank maintained its decision not to finance the dredging equipment, having by then agreed with
SNEL's management to use the corresponding funds to meet other needs, including rehabilitation.
Given the urgent need for the equipment, SNEL financed the equipment out of its own resources
(Para. 5.6).
8.        Technical assistance. The German consulting firm ICM provided technical assistance
for the operation of the Inga hydroelectric plant; its performance for the rehabilitation works was
generally satisfactory. For the project's institutional strengthening component, SEMA Group
provided significant assistance in improving the overall management of billing and collection
systems, through enhanced monitoring, procedures and computerization (Paras. 5.7 and 5.8).
9.        Other components.  The Bank could not finance the contracts for preventive
maintenance, accounting systems and audits -- important as these needs were -- due to
developments external to the project which ultimately resulted in cancellation of the Credit. As
Zaire defaulted on its debt service vis-a-vis the Bank, disbursements on the Credit were suspended
on July 15, 1993 and the undisbursed amount of SDR 1.8 million ($2.38 million equivalent) was
cancelled on November 15, 1993, when the Bank placed Zaire on non-accrual status (Para 5.9).



- iii -
Project Results
10.       The initial project objectives were met, for the most part. Some elements of both the
engineering and institutional components remained unfinished, however, due to the premature
closing of the Credit.  The smooth continuation of project implementation would require
financing of an additional $6 million from SNEL (the undisbursed balance of the Credit and
additional funds needed for rehabilitation at Ruzizi I); the company appears unlikely to be able
to fund all the remaining works, however, even with resources generated from energy export to
neighboring countries, adversely affecting project sustainability (Para. 6.1).
11.       The dam safety engineering study was completed in November 1993. Also, a small
unit was created to conduct periodic safety investigations of dams; a SNEL team was to train and
supervise the unit's staff, while a SNEL-fmanced specialist would assist with planning and
organization. Engineering support and rehabilitationfor Inga operations was partially completed.
Two of the four groups initially identified for project work at Ruzizi I were rehabilitated and are
now in operation. The remaining two were delayed by a shortage of funds, and require an
additional $34 million.  Preventive maintenance and accounting systems, too, were not
undertaken under the Credit as a result of its cancellation, as mentioned earlier (Paras. 6.2 to
6.5).
12.       With respect to billing and collections, results were mixed. SNEL was not very
successful in settling the arrears of Government and parastatals, which have traditionally
accounted for well over 50 percent of total sales. At the end of 1993, accounts receivable stood
at 32 months for this customer group, compared to 7 months for private consumers. SNEL
realized significant improvements with the latter group (not including low voltage -- household -
- customers), reaching a collection rate of as high as 70 percent with medium voltage customers.
Looking forward, the company has launched several measures to obtain improved results in its
collection of receivables. Importantly, SNEL finally won approval from the Government in May
1993 (effective September 1993) to index its accounts receivable to the U.S. dollar / Zaire
exchange rate, to cope with inflation experienced between billing and payment dates. At the
same time, the Government allowed the indexation of electricity tariffs to petroleum product
prices, also to compensate SNEL for inflation. Other measures have included the installation of
load-limiters and prepayment meters, to increase efficiency in billing and collection (Paras. 6.6
to 6.7).
13.       As mentioned earlier, SNEL met or exceeded several of the targets specified under
the Contrat-Programme (see Para. 5). Importantly, the export markets developed through
SNEL's own initiative played a significant role in meeting these targets, and more generally, in
the institutional development of SNEL, over project implementation, into a well-managed and
financially sound organization. In response to the declining fortunes of Gecamines as well as the
dim prospects for customer growth in the chaotic domestic environment, SNEL decided to pursue
growth in exports. Sales to neighboring countries have grown rapidly in recent years, rising from
under 5 percent of total revenues in 1990 to 35 percent in 1993. By buoying SNEL's sales and,
additionally, providing valuable hard currency earnings ($25 million in 1993), export sales have
contributed significantly to SNEL's financial health. The institutional development of SNEL was
also achieved because of the conmmitment which the company maintained throughout project
implementation, as well as its proven record of competence. (Paras 6.8 and 9.1).



- lv -
Sustainability
14.       To ensure its continued sustainable development in the long run, SNEL should be
institutionally restructured to become more autonomous, with little Government interference in
the company's decision-making. SNEL should also continue to (i) comply with sound, global
industry standards covering various aspects of technical and financial performance; (ii) promote
and maintain clearly defined performance standards as set by the Contrat-Programme; (iii) apply
transparent procedures and rational criteria for investment decisions; and (iv) introduce financial
discipline (Para. 9.1).
15.       During project implementation, the power sector's principal assets were safeguarded
while SNEL continued to (i) produce and distribute electric power; (ii) improve its management;
and (iii) maintain a tenable financial position. Also, the completion of the rehabilitation works,
combined with the improved operation and maintenance resulting from the training of technical
staff that took place during the same period, should help reduce the cost of future rehabilitation
of the country's power network. It is uncertain, however, whether Zaire's hydroelectric
generation would be able to meet demand over the next decade -- a function of SNEL's ability
to adequately maintain its existing systems to serve possibly rising demand (stemming from
growing export sales and a possible tumrnaround in Gecamines' consumption). SNEL's ability to
effectively manage its finances also remains uncertain, given its continued poor experience in the
collection of Government and parastatal receivables.  Finally, the country's disastrous
macroeconomic enviromnent, combined with the absence of effective Government, will likely
continue to pose problems of sustainability for all Zairian enterprises, including SNEL (Para.
9.2).
Findings and Lessons Learned
16.       At a fundamental level, the Government's known mismanagement of the economy
was an important factor both in the design of the project (modest, limited "core" objectives) and
in its overall implementation experience.  Further, its failure to meet its specific policy
obligations with respect to electricity tariff setting also adversely affected implementation.
Although from the outset it was clear that the Government could not be relied upon to be
consistent in meeting its obligations, and that the Bank under a core program had limited
leverage, some of the lessons below are offered for the benefit of future operations that will
hopefully be designed under more normal circumstances. The findings of this PCR -- which
partially coincide with the experience of two recently completed projects in the power sector in
Zaire (see Paras. 2.8 and 2.10) -- suggest the following lessons: (a) the success of a project
depends substantially on a sound macroeconomic environment, and therefore, project appraisal
and design should carefully address or otherwise make allowance for the risks associated with
government performance; (b) even if in-the-field missions are not feasible, the Bank should seek'
greater direct involvement in supervision to achieve superior results (such involvement may, in
this case, have helped to ensure the Government's upholding of its commitments under the
Contrat-Progranirnme, in a more normal economic and political environment); (c) where warranted,
the Bank should exercise its contractual remedies against the Govermnent for non-compliance
with the Credit and Project Agreements (as, in this project, with respect to both the Government's
build up of arrears vis-a-vis SNEL, and its failure to meet its obligations under the Contrat-
Programme); (d) efforts should be made during project appraisal and design to ascertain as
precisely as possible the cost of rehabilitation and repair works needed; (e) even though the



- v - .
Contrat-Programme could be considered a good starting point, and despite SNEL's success in
achieving the limited objectives of the project, consideration should be given, in future operations
in the power sector in Zaire, to other management tools that are more effective in developing
increased institutional autonomy, as well as improving financial discipline and efficiency; and (f)
the strong commitment of SNEL's management to the project's development objectives
contributed significantly, and was critical, to the overall positive results of the project (Para. 9.3).






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAIRE
SNEL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 2293-ZR)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity
Name:            SNEL Technical Assistance Project
Credit No.:      2293-ZR
RVP Unit:        Africa Region, Country Department III
Country:         Zaire
Sector:          Energy
Subsector:       Power
1. INTRODUCTION
1.1       Zaire is richly endowed with energy resources, particularly fuelwood and
hydroelectricity. The country has about half the tropical forest area of all of Africa and a similar
proportion of the continent's hydroelectric potential. Petroleum reserves, while small by world
standards, are larger than those of many countries in Sub-Saharan Africa, and the country is a
net exporter of oil in volumetric ternms. Coal reserves are sizable but of low to average quality,
and only a small quantity is commercially exploitable. SNEL, the Societ6 Nationale d'Electricite,
is a wholly Government-owned public enterprise which was established in 1970. Because of its
strategic importance for the country, support to SNEL has been a core element of the Bank's
assistance to Zaire.
1.2       This PCR reviews the SNEL Technical Assistance Project (the SNEL TA project),
for which Credit 2293-ZR in the amount of SDR 7.5 million ($9.89 million equivalent) was
approved on August 20, 1991. The project was the fourth Bank Group-financed operation in the
power subsector in Zaire; the first three operations (see Paras. 2.7 to 2.11) were fully disbursed.
On November 15, 1993, when the Bank formally suspended all disbursements to Zaire and placed
the country in non-accrual status, the undisbursed balance of the Credit was cancelled. The
Credit was closed on February 3, 1994, five months ahead of schedule; by then, SDR 5.7 million
(US$7.51 million equivalent) had been disbursed, representing 76 percent of the Credit.
2. PROJECT SETTING
Background
2.1       Since the mid 1970s, Zaire had experienced protracted economic deterioration due
to ill-conceived policies and a decline in the terms of trade (copper prices in particular). In the
1980s, Zaire undertook several stabilization and adjustment programs with the assistance of the



--2--
IMF and World Bank. These were short-lived, however; non-developmental expenditures
crowded out public expenditures on social and physical infrastructure and caused the economic,
social and political situation of Zaire to worsen dramatically. In 1987, Zaire adopted a reform
program supported by Bank lending for structural adjustment, but this was discontinued in 1990.
Chronic economic mismanagement has been further exacerbated by the constitutional crisis and
political gridlock since 1990, with economic and social conditions reaching unprecedented lows
by 1994.
2.2      In 1990, the Bank scaled back its activities to a core program, which incorporated
(i) a reduced number of high-priority investment operations focussed on inter-generational
development issues, the benefits of which would continue to accrue to the population even in the
absence of a satisfactory macroeconomic framework; (ii) an increased focus on the
implementation of the existing portfolio; and (iii) the maintenance of a relatively sizable economic
and sector work program. The core program sought to meet three sets of objectives: (a) to
preserve the country's long-term development potential by fighting poverty and developing human
resources; (b) to maintain key assets and institutional relationships; and (c) to preserve the Bank's
ability to implement a more comprehensive assistance program once macroeconomic management
improved. The SNEL TA project fitted well with this program, and was one of only four
projects to be approved by the Bank's Board following the Government's decision to abandon
adjustment in early 1990.
2.3       Despite abundant resources, Zaire's per capita annual consumption of conmnercial
energy (petroleum products, coal and electricity) was only 74 kg of oil equivalent (kgoe) in 1991,
with the energy-intensive mining sector accounting for about a third of this consumption. Non-
mining energy consumption was about one half the 105 kgoe average for Sub-Saharan Africa,
making Zaire one of only a few countries worldwide whose per capita (non-mining) energy
consumption was no higher in 1988 than it was in 1965. While a limited number of urban areas
had ample electricity supply at the time of project appraisal, large areas of the country were (and
remain) unserved.
2.4       Regional transmission systems serve major centers in the Kinshasa/Bas-Zaire region
in the west, the copper-mining Shaba region in the southeast and the Kivu region in the east,
while isolated hydro and diesel stations provide power in localities scattered across the rest of the
country. In 1991, only about 5.4 percent of Zaire's population had access to electricity at home,
but most industrial and urban commercial activity was electrified. In July 1991, SNEL had about
150,000 clients, including 10 high voltage (HV) clients and some 1,200 with medium voltage
(MV) connections. Total sales were about 5.0 terawatt hours (TWh) per year, of which about
97 percent was sold in Shaba, Kinshasa and Bas-Zaire. In 1991, Gecamines Exploitation
(Gecamines), the national copper and cobalt company, accounted for 50 percent of SNEL's total
sales. However, a sharp decline in the company's copper production in the 1990s led to a
substantial reduction in power consumption. In 1993, Gecamines' electricity consumption
represented only 23 percent of SNEL's total sales which, as a result, dropped by about 25
percent. Indeed, the decline in total sales would have been substantially higher absent the strong
growth in SNEL's export sales to neighboring countries, a direct result of the company's
proactive efforts to insulate its fortunes (albeit partially) from those of its largest customer.
2.5       SNEL was initially established with the mandate of managing the construction of the



-3-
Inga I hydroelectric project. Between 1974 and 1978 it took over the power sector assets,
liabilities and responsibilities of the seven other power utilities (six private and one public), and
today represents the country's sole power utility. SNEL's overall operation and maintenance
effort has often suffered from shortages of spare parts and inadequate training in modern
preventive maintenance programs. The problem has been particularly severe in the isolated areas
supplied from thermnal power plants, where the diesel generators, without routine maintenance,
become unreliable long before the end of their expected lives.
2.6       Government reluctance to allow electricity rates to keep pace with the country's
chronic hyperinflation has caused periodic cash flow problems for SNEL and restricted needed
levels of operating and maintenance expenditures. In 1986, SNEL obtained approval to initiate
a five-year plan to increase electricity tariffs in its hydro-based systems. The semi-annual tariff
adjustments in all consumer categories were expected to compensate for inflation and achieve the
progressive increases in real terms needed to meet financial performance criteria agreed with
IDA. Actual adjustments, however, have been less than those required to meet these criteria.
Exacerbating SNEL's cash flow problems has been the substantial buildup, over several years,
of receivables arrears due from Government and parastatals in particular.
Retrospective of World Bank Involvement With SNEL
2.7       The most important elements of Zaire's investment prograrn in the power subsector
have been the construction of the Inga hydroelectric generation facility (with a capacity equivalent
of about twice the country's total demand for electric power), and the Inga-Shaba transmission
line to connect this plant to the major demand centers in the Shaba region 1,700 km away. More
than a decade after completion of this project, flat demand has held the rate of plant operation
at under a third of its capacity; also, the plant has already needed extensive rehabilitation. The
macroeconomic impact of the project is still evident as financial obligations undertaken to pay for
it continue to account for a significant part of Zaire's foreign debt.
2.8       Since 1982, SNEL has received financing from international donors supporting
projects costing over $250 million, including the proceeds of four IDA credits totalling about $80
million. Funds from the Caisse Francaise de Developpement (CFD), the European Investment
Bank (EIB), and the Belgian Cooperation and Development Agency (AGCD) account for the
remainder. The first of these operations, the Shaba Power System Rehabilitation Project (Cr.
1224-ZR), approved in FY 1982 (after Inga was essentially completed) initiated rehabilitation of
the four hydropower plants and transmission network in the Shaba mining region. According to
the PCR, this project was well focused, addressed the most urgent needs of the sector and fitted
well with the overall macroeconomic objectives of the Government. It was, however, beset by
logistic and administrative difficulties, implementation delays and an apparent lack of commitment
on the part of the Government and SNEL alike, both being preoccupied with the construction and
management of the Inga-Shaba transmission line.
2.9       The Ruzizi II Regional Hydroelectric Project (Crs. 1419-BU, 1420-RW, and 1421 -
ZR), approved in FY 1984, financed construction of a hydroelectric power plant on the river
forming part of the border between Zaire and Rwanda to supply power to Burundi and Rwanda,
as well as to Zaire's Kivu region. The implementing agency of the Ruzizi II project was
SINELAC, a tri-national entity owned in equal shares by SNEL and the power utilities of Rwanda



--4--
and Burundi. The project was innovative in supporting interconnection of three national networks
and common ownership of a quarter of the region's total generating capacity. It had a clear
conceptual foundation as the least cost source of power supply to the three countries. The project
was also timely, as evidenced by the fact that Ruzizi II was operating at maximum capacity only
one year after being put in service. The PCR for this project emphasized that operating rules
governing the relationship between SINELAC and the three national power companies should
ensure stable operation. Even though formal agreement has not yet been reached on these rules,
informal arrangements have so far worked satisfactorily.
2.10      Activities begun under the Shaba Power System Rehabilitation project revealed a need
for additional rehabilitation; this was undertaken under the Second Power Project (Cr. 1712-ZR)
approved in FY 1986. The project also included renovation and expansion of the Kivu regional
network, and engineering services to increase the reliability of the main interconnected system
linking Inga to Bas-Zaire, Kinshasa and Shaba. It further supported the preparation of a Power
Sector Master Plan intended to rationalize investment in the sector. The Master Plan became the
basis for a Priority Investment Program (PIP) agreed among SNEL, Government, the Bank and
other donors, which has proven effective in eliminating uneconomic investment in the sector.
Moreover, the project provided support for SNEL's institutional development in the areas of
general management, planning, finance and training.
2.11      The project was consistent with the priorities of Zaire's power subsector and served
to strengthen regional cooperation by increasing the reliability of power supply for the
interconnected network linking Zaire, Burundi and Rwanda.  However, like the Shaba
Rehabilitation project, this project also experienced delays in completion and cost overruns. The
PCR pointed out that (i) the rehabilitation needs of the generating units at Ruzizi I should have
been more precisely ascertained, and the costs of unforeseen works and spare parts better
provided for; (ii) lessons drawn from the Shaba Rehabilitation Project experience should have
been applied in the design of the Second Power project; and (iii) the latter project should have
been appraised only after the former had been substantially completed, since it was clear at that
time that SNEL was overstretched and already struggling with numerous problems relating to
tariffs, billing, collection, accounting and management.
2.12      The three aforementioned projects facilitated a policy dialogue in the sector, mainly
on investment planning and pricing issues. Poor maintenance capability posed a major problem-
during these projects' implementation, resulting in unreliable electricity supply and costly
rehabilitation, as well as inadequate control of dam safety. In addition, an inefficient billing and
collection system had considerably weakened SNEL's financial position. The SNEL TA project
was specifically designed to address these problems.
3. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
Project Objectives
3.1       The overall purpose of the project was to preserve and protect key sector assets and
help SNEL develop into a well-managed, technically competent and financially sound institution.
This was a feasible goal, even under the unfavorable macroeconomic conditions prevailing in



-5-
Zaire at the time of appraisal. The specific objectives were to assist SNEL in (i) completing
ongoing rehabilitation work on, and assuring the safety of, its hydroelectric facilities; (ii)
improving its management in the areas of preventive maintenance, commercial operations,
accounting, human resources and procurement; and (iii) maintaining a constructive IDA presence
in the sector which had seen a substantial waste of resources in the past and would be inevitably
called upon to play a key role in an eventual economic recovery.
Review of Project Components
3.2       To further its objectives, the project comprised two main sets of components: (1)
engineering support component ($6.75 million), including: (a) a study of darn safety, focussing
initially on the Nzilo dam, and the acquisition of dam safety monitoring equipment; (b) support
for operation, maintenance and rehabilitation of the hydro power facilities (mainly Inga),
including purchase of dredging equipment for the Inga intake channel; and (c) supervision of
ongoing rehabilitation work at the Ruzizi I plant in Kivu and the Nzilo and NsWkU sites in Shaba;
and (2) institutional strengthening component ($2.59 million), including: (a) completion or
updating of studies and implementation of their recommendations on accounting, maintenance,
commercial and procurement systems, as well as on commercial operations (i.e., billing and
collection); and (b) technical assistance to the directors of procurement and commercial
operations. Both components included the extension of works undertaken under previous IDA
credits, given the advanced stage of these works and the resulting difficulty in changing
consultants -- which, additionally, prompted the use of sole source financing in three cases.
3.3       The Credit also provided funding for annual audits for 1991, 1992, and 1993 ($0.4
million), refinanced advances extended for preparation of the power components of an energy
sector project which eventually did not materialize ($0.7 million), and included a contingency
provision ($1.0 million). Total project cost was estimated at $11.44 million, with foreign
exchange requirements at $9.89 million or 86 percent of project cost. SNEL was to finance
$1.55 million. A critical feature of the project was a Contrat-Programnime signed between the
Governmnent and SNEL, to define their respective areas of responsibility and authority, and to
introduce greater financial discipline to improve efficiency and productivity.
Project Benefits
3.4       During the difficult times at project appraisal, the power sector in Zaire was a key
element in the infrastructure needed to maintain adequate support to the productive sectors, as
well as to strengthen the capacity of the economy to respond to an eventual improvement in
economic policies. The principal benefits expected from the project were to come from assisting
SNEL to safeguard the sector's principal assets while continuing to produce and distribute electric
power, improve its management, and maintain a tenable financial position. Completion of
ongoing rehabilitation work and improved operation and maintenance of key sector assets were
to help reduce the costs of subsequent rehabilitation of the country's power network. The project
was also to ensure that Zaire's hydroelectric generation capacity would be able to meet demand
over the following decade, and help SNEL's management in its conduct of financial operations
including, in particular, those related to billing and collections.



--6--
Project Risks
3.5       The unpredictable macroeconomic environment in Zaire and the absence of effective
Government posed, at appraisal (as even now) serious sustainability problems to all enterprises
operating in the country, including SNEL. These risks were well known at the time of Board
approval of the SNEL TA project. The Government-SNEL Contrat-Programme was designed
to mitigate them by providing continuity in administration policies, shielding the company from
the negative impact of inappropriate macroeconomic policies and rapid inflation, and maintaining
the discipline of clearly defined performance standards. The Contrat-Programme did indeed help
to reduce, even if not completely eliminate, these risks; while they may have weakened the
company's ability to develop on a sustainable basis, they did not translate into any major
imnplementation difficulties for the project itself. Moreover, the risk that the conclusions of the
studies and the institutional strengthening component might not be properly implemented by
SNEL's management and staff, which had been anticipated during project preparation, did not
materialize. SNEL's management did live up to all its commitments and obligations under the
Credit.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
3.6       At appraisal, it was expected that continued Bank involvement with SNEL would help
the coordination of external financing in support of economically viable investments, and would
increase awareness of the importance of financial discipline. At the time, SNEL required further
Bank assistance to maintain and even step up its momentum in achieving improvements in its
financial management, data processing, procurement, training, and particularly, billing and
collections functions for low-voltage domestic and commercial consumers. Beyond providing
support for the urgent engineering and institutional strengthening components of the project and
helping SNEL to realize expected project benefits, Bank involvement was expected to help SNEL
become a reliable electric company capable of playing a key role in Zaire's future development.
Therefore, maintaining a close relationship with SNEL was an important part of the Bank's
country strategy. Such an ongoing relationship would enable SNEL to implement more quickly
the major rehabilitation and network extension works, which would be required once the
economic situation improved.
4. PROJECT PREPARATION AND DESIGN
Major Project Issues
4.1       Dam Safety Engineering. As instruments installed to monitor displacement of the
Nzilo dam showed that it had been moving gradually downstream, it was agreed that a study be
financed under the SNEL TA project to define the scope of needed rehabilitation works and
repairs. Financing for these works would then be provided by either SNEL or one of the donors.
4.2       Engineering Support for Inga Operations and Rehabilitation. Both the Inga I and
Inga H power plants had been adversely affected by a variety of problems traceable to their
original design and construction, low utilization rates and inadequate maintenance. SNEL had
previously undertaken some of the rehabilitation works with donor funds, and IDA was to



-7-
finance, through this TA project, a continuation of the engineering services provided under
previous IDA projects by Infra-Consult-Munchen (ICM) of Germany.
4.3       Engineering Supervision in Kivu and Shaba. The existing 17 groups of the Shaba
and Kivu plants were identified for rehabilitation. Additional rehabilitation and extension of the
distribution system at the Kivu plant were needed. The hydroelectric plants of Nseke, Nzilo and
Koni were also found in need of urgent rehabilitation, including modernization of the speed
regulation for the turbines; these works were behind schedule. Since the financing provided
under previous credits was inadequate to cover the extended rehabilitation that was needed, it was
agreed that they be financed under the project reviewed in this report.
4.4       Dredging. Siltation in the intake channel carrying -water from the Zaire River to the
Inga complex had almost blocked the flow during seasonal low-water periods from 1989 to 1991.
As the Inga plants provided virtually all the power for the Kinshasa/Bas-Zaire regions and up to
15 to 20 percent of the power consumed in Shaba, the situation was serious. Following an
extensive study, it was decided to purchase dredging equipment out of the proceeds of the present
Credit rather than to use the services of a dredging company.
4.5       Preventive Maintenance. Inadequate maintenance had been a chronic problem with
many of SNEL's facilities and installations, leading to both a level of reliability well below
industry standards as well as costly and time-consuming rehabilitation projects. Credit proceeds
were to finance assistance and support to SNEL to review and update its preventive maintenance
programn, including its implementation.
4.6       Billing and Collections. The supply of power to the Government and bankrupt
parastatals could not easily be cut off, even though these entities were in arrears vis-a-vis the
company for periods ranging from 24 to 32 months. In addition, improving the collections from
low-voltage (LV) consumers was made more difficult by their much larger number, the relative
ease with which LV lines could be tapped illegally, and the relatively low value of most such
accounts. This situation made it imperative for the company to limit the unit cost of its billing
and collection operations. Accordingly, appropriate measures - including the installation of
prepayment meters and the adoption of an electricity tariff with adjustment mechanisms to
compensate for domestic inflation -- were to be financed under the TA project.
4.7       Accounting systems. The implementation of SNEL's accounting practices and the
upgrading of its data management capabilities, which were financed under the Second Power
project, had experienced setbacks due to shortages of funds and human resources. Consequently,
it was agreed that the SNEL TA project would finance and implement cost and budgetary
accounting procedures and systems which would be adapted to decentralized financial
management and integrated within an interactive computerized system.
4.8       Procurement. Procurement procedures were a chronic problem for SNEL. Its
warehouse held large stocks of obsolete supplies, while essential spare parts and supplies of
materials as basic as street light bulbs were frequently lacking. Financial shortfalls were part of
the problem, but their effect was exacerbated by poor management, inadequate control and
record-keeping of inventories, as well as weak coordination and planning of future supply needs.
It was agreed that the project would provide funding for both a procurement specialist and the



8
implementation of adequate stock management systems, procedures and practices.
Agreed Actions
4.9       The major agreement reached during negotiations was related to the implementatiori
of the Contrat-Prograrnue satisfactory to IDA. Signed on June 13, 1991, the contract was to
clarify the areas of responsibility between the Government and SNEL and introduce greater
awareness of the need for financial discipline, as mentioned earlier.  Under the Contrat-
Programme, SNEL was to meet specified targets for such performance indicators as capacity
utilization rates, electricity consumption levels, number of customers, and percentage of
population with access to electricity, to name a few. Other agreements under the TA project
included: (a) clarification of SNEL's tax status and resolution of outstanding claims between
Government and SNEL; (b) transfer to SNEL of the ownership of the Inga power plants, the
Inga-Shaba transmission line together with its associated converter stations, the Mobayi
hydroelectric project, and all other assets financed by the Government and operated and
maintained by SNEL on terms consistent with those agreed under the Second Power project; (c)
permission from the Government for SNEL to change metering, equipment, billing and
collections procedures, as well as permnission to implement realistic accounts receivable policies;
and (d) adoption by SNEL of an electricity tariff policy including an adjustment for inflation, to
help meet financial performance objectives. All other actions agreed during negotiations are
presented in Annex I, containing the status of covenants.
5. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
5.1       The political, security and macroeconomic environment during implementation proved
to be worse than expected at the time of appraisal and Board approval. The project was
implemented over approximately two and a half years. Due to the security situation prevailing
in Zaire, the Bank resorted to non-field supervision missions throughout the implementation
period. The task of direct field supervision of the execution of the Contrat-Programrne was
delegated to, and carried out by, the Belgian consulting firm, SEMA Group, whose basic mandate
was to assist SNEL in improving its commercial operations. The firm's performance, although
impeded by delays in starting the works, was more than satisfactory.
5.2       This section reviews project implementation in terms of: (a) execution of the Contrat-
Programme; (b) electricity tariffs; (c) dredging and related equipment; (d) technical assistance for
the engineering component; and (e) technical assistance for the institutional strengthening
component.
5.3       Execution of the Contrat-Programme. SNEL met and even exceeded the targets
established and agreed upon in the Credit and Project Agreements, for most of the performance
indicators. This was particularly true in 1992: (i) the degree of utilization of installed capacity
reached 34 percent compared to a target of 31 percent; (ii) the number of consumers increased
to 207,293 compared to a target of 197,047; (iii) the percentage of the population that had access
to electricity reached an actual rate of 5.63 percent compared to a target of 5.37 percent; (iv) the
peak capacity for the western region of the country was 614 MW relative to a target of only 554
MW; and (v) SNEL created 16 more customer service and cashier centers in 1992 alone, versus



-- 9 - -
a target of 10, adding to the 64 that existed in 1991. Moreover, even though electricity
consumption of 5,319 GWh in 1992 was only 86 % of target, this level represented a 24 percent
increase over consumption in 1991.
5.4       SNEL's performance did suffer a few shortcomings, although their negative impact
was largely offset by-the increase in revenues from higher export sales. The receivables ratio
was at 10.3 months of sales in constant Zaires in 1992, as a result of the failure by Gecamines
and the Government to pay within the agreed 2.5 months after receipt of bills. In 1992, the
collection rate for the State, Gecamines and other parastatals -- which together accounted for a
substantial portion of SNEL's total sales -- was about 5 percent compared to 52 percent and 31
percent for private medium and low voltage consumers, respectively. The lack of strong
Government commitment made project implementation more difficult, and may well have
weakened the overall performance of SNEL's management. In retrospect, it appears that the
Bank should have exercised its contractual remedies against the Government for its failure to
comply with the covenants relating to its performance on the Contrat-Programme.
5.5       Electricity Tariffs.  The agreed policy to index tariff increases to changes in
petroleum product prices was only partially implemented by SNEL. As the indexation would
have resulted in increasing the thermal tariff to 20 times the one for existing hydro systems - a
level which consumers could not afford -- the Government did not allow SNEL to apply it
domestically. Overall, this situation prevented SNEL from meeting its financial covenants under
the Credit Agreement: the self-financing ratio, debt service ratio and the rate of return on fixed
assets were, jn relation to the targets, 23 vs. 30 percent, 139 vs. 67 percent, and 0.2 vs. 6.0
percent, respectively. Since September 1993, however, SNEL's billing has been based on an
indexation formula that takes into account the hyperinflation prevailing in Zaire. The new
approach is designed to stop the erosion of the company's revenues, so as to enable it to service
its debt obligations and fund sector development. In addition, the tariff for energy exports has
been adequate in helping the company cover its production costs.
5.6       Dredging and Related Equipment. SNEL's initial technical specifications for the
dredging equipment far exceeded those reasonably necessary, and led to bid prices that were
much higher than expected (between $4 million and $13 million compared to $1.5 million
provided for in the Credit). As a result, the Bank refused to finance this purchase. After the
suspension of disbursements in July 1993 (see Para. 5.9), and due to the emergency situation (the
sanding up of Inga's intake channel could, at any time, cause the company to stop the supply of
energy to Kinshasa, Bas-Zaire, and part of Shaba), SNEL decided to finance the dredging
equipment out of its own resources.  Following the Bank's recommendation, bids were
resubmitted on the basis of revised specifications and a transparent Limited International Bidding
(LIB) procurement method was used. Seven firms from four countries (Italy, France, Belgium
and the Netherlands) were contacted and three sent their offers. Italdraghe (an Italian firm) was
awarded the contract for an amount of $1.25 million. The Bank maintained its decision not to
finance the equipment even after the subsequent bidding based on revised technical specifications,
having agreed with SNEL's management to use the corresponding funds to meet other priority
needs, including rehabilitation of Units 1 and 2 at Ruzizi I.
5.7       Technical Assistance for the Engineering Component. The German consulting firm
ICM provided technical assistance for the operation of the Inga hydroelectric plant until March



--10--
1992. ICM's perfornance was satisfactory, as reflected in its effective supervision -- with
respect to cost as well as time -- of the rehabilitation works. The firm's provision of advisory
services for the procurement of dredging equipment was far less beneficial, but accounted for a
minor portion of its responsibilities.
5.8       Technical Assistance for the Institutional Strengthening Component. SEMA
Group produced very good reports on the status of the commercial operations of SNEL, which
were used to improve the monitoring of billing and collection systems and procedures. The
consulting firm introduced new business indicators to keep track of subscribers by category, sales
statistics in kWh, export sales in US dollars, and domestic sales. It also trained SNEL staff on
billing procedures, as well as on preparation and production of integrated management reports,
and undertook the study of a master plan for a computerized management information system.
5.9       Contracts for the other project components (namely, preventive maintenance,
accounting systems, procurement, and audits) were to be awarded for a total amount of about
$1.05 million. However, the Bank could not finance the contracts as Zaire defaulted on its debt
service vis-a-vis the Bank. Disbursements on the Credit were suspended on July 15, 1993. The
Bank placed Zaire in non-accrual status on November 15, 1993, and cancelled the undisbursed
amount of SDR 1.8 million ($2.38 million equivalent); the Credit was closed on February 3,
1994, five months ahead of schedule. As a result, SNEL was to finance these contracts and other
remaining works on a priority basis from its own resources (see Para. 6.1).
6. PROJECT RESULTS
6.1       Despite a few shortcomings, the overall physical implementation of the project
proceeded well; the initial project objectives were largely met. Some of the sub-components of
the engineering support and institutional strengthening components, however, remain to be
completed, as a result of the cancellation of the Credit. About $3.4 million are still needed to
complete the rehabilitation of Units 1 and 2 at Ruzizi I and further rehabilitation and extension
work remains to be done at the Shaba plants. The smooth continuation of project implementation
would require, in total, additional financing of $6 million from SNEL relative to that previously
expected, to complete both the engineering and institutional components of the project; it is
unlikely, however, that SNEL will be able to finance all the remaining works and repairs, even
with resources generated from energy export to neighboring countries. This poses a serious risk
to the sustainability of the project. The specific results of each component are briefly discussed
below.
6.2       Dam Safety Engineering. This study was completed in November 1993. Its major
reconmnendations included: designing a cofferdam arrangement upstream of the spillway;
clearing all drainage holes; verifying that all instrumentation was complete and in working order;
carrying out general repairs, such as grouting cracks in the rock and installing piezometers to
obtain (within five years) samples of concrete to check all the alkali-silica reaction; and installing
anchor bolts by drilling and grouting. In addition, a small unit responsible for regular safety
investigations of dams, starting with the Nzilo dam, was created. The services of a specialist
financed from the company's own resources were used to strengthen the unit's planning and
organization functions. Moreover, a team of three SNEL engineers was formed to supervise the



-- 11 --
investigations and train the staff of the unit.
6.3       Engineering Support for Inga Operations and Rehabilitation.  Rehabilitation
works at Inga included: the installation of a new temperature monitoring system on Unit 4 in
December 1991, and of new teflon gaskets (including guide vane speed rings) on Unit 7 on an
experimental basis in 1992 (now introduced on Units 5, 6, and 8 as well); the installation,
currently under way, of drainage pumps and doucet filters; the design of electrical connection
modifications and the preparation of a training program for twelve staff, including three
managers, using lessons drawn from the 1988 and 1989 training experience; and the use,
throughout project implementation, of expert services on the technical aspects of the operation
of hydro plants.
6.4       Engineering Supervision in Kivu and Shaba. The rehabilitation of two groups
(Groups 3 and 4) of the four initially identified for rehabilitation at Ruzizi I was completed and
they are now in operation. Rehabilitation works on Groups I and 2, which require about $3-4
million, was delayed due to a lack of financial resources. This is a priority rehabilitation as its
completion is expected to increase installed capacity by 13MW. In retrospect, it appears that
more efforts should have been made during project preparation to better ascertain the financial
resources needed for rehabilitation and repair works. Regarding the Shaba plants, rehabilitation
of 15 out of the existing 17 groups was completed. Moreover, repairs on Group 3 of Nseke and
Group 4 of Nzilo were completed and the groups are now expected to be reassembled. The
problem of updating the speed governors of the hydro turbines for the NsWkM, Nzilo, and Koni
plants, however, has not yet been addressed. An amended contract providing for an additional
amount of about $300,000 was signed with Tractebel, a Belgian consulting firm, for the
supervision of these works. For tangible results to accrue on a sustainable basis, SNEL would
need to undertake, as part of its Priority Investment Program, the additional rehabilitation,
extension works and repairs that remain to be done.
6.5       Preventive Maintenance and Accounting Systems. The bids for these systems were
evaluated and the contracts awarded.  However, as a result of the suspension of Credit
disbursements, arrangements have been made for SNEL to finance from its own resources the
identified preventive maintenance activities, as well as the upgrading towards greater transparency
of its data management capabilities and its computerized accounting systems and procedures. In
retrospect, the Bank should have pressured the Government to initiate the bidding process earlier,
given the urgent need for these activities.
6.6       Billing and Collections.  SNEL was not very successful in the settlement of
Government and parastatal arrears. The covenant requiring the Government and parastatals to
settle their bills within 2.5 months after receipt was not respected due to insufficient government
funds for payment (as a result of poor budgeting practices and lack of sound fiscal and monetary
policies). Even Gecamines, which three years earlier had been paying on time, was in arrears
of about 15 months. At the end of 1993, accounts receivable stood at 32 months for Government
and parastatals and 7 months for private consumers. In retrospect, the Bank should have sought
contractual remedies against the Government in accordance with its rights as outlined in the
Credit and Project Agreements, following the latter's delinquency vis-a-vis SNEL. Nevertheless,
even under the prevailing economic and political disorder in Zaire, the collection rate has
improved on average due to a more aggressive commercial policy by SNEL, including systematic



-- 12 --
power cut-offs to delinquent private consumers. As of the end of 1993, collection rates for
domestic sales were: for high voltage (HV) consumers, 60 percent (excluding Gecamines for
which the collection rate is only one percent); for medium voltage (MV), 70 percent for private
consumers and 30 percent for parastatals; and for low voltage (LV) private consumers, 20
percent.
6.7       SNEL has launched a variety of measures to obtain improved results in its collection
of receivables. First, SNEL finally won approval from the Government in May 1993 (effective
September 1993) to index its accounts receivable to the U.S. dollar / Zaire exchange rate, to cope
with inflation experienced between billing and payment dates. At the same time, the Government
approved the indexation of electricity tariff increases to changes in petroleum product prices as
an additional measure to help make SNEL whole in an inflationary environment, as mentioned
earlier. Another effective measure has been the introduction of load-limiters on low-volume users
to allow a fixed level of consumption in terms of usage volumes and payment amounts, thus
eliminating the need for meter reading prior to billing. The installation of prepayment meters
on the premises of relatively large-volume clients, from whom collection had previously been
difficult, has helped to partially eliminate the illegal and easy tapping of the area's power lines;
this measure has been extended to cover more than the 2000 customers originally targeted.
Finally, an experimental / demonstration project, consisting of contracting out with a private
company the billing and collection activities of one of six "Agences Principales," has been
implemented at the Limete billing and collection office. So far, the experience has resulted in
higher collection rates for this heavily populated Kinshasa area.
6.8       Performance on the Contrat-Programme. As mentioned earlier, SNEL met or
exceeded several of the targets specified under the Contrat-Programme (see Para. 5.3).
Importantly, the export markets developed through SNEL's own initiative played a significant
role in helping the company to meet some of these targets and generally improve financial
performance. Sales to the neighboring countries of Congo, Angola, Zambia, Zimbabwe, Burundi
and Rwanda have grown rapidly since 1990 and now account for over 25 percent of energy
production. In terms of revenues, exports grew from 3 to 4 percent of total revenues in 1990
to 35 percent in 1993, when they provided hard currency earnings of $25 million. In general,
the creation of these export markets has contributed significantly to the development of SNEL,
over project implementation, into a well-managed, technically competent and financially sound
institution.
6.9       Other Agreed Actions.  The experience with other agreements reached during
negotiations was mixed. The agreements pertaining to SNEL's tax status and resolution of
outstanding claims were not met; the same was true of the transfer to SNEL of ownership of
various assets, including the Inga power plants. Had the project not been curtailed ahead of
schedule, it is believed that these objectives would have been achieved, given the advanced stage
of negotiations that had been reached between the Government and SNEL on these matters. On
the other hand, the Government did grant SNEL permission to change various procedures and
policies related to metering, equipment and billing and collection. Finally, as mentioned earlier,
the Government did ultimately allow SNEL to adopt an electricity tariff policy which included
an adjustment for inflation.



-- 13 --
7. BANK PERFORMANCE
7.1       Overall, Bank performance on the project was good. The Bank's presence and
influence throughout this project helped SNEL introduce transparency in its procurement
procedures and bring financial discipline to its investment decisions. However, recruitment of
an advisor to SNEL's procurement director at the beginning of project implementation, as agreed
at appraisal, would have prevented the delay and other problems experienced with the acquisition
of dredging equipment. In addition, the Bank should have sought, from the Government, an
earlier initiation of the bidding process for preventive and maintenance systems, whose
implementation was ultimately curtailed by the suspension of disbursements; given the urgent
need for these systems, their current dependence on SNEL financing is an unfavorable outcome
which may have been avoided.
7.2       Project Design. It was an appropriate decision during project preparation to use sole
source procurement in three cases that involved an extension of works undertaken under previous
credits for the improvement of commercial systems and supervision of ongoing hydro
rehabilitation projects. Given the length of SNEL's procurement procedures, the company's weak
capacity in the area of procurement and the short time available for disbursements under the
Credit (three years), these arrangements proved beneficial to project implementation and to
SNEL.
7.3      Implementation and Supervision Arrangements. Zaire's security situation drove
the Bank to depart from normal procedure and rely on non-field supervision missions; due both
to this factor and the Government's abandonment of the structural adjustment program, the focus
of Bank supervision underwent a change during project implementation. Specifically, the
emphasis shifted from a close follow-up of overall implementation to the more narrow goal of
preserving the viability of the SNEL TA project through effective execution of the Contrat-
Programme. On this basis, three non-field supervision missions took place between December
1991 and June 1993. Direct supervision was delegated to SEMA Group, whose services were
fmanced from the proceeds of the Credit. The principal task of SEMA Group was to help SNEL
improve its performance in the area of commercial operations; the firm was also to assist SNEL
in the field in the execution of the Contrat-Programme. These functions were performed
satisfactorily. The quarterly progress reports produced by SEMA Group were also used to
monitor the execution of the Contrat-Programme and the supervision of commercial operations.
Other parts of the project, including those related to rehabilitation works, were supervised by the
German consulting firm ICM, and to a smaller extent, by the Belgian consulting firm Tractebel.
7.4       While recognizing that in-the-field supervision was not feasible, it could be argued,
in retrospect, that more Bank staff resources should have been allocated to follow SNEL's
operations and its overall development. Greater direct involvement by the Bank could have been
more effective in achieving results. Further, the Bank could possibly have proposed more firn
measures to ensure Government's timely actions both on the payment of its arrears and the
automatic adjustment of tariffs to cope with inflation.



-- 14--
8. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
8.1       For most of the performance indicators as defined in the Contrat-Progranmme, SNEL's
achievements went beyond project targets. SNEL's management team was highly committed
throughout project implementation, achieving quick and tangible results through the assistance
provided by the Credit despite the situation prevailing in Zaire.  The company achieved
significant growth in its energy exports to neighboring countries, which accounted for about 35
percent of sales in 1993, as mentioned earlier. As a result, SNEL's financial base has improved
significantly since 1991. Moreover, currently about 6.6 percent of Zaire's population has access
to electricity at home (an increase from 5.4 percent in 1991).
8.2      It is important to recognize that SNEL reached these positive results and achieved
most of the project objectives under unfavorable macroeconomic conditions and in the absence
of a firm government commitment to sector development. The Government's performance was
weak throughout the project implementation period. Mainly affecting policy decisions, including
tariff setting, this performance may have hampered the company's future ability to sustain the
benefits realized from the project.
8.3       The performance of SNEL with respect to procurement was also weaker than
expected at appraisal. As previously mentioned, SNEL's procurement department failed initially
to establish the appropriate technical specifications for the dredging equipment that was expected
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; this created delays in project implementation.
9. SUSTAINABILITY AND LESSONS LEARNED
Sustainability
9.1      Institutional development was a major focus of the project and was pursued through
the project's main objectives. During the twenty-eight-month execution period of the project,
these objectives were achieved mainly because of: (i) the conmmitment demonstrated by SNEL's
management throughout project implementation; (ii) its proven record of competence; and (iii)
its strong sense of initiative and responsibility in improving the financial base of the company
through the export of energy to neighboring countries. However, in order for SNEL to continue
to develop on a sustainable basis in the long run, the Government would need to refrain from
interfering in the company's decision-making processes. At the same time, SNEL should
continue to (i) comply with global industry standards covering such indicators as electricity losses
(both technical and non-technical), capacity utilization, tariffs and the age of receivables; (ii)
promote and maintain clearly defined performance standards, as originally set by the Contrat-
Programme (see Paras. 4.9 and 5.3); (iii) apply transparent procedures and rational criteria for
investment decisions; and (iv) ensure financial discipline.
9.2       During project implementation, the electric power sector's principal assets were
safeguarded while SNEL continued to (i) produce and distribute electric power; (ii) improve its
management; and (iii) maintain a tenable financial position. The completion of the rehabilitation
works, as well as the concurrent improvement in operation and maintenance procedures through
training of technical staff, should help reduce the cost of future rehabilitation of the country's



- 15 --
power network. A few matters remain uncertain, however. Whether Zaire's hydroelectric
generation capacity will be sufficient to meet demand over the following decade remains to be
seen: failure to adequately maintain existing generating and transmission systems, at a time of
rising demand (arising from growing export sales and a possible turnaround in Gecamines'
consumption), could create capacity constraints. At the same time, SNEL's ability to effectively
manage its finances also remains uncertain, particularly in terms of vital billing and collection
procedures; while significant improvement has been realized in collection from private customers,
experience with Government and parastatal accounts (including Gecamines) -- which have
traditionally accounted for well over 50 percent of total sales -- continues to be very poor. In
addition, the unpredictable macroeconomic environment in Zaire, combined with the absence of
effective government, will likely continue to pose sustainability problems to all enterprises
operating in Zaire, including SNEL. Overall, as suggested in the previous PCRs for the Shaba
Power System Rehabilitation and Second Power projects, private sector participation may be
necessary for the power sector in Zaire to develop on a sustainable basis in the long run.
Lessons Learned
9.3       At a fundamental level, the Government's known mismanagement of the economy
was an important factor both in the design of the project (modest, limited "core" objectives) and
in its overall implementation experience.  Further, its failure to meet its specific policy
obligations with respect to electricity tariff setting also adversely affected implementation.
Although from the outset it was clear that the Government could not be relied upon to be
consistent in meeting its obligations, and that the Bank under a core program had limited
leverage, some of the lessons below are offered for the benefit of future operations that will
hopefully be designed under more normal circumstances. The findings of this PCR -- which
partially coincide with the experience of two recently completed projects in the power sector in
Zaire -- suggest the following lessons: (a) the success of a project depends substantially on a
sound macroeconomic environment, and therefore, project appraisal and design should carefully
address or otherwise make allowance for the risks associated with government performance; (b)
even if in-the-field missions are not feasible, the Bank should seek greater direct involvement in
supervision to achieve superior results (such involvement may, in this case, have helped to ensure
the Government's upholding of its commitments under the Contrat-Programme, in a more normal
economic and political environment); (c) where warranted, the Bank should exercise its
contractual remedies against the Government for non-compliance with the Credit and Project
Agreements (as, in this project, with respect to both the Government's build up of arrears As-a-
vis SNEL, and its failure to meet its obligations under the Contrat-Progranume); (d) efforts should
be made during project appraisal and design to ascertain as precisely as possible the cost of
rehabilitation and repair works needed; (e) even though the Contrat-Programme could be
considered a good starting point, and despite SNEL's success in achieving the limited objectives
of the project, consideration should be given, in future operations in the power sector in Zaire,
to other management tools that are more effective in developing increased institutional autonomy,
as well as improving financial discipline and efficiency; and (f) the strong commitment of SNEL's
management to the project's development objectives contributed significantly, and was critical,
to the overall positive results of the project.



-- 16--
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1. INTRODUCTION
1.1       The SNEL Technical Assistance (TA) Project described in this report was designed
mainly to help SNEL carry out the highest priority works, including the engineering services and
studies needed to allow the company to safeguard its assets while continuing to produce and
distribute electric power, improve its management and maintain a sound financial position.
Specifically, these works, services and studies consisted of: (a) the rehabilitation and preservation
of the hydroelectric structures and installations as well as studies started under the Electricity H
project but not completed; and (b) the institutional strengthening component of the Energy I
project, an energy sector project which was negotiated in 1989 but never materialized due to the
refusal of the Government of Zaire (GOZ) to liberalize the prices of petroleum products.
2. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN
Project Objectives
2.1       The main objectives of the project were to: (i) complete the rehabilitation of the Inga
power plant in the Bas-Zaire, the Ruzizi I power plant in the Sud Kivu and the four Shaba power
plants, and carry out preventive maintenance works so as preserve their basic infrastructure and
facilities; and (ii) strengthen SNEL's management, through assistance, in the areas of
maintenance, finance, accounting, commercial operations, procurement and human resources.
Project Design
2.2       In the initial design of the Energy I project, the physical infrastructure portion relating
to the electricity subsector had included (i) the Goma-Butembo-Beni transmission line and the
associated distribution networks, (ii) repair of the Nzilo darn, and (iii) the additional transmission
lines to Kivu, and the procurement of management information systems equipment and spare
parts.
2.3       The TA portion covered (i) engineering consulting services for the Goma-Butembo-
Beni line, (ii) consulting services for the Nzilo dam and the Inga complex, including recruitment
of experts for the other dams, (iii) feasibility studies for the Bukavu-Kalima-Kindu line, (iv) a
demand elasticity study for Kinshasa, and (v) strengthening of the department within SNEL which
was responsible for planning studies.  The institutional assistance involved installing or
consolidating management systems in the following areas: finance, commercial operations,
procurement, human resources, administrative control, planning, project management, training
program support, and technical management (operations and maintenance).
2.4       The total cost of the Energy I project, which was estimated in May 1989 at US$107.9
million, was to be financed as follows: US$70 million from IDA, US$24.6 million from the
European Investment Bank (EIB), and US$14.2 million from SNEL. Following the Bank's
decision in late 1989 to reduce its activities in Zaire to a core program, SNEL scaled back the



--17 --
size of the Energy I project. The resulting project submitted to the Bank in February 1990
included the assistance needed for the company's survival, associated with the highest priority
works, for a cost of US$9.89 million, and covered the following: (a) for the engineering
component, a dam safety study and acquisition of the monitoring equipment, operating assistance
to Inga, supervision of the rehabilitation of the Ruzizi I power plant and the Shaba power plants,
and acquisition of dredging equipment for the intake channel from the Inga power plants, where
the level of siltation could compromise the supply of electricity both in Zaire and to neighboring
countries, particularly during periods of low waters; and (b) for the institutional strengthening
component, recruitment of both a commercial and a procurement advisor, the study and
establishment of the maintenance, accounting and procurement systems, and auditing of accounts.
3. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
3.1        This section mainly covers progress achieved in implementing the Contrat-Programme
(CP) between SNEL and the Government. The CP was signed on June 13, 1991, for a period
of three years.
3.2       In August 1993, the CP was evaluated for its 1991/1992 results by the "ad hoc"
Monitoring Committee created by the Government of Zaire (GOZ). This Committee is
comprised of representatives from SNEL, the Ministries of Energy, Planning, Budget, and
Finance and Economics, OGEDEP,2 and the Bank of Zaire. The Committee's evaluation report
recognized that SNEL's management performed well despite the extremely unfavorable economic
environment and the collapse of Gecamines (GCM). The performance indicators used to assess
progress achieved in implementing the CP include: (i) the rates of capacity utilization at Inga I
and Inga II; (ii) the MW available by region; (iii) electricity consumption; and (iv) collection
rates by category of consumers.
(i) The rates of utilization of the Inga I and Inga II plants:
1991        1991    1991       1992       1992       1992       1993       1993      1993
Projected   ActuaL   Rate of    Projected  ActuaL    Rate of    Projected  Actuat    Rate of
ImpLemen-                        ImpLemen-                       ImpLemen-
tation 3                         tation                          tation
31%         26.94%  87%        31.21%     34.22%      110%       32.1%      33.7%     104.98
2         OGEDEP: Public Debt Management Office
3         Since the credit related to the SNEL TA Project was closed before its actual closing date,
the rate of implementation has been used to show progress made in implementing the
project.



--18 --
(ii) The MW available by Region:
Region   1991        1991     1991        1992        1992    1992         1993        1993     1993
Projected  Actual   Rate of    Projected  ActuaL   Rate of       Projected   ActuaL   Rate of
ImpLemen-                       Implemen-                         ImpLemen-
tation                          tation                            tation
WEST     551         498.6    90%         553.6       614      113%        569         597      104%
SOUTH    405         340      84%         405         288      71%         405         233      57%
EAST     20.4        22.4     110%        21.9        23       105%        28.2        23       81%
The good perfornance in the West for 1992 and 1993 is mainly the result of the completion of
rehabilitation and civil engineering works at group 1, and the return to operation of groups 3 and 7
at Inga (about 50 MW, which allows the production of additional electric energy from the boilers'
81 MW compared to the 69 MW projected under the CP). These achievements helped export energy
to Zimbabwe, Zambia and the Congo, respectively. The unsatisfactory performance in the South is
mainly due to the collapse of Gecamines. The performance in the East is the result of the return to
operation of group 3 after its rehabilitation was completed in December 1991.
(iii) Electricity consumption:
In the commercial area, electricity consumption in GWh has grown as follows:
1991        1991      1991        1992        1992      1992        1993        1993      1993
Projected   Actual   Rate of      Projected   Actual   Rate of      Projected   Actual   Rate of
Imptemen-                        Implemen-                         ImpLemen-
tation                           tation                            tation
GWh         GWh                 I GWh         GWh                 I GWh         GWh    I_II
5,900       4,294    73%          6,200       5,319    86%          6,500       4,944    81%
(5%)        _     _      _        (5%)                           .    (5%)      _ _ _     _    _
The low performance in electricity consumption corresponds to the significant decline in economic
activity, as well as to the collapse of Gecamines, which represented 50 percent of SNEL's sales in
1991 compared to 23 percent in 1993. The rate of implementation would have been lower had it not
been for the promotion of sales to neighboring countries and certain measures carried out
domestically by the company. These measures include: for industrial clients, the provision to MV
consumers of flexibility in payment methods to encourage their consumption; for LV consumers, the
establishment of payment centers in high density areas to get closer to consumer concerns, and
sensitization campaigns to invite potential consumers to take advantage of extended payment periods;
the rationalization of billing procedures; and improvements in management information systems. The
results have been very positive as seen below.



-- 19--
(iv) Collection rates by category of consumers:
1991         1992         1993
* HV GCM      80.4%         5.1%            1%
* HV other    14.9%        31.7%          60%
* MV private  38.0%        52.0%          70%
* MV parastatal 8.3%        5.5%          30%
* LV private   29.0%       30.5%          20%
* State        1.8%         5.7%           0%
The monthly collection rate for all the distribution centers (HV, GCM and State not included) was
45 percent in 1993, compared to 40 percent for 1992 respectively, an increase of 11 percent.
Taking into account HV, GCM and State, the collection rate was 30 percent in 1993, compared
to 22 percent in 1992, marking a 27 percent increase.
3.3       The overall improved performance of SNEL as described above was not only due to
measures financed through the Bank's Credit, but was also the result of additional actions (all
financed from its own resources) taken by the company's management, including the connection of
new clients and associated rehabilitation and engineering works in Kinshasa (Pumbu and Yolo),
Bukavu, Goma and Uvira. These actions include:
KINSHASA
(a) Installation of low voltage networks and connection of customers in the cities of Pumbu and
Yolo; (b) conversion of the 6.6-kV network to 20-kV with a view to resolving the overload
problem in the regions of Kinshasa, Barumbu, Gombe, Makala and Bumbu; (c) restoring the
Masina area to the 20-kV network after the removal of the HV/MV transformer station from
Funa; (d) construction of four new 30/6.6-kV substations in the Bandal, Kinkole, Liminga and
Makala areas; (e) partial rehabilitation of the 20-, 30-, 6.6-kV and LV networks; and (f)
conversion of 60 6.6-kV to 20-kV distribution boxes, out of the 200 planned.
KANANGA
(a) Transport of 900 tons of materials necessary for rehabilitating and strengthening the
distribution network; and (b) installation of the new network which is under way.
KISANGANI
(a) Transport of 500 tons of material to be used for strengthening the distribution network; and
(b) initiation of the work in June 1994.
KIVU
(a) Completion of drainage works and expansion of distribution networks in the cities of Bukavu,
Goma and Uvira; and (b) rural electrification of the areas surrounding Goma and Bukavu, i.e.:
Nyantende, Mudusa, Kasha, Miti, Muresha, Kavumu and Katana.



-- 20 --
BANDUNDU
(a) Completion of work on the Maluku-Bandundu line and the 220-kV transformer stations at
Maluku and Bandundu; and (b) strengthening of the MV and LV distribution networks.
MBANDAKA
Rehabilitation of the MV/LV networks and the Mbandaka thermal plant for the start-up of two
new 750-kVA groups.
KINDU
Installation of a 750-kVA group for the city of Kindu.
SHABA
(a) Strengthening and expansion of the distribution networks of Lubumbashi, Likasi and Kolwezi;
(b) electrification of new centers along the Zambian border: Kasenga, Sakania and Mokambo;
and (c) installation of a 450-kVA group at Kongolo; as a result of which the number of
consumers increased by 28 percent, from 194,991 in 1991 to 250,000 in 1993.
4. EVALUATION OF THE BANK'S, SNEL'S AND CONSULTANTS' PERFORMANCES
Evaluation of Bank's Performance
4.1       Overall, the Bank's performance in executing this project has been satisfactory.
However, project preparation and implementation could have been improved in three aspects. First,
given the complexity of the SNEL TA project, the Bank should have devoted additional resources to
the preparation of the project, since most of the PPF resources were already used for the preparation
of Energy I components which never materialized. Additional PPF resources should have been made
available to fund studies and other activities relating to the preparation and design of the new TA
project, the complexity of which required greater expertise.
4.2       Second, though the Bank and SNEL maintained constant contact throughout project
implementation, these contacts took place only outside Zairian borders, which did not allow the Bank
to gain a true sense of the context within which the project was being implemented. Finally,
communication difficulties with Zaire often resulted in delays in implementing the project, which may
have affected somehow the effectiveness of the Bank in implementing this project. In order to
improve project implementation, effective, rapid and direct lines of communication should be
developed with the Bank. This should be forrnalized within the context of the next operation between
the Bank and SNEL.
Evaluation of SNEL's Performance
4.3       Overall, SNEL performed well in handling the project. This was especially true
with respect to the extreme rapidity with which the credit became effective, despite an unfavorable



--21 --
political and economic environment.  SNEL's perfornance was enhanced by the fact that the
company effected a clear separation of responsibility in assigning technical staff to supervise each of
the two categories of project components: coordination of the physical infrastructure was overseen
by the Equipment Department, while the institutional assistance component was managed by the
Organization and Control Department. In the area of human resources, SNEL further assigned
counterparts to each expert to facilitate the transfer of technology, thus allowing its staff to participate
effectively in project implementation.
Evaluation of Consultants' Performance
4.4       This evaluation concerns only the engineering consultants responsible for the supervision
of the rehabilitation activities.
ICM
4.5       The overall performance of this engineering consulting firm was satisfactory. Its constant
pressure on the enterprises involved in these activities helped limit cost overruns and schedule
slippages during project execution. ICM also provided effective on-site training to SNEL staff at
INGA in the area of hydroelectric plants supervision.
TRACTEBEL
4.6        Tractebel's activities in supervising the rehabilitation of the Shaba power plants was quite
satisfactory considering the extremely difficult political context prevailing in the region. Indeed,
Tractebel maintained a continuous physical presence on site.
5. FUTURE PROSPECTS
5.1       All the systems in place or to be developed by SNEL can only produce effective results
if they are based on an integrated and effective management infornation system and procedures,
which do not currently exist. Future institutional strengthening assistance to SNEL should contain
such a component, ensuring that it includes the different interfaces between its various systems, i.e.,
commercial, financial and accounting, human resources, procurement, and maintenance.



-- 22 --
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1. Related Bank Loans and Credits
Shaba Power System     Improve the reliability of                  Completed.
Rehabilitation         supply to the rmining industry              Credit fully disbursed.
Project.              in the southern region of       04/01/82
Zaire and strengthen the
Cr. 1224-ZR            executing agency.
Ruzizi II Regional     Expand the supply of                        Completed.
Hydroelectric Project.    electricity to Burundi,                  Credits fully disbursed.
Rwanda and the Kivu            12106/83
Crs. 1419-BU, 1420-RW, provinces of Zaire.
and 1421-ZR
Second Power           Rehabilitation of the                       Completed.
Project.               Ruzizi I power station and                  Credit fully disbursed.
the Kivu region power          06/19/86
network.
Cr. 1712-ZR           I



-- 23 -
Table 2. Project Timetable
denfcti on                                             During supervision of Second Power Pro1ect
Preparation                                            Durinf0 supervision of Second Power Project
Appraisal                              April 1990                      April 1990
Negotiations                            May 1991                      05/28-31 /91
Board Approval                         08/20/1991 _08/20/91
Signature               _|_09/09/91                                    09/09/91
iEffectiveness                  |       12/06/91                        12/06/91
Suspension of Disbursements                                             07/15/93
Cancellation of Undisbursed Balance    .11115/93
Credit Closing                          06/30/94                        02/03/94
Project Completion                      12/31/94                       02/03/94
Table 3. Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements ($ million)
1992                   3.0                   3.67                   122.3
1993                   6.65                   4.8                   72.2
,       ~~~1994                 9.89                   7.51                   75.9



-- 24 --
Table 4. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs by Staze of Project Cycle
(In staff weeks)
............. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~   .~.............*..
1989         30.4                                                     30.4
1990         26.4                  10.1                               36.5
1991                               12.0                               12.0
1992                                           _       2.3             2.3
1993                  ____                             9.4             9.4
1994   _                 _                              1.1            1.1
TOTAL          56.8                 22.1                 12.8           91.7
Table 4. Use of Bank Resources
B. Major Proiect Missions
APP          04123-05108190         1 6        FA, EC, PE          05115/90          N/A
SPVN            04/06-08/92          3           FA, 2CON          04/08/92            1
SPVN            07/06-07/92          2         FA, EC, CON          07/07/92           2
SPVN            04/26-30/93          5              FA              06/03/93
1. Activity Codes: APP= Appraisal; SPVN= Supervision;
2. Staff Codes:   FA=Financial Analyst;   EC=Economist;   PE=Power Engineer;
CON = Consultant.
3. Proiect Rating Codes: I =problem free or minor problems; 2=moderate problems; 3=major
problems; N/A = not applicable.
Note: Most of the preparation for this project took place in the context of a larger Energy Sector
Study which never materialized.



-- 25 --
ANNEX 1
SNEL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CREDll 2293-ZR
Status of Covenants
Development Credit Agreement
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall take all such action as shall be necessary on its part to ensure that the
provisions of its Contrat-Programme with the Company be respected and that no change be made thereto
without prior consultation with the Association.
Remarks: Compliance.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take all necessary measures required on its part to allow the Company
to revaluate its assets and restructure its balance sheet in accordance with appropriate accounting principles
acceptable to the Association.
Remarks: The revaluation of SNEL's fixed assets will take place during 1994 and the results will be
incorporated the same year in the financial statements. SNEL's balance sheet has already been restructured
as scheduled.
Project Agreement
Section 2.06. The company shall, under arrangements satisfactory to the Association, ensure that its dams
and all electro-mechanical structures thereof are periodically inspected in accordance with sound
engineering practices in order to determine whether there are any deficiencies in the condition of such
structures or in the quality and adequacy of maintenance or methods of operations of the same which may
endanger their safety. To this end, the Company shall submit to the Association by December 31, 1992
the appropriate arrangements referred to above for its review.
Renarks: The study of dam safety focussing on the Nzilo dam has just been completed. However, due
to the closing of the Credit account, dam safety monitoring equipment has not been acquired. Meanwhile,
on the basis of the recommendations of the study, SNEL has selected a core group of three engineers to
form a dam safety planning and organization unit. SNEL has also agreed to finance from its own resources
the services of a specialized consultant to assist the unit. While appropriate training has been provided to
this unit, both in Canada with a specialized firm and on the sites, its engineers are yet to start regular safety
investigations. The study also recommended that rehabilitation works be carried out to stop the
displacement of the dam toward downstream. Due to the cancellation of the undisbursed amount of the
Credit, SNEL has agreed to provide financing for this from its own resources.



-- 26 --
Section 3.01. The Company shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with sound
administrative, financial, economic and public utility practices under the supervision of qualified and
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Remarks: First, sound engineering support and consulting services were funded out of the proceeds of
the Credit to assist SNEL's management in the implementation of Inga operations and rehabilitation. Until
November 15, 1993 (the effective date of the Credit cancellation), the engineering support and services
were used for:  (a) the supervision of the repair/rehabilitation work done by contractors; (b) the
identification and study of problems with the civil engineering structures; (c) the turbine-generator units;
and (d) making recommendations for improving operating practices and management of the Inga I and Inga
11 power plants. Since continuation of these types of services is critical to the operations of SNEL, the
Company has agreed to include these in the priority services to be financed from its own resources.
Second, consulting services were also provided for the implementation of a computerized commercial
system for low and medium voltage customers in Kinshasa, Shaba, Kivu and Bas Zaire, including the
rehabilitation of the billing and collection system in Kinshasa. Third, a consultant was also recruited out
of the proceeds of the Credit to assist SNEL in the supervision of the rehabilitation work in Shaba.
Overall, it should be emphasized that these three measures were taken as a result of the substantial
participation of SNEL's management, its proven record of competence and its high commitment to
achieving quick and tangible results through this assistance.
Section 3.02. The Company shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, equipment and
other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial, economic and public utility practices.
Remarks: Same as above.
Section 3.03,
(a)      The Company shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make other provision
satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall
be consistent with appropriate practice.
Remarks: Compliance.
(b)      Upon the completion of the revaluation of the fixed assets of the Company, the Company
shall promptly revise its insurance coverage to take into account such revaluations.
Remarks: This action has been delayed because the revaluation of the fixed assets of the Company did
not take place as scheduled. Due to political turmoil in Zaire, all the consultants working with SNEL,
including the one in charge of the revaluation of the fixed assets, were forced to leave the country. It is
expected that SNEL's fixed assets will be revaluated during 1994, the results integrated in the end-1994
financial statements and the insurance premium revised accordingly.
Section 3.04. The Company shall continue to adhere to an efficient and effective system of accounting
based on the recommendations resulting from its 1989 annual audit.
Remarks: Compliance.



-- 27 --
Section 3.05. The Company shall execute the Contrat-Programme referred to in Section 3.04 of the
Development Credit Agreement and shall not concur to any amendment, modification or derogation to any
of the terms and conditions of said Contrat-Programme without prior consultation with the Association.
Remarks: Compliance.
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01.
(a)      The Company shall revaluate its assets and restructure its balance sheet by June 30, 1992 in
accordance with appropriate accounting principles acceptable to the Association.
Remarks: The revaluation of SNEL's fixed assets will take place during 1994 and the results will be
incorporated in the financial statements of that year. SNEL's balance sheet has already been restructured
as scheduled.
(b)      The Company shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with
sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Remarks: Compliance.
(c)      The Company shall:
(i)   have its records, accounts (including the Special Account) and financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
Remarks: Compliance.
(ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year: (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so
audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as
the Association shall have reasonably requested;
Remarks: Compliance.
(iii)   furnish to the Association such other information concerning said records, accounts and
fnancial statements as well as the audit thereof, as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
Remarks: Compliance.
(d)      For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit Account were made
on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Company shall:



-- 28 --
(i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, records
and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
Remarks: Compliance.
(ii)   retain, until at least one year after the completion of the audit for the fiscal year in which the
last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
Remarks: Compliance.
(iii)   enable the Association's representatives to examine such records;
Remarks: Compliance.
(iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit referred to in paragraph
(c) of this Section and that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied
upon to support the related withdrawals.
Remarks: Compliance.
Section 4.02. The Company shall, pursuant to a program of actions satisfactory to the Association, take
such steps as shall be necessary, including the improvement of its billing and collections procedures, to
reduce the level of its accounts receivable to 2.5 months of billings (in constant kilowatt/hour value) by
December 31, 1992.
Remarks: The assistance of SEMA Group has helped improve the billing and collection procedures
through: (i) monthly analysis of accounts receivable leading to systematic power cut-off to delinquent
customers; (ii) random investigations of low-voltage (LV) consumers; (iii) lump-sum billing for LV
consumers with usage of less than 50 kWh/month; (iv) use of 2000 magnetic cards on a pilot basis for LV
consumers; (v) an experimental project that puts the Limete billing and collection office (serving the
Kinshasa area) under a management contract with an experienced commercial operator; and (vi) installation
of 'load-limiter" meters on low-volume users. At Credit closing, SNEL had not yet complied with the
covenant to reduce the level of accounts receivable to 2.5 months of billings.
Section 4.03. The Company shall not make any capital investment exceeding the equivalent of $5,000,000
without the prior approval of the Association.
Remarks: Compliance.






i M A;  N G
iv --  :        '   t    i -9                        -  '    -
iv"   P- e,:          1 ' 1: '. ;,,_



