Document of
The World Bank   FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2783-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
INDIA
April 24, 1980
This document has a restricted distbution and may be used by recipients only in the performnnce of
their offcal duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of April 21, 1980)
US$1.00                            Rs 8.04
Rs 1.00              =             US$0.1243
Rs 1 million         -             US$124,300
Since September 24, 1975 the Rupee has been officially valued
relative to a "basket" of currencies. As these currencies are
now floating, the US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to
change. Conversions in the Staff Appraisal Report were made at
US$1 to Rs 8.4).
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DFC     -     Development Finance Company
DIC     -     District Industries Center
GOI     -     Government of India
ICICI   -     Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
IDBI    -     Industrial Development Bank of India
IFCI    -     Industrial Finance Corporation of India
IIM     -     Inter-Institutional Meeting
IRCI    -     Industrial Reconstruction Corporation of India
KfW     -     Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
LIC     -     Life Insurance Corporation of India
NDP     -     Net Domestic Product
RBI     -     Reserve Bank of India
SFC     -     State Financial Corporation
SIDC    -     State Industrial Development Corporation
UTI     -     Unit Trust of India
FISCAL YEARS
GOI    -  April - March 31
ICICI - January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
THIRTEENTH LOAN TO THE INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND
INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation
of India Limited.
Guarantor:               India, acting by its President.
Amount:                  US$100 million.
Terms:                   Repayable in accordance with the amortization
schedule for sub-loans for which withdrawals
from the loan account are approved or requested.
Interest rate would be 8.25% per annum.
Relending Terms to       Interest of 11% per annum for ordinary loans and 10%
ICICI Borrowers:       per annum for loans in backward areas.  Commitment
charge of 1% per annum. ICICI's standard lending
terms provide for loan maturities of up to 15 years,
including up to three years of grace. Exchange risk
to be borne by ICICI sub-borrowers.
Project                  The project would finance the foreign exchange cost
Description:           of industrial projects carried out by productive
enterprises in India. It would assist ICICI in
diversifying its sources of foreign exchange by
facilitating blending of Bank and commercial funds,
and in promoting developmental activities. By help-
ing to fill a gap in the availability of foreign
exchange resources to finance capital goods imports,
the project would contribute to investment in the
modernization and expansion of productive industrial
capacity in India. The risks associated with the
project are minimal due to the strong management and
experience of ICICI.
Estimated Commitments
and Disbursement:         FY            1981    1982    1983    1984    1985
(US$  illion7)
Commitments:      30      40       30
Disbursements:
Annual:          1.4     6.8    211.3    51.4    13.1
Cumulative:      1.4     8.2    35.5    86.9   100.0
Appraisal Report:        No. 2890-IN of April 18, 1980
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not othrwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF
INDIA WITH THE GUARANTEE OF INDIA
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India (ICICI)
with the guarantee of India for the equivalent of US$100 million to help
finance ICICI's operations through September 1982. The interest on the loan
will be 8.25% per annum. Amortization of the loan will conform substantially
to the aggregate of the amortization applicable to subloans financed out of
the loan, subject to a maximum of 15 years, including three years grace.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(2431-IN dated April 9, 1979), was distributed to the Executive Directors
on April 13, 1979. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.        India is a large, low-income country with 652 million people (in
mid-1979) whose average income is US$150 per annum. The agricultural sector
dominates the economy, employing over two-thirds of the labor force and con-
tributing over 40% of value added. Although smallholder agriculture provides
a fullsome subsistence to many, the land base is inadequate to provide all
families in rural areas with an adequate livelihood under current conditions,
and many who are landless or nearly landless have only an insecure grasp on
the means of existence. Industrialization in India has not been rapid enough
to bring about the economic transformation that has led to higher productivity
and rapid urbanization in some other countries. The urban population was 18%
of the total in 1960, 20% in 1970 and is 21% now. The share of manufacturing
has grown slowly and since the late 1960s has remained roughly constant at
16% of GDP.
4.        Economic growth has been slow in the past, with GDP growing at a
trend rate of 3.6% per annum from 1950 to 1975. Agricultural output grew at
2.4% per annum over the same period. Slow growth in agriculture acted as a
drag on overall growth, not only because of its sheer weight in the total, but
also because of the need to use scarce foreign exchange to import food. Growth
in industrial output has been higher at 5.2% per annum between 1950 and 1975,
but not as high as in many other developing countries nor as high as can be
expected.
1/   Parts I and II of the report are substantially the same as Parts I and
II of the President's Report for the Cashewnut Project (Report No.
P-2770-IN), dated April 10, 1980.



- 2 -
5.        This slow growth has persisted despite a quite creditable domestic
saving and investment performance. Domestic saving has grown from 9% of GDP
in 1951 to the current high level of 22%. Gross domestic investment has risen
from 10% to 21% of GDP over the same period. Foreign savings have never
financed a large portion of domestic investment and have financed no more than
5% of investment since 1970. Foreign savings have been important in financing
imports, and a shortage of foreign exchange has acted as a constraint on the
economy for most of the period. External assistance has been low both as a
percentage of GDP and in per capita terms. Net external assistance is less
than 2% of GDP now, has never risen above 3% and fell to less than 1% in the
early 1970s. Exports have grown relatively slowly--5.4% per annum in US
dollar terms and 2.8% per annum in volume terms between 1950/51 and 1975/76.
So far during the 1970s, exports have grown much more rapidly, by 18% per
annum in US dollar terms and 8% in volume terms over the period 1970/71 to
1976/77. During the same period imports grew by 17% per annum in US dollar
terms but only by 2% per annum in volume terms, reflecting a 28% fall in
India's terms of trade over the period.
6.        India has the capacity to grow and develop at a more rapid pace than
has been achieved so far. Although the industrial sector is small compared to
the size of the total economy, it nevertheless has a highly diversified struc-
ture and is capable of manufacturing a wide variety of consumer and capital
goods. Basic infrastructure--irrigation, railways, telecommunications, roads
and ports--is extensive compared to many countries, although considerable
gaps remain. India is rich in human resources and institutional infrastruc-
ture, although there is much scope for improvement. India is reasonably
well-supplied with natural resources, not only land and water but minerals,
including oil, gas and coal. With good economic policies and sufficient
access to foreign savings, India should be able to manage these considerable
resources to accelerate the longer-term growth trend.
Recent Trends
7.        India has managed faster growth during the recent past.  Growth of
GDP in 1978/79 is estimated to be between 3% and 4%; this is a strong perform-
ance coming on top of the previous year's 7.2% growth in GDP and considering
agricultural output grew less than 2%. Even this agricultural growth is
highly creditable given the previous years' record harvests in most crops.
Industrial output grew by 8-10% in 1978/79. Over the four years, 1975/76 to
1978/79, growth in real GDP, agricultural output and industrial output has
averaged 5.3%, 4.4% and 6.9% per annum, respectively. Although these rates
represent growth over the depressed base of the early 1970s, they are signi-
ficantly higher than the longer-term past trend and comparable to the target
growth rates for the medium-term future. Buoyant domestic demand, stagnating
output and world inflation have led to significant increases in prices during
the first half of the 1979/80 fiscal year. The wholesale price index for
September 1979 was 18.4% above that of the previous September. Together, the
rise in the prices of food products, crude petroleum and mineral oils accounted
for over two-thirds of the increase in the index. However, prices of almost
all commodities moved up significantly over this period as reflected in the
9.6% increase in the prices of the residual commodities. Government attempts
to regulate the supply and price of commodities like sugar and edible oils,



-3-
ceilings on credit, adjustment of some interest rates and the seasonal downturn
of the fruit and vegetable prices after summer helped the wholesale price
index to level off after September. However, if allowance is made for the
seasonal factors, prices are still rising at approximately an 18% annual rate.
The Indian economy will no doubt continue to face inflationary pressure during
the 1980/81 fiscal year. Its intensity will to a large extent depend on the
developments in world inflation, especially the rise in oil prices and India's
success in alleviating the supply bottlenecks that emerged during 1979.
Although the current inflationary pressures need not seriously impair medium-
term growth prospects, given available aggregate resources and production
capacity, significant improvements are likely to be required in the organ-
ization of key sectors if an economic slowdown is to be avoided.
8.        The 1978/79 foodgrain crop exceeded the 1977/78 record crop of
126 million tons, and many non-food crops did well. The 1978 monsoon rains
were timely and adequate, although severe flooding in some areas destroyed
both lives and property and ruined some crops. The basic inputs into agricul-
tural production continued their rapid growth of the recent past. Additions
to area under irrigation have doubled from 1.3 million hectares a year during
the five-year period ending 1973/74 to 2.6 million hectares a year during
1977/78 and 1978/79. Fertilizer consumption in 1978/79 reached 5 million
nutrient tons, an increase of 18% over 1977/78. This growth has been impres-
sive, particularly since it followed two successive years of very high growth--
18% in 1976/77 and 26% in 1977/78--so that fertilizer consumption in 1978/79
was 75% higher than in 1975/76. However, prospects for agricultural produc-
tion in 1979/80 are not good. India experienced a severe drought in 1979.
The monsoon was delayed and subsequent rainfall was deficient throughout the
country. Consequent damage to the kharif crop has been substantial. Tenta-
tive estimates indicate a shortfall of 13-15 million tons in kharif crop from
last year's level of 78.7 million tons. Delayed sowing, lack of soil moisture,
low levels of water in tanks and wells as well as power cutbacks and recent
shortages in diesel fuel for irrigation pumps are adversely affecting the rabi
crop. Depending on the performance of the rabi crop, total shortfall in grain
crop is expected to be 17-20 million tons below the 1978/79 level.
9.        The growth of industrial output in 1978/79 came from a sharp rise
in the output of food industries, particularly sugar, a modest increase in
textiles, important increases in the hitherto depressed engineering sector
and the revival of demand for consumer durables. Production would have been
still higher but for recurring shortages of steel, coal, railway wagons and
electric power and capacity constraints in fertilizer, cement, vegetable oils
and petroleum products. Labor unrest also constrained output in some indus-
tries, particularly in textiles, steel and mining; man-days lost in 1978 ex-
ceeded the high level of 1977 and only in 1974 were the number of days lost
higher. Power production increased by 12% but continuing shortages in many
States necessitated power cuts and curbs on new demand. During the first
half of 1979/80 supply bottlenecks in basic industrial inputs began to retard
overall industrial production. In addition to coal and steel, cement, sugar,
cotton textile and cotton yarn output fell below last year's levels. Strong
demand has continued to sustain other important industries such as fertilizers
and chemicals, but it appears increasingly unlikely that these can counter-
balance the constrained sectors.



- 4 -
10.       The trade deficit grew and both the current account surplus and the
balance of payments surplus of recent years shrank in 1978/79. The import bill
is expected to reach US$8.4 billion, which brings the average rate of increase
in US dollar terms to 19% per annum since 1976/77. Non-foodgrain imports rose
even more dramatically by 28% per annum over the past two years. The growth
of imports and the liberalization of import control policies represents a
desirable adjustment to enhanced foreign resources. Although exports grew
much faster during the 1970s through 1976/77 than earlier, export growth in
1977/78 and 1978/79 has slowed somewhat. After rising by 12% in 1975/76
and 23% in 1976/77 in US dollar terms (virtually all growth in export volume),
export earnings rose by only 9% in 1977/78 (with little or no volume growth)
and an estimated 8% in 1978/79 (with 5-8% volume growth). Although part
of the decline is attributable to unfavorable conditions in foreign markets,
export profitability has been allowed to deteriorate somewhat. With net
invisible receipts in 1978/79 estimated the same as in 1977/78--US$2 billion--
the widened trade deficit resulted in a significantly reduced current account
surplus, from US$1 billion in 1977/78 to US$400 million in 1978/79. Despite
some increase in net aid disbursements from their low level in 1977/78, the
increase in reserves declined from about US$2 billion in 1977/78 to about
US$1.5 billion in 1978/79 to reach US$7.4 billion. Exports during the first
three months of this fiscal year are 32% higher than the same quarter of
last year. Although part of the increase is due to the dollar depreciation
and recovery in coffee prices, the prospects of sustaining a volume growth
of at least 7% during 1979/80 appear good. Imports in the first quarter
of 1979/80 are around 7% higher than the same period of the previous year.
However, the impact of recent increases in petroleum prices are only partially
reflected in this figure. India's total POL import bill for 1979/80 is likely
to reach $3.2 billion, $800 million higher than earlier estimates. As a
result, there should be a sharp deceleration in the rate of growth of reserves
sufficient to significantly reduce the number of months of imports covered by
reserves during 1980.
Development Prospects
11.       The faster growth of the recent past has been made possible by the
much-increased inward flow of foreign exchange from increased exports, workers'
remittances and external assistance; greatly improved agricultural performance;
the impressive saving effort; the liberalization of import controls; and ex-
panded public expenditure on development programs. Although sustaining the
high growth rates of the recent past in the medium-term is by no means assured,
especially if there is a repeated drought in 1980, India has a level of re-
sources with which to manage the economy that had not existed before. The
comfortable foreign exchange position, and the large foodgrain stocks have
greatly eased the pressures to deal with short-term crises and freed India's
economic managers to continue planning a more ambitious course for the economy.
The policy improvements needed to achieve the better performance now possible
have begun in some important areas but in others have yet to be initiated.
12.       The Draft Plan, which was released in March 1978 and is expected
to be finalized and approved by the National Development Council later this
year, sets out India's development strategy for the five years 1978/79 to
1982/83. The principal objectives of the Draft Plan are to achieve within



-5 -
a period of ten years: (i) the removal of unemployment and significant
underemployment, (ii) an appreciable rise in the standard of living of the
poorest sections of the population, and (iii) provision by the Government of
some of the basic needs of the people in these low-income groups. While the
Plan recognizes the importance of achieving more rapid expansion of the economy
than in the past to meet the employment and welfare objectives, the targeted
rate of growth at 4.7% per annum is lower than projected in most earlier Plans.
According to the planners, this reflects in part the increased emphasis given
to the distribution rather than the level of income generation, and in part
the need for greater realism in the macro-economic assumptions underlying the
Plan. While the trade-off between growth and distribution is not immediately
obvious from the Plan model, the adoption of a more realistic growth target
is in itself well justified -- even at 4.7% per annum, the targeted growth
rate is higher than actually achieved during any of the previous Plan periods,
and is substantially above the longer-term trend growth rate.
13.       In agriculture, despite the 1979 drought, economic policies, dev-
elopment programs and secular trends all seem favorable for resuming a period
of sustained high growth after 1979/80. Fertilizer prices have been reduced
progressively from their very high level in early 1975 and despite some fall
in market foodgrain prices, the fertilizer: foodgrain price ratio has fallen
to a clearly profitable range. Good harvests and higher farm incomes provide
the money to finance higher fertilizer purchases, creating something of a
virtuous circle. Pricing policies for many crops--rice, wheat, sugarcane,
pulses and others--have concentrated recently on supporting prices to maintain
incentives to farmers rather than trying to administratively control prices
to contain inflation. The ambitious irrigation and rural electrification
investment program in the new Five-Year Plan, if fully funded, will help pro-
vide the water control needed to increase yields directly and to induce further
productivity-increasing investments. The effective reorganization of the
agricultural extension service will raise yields as it takes hold gradually
across India. Finally, there are several heartening trends in foodgrain pro-
duction: one is the steady growth of area planted to high-yielding varieties
of rice; another is the growing adoption of summer rice cultivation in the
traditional wheat-producing areas (Punjab and Haryana). These two trends
along with the other favorable developments have caused rice production to
rise impressively in the last two years. Another good omen for foodgrain
production is the rapid growth of winter wheat cropping in traditional rice
areas (West Bengal, Assam and Orissa).
14.       In industry, despite some uncertainty in industrial policy and
the lack of strong policy stimulus to improve efficiency in the industrial
structure, recently strengthened demand forces, increase in planned invest-
ment along with adroit input supply management should allow the industrial
sector to continue to grow at the improved rate of the recent past, at least
for the near- and medium-term future. Over the longer term, growth of indus-
trial production at or above the rate experienced in the recent past--e.g.,
7% per annum during the last four years--will require some changes in policy
to induce a more efficient industrial structure. Recent industrial policies
have sent mixed signals to private manufacturers and investors. Some, such as
reserving certain lines of production for small-scale enterprises or prohibit-
ing the location of new firms in municipal areas, have been restrictive.



- 6 -
Others have been stimulative, such as the raising of the exemption limit of
industrial licensing for capital investment or favorable adjustments in the
pricing and production controls in several major industries, including cement,
steel, and textiles. In addition the liberalization of import controls is of
considerable benefit to increasing industrial production. However, there are
some worrisome supply shortages that are currently threatening continued rapid
industrial growth. Many can be handled through imports, if needed, as long
as India maintains a healthy foreign exchange position. However, two supply
constraints likely to persist in the future -- namely, rail transport and
power -- cannot be eased through imports. The new Plan contains a major power
investment program to increase capacity rapidly. The railway investment pro-
gram is more modest. Another crucial input into both of these sectors, and
into most other major sectors, is coal, whose supply needs careful management.
15.       The main reason for expecting sustained growth in industrial pro-
duction is improvement in demand prospects for each of the four major sources
of industrial demand. The first is market demand for manufactured consumption
goods, which is expected to pick up in response to the increase in disposable
income due in particular to improvement in agricultural output. Although its
effect has been delayed somewhat, this broad-based demand is finally making
itself felt and is expected to continue into the future unless the growth
in agricultural output is constrained by repeated droughts. Another source
of demand is public expenditure on development projects, which has grown in
a major way in the last few years and is scheduled to continue to grow under
the new Five-Year Plan. A third source of growth is export demand for indus-
trial goods. There has been a sustained growth in the export of manufactures
such as engineering goods, garments, gems, finished leather and some chemical
products. This export growth should continue in the future with proper policy
support.  A final source of growing demand is private investment by both the
household and corporate sectors.  There are as yet only a few signs of this
growth, such as increased disbursement by term lending institutions and in-
creased use of inputs; investments should become stronger as growth in the
other sources of demand continues and as capacity limitations begin to con-
strain production in more industries.  The net result of increasing demand
should be continued high growth in industrial production in the near and
medium term within existing policies.
16.       Import policy is an area where there has been significant improve-
ment in the recent past; but some improvement in export policy is required
to raise incentives to export.  India has liberalized import control policy
significantly in the past two years and imports have responded. Future growth
in imports, and in the benefits of price stability, enhanced production and
increased efficiency which imports bring, will depend to a great extent on
how the now liberalized policy is administered. A delicate touch is required
to yield the benefits without bringing about undesirable damage to vulnerable
industries. India has the foreign resources to allow imports to grow at the
rapid rates of the past two years for a few more years and continue to relax
the very severe restraints imposed on the economy during the early 1970s by
suppression of imports. But, given the import liberalization undertaken so
far and the expected growth of imports, by the end of the Plan period (1982/
83), foreign exchange reserves will have fallen to six months of imports, or
less, and some adjustment in the balance of payments will be required. Part



- 7 -
of the adjustment will very likely be a reduction in the growth rate of
imports; the import bill need not grow 15% in volume terms indefinitely to
sustain the target growth in GDP. Part of the adjustment must come from the
achievement of a growth rate of exports in the vicinity of 7-8% or higher in
volume terms. Faster export growth is needed not only to provide the foreign
exchange to sustain the rapid growth in imports but also to allow foreign
demand and competition to improve the efficiency of Indian industry. Finally,
part of the adjustment should come from an increased net transfer of external
assistance.
17.       India's population policy continues to aim at reducing the birth
rate to 30 births per thousand people by 1983 through completely voluntary
acceptance of fertility control methods supplied by a family welfare system
integrated with the supply of basic health, maternal and child health and
nutrition services. Since 1977, the family planning achievements in terms
of number of acceptors have been below that needed to achieve the 1983 goal
or even to keep the birth rate from rising above its current level. The low
performance is primarily the result of the reaction to the harsh birth control
policies introduced during 1976. Since then family planning performance has
been gradually returning to the rising trend which was discernible before it
was disrupted by the intensive drive of 1976/77. Given continued support for
the program of family welfare, Bank estimates indicate that India's rate of
population increase should remain below 2% per annum and fall to 1.5% by about
the year 2000. Despite the declining trend in the rate of population increase,
a net reproduction rate (NRR) equal to one (replacement level) would only be
achieved around the year 2020. At this time, the total population is estimated
to reach 1.2 billion persons, an increase of about 84% over the mid-1979 level
of 652 million.
18.       In addition to stimulating overall economic growth and constraining
population growth, reduction of poverty in India requires special attention
to ways of raising the income and productivity of low-income groups. More than
one-third of the world's poor live in India and more than 80% of the Indian
poor belong to the rural households of landless laborers and small farmers.
The prospects for alleviating their poverty by providing these families with
more land are not good because of the virtual absence of uncultivated arable
land, the slow progress in implementing land reform and the limited amount of
land that would be available if land reform were carried out. Estimates of
the amount of land that would be available if land reform were carried out vary
greatly. One estimate is that there would be about 9 million hectares avail-
able for distribution. This compares to roughly 45 million families in the two
poorest groups in rural India: landless families and families owning less than
one hectare of land, whose average holding is 0.31 hectares. An approach to
the amelioration of poverty more promising than land reform is the creation
of more employment opportunities for the landless and small farmers in rural
areas. Although the basic thrust must come from the market by a more rapidly
increasing agricultural output, there will be a role for employment-intensive
rural works programs. The new Plan provides for increased rural employment
both through direct employment schemes and through ambitious programs of
investment in rural infrastructure in addition to the more general rural
development programs.



PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
19.       Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 57 loans and 118 development
credits to India totalling US$2,529 million and US$7,255 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$1,051 million had
been repaid, and US$3,377 million was still undisbursed as of February 29,
1980. Bank Group disbursements to India in the current fiscal year through
February 29, 1980, totalled US$366 million, representing an increase of about
32% over the same period last year. Annex II contains a summary statement of
disbursements as of February 29, 1980, and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects.
20.       Since 1959, IFC has made 18 commitments in India totalling US$72.6
million, of which US$17.4 million has been repaid, US$7.6 million sold and
US$6.9 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$40.7 million, US$31.6 mil-
lion represents loans and US$9.1 million equity. A summary statement of
IFC operations as of February 29, 1980, is also included in Annex II (page 5).
21.       In recent years, the emphasis of Bank Group lending has been on
agriculture. The Bank Group has been particularly active in supporting minor
irrigation and other on-farm investments through agricultural credit opera-
tions. Major irrigation, marketing, seed development, and dairying are other
agricultural activities supported by the Bank Group. Also, the Bank Group
has been active in financing the expansion of output in the fertilizer sector
and, through its sizeable assistance to development finance institutions, in
a wide range of geographically scattered medium- and small-scale industrial
enterprises. IDA financing of industrial raw materials and components for
selected priority sectors has been instrumental in facilitating better
capacity utilization in industry. The Bank Group has also been active in
supporting infrastructure development for power, telecommunications, and
railways. Family planning, water supply development, and urban investments
have also received Bank Group support in recent years.
22.       The direction of assistance under the Bank/IDA program has been
consistent with India's needs and the Government's priorities. The emphasis
of the program on agriculture, industry, power, urban development and water
supply remains highly relevant. Projects designed to foster agricultural
production through the provision of essential inputs such as credit for
on-farm investments, improved water management and intensification and stream-
lining of extension systems, form an important aspect of the Bank Group's
program for the next several years. Special emphasis will be given to proj-
ects benefitting small farmers. Projects supporting water supply, sewerage,
and urban development also form an integral part of the Bank's lending
strategy to India for the next several years. Lending in support of infra-
structure and industrial investments will focus on agriculture-, export- and
energy-related projects.
23.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.
Thanks in large part to the response of the aid community, India has success-
fully adjusted to the changed world price situation. However, the basic need



- 9 -
for foreign assistance, to augment domestic resources, stimulate investment
and accelerate economic growth, remains. As in the past, Bank Group assist-
ance for projects in India should include, as appropriate, the financing of
local expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods because of
the capacity and competitiveness of the domestic capital goods industry. Con-
sequently, the foreign exchange component tends to be small in most projects.
This is particularly the case in such high-priority sectors as agriculture,
irrigation, rural water supply and medium- and small-scale industry.
24.       Although the growth prospects of the economy have improved, India's
poverty and needs are such that as much as possible of India's external capi-
tal requirements should be provided on concessionary terms. Accordingly, the
bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India has been, and should continue to
be, provided from IDA. However, the amount of IDA funds that can reasonably
be allocated to India remains small in relation to India's needs for external
support, and India may be regarded as creditworthy for some supplemental Bank
lending. The ratio of India's debt service to the level of exports was 12%
in 1978/79 and is projected to remain below 20% through 1995/96. As of
February 29, 1980, outstanding loans to India held by the Bank totaled
US$1,519 million, of which US$579 million remained to be disbursed, leaving
a net amount outstanding of US$940 million.
25.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank
Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements,
and 12% of net disbursements as compared with an estimated 62%, 27% and 38%,
respectively, in 1978/79. On March 31, 1979, India's outstanding and dis-
bursed external public debt was US$15.3 billion, of which the Bank Group's
share was US$4.6 billion or 30% (IDA's US$4.0 billion and IBRD's US$0.6 bil-
lion). Because Bank Group assistance to India is predominantly in the form
of IDA credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise slowly. In 1978/79,
about 17.5% of India's total debt service payments were to the Bank Group.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Industrial Structure
26.       In 1950 when the first Five-Year Plan was initiated, industry was
heavily oriented towards the production of consumer goods, with traditional
light industries--e.g., textiles and food processing--responsible for about
half of manufacturing output. Over the next 15 years, industrial production
expanded by 7-8% annually, with emphasis on the expansion of capital goods
production and of "basic" industrial inputs such as iron and steel, cement
and fertilizers. Substantial structural transformation took place over this
period, 1950-1965, with capital goods production representing about 60% of out-
put of the manufacturing sector by 1965. Since then, the rate of industrial
expansion has slowed down to an average of about 4% per annum. Structural
change has continued, with production of "basic" industrial inputs and heavy
machinery and equipment growing at a significantly higher rate than industry
as a whole. India now has a diversified and fairly advanced industrial sector
that can produce most of the country's needs for manufactured products. In



- 10 -
1978, India's industrial sector contributed about 23% of GDP, of which manu-
facturing contributed 16-17%. Imports are mainly of industrial materials
and some sophisticated machinery and equipment for which India lacks supply
capacity to meet her needs. Since the early 1970s, exports have started to
grow more rapidly (19% per year in current US dollars between 1970 and 1978).
Exports of engineering goods rose particularly rapidly.
27.       About two thirds of manufacturing output comes from firms registered
under the 1948 Factories Act. The other third comes from non-registered small
scale units, which together employ about 70% of the industrial labor force.
Almost 80% of the registered units are relatively small, having less than 50
workers, and the rest are medium and large scale production units and produce
about 88% of the total value added by the registered units. Taken as a whole,
the factories of all sizes are labor intensive. 1/ About 66% of industrial
value added by registered units originates in the private sector. The propor-
tion of output coming from the public sector units has increased from 20% in
1970 to 28% in 1976/77, as the result of increased Government investment in
certain subsectors, including power generation, steel, cement and paper and of
the nationalization of part of the textile industry. The joint sector, com-
prising mainly new large units established with public and private participa-
tion, has also expanded and by 1976/77 contributed about 6% of industrial
value added. Some 93% of registered factories are in the private sector and
employ about 70% of the workers in registered firms, using about 30% of total
fixed assets. By comparison, the public sector firms are much larger, with
over 400 workers on average, and have six times as much capital invested per
employee as the private firms. Productivity in the use of capital, as mea-
sured by the ratio of fixed capital to value added, appears substantially
higher in the private sector units. While the differences between the public
and private sector productivity are partly attributable to the differences in
subsector mix, with public sector investment concentrated in the more capital-
intensive subsectors, more efficient management in the private sector is also
an important factor.
Industrial Policies and Priorities
28.       The basic strategy for industrial development in India has focused
on achieving a high degree of self-sufficiency in manufacturing through import
substitution and curbs on foreign ownership. In addition, a program of ex-
panded public ownership has been pursued, particularly in heavy industries
supplying basic inputs to the other industrial and agricultural sectors. The
Government has also sought restriction on the concentration of economic power
of large private undertakings, while extending special support to small-scale
industries and backward regions. The principal instruments of industrial
policy have been central licensing of investment, controls on imports and
exports, allocation of 'scarce' raw materials, price controls and reservation
of production of certain items for small-scale firms and the public sector.
While such industrial strategy was successful in promoting rapid industrial-
ization up to 1965 and in enabling India to develop a broad based industrial
1/   The average fixed capital per employee in 1976 based on depreciated
book values of fixed assets is about US$3,000. It would rise to
about US$8-10,000 on the basis of replacement values and 1979 prices.



- 11 -
structure, certain shortcomings have become apparent in later years. In the
protective environment in which industry developed, adequate attention was
not always paid to product quality, economies of scale and technological
development, with the result that many industrial firms were not well placed
to compete in export markets as opportunities for further import substitution
declined. Domestic demand for consumer goods was constrained by the relatively
slow growth of per capita incomes and demand for investment goods was highly
dependent on the level of public investment which tended to fall after 1965.
29.       Over the past several years, there have been a number of new dev-
elopments in industrial policy. Important modifications have been made with
the intention of boosting the industrial growth rate, encouraging greater
efficiency in capacity utilization and encouraging industrial exports. The
new industrial policy statement issued in 1977 gave greater weight to employ-
ment creation and decentralization of industrial activity by increased
support for small scale activities in rural areas. Although the new policy
statement did not signal any major change in the character of the regulatory
system, the process of liberalization and streamlining initiated earlier has
continued since 1977.
30.       Liberalization of Industrial Licensing and Imports. Several changes
have been made to liberalize licensing requirements. Diversification of
production by a number of engineering industries is now permitted to facilitate
better utilization of installed capacity in the face of varying market condi-
tions. Certain export-oriented engineering industries are allowed to grow
over a five-year period by 25% over their licensed capacity. The upper limit
for the size of investment exempt from licensing was raised for certain firms.
In April 1979, the Committee of Industrialists appointed by the Government of
India (GOI) submitted its report proposing further liberalization of licensing.
The recommendations of this Committee, which include an expanded role for
private firms in activities currently reserved for the public sector, are
under review by the Government. A more liberal import policy has been followed
since 1976/77 aimed at relieving domestic supply constraints and production
bottlenecks, encouraging industrial investment and facilitating exports. The
import licensing procedures have been simplified and controls eased, and
import duties on a number of capital goods items have been reduced.
31.       Export Promotion and Incentives.  The principal instruments of
export promotion, including cash compensatory support (partly compensation
for payment of indirect taxes), reduction of import duties or duty drawback
arrangements, and concessional interest rates on export credits, have continued
to be made available. Important improvements initiated during the last few
years include rationalization of the export licensing system, decentralization
of administrative functions and strengthening of the export promotion systems.
Some steps also have been taken to strengthen the role of trade houses in pro-
moting exports, particularly those deriving from small and cottage industries.
Price and distribution controls have been in force for several years in respect
of 'essential' products such as iron and steel, sugar, cement, paper and fer-
tilizers. Over the past few years some price controls have been eased and
improvements in price control mechanisms have been made.
32.       Support for Small and Cottage Industries.  In view of their pre-
dominant role in industrial employment, various support measures have been



- 12 -
introduced by the Government--e.g. exemptions from licensing requirements,
reservation of production of certain items exclusively for small units, and a
host of special programs (concessionary credit, technical assistance, raw
material supplies, etc.). The Government's 1977 Industrial Strategy Statement
seeks to strengthen support for the small-scale sector by additional production
reservations and a substantial increase in funding for the special programs.
The District Industries Center (DIC) Program was launched in 1978 in an attempt
to improve the institutional and organizational framework for implementing
small industry support programs. The intention is to establish a DIC in each
of India's 400 districts to provide at the local level a single center for
coordinating all types of assistance to small industry. The DIC program has
partly been implemented, but it is too early yet to judge the success of the
program.
33.       These various changes mark a cumulatively significant effort on the
part of the Government to enhance industrial development within the context
of the overall policy framework. In order to achieve sustained growth of the
economy in the long run, an adequate level of investment in modernization and
capacity expansion needs to be maintained.  Industrial firms will need to rely
increasingly on external sources of credit to finance their investments. The
Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India (ICICI) plays an import-
ant role in providing the required funds and, through its project appraisal
and promotional activities, helping to ensure that available resources are
used for efficient, high-priority investments.
Industrial Finance
34.       Financial Institutions.  India has an extensive and well established
framework of financial institutions serving the industrial sector. The prin-
cipal all-India industrial finance institutions are: the Industrial Develop-
ment Bank of India (IDBI), ICICI, the Industrial Finance Corporation of India
(IFCI), the Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC), and the Unit Trust of
India (UTI). These institutions mainly provide term financing for large and
medium-sized public limited companies in the private and joint sectors and also
for some public sector firms. At the State level, the major institutions are
the State Financial Corporations (SFCs), which finance small and medium scale
industries and the State Industrial Development Corporations (SIDCs), which
mainly promote and help finance larger industries having direct State share-
holding. While these term-lending institutions finance only about 6% of total
fixed investment in industry, their importance in financing private industrial
investment has been increasing. 1/ Their total disbursements were equivalent
to about 30% of private fixed investment in industry in 1976/77, compared to
18% in 1970/71. Commercial banks are important mainly as providers of working
capital finance to industry, but they also provide some term loans.
1/   In recent years, between two-thirds and three-quarters of gross fixed
investment in industry has taken place in the public sector units
financed largely out of Central and State budgets. In the private
sector, external financing contributed 57% of total sources of funds
of large and medium sized industries in 1975/76, compared to 45% in
1961/62.



- 13 -
35.       IDBI coordinates the activities of the other all-India and State-
level institutions and provides financing to SFCs and SIDCs through refinance
facilities and equity participation. 1/ The direct financing operations of
IDBI, ICICI and IFCI--i.e., term lending, equity investments and underwriting
of share and debenture issues--are similar in character. In the past, IDBI
and IFCI concentrated rather more on the traditional subsectors--e.g., tex-
tiles, sugar, food products, cement and power generation--and on joint/public
sector projects. ICICI is more heavily represented in the non-traditional sub-
sectors, including chemicals and petrochemicals, electronics and mechanical
engineering. ICICI is also the most important institutional source of foreign
exchange financing for private industry, accounting for about three-quarters
of foreign exchange financing by all of the institutions. Joint financing of
the local currency requirements of the larger projects among the all-India
institutions is becoming increasingly common, and there is now substantial
overlap in their clientele.
36.       Interest Rates and Credit Policy.  Credit expansion has been quite
rapid in real terms. Commercial bank interest rates on short-term loans were
reduced from 16.5% to 15% early in 1978. (Interest rates on savings were also
reduced, from 8% to 6% on deposits of 1-3 years and from 9% to 7.5% on deposits
of 3-5 years and from 10% to 9% on deposits of over 5 years.) Since the in-
flation rate began to rise in late 1978, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has
taken steps to curb credit expansion, including higher statutory liquidity
ratios for the banks, credit ceilings for industrial borrowers and increases
in interest rates. Short term interest rates have now risen to 16-18% and
term deposit interest rates by one percentage point. Interest rates charged
by the industrial term-financing institutions on long term loans have remained
at 11-12% for several years. India has traditionally been a low-inflation
country, and the authorities in the past have demonstrated their ability to
deal rapidly with inflationary surges. However, should current high rates of
inflation persist for some time, it is likely that interest rates would be
adjusted upwards.
37.       The Capital Market.  Direct issuance of shares (and debentures) for
subscription by the public and by institutions has been a relatively minor
source of investment financing for private industry. Total capital issues
by non-Government firms have generally accounted for only about 5% of private
industrial investment and are equivalent in size to about one-fifth of the
disbursements by the term-financing institutions. Because of the thinness
of the market for equity shares, almost all issues are underwritten and fre-
quently the underwriters have to take up part of the issue. With public demand
for share and debenture issues likely to remain small, it is expected that
private industry would have to rely heavily on the financial institutions
for investment finance over the next few years.
1/   The Bank Group has made to IDBI one credit of US$25 million (Credit
356-IN of February 1973) and one loan of US$40 million (Loan 1260-IN of
June 1976) to help refinance small industry loans made by SFCs, and one
loan of US$25 million (Loan 1511-IN of March 1978) to finance joint/
public sector projects.



- 14 -
Bank's Operational Experience with ICICI
38.       The Bank has been closely associated with ICICI since its founda-
tion in 1955. This long association has resulted in substantial Bank Group
resources being channeled through ICICI to high priority investments in India's
private industry. Since 1955, the Bank has made twelve loans to ICICI total-
ling US$490 million (net of cancellations). The relationship with ICICI has
also been valuable to the Bank and helped shape the Bank Group's approach to
other DFCs. In 1973, a major study undertaken jointly by the Bank and ICICI
concluded that ICICI's impact had been substantial, particularly through
helping to ensure that scarce foreign resources were allocated to priority
industries mounting financially and economically sound projects. This finding
has also been supported by Operations Evaluation Department performance audits
for the sixth, seventh and eighth loans, issued in January 1980. In line with
the recommendations made in these reports, the eleventh and twelfth loans were
designed to encourage and assist ICICI to diversify its sources of local and
foreign currency and broaden the scope of its activities so as to enhance
further its developmental impact. Progress to date has been satisfactory.
ICICI raised its first syndicated Euro-dollar loan in 1978 and rupee resources
have also been significantly increased through domestic bond issues and joint
financing operations with other institutions. The previous twelfth Bank loan
of US$80 million was made in July 1977, and by March 31, 1980, US$76 million
was committed and US$43.7 million was disbursed. ICICI expects to have fully
committed the twelfth loan by June 1980 and has therefore requested the Bank,
with endorsement of the Government of India, to continue to support its
operations with a further loan.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
39.       The project was appraised by a mission which visited India in
November/December 1979. A report entitled "India - Staff Appraisal Report
of a Thirteenth Loan to the Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation
of India" (No. 2890-IN, dated April 18, 1980) is being distributed separately
to the Executive Directors. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C., in
April, 1980. GOI and ICICI were represented by a delegation which was coor-
dinated by Mr. B.S. Lamba of the Department of Economic Affairs, Ministry of
Finance. A supplementary Project Data Sheet is attached as Annex III.
The Proposed Loan
40.       The proposed loan of $100 million would be made to ICICI with the
guarantee of GOI, under standard Bank terms for loans to development finance
companies (DFCs), including the normal commitment fee. The proceeds of the
loan, together with other foreign loans, would be relent by ICICI to cover the
foreign exchange costs of high-priority projects. The loan is expected to be
committed by September 1982 and disbursed by end-1985. In those cases where
a parallel foreign exchange loan is being made for the same project out of
ICICI's commercial borrowings, ICICI would be permitted to tailor the amorti-
zation schedules of the Bank subloan so as to permit the commercial funds to
be repaid more rapidly. Subborrowers would bear the foreign exchange risks



- 15 -
on the currencies disbursed. Projects for which total Bank financing does
not exceed $6 million equivalent in Bank funds would not require the Bank's
prior approval (Section 2.02(b) of Loan Agreement). Procurement for projects
financed would be in accordance with ICICI's standard procedures, which
conform to the Bank's recommended practice for DFCs. Disbursement would
be for 100% of foreign exchange expenditures for directly imported goods and
services or 100% of the estimated C.I.F. costs of imported goods purchased
through local suppliers.
Oblectives of the Loan
41.        The objectives of the proposed loan would be to build on the pro-
gress achieved in recent operations by continuing to use ICICI as an efficient
channel of resource transfer for financing high-priority industrial projects
in India. The loan would also assist ICICI in progressively diversifying its
sources of foreign exchange by facilitating blending of Bank and commercial
funds in its operations. The proposed loan would encourage ICICI in carrying
out its program of industrial studies and other developmental activities that
would complement mainstream financing operations, address major problems and
constraints affecting the industrial sector, and make the best use of ICICI's
experience and resources.
Institutional Aspects of the Borrower
42.        Ownership and Resources.  Ownership of ICICI is dominated by public
sector corporations, including Government-owned banks and insurance companies.
Of ICICI's presently paid-in share capital of Rs 225 million, public institu-
tions hold 81% and foreign shareholders (mainly commercial banks) hold 11%,
while the balance of 8% is owned by private Indian investors. As the public
sector holds more than 50% of its shares, ICICI is considered a Government
company in terms of the Companies Act. However, this classification does not
affect ICICI's operational autonomy except in respect of the procedures for
appointing auditors. Relations between GOI and ICICI continue to be good.
As of September 30, 1979, ICICI's resources totalled Rs 6.37 billion (US$767
million). Foreign exchange equivalent to Rs 3 billion (US$362 million),
accounted for 47% of the total, while domestic resources provided the balance
of Rs 3.37 billion or 53%. Most of ICICI's foreign currency resources have
come from the Bank. Of the total foreign exchange resources raised by ICICI
up to September 30, 1979, the twelve Bank loans accounted for US$490 million,
net of cancellations, or 77%. Seventeen lines of credit from Kreditanstalt
fur Wiederaufbau (KfW), totalling about US$80 million equivalent, accounted
for 13% and eight UK tied lines of credit for 6% of total foreign currency
resources. The remaining 4% was made up of one USAID loan and two commercial
borrowings: one Swiss Franc bond issue and a Eurodollar syndicated loan.
ICICI's attempts to mobilize foreign commercial funds have been limited so
far to the Swiss Franc bond issue and the syndicated loan. However, in
connection with the proposed thirteenth Bank loan, ICICI proposes to diversify
its resources (para 55).
43.       Management and Staff.  ICICI is well-managed and operates effec-
tively under its competent and experienced Board. Mr. S. S. Mehta is the
Chairman and Managing Director with responsibility for all operational aspects
of ICICI. The Board consists of fifteen directors. In addition to two officers



- 16 -
of ICICI, the Board members represent the Government of India (2), public
financial institutions (2), foreign shareholders (2) and leading professional
and business groups (7). The Board meets regularly and sets ICICI's overall
financial and operational policies, and decides on project proposals above
Rs 2.5 million. ICICI's organizational structure has continued to develop
soundly as its operations have grown. As of September 1979, ICICI's staff
numbered 595, including 244 professionals. The overall quality of ICICI's
staff remains high and turnover remains low.
Operating Policies and Performance of ICICI
44.       Operating Policies.  While ICICI has no formal policy statement, its
Memorandum of Association, together with Government guidelines and the resolu-
tions of the Board over time, have provided a satisfactory policy framework
for ICICI's operations. In 1977, ICICI's Board approved a Statement of Finan-
cial and Operating Strategy which set out its broad intentions in lending and
specifically identified six priority areas: (a) export industries; (b) power
and transport; (c) agricultural inputs and outputs; (d) industries basic to
industrial expansion; (e) mass consumption goods; and (f) balancing and modern-
ization projects. The Statement also noted ICICI's commitment to assistance
in the designated backward areas and to new entrepreneurs. ICICI has recently
updated this statement to reflect certain aspects that warrant increased
emphasis within the priority areas, and to include a detailed description of
its strategy for the mobilization and utilization of different sources of
funds. The updated Statement was reviewed during negotiations and was found
satisfactory. The Statement was approved by ICICI's Board on April 17, 1980.
45.       As of September 1979, ICICI had approved assistance totalling
Rs 12.2 billion (US$1.5 billion equivalent) for some 2,600 projects. ICICI
continues to emphasize lending to the technologically advanced industries,
including mechanical and electrical machinery and transport equipment (36%
of the total), and to the chemical and petrochemical industries (19%). Other
subsectors receiving a significant proportion of ICICI financing were tex-
tiles (11%), pulp and paper (6%) and cement (5%). During the last three
years, ICICI's average financial assistance per project was Rs 7.2 million,
corresponding to about 20% of total project cost. About 86% of ICICI's
financing has gone to private sector companies. ICICI has increased the
proportion of its financing to projects in the designated backward areas
(about 40% in 1978 and 1979). The financial performance data of ICICI's
clients indicate that they are reasonably profitable. For a sample of about
400 ICICI clients analyzed in 1977 and 1978, nearly all companies other than
the sugar manufacturers, who were affected by price and distribution controls,
showed pre-tax profits. The economic and employment impact of ICICI-assisted
projects has been significant. For example, the average investment cost per
job created is estimated at about US$25,000 for sub-projects approved in 1977
to 1979. This appears reasonable bearing in mind that ICICI's clients are
mostly medium and larger-sized companies operating in the technologically
more advanced subsectors.



- 17 -
46.       Terms of Onlending.  For both domestic and foreign currency loans,
ICICI's standard rate of interest has been set at 11% per annum since 1975. 1/
However, funds deriving from ICICI's 1978 Eurodollar borrowing have been relent
at a floating rate of interest of 1-1/2 percentage points above LIBOR (equiv-
alent at present to an interest rate of about 21%). Subborrowers bear the
foreign exchange risk. ICICI also participates in the equity of its clients
and reserves the right to convert up to 20% of its domestic currency loan
amount to ordinary shares. ICICI charges a 1% p.a. commitment fee on foreign
currency loans and a fee on domestic currency loans ranging between 0.25% and
1% per annum. These rates generally conform with those offered by other term
lending institutions in India. ICICI proposed to review the adequacy of its
interest rates in consultation with the other financial institutions, taking
account of the cost of resources. ICICI's standard lending terms provide for
loan maturities of up to 15 years, including up to 3 years of grace. ICICI is
a member of the Inter-Institutional Meeting (IIM) which comprises the leading
all-India term financial institutions. ICICI refers project proposals in
excess of Rs 30 million to the IIM for joint financing; about 65% (by amount)
of its business in 1978 and 1979 was jointly financed. This enables members
of the IIM to limit their individual exposures, while ensuring that adequate
financing can be provided for the project.
47.       Appraisal and Follow-Up Standards.  ICICI's appraisals continue
to be of a high standard and incorporate a thorough treatment of technical,
financial, market and economic aspects. Follow-up procedures and project
supervision are also satisfactory. Clients submit detailed quarterly pro-
gress reports to ICICI for review, and follow-up personnel make frequent
client visits.
Financial Operations
48.       Operational Results.  ICICI's total net approvals reached about
Rs 1,990 million (US$245 million) in 1979, an increase of 39% over the figure
for 1978. Disbursements amounted to Rs 1,240 million (US$154 million) for
1979. (ICICI's loan disbursements account for about 15% of those of all-India
financial institutions and about 5% of total private industrial investment in
India.) From 1976 to 1978, domestic currency loan approvals more than doubled
(from Rs 425 million to Rs 1,029 million), while foreign currency approvals
declined (from Rs 415 million to Rs 242 million). The trend to increased
volumes of domestic currency loans reflects the improved access of ICICI to
domestic resources, while the decline in foreign exchange approvals was due
to the increased availability of free foreign exchange for certain categories
of capital goods imports. Moreover, some of ICICI's clients who were not
granted access to free foreign exchange delayed investment decisions because
of the relatively high foreign exchange risk inherent in borrowing Bank and
other foreign resources from ICICI. However, in 1979, ICICI's foreign currency
approvals picked up substantially, partly because of the introduction of the
Bank's special currency disbursement scheme for DFCs, which reduced the per-
ceived exchange risk and enabled ICICI to place Bank funds more easily. By
1/   Foreign currency loans to designated backward areas generally receive a
1% interest rate concession and domestic currency loans a 1.5% concession.



- 18 -
the end of 1979, foreign currency loan approvals reached Rs 621 million;
domestic currency loans remained at a high level and reached Rs 1,180 million
for the year.
49.       Investments, Guarantees and Merchant Banking.  ICICI's direct sub-
scriptions and underwriting of share and debenture issues account for 11%
of its total approvals since inception and 7% of the total in 1979. These
investment operations increased from Rs 73 million in 1976 to Rs 114 million
in 1979. About 75% of ICICI's investment operations derive from underwriting
activities. ICICI's guarantees, which are largely issued to foreign suppliers,
constitute a small part of its total operations--about 1.5% of total net
approvals since inception. In addition, ICICI has continued to broaden the
range of financial services offered to clients through its merchant banking
services--e.g. the management of underwritings, debenture and share capital
issues, private loan placements. The growth of ICICI's merchant banking
activities has been particularly rapid over the last few years.
Other Developmental Activities
50.       In addition to its mainstream lending and investment operations and
merchant banking activities, ICICI is undertaking a broad range of complemen-
tary activities and services with a view to enhancing its overall impact on
industrial development. These activities include (i) undertaking industrial
subsector and policy studies; (ii) identification and promotion of new project
ideas; (iii) backward area development programs; and (iv) training and advisory
support for other domestic and foreign financial institutions. Most of these
activities have been initiated following a joint Bank/ICICI study in 1973 of
ICICI's developmental impact. The Bank has been encouraging ICICI to expand
selectively these activities in the context of recent loans.
51.       Under the twelfth loan (Loan 1475-IN), ICICI carried out studies of
selected engineering industries, starting with a study of the automotive pro-
ducts subsector. The draft report has been completed and is under discussion
by the Bank and ICICI. ICICI has also completed a number of studies on, for
example, price and distribution controls in the sugar and cement industries,
the impact of industrial licensing, and the economics of small-scale cement
and paper plants. These studies have been well received by various Government
committees and some of their recommendations have been implemented. Under the
proposed loan, ICICI intends to carry out studies on the electrical equipment
industry and efficiency of energy utilization in industry. For project iden-
tification and promotion, ICICI established a new unit within the Development
Department in 1974. In addition, ICICI has actively participated in the
establishment of a Foreman Training Institute and a private company offering
pilot plant facilities on a commercial basis to test new industrial processes.
In the field of backward area development, ICICI's activities comprise: (i) a
series of area potential studies focusing on availability of raw materials,
infrastructure, human skills and markets; (ii) collaboration with other
financial institutions in setting up State technical consultancy institutions
to assist new entrepreneurs; and (iii) helping to organize and finance volun-
tary rural development agencies using grant funds made available by KfW.
ICICI has also extended training facilities to the staff of IDBI and to
several of the State-level financial institutions and runs an annual training
program for the personnel of overseas development banks.



- 19 -
ICICI's Portfolio
52.       As of September 30, 1979, ICICI's overdues of principal and interest
were Rs 169 million, compared with Rs 41 million as of September 1973. The
total principal outstanding of loans affected by arrears was Rs 688 million,
or about 2.1% of the outstanding loan portfolio, compared with 1.6% in 1973.
The bulk of the increase took place before 1979 and arrears ratios since
then have shown relatively little change. The continuing arrears were due
in part to the effects on ICICI's clients of continuing power shortages. The
effects of the recent increases in prices on working capital requirements,
combined with credit restrictions imposed by commercial banks, has also had
an adverse effect on clients' liquidity position. ICICI expects, however,
to maintain its current collection ratio of about 90% of amounts falling due,
which is acceptable. Five industries--spun pipes, paper and paper products,
sugar, plastics and mini-steel plants--account for a major portion of the
increase in arrears. ICICI has been making efforts to intensify its follow-up
and management consultancy work, and continues to consult with the Government
and the other financial institutions on possible measures to deal with the
companies facing long term problems. ICICI's equity portfolio comprised
common share investments of Rs 232 million in 346 companies and preference
share investments of Rs 98 million in 146 companies as of June 30, 1979. Some
41% of the investment portfolio was in companies operating profitably and pay-
ing dividends, 19% was in companies under construction and 40% in companies
experiencing some difficulties. The average dividend yield on the ordinary
shares was about 7%, considerably higher than the 4% recorded in 1976. As of
December 31, 1979, ICICI also held Rs 190 million in debentures, which yielded
8.8%. ICICI's overall investment portfolio continues to be sound and well
managed.
Financial Performance
53.       ICICI's net profits after taxation increased from Rs 38 million in
1976 to Rs 81 million in 1979, reflecting ICICI's reduced taxation liabilities.
With special allowances, reducing ICICI's taxation rate (from 44% in 1976 to
an estimated 32% in 1979), ICICI's return on equity increased from 12% in 1976
to 17% in 1979. The rate of dividend was maintained at 12%, plus a 1% special
bonus for 1979, allowing a satisfactory retention of profits of 64%. Although
margins continued to be constrained by the increase in the average cost of
borrowings and the growing volume of ICICI's loans at concessional rates, this
was offset by the relatively larger volume of domestic currency lending, which
carries a larger margin than foreign currency loans. As a result, the average
spread on lending operations increased from 2.4% in 1976 to 2.6% in 1978,
which is satisfactory. Total assets increased from Rs 3.3 billion (US$398
million) in 1976 to RB 5.9 billion (US$710 million) in December 1979. The
level of shareholders' equity remained at about 11% of the loan and investment
porfolio. The debt/equity ratio at December 31, 1979, was 9.5:1, below the
11:1 limit which was agreed in 1979. ICICI's debt service coverage perfor-
mance has been adequate: the debt service coverage ratio increased from
1.1:1 in 1976 to 1.3:1 in 1979, which is an acceptable level.



- 20 -
Operations Forecast and Resource Requirements
54.       In view of the difficult economic conditions which prevailed in 1979
and the expectation that growth of the economy would be relatively modest in
1980, total net approvals are projected to grow by 8% to Rs 2,150 million in
1980, compared to a 39% growth in the previous year when the level of foreign
exchange approvals was exceptionally high. For 1981-83 approvals are projected
to grow by 10% per annum. With the tightening of availability of free foreign
exchange for capital goods imports expected to continue, ICICI believes that
demand for foreign exchange loans will stabilize at about 30% of total approvals.
ICICI estimates that its additional foreign exchange requirements for commit-
ment in the period up to September 1982 will amount to US$182 million. Of this
amount, about US$27 million are expected to be available from new UK tied
lines of credit and from KfW and a further US$100 million from the proposed
Bank loan. ICICI intends to raise the remaining US$55 million mainly from
commercial sources.
55.       Commercial Borrowings and Blending Arrangements.  Following consult-
ations with international banks, ICICI intends to raise about US$30 million in
1980 and to approach the market for further borrowing towards the end of 1981.
In February 1980, ICICI reached basic agreement with a syndicate, managed by
Standard Chartered Bank, on a Euro-loan (20 million in US dollars and US$10
million equivalent in Deutsche Marks). The loan, guaranteed by the Government
of India, will be repayable in 10 years with four years' grace and will bear
interest at 1/2% above LIBOR for the first five years and 5/8% above LIBOR
thereafter. The drawdown period is 30 months and a commitment fee of 3/8% and
an initial management fee of 3/8% are to be charged. These terms are signi-
ficantly more favorable than those on ICICI's present Eurodollar loan, 1/ and
ICICI will enjoy additional flexibility in its blending of these funds with
Bank and KfW funds. During negotiations, ICICI's plans for raising foreign
currency resources were reviewed. ICICI intends to raise another US$25 mil-
lion from commercial or other sources before September 1982 but the timing
and amounts of ICICI's future foreign borrowings would be determined in the
light of prevailing market conditions and Government policies. Since ICICI's
commercial borrowings have a fixed repayment schedule, limited maturity, and
restricted drawdown period and would carry a floating interest rate, ICICI
would need to make parallel commercial and Bank financed subloans for individ-
ual projects so as to provide for adequate disbursement and repayment periods
and to help balance interest rate and currency risks. On the average ICICI
would expect to blend its commercial funds with longer term Bank and kfW funds
in the ratio of approximately 30:70. To facilitate its blending operations,
ICICI would be allowed to tailor the amortization schedules of Bank subloans
so as to allocate relatively more of the early maturities for repayments to
the commercial lenders. Since the overall repayment schedule of the proposed
Bank loan would be based on the composite of the amortization schedules of
the individual subloans, this would result in repayment to the Bank being
slower than normal in the initial years. On the basis of a 30:70 average
1/   Interest at 1% over LIBOR, a 7-year maturity with three year's grace and
a 30-month drawdown, a commitment fee of 3/8% and an initial management
fee of 1%.



- 21 -
blending ratio for all projects, about 25% of the loan would be repaid in the
first seven years, compared to 40% under the previous Bank loans. ICICI would
be permitted the flexibility to allocate early disbursements for individual
subprojects preferentially to the commercial subloans so as to draw down its
commercial borrowings within the required 30-month period and avoid the for-
eign exchange risks involved in premature drawing down of these borrowings.
This would have the effect of slowing down disbursement of the Bank loan ini-
tially, although the overall disbursement period of about five years would
not be affected.
Financial Prolections
56.       ICICI's financial projections, indicate a sharp increase of opera-
tional profits; profits before taxation are expected to increase from Rs 117
million in 1979 to Rs 256 million in 1983. After-tax profits are expected
to grow from Rs 81 million in 1979 to Rs 175 million in 1983, a return of
between 17% and 19% on average equity, which is somewhat higher than ICICI
has achieved in the past. ICICI would be able to maintain the dividend rate
of 12%. Total assets are expected to grow from Rs 5,850 million (US$710 mil-
lion) in 1979 to Rs 11,940 million (US$1,450 million) in 1983, an annual growth
rate of 19% per annum. The loan and investment portfolio would increase at
about the same rate from Rs 5,170 million in 1979 to Rs 10,370 million in
1983. Shareholders' equity is expected to remain at 10% of the portfolio.
The debt/equity ratio is expected to increase from 9.5:1 in 1979 to 10.6 in
1982, which is within the agreed limit of 11:1. ICICI would increase its
share capital by Rs 72 million by 1983. ICICI expects to maintain its col-
lection ratio at 90%, which is attainable in the light of past performance.
On this assumption, the debt service coverage ratio would remain above 1.2
throughout the period, which is satisfactory.
Benefits and ProJect Risks
57.       By helping to fill a gap in the availability of foreign exchange
resources to finance capital goods imports, the proposed loan would contribute
to sustaining the desirable rate of investment in the modernization and expan-
sion of industrial capacity of private, public and joint sector enterprises.
The loan would assist ICICI in raising foreign commercial funds and enable it
to utilize such funds effectively in its operations. Subloan beneficiaries
would mainly be medium sized and large private firms mounting high priority
industrial projects, many of which are export oriented. Around one-third of
loan proceeds are likely to be used for projects established in the backward
areas, including projects sponsored by new entrepreneurs. Based on previous
experience, it is expected that the projects would create some 20,000 jobs at
an average investment cost of about US$30,000 per job created. Economic rates
of return for subprojects are expected to average about 20%. The primary
institution building effects of the loan would be to assist ICICI to focus
better and selectively expand its program of developmental activities. Since
ICICI is a mature and capable institution with a sound record in industrial
financing, the proposed loan does not involve significant risks. ICICI's
financial projections and the proposed loan amount have been based on real-
istic assumptions. Significant delays in loan commitment and disbursement
are not expected.



- 22 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
58.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and ICICI, the draft
Guarantee Agreement between India and the Bank, the Report of the Committee
provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
59.       Special conditions of the Project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
60.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
61.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
April 24, 1980
By
Ernest Stern



ANNEX I
INDIA - SOCIL INDICATOS  DAsA S8m                        Page  1  of  5
fDMIA                       C SREFCE GROUPS (AJUSTD APGS
LAND  A" (TROUSAMD SO. AN.) 1                                              - MOSST RCuRT ESTIMATE
TOTAL           3287.6                                                WAM          wS       an EGHEE
AGCUCLTURL    1818.3                                 MmtS  RECET     GEOCGAC    ICO            n;coil
1960  lb   1970 a EsTIIA  A         REGIO.N       GROUW a    GROUP A
Q PU CAPITA (US$)                    60.0        90.0    180.0            191.1      209.6       467.5
EGY CoNSuK?TIoN. Pn CAwITA
(KILOGWRS OP COAL ERQIVALZT)      142.0       181.0    218.0             69.1       83.9      262.1
POPUlATION AIMD VISL SZATIMSCS
POMULATION, KD-TRA  M IONS)    434.9          547.6    631.7Lj
U018  POPATION (PnUc   0 TOTL) 17.9           19.7      20.7.           13.2       16.2        24.6
POPULATION PIOJICONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                    973.0
STATIONARY POPLASIO  (IILLIONS)                      1643.0
YSRS STIONARY POPULATION 7S UCKED                    2150
POPULATION D NSIT
PER SQ. D(.                     132.0       167.0    192.0             8t.6       49.4       45.3
PR SQ. IN. AGICULTUIAL LAND    247.0         08.0    347.0            330.2      252.0       149.0
POPMLATION AGE STRUCTUs (PUCsT)
0-14 US.                         40.8        42.5      42.0            44.3      43.1        45.2
15-64 nS.                         55.7        54.6      55.0           52.4       53.2        51.9
65 YRS. AND AlOVZ                  3.5         2.9       3.0            3.1        3.0         2.8
POPULATION GROWI1 RATS (PERCZNT)
TOTAL                             1.9         2.3       2.1             2.4        2.4        2.7
URBAN                             2.5,L       3.3       3.1             4.1        4.6        4.3
CRUDS BIRTE RATE (PU TBOUSA)       43.0        40.0      35.0            44.4       42.4       39.4
CRUDE DOR  RTZ (PE ThOUSAND)    21.0           17.0      14.0            16.4       15.9        11.7
CROSS UPRODUCTION RATE              3.2         2.9       2.4             3.2        2.9        2.7
FAMILY PLANltIN
CCEPTORS. ANNUAL (TSOUtSADS)    64.0       3782.0   4518.0
USERS (PERCMNT 0 MAIYUD WCt)   ..           12.0      16.9             7.9       12.2       13.2
F00D AND NUltXTION
DtDEX OF F00D PRODUCTION
PU CAPITA (1969-71-100)         100.0       102.0    101.0             99.4      98.2        99.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
RqU7IRtnENTS)                  95.0        92.0      89.0            93.0       93.3       94.7
PROTINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          51.0        53.0      4S.0           56.1       52.1        54.3
0 WCH ANIMAL AD PULSE         19.0        16.0      12.6            10.4       13.6       17.4
CHILD (ACES 1-4) NQTALITY RATE     28.0        22.0      18.0            19.2       18.5       11.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEAS)    43.0        48.0      51.0            49.1      49.3        54.7
INFANT MORTALITY UTE (PE
THOUSAND)                            ..       134.0        ..             ..       105.4       68.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PURCENT 0P
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              *-        17.0      33.0            31.5       26.3       34.4
URBAN                              *-        60.0      83.0            63.9      58.5        57.9
RURAL                              ..         6.0      20.0            20.1      15.8        21.2
ACCESS TO eXCRZTA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        18.0      20.0            15.7       16.0       40.8
URBAN                              -         85.0      87.0            66.8      65.1        71.3
RtJRAL                             ..         1.0       2.0             2.5       3.5        27.7
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         5800.O0h    4890.0   3135.0           7107.9   11396.4      6799.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    963O.Oh    5220.0   6320.0          12064.0    5552.4      1522.1
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                          2590.0/L    2020.0    1231.0          2738.4    1417.1       726.5
U.RBAN                             ..          ..       ..              ..       197.3      272.7
RLRAL                              ..          ..       ..              ..    2445.9       1404.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..          ..        ..             ..        24.8       27.5
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
.OTAL                             5.2         ..        5.2             ..        5.3         5.4
'JRSAN                            5.2          ..       4.8             ..        4.9         5.1
RURAL                             5.2          ..       5.3             ..        5.4         5.3
AVERAGE NU1WER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
CTCAL                            2.6         '.3        ..
'JRAN                              ..         ..         ..
RLRAL                              ..          ..        ..
ACCESS .0 -LECTRICI'Y (FECENT
OF DWELL:NGS,
'OTAL                               .     .              ..             ..       22.5        2S. 1
L'.RSd:                            ..          ..         .              ..      17.8        .5.1
IR9AL                              ..          ..       ..              ..         ..         9.3



MANEX I
Page 2 of 5
INDIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
nrDIA                     REFERENCE GlOUPS (ADJUSTED AYERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
SAME        SAME     NE1T HIGHER
lOST RgCENT     GEOGRAPHIC    IliCOME      INCO(E
1960 lb     1970 /b ESTIMATE lb      REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLtMNT RATIOS
PUUARY:      TOTAL                61.0         72.0      79.0            59.5        63.3        82.7
MAlZ                 B0.0        87.0       94.0            74.9       79.1         87.3
FEMALE               40.0        55.0       63.0            43.7       48.4         75.8
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                 20.0         29.0      28.0            19.5        16.7        21.4
MALE                 30.0        39.0       38.0            27.8       22.1         33.0
PIMZ                 10.0         17.0      18.0            10.0        10.2        15.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (1 OF SECONDART)   8.0          6.0L      ..              1.3        5.6         9.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PR IMARY                          29.0         40.0      42.0            42.2        41.0        34.1
SECONDAiY                         16.0         17.0        ..               ..       21.7        23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        28.0        33.0      36.0             25.5       31.2        54.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         0.7          1.0       1.2             2.3        2.8          9.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         5.0        21.0       24.0            15.5        27.2        76.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..          0.1       0.5              ..         2.4        13.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 11.0         16.0      16.0             6.2         5.3        18.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTINDANCE PER CAPITA  4.0          6.3       3.8               ..        1.1         2.5
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)  188670.0    226870.0  261000.0/k
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  31.3        32.6       32.2            21.4       24.8         29.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             73.0         73.0      73.0            66.3        69.4        62.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                11.0        11.0       11.0             9.6       10.0         11.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               43.0         40.2      39.2            35.8        36.9        37.1
HALE                                57.1         52.3      51.3            52.3        52.4        48.8
FEMALE                              27.9         27.1      26.2            15.7        18.0        20.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.0          1.1       1.1             1.3         1.2         1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCCME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   26.7        26.3/1       ..              ..         ..         15.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF ROUSEHOLDS  51.7        48.9W        ..              ..         ..         48.2
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4.1          6.77       ..              ..         ..          6.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   13.6         17.27       ..              ..          ..        16.3
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..       83.0            86.5        99.2       241.3
RURAL                               ..          ..       73.0            74.2        78.9       136.6
ESTIMATED 'ELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..         ..              ..       91.9        179.7
RURAL                               ..          ..       50.0            50.4        54.8       103.7
ESTIMtATED POPULATION BEILW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
UR3AN                               ..          ..       47.0            44.3       44.1         24.8
RURAL                               ..          ..       52.0            52.4        53.9        37.5
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/3    The adjusced group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group.  coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
lb    Unless otberuise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
'c   South Asia;  Id  Low Income (S280 or less per capita 1976);  /e  Lower Mtiddle income ($281-550 per capita,
1976);  !'f  1978 mid-year population is estimated at 640.. nillion;   ai 1951-60;   'h  1962;
1953;   ' i 1967;   /k  1978 mid-year labor force is estinated at 261 million;    1  1964-o5.
Most Recent Estimate of GNP per capita is for 1978.
August. 1979



ANNEX Z
PZW41IUIN bF SOIAI, MIA0TOf                                                                         Page  3  of  5
3Notes:Although the bdat.ear drews froe, sources generally Judged the meat sothoritative. end rsiiable, it should als be noted that thsy ey not he intarna
tioneli  comparble beas   f the lack Of steuddi.ed definitions and concepts used by differee t coutries in tolleotiug the date, The date are, nomethelees,
useful to dearribe orders of esgoitode, tndioate trands, sod characteris4 oertein major differences bet.nen coou,trie.
The gdAaete.d..rup.. evesg for .seobindi cetor us popliation-eeighted geoaetroc means, -1oldlog the entraee values of the indioetor sud the Moet populated
oouniiFWiiWeru~Tis to lack of date, group averegee of .11 indicators for Capital Surplue Oil Exporters sad of indiostore of Access ton Water sod Excret.
bhaposal, Hlousing, Income Distribution  and Poverty For other country grmtpe are p.;ap.taioo-oaghted geummirt  means  without  ouuieOf the soiree  vaussd
the moatpopulated country.  Pieethecvrg fc outistwgte  nie                            drfpon,s onvaieiltyofdta  n  is  Ou"tuniorm                    "c'ntion wet he eusroised
in_relating_averagesof_one_ludjcoatr to soother   Tes  evereaoftse are                                                                              1.th   n-goron
iodicator at a times swa  the coutry and refer.eeetno.
LAND AoOk (th ousoand s.m)Acces.s to  Eocreta Dismss  (prcent  f.u0  tlton) -  ,toa.   urbp. gadrurl -
Total - Total suraeDareatopriing lend area end inland eaters.                               mnumerof pepe(oa,ubn   ndrr                      evdA   erets dipoela
rgtutrl      a    eet  siaeofarclualae   sd  eprrlrpratgsof thetr repective populations. Eenrete dispsi.  eqiold
or permanetly for crops, pastr s,mrket sad kitce  gaden  or to                            the collection sad disposal, nith or ,ithout treateant, of huxs  secrete.
lie fallo.                                                                                end cute-water by octer-horne aysteem or the use of pit pricies sod s-uiia,
installations.
GNP PERAITQ~    -  N   e   aiaetmas   tcretmre  prices,                                      PDoplatio   ucPaiio-opltion dirtded by nuber of Practicing physicians
nc,oaed  Opl sencoPeraton method as Wnrld Numb Atla  i(d9fr-78 haste)'
-leO  1970  and 197L9data.7  bet'                                                           Iormaa elehe  a   ncr   ylvl
Pouato oorNusn  Per-s  - Population divided by number of practicing mali
oncec CObiirfOO  PT  CAPTA    Anoai onsuptio  ofconeuie  enea       sd fealegraduate nursens, practical ourees, sod aseostaet nurse,
coa  sd lgnte  peroeto  ntual  eeandbyro, nclar  ndge-           Pouatoo  e  H"snit4 had- toa,uban  and rural - Population (total, urban,
themLIeetict)inkiorm   of coal  quivalsot pac ca pita  1960,                                andrural -.divdd by thercsciv  nube  ohspitai beds somilahle in
i97   sod 1976 data,                                                                        public and private general and apecialined host;ita1 and rehabilitation center,.
Hospitals are establishments permasnently staffed by at least one phpsician.
POPULATION ANI)1 VITAL STATISTICS                                                              EstablishmentsProviding prico.ipally ..ustodial care are nut includd, Rural 
Total Popultion.  id-Year  mIllions.) - As of July 1; 1960, 19'70, and                       foptl,hwvr  uld    nloan    eia   eir   u   ecnn                               taf In
19177 data.                                                                               by a pbysibin(ut by a Madinal assistant,tnurs, midwife, etc.) which offer
rhaen Popuaulon (peroen.t of total) - hatio of urban to total Population;                   In-patinot accomaudetion end prooi de   limited range of Medical facilitiea.
different defniton   of oru narese  m Maffcy              prblt   fdt                   Adoleadoo. ner Hospital had - Total number of adisosto or disohargen fron
smo   ontle   960, 190,ad 1975 da fI    op,aiiyo ta.houspital  divided Oftb  number of heds.
~p4p~pjpyenP0t   Curet poultio  projeniun   are bad on. dHloInBIl
I  5Fi7jiito)  by age, edpseelend their mtrtality and fertility             Avrsbisonueod(nrn   5rhshl)-tta,ub,edrrl-
r:en. Projection parcoetern for Mortality rates coprise of thosee                       h  ..ouchoid consists ofagopo   niiul                   hr   iigquarters and
I,evlo as.uniog lilf.e.npettopy at birth increasing nubh country's                      their main pe.Io.  A hoarder or lodger may or may not in Lncluded inthe
Per  caioboe  ee,ad f I'l life  opeotancy stabilising ait                               oouehuld for staistioa1 yP-yosne.
77.5 year.   The Par tenrs for fertility rate alno nave three levels                  Avrag  nunher o  prsons per froomb   - toal, urta         drua         vrseone
oa-iOnl   d.eitne In fertility acodng to income level sod Past                          ofprosprrc naLubn   n   ua   cuied cnetiona  doellio.,
fanily ulenoing p.erforsen. Each country is then  assigoed one of these                 repet   -ey.    1nling.exsclude num-psromanet structures end unoccupied par::.i
clecombinations of mortality ad fertility trende for projenition                   Access to Electricint (perce:nt of dn i )-.gtotal, urban. and rual-_               on
porpoene.                                                 oentiooal deellings nith eletricityi  livig  q arter  as percetetgo 
Stationary populatin-  In a        tlatioa     population  there is no gronth             total, urban, end rura  dwellings repspctively.
nince tOo birth ratn e   eqaltoIthe death rate, and  lan the age
otruture renl   olntat  Thin in aohie-d ooly after fertilitp  rates                POETIIN
isMo  t  teenlss"n  leve  of unit net repoution rstl he                        Ajuted Ioor.ment Patios
each gen-aun o. f  -om   replaoea itself seaculy.  The statonary pope.                  Primac  school -xtotl' male' a       'ndfmlel ;GIros  ltonl,   aeeofnl   ao
Iat,o  cleco tiated on the bsnla of the projcted oharaterlotics                          neto   l   gsat the Primay lee  as percetaegee of res.pect'ive preary
of uho pop`,benlo  in the year Pooh, and the rate of deciline of fertility                cblaepopulatios ..          ocau.'lly includes children aged (-1 l ea   hut'
rate to repl.eceet level                                                                  edjuoted for differen.t lengths of primary education;for  ..uetrI", oith
Yoar ntetiocary oo-oltion ia reached - The pnar  h.en stationary Population                 uivrad eductionsrin  nay seceed 100.. ..er.et 020cr som  "Pitl
nice han been  -actd.                                                                     am  heln  or above the offloii1 school age.
pcpulanion Deocito                                                   becon3-1daryco -tta, .ml  end female - Computed ac,at.), ur;onooar
Pe!   c.ho      11-y-a  population per oqu-re kilonet-r (100 heotares) of                    euainrqrsat'leat four years  ofpproved pImar  itroo1i,un;
total  re                                                                                 provides general voctional , orteache  training instructio.-  for  ,puil.
Perni1w  agri-ultura1l bo   - Cosputed an above foe agricultural lend                   ueal  of IP to 17 eare of ageorrap            -eneor-c  woe g,O-rally
Pl..i.   a    trucuure,ereOt) - Children (0-lu per),wrin-ge-ctioa .. orIliunot (perneot of aeco-dary) - Vocational  -toeituti-n   nl
)15I6 ejInii 6l   d retliredTWear   en d ovr) ac percenaesof adid-yea.ebool  iduwtia, or other pr9rem   chicb operaen nodepeodently ur ac
popula.tin  10, 1970, en  1977 daa.epartmento   f                                                               .noudary institutions.
Population Growth Pate ~nroent  - total  A-Anua  orcwth ratna of total Ddo-                 Pupil-tahr ratio -primar.29     and secodar   - Total et,,dstt rirolind in
Yea.  ooatoofr  90b,1907,ent907                                                             prisr   ndanndrheel              _iiddb    Unbrn of teachers in tie, crro-
Population Ironul th    (peroent -uba    - u.n.a  groth rates of urhen                        npoding level..
Po,tin   for 1950-, 1960-~70,  an  1970-75.                                              Adolt'litrercy rate (percent) -Litnrste adults (chin no rea  end -rit.;  n
Crude Birth hate (per thousand) - A-oul lIve births pnr thousend of old-                      aporoe,,tag  of total adult population  aged 15 yearsad over.
populatPion; 19 0, 197,ad 1977 data.
Crude Death  ae (per thsousnd) - Anto1 deatho Per thcuen  to ni-rnar                    CONbSUMPTION
populathlon; 1950, 190,ed 1977 dote.Pas...ger C-n (per thounand popultion) - P-esegne oars o prsewurnr
Oroo  eprdotin tteAvrag   onlr of d-odhtoronon                  ll ovreoaiglote   ih  pesos  socLudee anhulences, hearwee enTd eilitry
in her cormaI re`production perood ifPohenuper icoc-  preset age-                         -ehiolv.
ip_cific frt    _tyrten; .....alyip  hepn  a-eg- count0 In 1960,                        Radit pecciocr   (nrt 7o      d nP,ultion) - All types of reos.iver  for redo,.
190, and 1975.                                                                          badatsn  gnra-            ubi  pe   "huad of population;  .ocludee unliceni-
PFmily Plenoing_- AcooptoroAnnua (thousads) -Annual number cf                               rfec iver- on countrina sod ic yeare  hen, r-giut-ation of rdtuI "eta  "uI in
accteptors of birth-ountro1 dn,I1eo undor asioof ostion..l femlp~ effet; data for recnt yeara cay not be voeparsile sniee n..:tvoire
planning Program.                                                                         bh1iohcd lioennsing .
numit Plitin  -1 srog .. on-t of earriedtn              - Pern...tegn of earned          fTV tncivers )onr thousand noplationi - TV enon.i-rra for hr-adoso  t.. gcnnre
seo ofI hild-bEarn   eg    5-4fasohouhirtbhotrldeiosbulh  peeth.. touesd population; eo-ludes unlicensed TV raeceivro  in oootro
to all marrid ...e. it cae age group.                                                     ed in yeara ohen  eInt  t ton of TV nets ca  in effect.
P 'oPpe, Circuato   prthousand  wpulatlon) - Sboos the  -vergeorcatu
~ovn 01 IItTIT0I                                                                       ofi.  16  OFdaily general intees   enpapr , dsfined as a Periodical publication
Onde of ovdProdctIn Se faota  196-71-100) - loden of per capita                  devoted pcimrily to recording general nes. t is considered t.o he  daily'
-Ioa  production of all food coawdities. P-odutioc enclodee sed and                       if in anpe-sr    . 1i lsat four tia.  a  een..
feed and is - calendar year b.wis.  Comditien coer primar  good5nt                      Cicema AnnualI Att-nduce P., Canita  er tear - toe.d on tIe vuaher of tirketn
(g.ngaraeisea   fsmc  uhibaeeiladconncurot                                              slduigthya, inoludicg adminstosto driv- in o"Mes, and Motle
(no.  vofee ad tea ae  -ucldeo).  Aggregate production of each cou-o trity
is based on notiot   average prdu-er prionolights.
Per S.pito sooip of valrico (P.eroent of reoureemnta) - Cnpoted from                 LABOR FRooE
enrgy euialet  of net food suppies _eiIIb io . cootry Per capita                    Total lao  Port  (thousands( - Econom.icallyacispro, innludio0  arenA
per      I d   albespleocriedatIc p'rodoton    iprsls                              fcrcna ao unemplyed bu  -ulodihgOueiot   cdents, etc. beflinit-
noportn, end change  In snok,  wet oupplien soolud   aiared, sees                      in vaious cout r.  oeare  o oprbe
quanities ou-d io food pr-cening, andI..noe  io distributioo. Require-                Peo     'P e...ot  ;F-1res le   or foroc ase  ecntg       f tonal labor force
neninter-ccoboutediiby,fiG' lass  on ..physcological oreds f rnoma                    Agiult-r  (prcnt I        Lt brlorce in farming, forestry    utn n
activity    dh ncth cooideriMinocoln ...tal tesperat-r, hody Onoghts,,                 rhiming se par ...ates  of total labor forc..
aget000t000 _t-trlbutitos of populati,n, ad ailoniog 10 percet for                    Industry (percent) - labor force in  laing' onstruotion,  -snfactoring nod
oa Iet    hoebld int.l. e.levtricity, .tate   ad gao aspercetage of total labor force,
Pcr osv  wood  of "proto-  'gram  pr UsPI - rrot-,tcOtcnt ,01r                          Prtcpto  hate(prcet)     oa                 i,ed female - lerticipatio- or
Icapitaceo nupl  of food per dey. pNt spplp of food io defi-rca                         antivit, ra.tesre copted as  totl, me,en  female~ labor lorce as per-
abov.- Peqoirnents for all.. ooutcies esteblished by U0DA proide for a -entages of total, Male end female populatIon of all ages eespcctively;
lnies-uc alva ofo 60 crams of total protein per day sod  OpGgrams of                    196o, 1970, end 1975 data.  These are ELOAn participotice  rates refleoting
ania  and polne prtei.c, of  hoch 10 grmcn  shoud ha animal  "rotei.                  accotructure of the population, end lnng time trend.  A feo etimanen
Thes,e stndad    ar   vurthan those of 75 grem   vf total protei'n so                   nr  n   natioa .     our.nI
15  ram  o  enou  prtcio an- noavrage for the norld, propose d by PAt                           '.soloPed yo  atit -RPatio of ppltinuder 15 end 61 and over to
in the Third Uorld Pool S-rny                                                           the laborfrceinage, group of 15-61 Yeears..
Prcct   rein supifo  noinal and polue - Pr otein supply of food
drvd frotnmt  andpuse  in grams  -e day.                                     TCOPPPNT
Child age 1-) Moralt Pte (Per thousand, - Annual deaths per thousand                      Perc...tene of Privat   Ie-ioa  (nt.t in cash and kind) - Pene.i-e  by rioheat
in age rouP -17te pera, to children ic this.Mg grop; for Most devel- 5 percent, richestt pA Percent, POOres.t 2A percent, and pocredt 40 Peroent
oPing --otrieo dnta derived from  life tahlen.                                            of househlds.
ODALTA                                                                                    POVETYT TARGET 000OUfPS
lifeI iooctanov an limor yers   A- I age nosier of years of life                          catimated Absolu_te PoveryIlncome Level (00:$ pcr capi'ta). -uban and -rurl 
remloig a  bith   19, 1970, and 1977. deta                                           hbsolute Povryicm.ee   sthticm   ee eo   hkich a  iiniml
Infant liurtalty Pate     P (prthooand) _-1Avca deaths of infants under one                 nutrititonally adequate dint plus es..entialoo-fo  requiremnts  is tot
Yeabfaeprthoadlv    irtts.                                                                affordable.
Accees to befe Waster berc-ntof opl u)- total, urban, end rura   -                        cE.timatd Relative Porerr 'Incm   level  bS cer cani'ta) - uarban and rurl 
chmber of people (total, URba, and rual) nith reaoal  acs   oRural relat ivepvet   inoe'cl                                            n-hirdo.        vrg  per capita
enfe cater supply (inceludes treated surface sater or untreted but Persona l Income of the country. Urban level is derived from the cra levI Iel
,.Ioceliminated uster ..oh an that from protected borebole, spriags, cith adjustent fur higher cost of living in urban arease.
and sanitary sell.) (as percentages of the in reapsctiv  Populations. In                le.tlmasted Populaionho  Aslte Poery Incom  Incel )ercept') --uban and
aurba  arem  n public.fooctale or  tatndpoet located not more thanrra                             ereti of"populaion  (ubaad rurl   Ib r   asltepr"
200 meters fro house ..Y he considered as being oithiio reasnable
ovcso    hao   oue.      ua  fla  re..eOnble  crso would imply
04ev the hoeieo   noeso  the household do not have to apend aE-iomic and boo. De.Pte Div-nio
dlnyptp-tiooave parv  f the day it fetching the family' e-cter seeds                                                        ccovio  eA.lysic and Projectione Dnpartowtt
Augus.t 1979



ANNEX I
scouac PSWUMMM DM                                        Page  4  of  5
a/
i Z5  C2UIT7 IN 1977: US. l0
b/                                                                                               S9
CGOS NuATOoaL PoDUCT is 1977/78                                                          *        n5 OW gu  m    . cwatat .ricesl
1960/61-193/5      1965/ "O9/70    1970/71-1976/f7
ON? at market Prices           101.47     100.0                                                3.9                 3.8                3.2
Gro  Domestic Investeat         21.65      21.3
Gross National aving            22.77      22.4
Current Account Rlaent e/        ;.04       1.0
Resource Relace  d/            - 0.31     - 0.3
OUTP. U6016 Tom  An0 ?rInTT IN 1971
Value                              Labod (at ctor coat1  Jabor For"  F.   r worker
U# lhln.        j               1ffi1    . .                       , of Ratinl Averea
Agriculture                      24.5          46.6              130.0    72.1           IS               64
indstry                         11.8           22.3               20.2    11.2            582             19
S:rvices                         16.3          31.1               30.2    16.7            5U              1
Total/aVOar&S                    52.6         100.0              180.4   100.0            292             1W
GOVIT  P1FNUCI
Oenral Gowermant                                          Central  o et
".  blnM&  of                                                 I             T51n %ef
'ME17                                                     As7B7    lS.7-7/8,971977f7fz    1974n519n
Current  eceipts                164.42        18.9          16.2                           95.62         11.0           10.5
Current Rzpenditures            157.29        18.1          16.5                            27           10.9           29
Current Surplus/Deficit          7.13          0.8           1.6                            0.35         E.G.            0.6
Capital Lpenditures  f/         62.58          7.2           7.0                           43.31          5.0            5.0
ixtarnal Assistance (net) 5/     9.82          1.1           1.6                            9.82          1.1            1.6
uYO. CUUIT AnD PRICK               1970/71    1973/74    1974/75    1975/76    1976/77    i977na    , zt_2ber 1977    Snt_cr 1978
(Re Billiok outstading at end Of period)
Mousy and Quasi HAney               121.4     198.4      220.3      254.7     306.9      365.1          334.8            395.8
Rank Credit to Covere_t (net)       52.6       87.3       95.3      101.1     110.2      129.7          119.3            139.5
Bak Credit to Coercial Sector       64.6      107.0      126.7      153.9     U.5.1      210.0          195.3            223.5
(Percetage or index Numers)                             JAr  1978         Januay  1979
money and Quasi Money as % of GIP    30.1      33.5       31.5       34.5      38.8        41.9
Wholesale Price Index
(1970/71 - 100)                  100.0      139.7      174.9     173.0      176.6       185.8        184.5            134.6
Annual percentage changes in:
Wboleal  Price Index                 7.7       20.2       25.2      . 1.1       2.1         5.2          3.2              0.1
lank Credit to Govermnt (net)       10.8       12.3        9.2        6.1       9.0        17.7         13.4             16.9
lank Credit to Comercial Sector      19.4      22.6       18.4       21.5      20.3        13.5         16.6              14.4
1/ The per capita ON? estimate is at mret prieose  calculated by the conersion technique  need in the Warld Atlas.
All other conversione to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailin durig the period covered.
bl Quick Ietimates.
c/ CGsputed from trend line of GOP at factor cost series, including one observation before first yer and oe
observation after lest year of listed period.
d/ Vorld Rank estimates; not necoearily consistent with official National Account Statistics.
*I Transfers between Centre and States hbav beea netted out.
f/ All loans and advacs to third parties have been netted out.
R/ sIternal grants and loans, less principal repayments, as recorded in the Central Rudget.



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCZ OF PAYTNTS              1975/76    1976/77    1977/78    1978/7                  MERICHANDSE  WXPORTS (AVERAGE 1975/76 - 1977/78)
(US$ *illion)                                                       U85 Mn.         %
Exports of Goods                  4,672     5,753        6,276        6,800               Engineering G,'ods             610         11
Imports of Goods                 -6,449    -5,928        -7,237      -8,400               Tea                            417          7
Trade Balance                    -1,777      - 175        - 961      -1,600               Gm_                            377          7
NFS (nat)                           310        360          650         700               Clothing                       331          6
Leather and Leather
Rpeour e Balance                 -1.467        185        - 311      -  900                       Products               278          5
i/                                                              Jute Manufactures              267          5
Interest Payments (net)           - 216      - 180         - 50          -                Iron Ore                       265          5
Other Factor Payment. (nt)           -          -            -           -                Cotton Textiles                248          4
Net Tranafers  J/                   470        730        1,400      1,300                Sugar                          244          4
~~~~ ~~Other.                                                                       2,530         45
Balance on Current Aecount       -1.213        73        1.039          400
Total                        5.567        100
Official Aid
Disbursements                  2,341     1,953        1,628       1,805               EXTFRNAL DEBT. MARCH 31. 1978 /
Aortisation                    - 531     - 560        - 645       - 725                                                     Us$ billion
Transactions with IMF               242      - 337       - 330        - 158              Outstanding ad Diabursed                  14.8
All Other Items                    - 45      - 216          384         205               Undisbursed                               4.3
Outstanding, including
Increase in Reserves (-)          - 794    -1,575       -2,076      -1,527                     Undisborsed                         19.1
Gross Reserves (end year)         2,172      3,747       5,823        7,350                                                h/V
Hot Reserves (end year)  k/       1,365      3,276       5,668        7,350              DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR  1977/78          15.0  percent
Fuel and Related Materials                                                                IBRD/IDA LSMDING. DZCEMBER 31. 1978
Imports                           1,417      1,581        1,817      1,980                                                     USs$ million
of which: Petroleum             1,417     1,581        1,817       1,980                                                  lIRD.         I
Exports                              43         37           33       n.S.               Outatandi, .,wd Disbursed           613         1,864
of which: Petroleum                22         21          18        n.e.               Undisbursed                         615        1,992
Outstanding, including                 /
RATE Or EXCHA)1E                                                                                  Undisbureed              1,228         5,856
June 1966 to mid-Deceamber 1971          US$1.00 - Rs 7.5
Rs 1.00 - US$0.133333
Mid-December 1971 to end-June 1972       US$1.00 - Rs 7.27927
Ras 1.00 - US$0.137376
After end-June 1972                      Floating Rate
Spot Rate end-December 1978              US$1.00 - Rs 8.188
US$1.00 - Rs 0.122
h/  Estimated.
i/ Figures given cover all investment income (net). Major payments are interest on foreign loans
and charges paid to IMF, and major receipt is interest earned on foreign assets.
j/  Figures given include workers' remittaness but exclude official grant assistance, which is
included within official aid disbursements.
k/  Excludes net use of IMF credit.
1/  Amortization and interest payments on foreign loans as a percentage of merchandise exports.
M/  Excludes exchange adjustment, but includes US$ 22 million due to third parties.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 17
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of February 29, 1980)
US$ million
Loan or                                                 (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.  Year   Borrower        Purpose              Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
41 Loans/                                             1,163.2
60 Credits fully disbursed                                     3,624.6
312-IN     1972   India    Population                 --         21.2      .68
342-IN     1972   India    Education                  --         12.0    5.92
356-IN     1973   India    IDBI I                     --         25.0    8.44
378-IN     1973   India    Karnataka Agricultural
Markets                --          8.0    4.31
390-IN     1973   India    Bombay Water Supply I   --            55.0    7.22
456-IN     1974   India    HP Apple Processing
& Marketing            --         13.0    7.66
481-IN     1974   India    Trombay IV Fertilizer   --            50.0      .44
1011-IN     1974   India    Chambal (Rajasthan) CAD 52.0          --     22.61
482-IN     1974   India    Karnataka Dairy            --         30.0   21.55
502-IN     1974   India    Rajasthan Canal CAD        --         83.0   36.15
520-IN     1974   India    Sindri Fertilizer          --         91.0    1.04
521-IN     1974   India    Rajasthan Dairy            --         27.7   15.89
522-IN     1974   India    Madhya Pradesh Dairy    --            16.4    6.34
526-IN     1975   India    Drought Prone Areas        --         35.0   11.33
1079-IN     1975   IFFCO    IFFCO Fertilizer          109.0       --     10.75
1097-IN     1975   ICICI    Industry DFC XI            95.6       --      4.17
532-IN     1975   India    Godavari Barrage
Irrigation             --         45.0   10.58
541-IN     1975   India    West Bengal Agric.
Development            --         34.0   13.44
562-IN     1975   India    Chambal (Madhya
Pradesh) CAD           --         24.0    7.70
572-IN     1975   India    Rural
Electrification I       --         57.0   12.89
585-IN     1975   India    Uttar Pradesh Water
Supply                --         40.0   24.24
598-IN     1975   India    Fertilizer Industry        --        105.0   59.90
604-IN     1976   India    Power Transmission IV   --           150.0   84.90



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 17
US$ million
Loan or                                                 (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.  Year   Borrower        Purpose              Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
609-IN     1976   India    Madhya Pradesh
Forestry T.A.          --         4.0     2.41
610-IN     1976   India    Integrated Cotton
Development            --        18.0    14.40
1251-IN    1976   India    Andhra Pradesh
Irrigation           145.0        --    108.56
1260-IN     1976   India    IDBI II                   40.0        --     24.30
1273-IN     1976   India    National Seeds I          25.0        --     24.22
1313-IN     1976   India    Telecommunications VI  80.0           --     23.47
1335-IN     1976   India    Bombay Urban Transport 25.0           --     10.36
680-IN     1977   India    Kerala Agric.
Development            --         30.0   29.04
682-IN     1977   India    Orissa Agric.
Development            --         20.0   16.76
685-IN     1977   India    Singrauli Thermal
Power                  --        150.0  112.46
687-IN     1977   India    Madras Urban
Development            --         24.0   15.74
690-IN     1977   India    WB Agric. Exten-
sion & Research        --         12.0   12.00
695-IN     1977   India    Gujarat Fisheries          --          4.0    1.44
1394-IN     1977   India    Gujarat Fisheries          14.0       --     14.00
712-IN     1977   India    Madhya Pradesh
Agric. Dev.            --         10.0    9.24
720-IN     1977   India    Periyar Vaigai
Irrigation             --         23.0   17.35
728-IN     1977   India    Assam Agricultural
Development            --          8.0    7.22
1473-IN     1977   India    Bombay High Offshore
Development           150.0       --     67.51
736-IN     1977   India    Maharashtra
Irrigation             --         70.0   52.06
737-IN     1977   India    Rajasthan Agricul-
tural Extension        --         13.0   10.93
740-IN     1977   India    Orissa Irrigation          --         58.0   49.46
1475-IN     1977   ICICI    Industry DFC XII           80.0       --     37.75
747-IN     1978   India    Second Foodgrain
Storage                --        107.0   95.97
756-IN     1978   India    Calcutta Urban
Development II         --         87.0   62.79
761-IN     1978   India    Bihar Agric.
Extension &
Research               --          8.0    7.75



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 17
US$ million
Loan or                                                  (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.  Year   Borrower        Purpose              Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
1511-IN      1978   India    IDBI Joint/Public
Sector                 25.0       --     25.00
1549-IN     1978   TEC        Third Trombay
Thermal Power         105.0       --     94.13
788-IN     1978   India    Karnataka Irrigation    --           117.6  106.73
793-IN     1978   India    Korba Thermal Power        --        200.0  179.25
806-IN     1978   India    Jammu-Kashmir
Horticulture          --         14.0   13.96
808-IN     1978   India    Gujarat Irrigation         --         85.0   79.84
815-IN     1978   India    Andhra Pradesh
Fisheries              --         17.5   17.23
816-IN     1978   India    National Seeds II          --         16.0   15.97
1592-IN     1978   India    Telecommunications VII 120.0          --     62.55
824-IN     1978   India    National Dairy             --        150.0  143.57
842-IN     1979   India    Bombay Water
Supply II              --        196.0  194.78
843-IN     1979   India    Haryana Irrigation         --        111.0   85.47
844-IN     1979   India    Railway Modernization
& Maintenance          --        190.0  172.90
848-IN     1979   India    Punjab Water Supply
& Sewerage             --         38.0   35.66
855-IN     1979   India    National Agricultural
Research               --         27.0   26.90
862-IN     1979   India    Composite Agricultural
Extension              --         25.0   24.29
871-IN     1979   India    NCDC                       --         30.0   24.61
1648-IN     1979   India    Ramagundam Thermal
Power                  50.0       __     50.00
874-IN     1979   India    Ramagundam Thermal
Power                  --        200.0  200.00
889-IN     1979   India    Punjab Irrigation          --        129.0  123.34
899-IN     1979   India    Maharashtra Water
Supply                 --         48.0   48.00
911-IN     1979   India    Rural Electrification
Corp. II               --        175.0  175.00
925-IN     1979   India    Uttar Pradesh Social
Forestry               --         23.0   22.47



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 17
US$ million
Loan or                                                   (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.  Year   Borrower         Purpose               Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
947-IN      1979   India      ARDC III                  --      250.0      250.00
1743-IN*    1979   India       Thal Fertilizer         250.0       --       250.00
963-IN*    1979   India       Inland Fisheries                   20.0       20.00
Total                                   2,528.8  7,255.0
of which has been repaid                992.1      58.4
Total now outstanding                   1,536.7  7,196.6
Amount Sold                    133.8
of which has been repaid   116.2         17.6
Total now held by Bank and IDA 1/    1,519.1  7,196.6
Total undisbursed (excluding*)            579.4  2,797.6
*    Not yet effective
1/   Prior to exchange adjustment.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 17
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of February 29, 1980)
Fiscal                                                   Amount (US$ million)
Year                   Company                        Loan      Equity      Total
1959        Republic Forge Company Ltd.                1.5        -          1.5
1959        Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.                 0.9        -          0.9
1960        Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                     1.4        -          1.4
1961        K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                          0.2        -          0.2
1963-66     Precision Bearings India Ltd.              0.7        0.3        1.0
1964        Fort Gloser Industries Ltd.                0.8        0.4        1.2
1964-75-79  Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.             11.8        1.4       13.2
1964        Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.                 1.0        0.3        1.3
1967        Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                    1.0        0.1        1.1
1967        Indian Explosives Ltd.                     8.6        2.9       11.5
1969-70     Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.                 15.1        3.8       18.9
1976        Escorts Limited                            6.6         -         6.6
1978        Housing Development Finance
Corporation                               4.0        1.4        5.2
1980        Deepak Fertilizer and
Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.           7.5        1.1        8.6
TOTAL                               61.1       11.5       72.6
Less:  Sold                                  5.9       1.7        7.6
Repaid                              17.4         -        17.4
Cancelled                            6.2        0.7        6.9
Now Held                            31.6        9.1       40.7
Undisbursed                         11.7        1.7       13.4



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 17
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding reason-
ably well. Details on the execution of individual projects are below. The
level of disbursements was US$538 million in FY79, compared to US$497 million
in the previous year. Disbursements in the current fiscal year through
February 29, 1980 totalled US$366 million, representing an increase of about
32% over the same period last year. The undisbursed pipeline of US$3,377 mil-
lion as of February 29, 1980, reflects the lead time which would be expected
given the mix of fast- and slow-disbursing projects in the India program.
Ln. No. 1097   Eleventh Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100.0 million loan of April 2, 1975;
Effective Date: July 1, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
Ln. No. 1475   Twelfth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$80.0 million loan of July 22, 1977
Effective Date: October 4, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
These loans are supporting industrial development in India through
a well-established development finance company and are designed to finance
the foreign exchange cost of industrial projects. ICICI continues to be a
well-managed and efficient development bank financing medium- and large-scale
industries, which often employ high technology and are export-oriented. Loan
1097 is fully committed and disbursements are slightly ahead of schedule.
Disbursements under Loan 1475 are also ahead of schedule.
Loan No. 1260 Second Industrial Development Bank of India Project;
US$40.0 million loan of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:
August 10, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Loan No. 1511 IDBI Joint/Public Sector Project; US$25.0 million loan of
March 1, 1978; Effective Date: May 31, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Loan 1260 is designed to assist the Industrial Development Bank of
India in promoting small- and medium-scale industries and in strengthening the
State Financial Corporations involved.  Loan 1511 is designed to encourage the
pooling of private and public capital in medium-scale joint ventures. The
project also assists IDBI in carrying out industrial sector investment studies
and in strengthening the financial institutions dealing with the state joint/
public sector.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 17
Cr. No. 440    Bihar Agricultural Credit Project; US$32.0 million credit
of November 29, 1973; Effective Date: March 29, 1974;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The project provides US$32.0 million in support of a lending program
for 50,000 tubewells and pumpsets investment in the Tirhut Division of Bihar.
Because of slow disbursements caused by a lower than estimated Dollar/Rupee
exchange rate and by low unit investment costs compared with appraisal esti-
mates, IDA agreed to extend the closing date to March 1980 and expand the
project area to cover the whole State. Physical targets have now been
achieved and the credit should be fully disbursed by the revised closing
date.
Cr. No. 947    Third Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
(ARDC) Project; US$250.0 million credit of August 20, 1979;
Effective Date: January 2, 1980; Closing Date: June 30,
1982
Refinancing of lending to farmers has been started under this project
after the completion of the Second ARDC Project towards the end of 1979.
Cr. No. 747    Second Foodgrain Storage Project; US$107.0 million credit of
January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 17, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
As of September 1979, satisfactory progress was being made in
the construction of bag storage warehouses, despite problems of land acqui-
sition at some sites. However, construction of flat bulk warehouses and
port silos is not expected to be completed until 1985, as a result of delays
in the employment of consultants and the longer time required for the prepa-
ration of technical specifications and tenders and the construction itself.
Cr. No. 456    Himachal Pradesh Apple Processing and Marketing Project;
US$13.0 million credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date:
September 26, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project encountered prolonged initial delays due to managerial
and technical problems. These problems have been largely resolved, but con-
struction progress remains slow due to material shortages and severe winter
conditions. Initial packing house operations were undertaken in the last
two seasons with favorable response from farmers. The project is scheduled
for completion by December 1980.
Cr. No. 806    Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture Project; US$US$14.0 million credit
of July 17, 1978; Effective Date: January 16, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The principal executing agency, J&K Horticulture Produce Marketing
and Processing Corporation, is under strong management and rapid progress has
been made in start-up operations with only minor slippage. The project's
research activities, however, are behind the original schedule due to poor
organization.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 17
Ln. No. 1313   Telecommunications VI Project; US$80.0 million loan
of July 22, 1976; Effective Date: September 14, 1976
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
Ln. No. 1592   Telecommunications VII Project; US$US$120.0 million loan
of June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 30, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
Both projects are progressing satisfactorily, although as of
November 1979, when they were last reviewed, imports of electronic switching
equipment and local production of electro-mechanical switching equipment
were behind schedule, resulting in a reduced growth rate for the installa-
tion of direct exchange lines. Institutional improvements envisaged under
the projects have been achieved, and the financial situation of the Posts
and Telegraphs Department remains sound.
Cr. No. 520    Sindri Fertilizer Project; US$91.0 million credit of
December 18, 1974; Effective Date: February 27, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
Ln. No. 1079   IFFCO Fertilizer Project; US$US$109.0 million loan of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: April 28, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
Cr. No. 598    Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105.0 million credit
of December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Ln. No. 1743   Thal Fertilizer Project; US$250.0 million loan of August 20,
1979; Effective Date: February 29, 1980 (expected);
Closing Date: November 30, 1984
The Sindri project has also been commissioned and commercial produc-
tion is expected shortly. The IFFCO project was delayed by about a year as a
result of a change in feedstock from fuel oil to naphta and delays in comple-
tion of engineering contracts. However, project construction is now proceeding
satisfactorily and commissioning is expected within the next six months.
Credit 598 is designed to increase the utilization of existing fertilizer
production capacity. The project has encountered delays in sub-project prep-
aration and investment approvals by the Government. Further, some of the sub-
projects identified earlier may not materialize because of reconsideration
by the Central and State governments. IDA has agreed to a list of sub-projects
to replace the ones that are likely to be dropped. Because of the above, the
project is likely to be delayed by about 18 months.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 17
Cr. No. 378    Karnataka Wholesale Agricultural Markets Project; US$8.0 mil-
lion credit of May 9, 1973; Effective Date:  September 7, 1973;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1981
Delays in project implementation were encountered as a result of
frequent changes in management in the early stages, and these have necessi-
tated an extension of the closing date by 18 months to June 30, 1981, to allow
for completion of works and withdrawal of the credit. Progress is improving,
however. As of May, 1979, construction on 36 of the 39 markets envisaged under
the project was underway or completed, and trade had shifted to about half of
these. An additional five markets may be included in the project at the
request of the State government.
Cr. No. 312    Population Project; US$21.2 million credit of June 14, 1972;
Effective Date: May 9, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
This credit is designed to finance an experimental and research
oriented population project in Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh. The project's
infrastructure, which would provide the optimum facilities (buildings, equip-
ment, staff and transport) according to GOI standards in selected districts
in each state, is virtually complete.  The two Population Centers, established
to design and monitor research aimed at improving the family planning program,
are now functioning. The Population Centers are expected to complete their
evaluation of family planning strategies and the introduction of management
information and evaluation systems by the present closing date.
Cr. No. 342    Agricultural Universities Project; US$12.0 million credit of
November 10, 1972; Effective Date: June 8, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
The project involves the development of the agricultural univer-
sities in Assam and Bihar. The primary aim of the AUs project is to improve
the quality and practical training of undergraduates and so the spectrum of
their employment opportunities; and to strengthen university structure to
enable it to give an impetus to agricultural and rural development. Consider-
able progress has been made in achieving the latter objective; but achieving
educational objectives is more slowly attainable, constrained by traditional
attitudes and structures where consistent effective leadership falters.
Changes to a more functional orientation are now planned. The Project
Director and others responsible are aware of the constraints and are support-
ing efforts to remove them.
Cr. No. 390    Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$55.0 million
credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date:  March 13, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 842    Second Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$196.0
million credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date:
June 12, 1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1985



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 17
Cr. No. 848    Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$38.0 million
credit of October 27, 1978; Effective Date: January 25, 1979,
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 899    Maharashtra Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$48.0 mil-
lion credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: November 9,
1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Having overcome earlier difficulties, including cost overruns caused
by inflation (requiring project redefinition in February 1975), redesign of
major project components and the addition of a supplementary study on sewage
disposal, Credit 390 is now progressing satisfactorily. The water treatment
works were successfully completed on schedule at the end of 1979. Completion
of construction of the project sewerage works is scheduled for mid-1980.
Financial performance of the project entity is satisfactory. Implementation of
Credit 842, a second stage of the ongoing Credit 390, is proceeding to schedule.
Preliminary work in connection with implementation of Credit 848 is progressing
satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 585    Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40.0
million credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date:
February 6, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The Project has had a slow start due to delays in the preparation
of technical reports for regional and local water authorities and in the
engagement of consultants. While improvements have been made in the physical
execution, other aspects of project implementation continue to lag so that
disbursements under the Credit have fallen short of estimates at the time
of appraisal.  In order to improve the situation, arrangements have be
made to closely supervise and coordinate implementation.
Cr. No. 756    Second Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$87.0 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date:  April 7, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The project is proceeding quite well in most sectors, in spite of
the severe floods of September 1978 and serious Statewide electric power
shortages. Procurement is generally on schedule for equipment and consultants'
services, though somewhat behind for larger civil works contracts. Staff
shortages in some of the implementing agencies continue, although more exten-
sive use of consultants has to a great degree alleviated this problem.
Cr. No. 687    Madras Urban Development Project; US$24.0 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 30, 1977; Closing
Date: September 30, 1981
Physical progress is generally satisfactory and costs are within
appraisal estimates on most components. However, land acquisition problems
and consequent delays in construction on one of the three sites and service
areas will result in about 15 months delay in the completion of the final
sections of these areas. Inadequate attention and staff has been given to



ANNEX II
Pa2e 11 of 17
the financial analysis and marketing strategies required to ensure that anti-
cipated cost recovery in the sites and services and slum upgrading components
and thus replicability is actually achieved. However, there is still ample
time to deal effectively with these problems; technical assistance is being
sought to strengthen financial management and analysis.
Cr. No. 482    Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30.0 million credit
of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 521    Rajasthan Dairy Development Project; US$27.7 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: August 8, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 522    Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million
credit of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1982
Cr. No. 824    National Dairy Project; US$150.0 million credit of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1985
These four credits, totalling US$224.1 million, support dairy devel-
opment projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL dairy coopera-
tive scheme in Gujarat State. More than 2,100 dairy cooperative societies
(DCS) have been established under the three state projects (Karnataka 923,
Rajasthan-926, Madhya Pradesh-272). Farmer response had been excellent and
project authorities are under considerable producer pressure to speed up the
establishment of DCS. Profitability in almost all of the DCS is good and con-
struction of dairy and feed plants is now proceeding at a satisfactory pace.
Limited milk processing capacity has been the major constraint to DCS formation
in all three projects. Under the National Dairy Project, three subprojects
with an estimated total cost of approximately Rs 1,000 million have been
appraised by the Indian Dairy Corporation and a further eight subprojects are
in various stages of preparation and appraisal. Advance procurement of dairy
equipment is well underway though disbursements have been slow, mainly as a
result in the start of project operations.
Cr. No. 532    Godavari Barrage Project; US$45.0 million credit of
March 7, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Both the civil works and equipment tenders have been awarded after
international competitive bidding. Work is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1011   Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project; US$52.0
million loan of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 502    Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83.0
million credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date:
December 12, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 17
Cr. No. 562    Chambal (Madlaa Pradesh) Command Area Development Project;
US$24.0 million credit of June 20, 1975; Effective Date:
September 18, 1975; Closing Date: Junie 30, 1981
Ln. No. 1251   Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development
(TW)         Composite Project; US$145.0 million loan (Third Window)
of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:  Sep        r 7, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 720    Periyar Vaigai Irrigation Project; US$23.0 million
credit of June 30, 1977; Effective Date:  September 30,
1977; Closing Date:  March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 736    Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$70.0 million credit of
October 11, 1977; Effective Date: January13, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 740    Orissa Irrigation Project; US$58.0 million of October 11,
1977; Effective Date:  January 16, 1978; Closing Date:
October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 788    Karnataka Irrigation Project; US$126.0 million credit of
May 12, 1978; Effective Date: August 10, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1984
Cr. No. 808    Gujarat Irrigation Project; US$85.0 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 843    Haryana Irrigation Project; US$111.0 million credit of
August 16, 1978; Effective Date: December 14, 1978;
Closing Date: August 31, 1983
Cr. No. 889    Punjab Irrigation Project; US$120.0 million credit of
March 30, 1979; Effective Date:  June 20, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985
These projects, based on existing large irrigation systems, are
designed to improve the efficiency of water utilization and, where possible,
to use water savings for bringing additional areas under irrigation. Canal
lining and other irrigation infrastructure, draiTiitge, and land shaping are
prominent components of these projects. In addition, provisions have been
made to increase agricultural production and marketing by reforming and
upgrading agricultural extension services and by providing processing and
storage facilities and village access roads. Progress of these projects
is generally satisfactory with the exception of the Nagarjunasagar compo-
nent of Loan 1251 where water losses have proven higher than anticipated.
Specific efforts are underway to redesign this project so that it can
achieve its original objectives.



ANNEX II
Paee 13 of 17
Cr. No. 541    West Bengal Agricultural Development Project; US$34.0 million
credit of April 28, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The progress of shallow tubewells is well ahead of the appraisal
schedule, but progress in all other areas is slow. The project will not
fully disburse by the closing date, and GOI's request for an extension is
expected.
Cr. No. 682    Orissa Agricultural Development Project; US$20.0 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 690    West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$12.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
August 30, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 712    Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$10.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
September 2, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Cr. No. 728    Assam Agricultural Development Project; US$8.0 million credit
of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 737    Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$13.0 million credit of November 14, 1977; Effective
Date: February 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 761    Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project; US$8.0
million credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date:  May 2,
1978; Closing Date: October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 862    Composite Agricultural Extension Project, US$25.0 million
credit of February 16, 1979; Effective Date (expected):
December 14, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
These seven credits finance the reorganization and strengthening
of agricultural extension services and the development of adaptive research
capabilities in nine States in India. In areas where the reformed extension
system is in full operation, field results have been very good, both in terms
of adoption of new agricultural techniques and of increased crop yields. In
Rajasthan, Assam, and Orissa, in particular, significant gains have been made
under the projects. In West Bengal, where a change in government brought a
review of the organizational principles underlying the new extension system
and an accompanying hiatus in project implementation, a recent Cabinet deci-
sion has reaffirmed the State Government's commitment to the project and
revised implementation plans are under preparation. In Bihar and Madhya
Pradesh, staff shortages, particularly in supervisory and managerial posts,
have hampered project implementation, although progress in areas where



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 17
regular extension visits are being made attests to the efficacy of the
system itself.  Finally, in Gujarat, Haryana and Karnataka, all covered
under the Composite Agricultural Extension Project (which is not yet effec-
tive), project implementation is still in the very early stages, although
important early administrative and financial steps have been taken which
should pave the way for effective operation of the reorganized extension
system.
Cr. No. 855    National Agriculture Research Project; US$27.0 million
credit of December 7, 1978; Effective Date: January 22,
1979; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
While the initial sanctioning of research subprojects under this
project was somewhat slower than expected, due to staff shortages in the
Project Unit, the pace has picked up considerably in recent months. Commit-
ment of funds to research subprojects in FY80 is expected to meet or even
exceed appraisal estimates, although corresponding disbursements may lag
somewhat behind the original estimates. Additions to the staff of the
Project Unit are being recommended to expedite further progress under the
project.
Cr. No. 526    Drought Prone Areas Project; US$35.0 million credit of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Overall progress of this project continues to be satisfactory.
Imp'Lementation of most components is proceeding well. Dairying and dryland
farming components stiow particular promise for the drought-prone areas.
Cr. No. 680    Kerala Agricultural Development Project; US$30.0 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Project implementation started slowly due to initial staffing and
funding delays. The project has now gained momentum and the planting opera-
tions, which were one season behind original schedule, have been rephased
to make up for lost time.
Cr. No. 871    National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC) Project;
US$30.0 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
May 3, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
As of October, 1979, when the project was last reviewed, construc-
tion of godowns had begun in the three participating States of Haryana, Orissa,
and Uttar Pradesh. Consultants were being recruited to assist NCDC and State
Cooperative Banks in strengthening their institutions. Initial project
preparations have been completed on schedule; disbursements are therefore
expected to follow the appraisal targets.



ANNEX II
Page 15 of 17
Cr. No. 844    Railway Modernization and Maintenance Project; US$190.0
million credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date:
January 10, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Credit 844 was designed to help the Indian Railways reduce manu-
facturing and maintenance costs of locomotives and rolling stock and to
improve their performance and availability.  The project is still at an
early stage of implementation but is progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 609    Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project;
US$4.0 million credit of February 26, 1976; Effective
Date:  May 17, 1976; Closing Date:  December 31, 1981
A feasibility study financed under this Credit and completed in
November 1979 has recommended the establishment of two mills, one for sawn-
wood and one for pulp, as the basis of the development of a forest-based
industry in Bastar district.
Cr. No. 925    Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry Project; US$23.0 million
credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: January 3,
1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
This project was designed to expand the social forestry program
in Uttar Pradesh, to provide a source of energy to the villages, and supply
raw materials to cottage industries. The project provides for large-scale
tree plantation on 48,600 ha of public and village lands, primarily along
roads, rails and canals, and on village common lands and degraded forest
reserves.
Cr. No. 610    Integrated Cotton Development Project; US$18.0 million
credit of February 26, 1976; Effective Date: November 30,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project's progress remained very disappointing in all areas
until the 1978 season, resulting in negligible disbursements. Due to renewed
interests from GOI and the States, the project has now started to progress
well. Short-term credits are increasing significantly, new processing units
are being established in Haryana and Maharashtra, and plant protection
activities have started progressing well.
Ln. No. 1273   National Seed Project; US$25.0 million loan of June 10, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 816    Second National Seed Project; US$16.0 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
These projects were designed to increase the availability of high
quality agricultural seed, and cover nine States (four by Ln. 1273-IN and
five by CR. 816-IN). The first project started slowly due to organizational



ANNEX II
Paep 1 6 of 1.7
difficulties and is almost two years behind schedule. Progress in the
second project States is more satisfactory. The role of various organizations
(National and State) in the production and processing of seed is being reviewed.
Ln. No. 1335   Bombay Urban Transport Project; US$25.0 million loan of
December 20, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The bus procurement program supported by the project has proceeded
on schedule, with all 700 bus chassis and bodies having been ordered and 589
already in service.  Total fleet strength has increased from 1,530 buses at
the inception of the project to 1,900 buses in September 1979, in accordance
with appraisal estimates. Depot capacity expansion is lagging somewhat behind
fleet expansion, but should match fleet size by early 1980. However, delays
in construction of new workshop facilities have been more substantial and will
not be fully recoverable. Traffic management civil works are also somewhat
behind schedule, although efforts are being made to speed up the works program.
Ln. No. 1394   Gujarat Fisheries Project; US$14.0 million loan and US$4.0
(TW) and       million credit of April 22, 1977; Effective Date:
Cr. No. 695    July 19, 1977; Closing Date:  June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 815    Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Project; US$17.5 million credit
ofJune 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1984
In Gujarat, harbor construction at Mangrol and Veraval are under
way, and although some delays have been encountered, the project is progress-
ing satisfactorily and no major problems are evident. In Andhra Pradesh,
preliminary work on implementation is progressing satisfactorily, and harbor
works at Visakhapatnam and Kakinada are scheduled to commence shortly.
Cr. No. 685    Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$150.0 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 793    Korba Thermal Power Project; US$200.0 million credit of
May 12, 1978; Effective Date: August 14, 1978; Closing
Date:  March 31, 1985
Ln. No. 1549   Third Trombay Thermal Power Project; US$105.0 million loan
*                            of June 19, 1978; Effective Date:  February 8, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
Ln. No. 1648   Ramagundam Thermal Power Project; US$50.0 million loan and
and Cr.        US$200 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
No. 874        May 22, 1979; Closing Date:  December 31, 1985



ANNEX I I
PAQP 17 of 17
Cr. No. 604    Power Transmission IV Project; US$150 million credit of
January 22, 1976; Effective Date: October 22, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Credit 685 assists in financing the first stage of the 2,000 MW
Singrauli development which is the first of four power stations in the
Government's program for the development of large central thermal power
stations feeding power into an interconnected grid. The second such
station, at Korba, is being financed under Credit 793. The National Thermal
Power Corporation (NTPC) has been carrying out construction and operation
of these power stations. Organization and staffing of NTPC is proceeding
satisfactorily.  Loan 1549 is supporting the construction of a 500 MW
extension of the Tata Electric Companies' station, in order to help meet
the forecast load growth in the Bombay area. Loan 1648 and Credit 874 sup-
port the construction of the first three 200 MW generating units in Andhra
Pradesh together with related facilities and associated transmission. All
these large-scale thermal power projects are progressing satisfactorily.
Under Credit 604, contracts aggregating about US$114 million have been ap-
proved to date. Although this project suffered delays in preparation of
technical specifications and evaluation of bids for highly sophisticated
equipment, the project is now progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 572    Rural Electrification Project; US$57.0 million credit of
July 23, 1975; Effective Date: October 23, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980
Cr. No. 911    Rural Electrification Corporation II Project; US$-175.0
million credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: October 17,
1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1984
Credit 572 consists of a tranche of rural electrification schemes
which would cover about 140 rural electrification schemes. There are now
thirteen State Electricity Boards (SEBs) eligible for onlending, compared
with six at the time of appraisal. The project got off to a slow start, due
principally to the need to adapt the specifications and tendering procedures
to international competitive bidding, but the position has improved and the
full amount of the Credit has been committed. Credit 911 would provide con-
tinued support to the Rural Electrification Corporation's lending program,
and help finance about 1,700 rural electrification schemes in fourteen SEBs,
including the newly participating Uttar Pradesh SEB.  The project is at an
early stage of implementation, and preparation of bid specifications is
progressing satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1473   Bombay High Offshore Development Project; US$150.0 million
loan of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: October 20, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project is progressing satisfactorily. Gas and oil pipelines
from Bombay High to shore were commissioned in June 1978. Most contracts for
Phase III of Bombay High development have been laid, construction should be
completed by mid-1980 and the loan should be fully disbursed by its original
closing date.



ANNEX III
Page 1
INDIA
THIRTEENTH LOAN TO THE INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND
INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA
Section I:     Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project
This loan is the thirteenth in a series of lending
operations to ICICI and, consequently, preparation
for each loan is a continuing process.
(b) The agency which has prepared the project
ICICI.
(c) Date of first presentation to IDA and date of
the first mission to consider the project
The former is not applicable in this case. On
the latter, the appraisal mission visited India
in November/December 1979.
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
November 9, 1979.
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
April 11, 1980.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
August 15, 1980.
Section II:    Special IDA Implementation Action
None
Section III:   Special Conditions
(a) Every subproject involving Bank subloans of more
than US$6 million, including outstanding commitments,
would require Bank approval (para 40).



