Document of
The World Bank                     FE   C ?Y
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2890-IN
INDIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
OF A
THIRTEENTH LOAN
TO THE
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA
April 18, 1980
Industrial Development and Finance Division
South Asia Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00             =    Rs 8.29
Rs 1                =    US$0.121
Rs 1.0 million      =    US$121,000
ABBREVIATIONS
CDFC      -    Commonwealth Development Finance Corporation
DEG       -    Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Wirtschaftliche
Zusammenarbeit (Entwicklungsgesellschaft)
DFC       -    Development Finance Companies
DIC       -    District Industries Center
DRC       -    Domestic Resource Cost
ERR       -    Economic Rate of Return
FRR       -    Financial Rate of Return
GOI       -    Government of India
ICICI     -    Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation
of India
IDBI      -    Industrial Development Bank of India
IFCI      -    Industrial Finance Corporation of India
IIG       -    Inter-Institutional Group Meeting
IIM       -    Inter-Institutional Meeting
KfW       -    Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
LIC       -    Life Insurance Corporation
MRTP      -    Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices Act
RBI       -    Reserve Bank of India
SFC       -    State Financial Corporation
SIDC      -    State Industrial Development Corporation
UTI       -    Unit Trust of India
FISCAL YEARS
GOI, SFCs                -   April 1 - March 31
ICICI                    -   January 1 - December 31
IDBI, IFCI, IRCI, RBI   -   July 1 - June 30



INDIA                 FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
APPRAISAL OF A THIRTEENTH LOAN TO THE
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.    INTRODUCTION ............................................                 1
II.    INDUSTRIAL SECTOR IN INDIA ..............................    2
Economic Setting ...................................                2
Industrial Structure ...............................    3
Industrial Policies and Priorities ....              .............    4
Recent Industrial Performance and
Investment Outlook ...............................    10
Industrial Finance .................................   10
III.    INSTITUTIONAL DETAILS OF ICICI ..........................   13
Ownership, Organization and Staffing ....             ...........   13
Operating Policies, Procedures and Standards .... ...   14
Relations with Government and Business ....             .........   17
IV.   PAST OPERATIONS AND PERFORMANCE  .........................   18
Financing Operations ...............................    18
Characteristics of Projects Financed ....             ...........   19
Other Development Activities .......................   21
Quality of Portfolio ...............................   23
Resources ..........................................    24
Financial Performance ..............................   26
V.   FUTURE OPERATIONS AND RESOURCE NEEDS ....................   27
Operations Forecast  ................................   27
Resource Requirements ..............................   28
Financial Projections  ..............................   30
VI.    THE PROPOSED LOAN, ITS JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS ....              ......   31
The Proposed Loan ..................................   31
Benefits ...........................................   32
Risks ..............................................    33
VII.    RECOMMENDATION .........................................                 33
LIST OF ANNEXES
1 - Distribution of Shareholding as of September 30, 1979
2 - Estimated Quarterly Disbursement Schedule for Proposed
Thirteenth Loan
3 - Supplementary Tables
4 - Documents Available in the Project File
This report is based on an appraisal mission consisting of Messrs. D. Cook
and C. Bam in November/December 1979.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






INDIA
APPRAISAL OF A THIRTEENTH LOAN TO THE
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India (ICICI)
was established in 1955 with the active assistance of the Bank. Since then
it has developed into a large, well managed and mature financial institution,
which enjoys the respect of the Government and the business and financial
communities. ICICI is the principal institutional source of foreign ex-
change financing for investment projects of medium and large scale private
industrial firms, and is also an important source of local currency term
financing for these firms. Since 1955, the Bank has made twelve loans to
ICICI totalling US$505 million. The proceeds of these loans and other re-
sources mobilized by ICICI have been used to finance more than 2,500 invest-
ment projects. The twelfth Bank loan of US$80 million was made in July 1977,
and by December 31, 1979, IBRD had credited US$67.7 million, and disbursed
US$37.8 million. ICICI expects to have fully committed the twelfth loan and
its other available sources of foreign exchange by June 1980 and has therefore
requested the Bank to continue to support its operations with a further loan.
1.02      ICICI's operational efficiency and impact on industrial and economic
development have been extensively studied by the Bank Group. In 1973, a
major study undertaken jointly by the Bank and ICICI concluded that ICICI's
impact had been substantial, particularly through helping to ensure that scarce
foreign exchange resources were allocated to priority industries mounting
financially and economically sound projects. This conclusion has also been
supported by Operations Evaluation Department performance audits for the sixth,
seventh and eighth loans completed in 1975 and the project completion report
for the ninth and tenth loans, issued in January 1980. In line with the recom-
mendations made in these reports, the eleventh and twelfth loans were designed
to encourage and assist ICICI to diversify its sources of local and foreign
currency and to broaden the scope of its activities so as to enhance further
its developmental impact. Progress to date has been satisfactory. ICICI
raised its first syndicated eurodollar loan in 1978 and rupee resources have
also been significantly increased through domestic bond issues and joint
financing operations with other institutions. ICICI has undertaken several
important industrial studies and has initiated a wide range of developmental
activities.
1.03      The objectives of the proposed loan would be to build on the pro-
gress achieved in recent operations by: (i) continuing to use ICICI as an
efficient channel for financing high priority industrial investment projects;
(ii) assisting ICICI to make greater use of foreign commercial borrowings by
facilitating blending of Bank and commercial funds in ICICI's operations;
and (iii) assisting ICICI to expand selectively its program of industrial
studies and other developmental activities and to ensure that these comple-
ment mainstream financing operations, address major problems and constraints
affecting the industrial sector, and make best use of ICICI's experience and
resources.



-2-
II. THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR IN INDIA
Economic Setting
2.01      A detailed assessment of the status and prospects of the Indian
economy is contained in the Bank's latest Economic Report, No. 2431-IN,
dated April 9, 1979. A brief summary of recent developments and trends is
given below.
2.02      The Indian economy ended 1978/79 1/ in a relatively strong position.
GDP growth of 4.4% in 1978/79 came after three years when growth averaged about
6% per annum, yielding a cumulative rise in real per capita incomes of more
than 10% over the four year period. A major factor contributing to this
above average economic performance was the impressive gains made in agricul-
ture. Favorable weather conditions, increased fertilizer use, introduction
of higher yielding varieties and expansion of the area under irrigation, led
to a succession of bumper harvests. Stocks of foodgrains with Central and
State Governments stood at a record level of 21.6 million tons in July 1979.
In response to more buoyant domestic demand and increased supply of inputs to
the agro-processing industries, industrial production grew by 7.5% in 1978/79.
Production gains could have been higher but for recurring shortages of basic
inputs, such as coal and steel, and power and transport bottlenecks. Foreign
exchange reserves continued to rise as a result of the large net inflow of
invisible receipts, although the rate of accumulation of reserves slowed down
following the liberalization of imports and a drop in the net inflow of ex-
ternal assistance. As of July 30, 1979, foreign exchange reserves totalled
Rs 53,462 million (US$6,449 million), sufficient to cover about nine months of
imports. Price stability continued for most of 1978/79 with the average level
of the wholesale price index for the year showing no significant rise over the
average level for the previous year.
2.03      Economic performance in 1979/80 has been affected by a combination
of adverse factors. The southwest monsoon rains were late and ill distri-
buted, leading to severe drought conditions in many states. As a result,
it is estimated that the kharif foodgrains harvest may fall short of the
previous year's record levels by 10 million tons (13%). The rabi harvest
appears less severely affected, but may also be lower than last year's levels.
Output of other crops, including sugar and jute, has also been adversely
affected. Preliminary indications are that overall agriculture production
may be 8% lower than in 1978/79. Industry has also been hard hit, and little,
if any, production growth was recorded in the first nine months of 1979/80.
Power supply to industry had to be severely curtailed because of the effects
of the drought on hydroelectric power generation, coal shortages, and the
need to give priority in electricity use to the agricultural sector. Indus-
try's problems were further compounded by increasing shortages of steel,
cement, aluminium and other basic inputs, inadequate availability of railway
wagons, congestion at the ports and increasing industrial unrest. Political
uncertainties made it more difficult to react speedily to the numerous
1/   The Indian financial year runs from April 1 to March 31.



- 3 -
problems affecting the economy. Inflation has accelerated as a result of
scarcity of certain manufactured goods and agricultural commodities and
increased prices and reduced supplies of petroleum products, particularly
diesel oil and kerosene. During 1979, the wholesale price index increased
by about 20%.
2.04      The Indian economy has suffered a significant setback in the cur-
rent year and careful supply/demand management will be required to bring down
the rate of inflation.  Moreover, the sharply increased costs of petroleum
imports are expected to result in a significant widening of the trade deficit
in the coming year. Economic growth may be relatively modest in 1980/81,
but there are favorable indications that the economy may be able to regain
its growth momentum fairly rapidly thereafter. Political uncertainties have
been resolved following the recent election and the high level of foreign
exchange reserves should obviate the need for a severe curtailment of imports.
Stocks of key commodities such as cereals, cotton and jute are more than
adequate to offset the 1979/80 production shortfalls. The production poten-
tial of the agricultural sector has continued to improve and, barring another
poor monsoon, agricultural output could resume its upward trend in the next
growing season. The industrial sector could also make a significant contri-
bution to economic growth and export expansion provided that power supply
and transportation bottlenecks are eased, an adequate rate of investment is
maintained and a favorable policy environment prevails.
Industrial Structure
2.05      Structure of Output.  India's industrial sector, broadly defined
to include manufacturing, mining, construction and utilities, contributed
about 23% of GDP in 1978, of which manufacturing contributed 16-17%. In 1950
when the first National Plan was initiated, industry was heavily oriented
towards the production of consumer goods, with traditional industries such
as textiles and food processing responsible for about half of manufacturing
output. Over the next 15 years, industrial production expanded by 7-8%
annually, with particular emphasis being placed on the expansion of capital
goods production including industrial machinery and transport equipment,
and expansion of "basic" industries producing primary goods such as iron and
steel, cement and fertilizers. Substantial structural transformation took
place over this period, with intermediate and capital goods representing about
60% of output of the organized factory sector by 1965. Since then the rate
of industrial expansion has slowed down to an average of about 4% per annum.
Structural change has continued with production of "basic" industries, and
certain capital goods industries such as diesel engines, agricultural machin-
ery, and heavy electrical equipment growing at a significantly faster rate
than industry as a whole. India now has a broad based and fairly sophisti-
cated industrial sector that can produce most of the country's needs for
manufactured products. Imports are mainly of industrial raw materials and
intermediates for which India does not have the raw material base, and some
sophisticated types of machinery. Sufficient attention was not paid to
expanding manufactured exports until the early 1970s. Since then, exports
have expanded quite rapidly (18.9% p.a. in current US dollars between 1970
and 1978), but still represent only about 5% of total manufacturing produc-
tion. Exports of engineering goods rose particularly rapidly to to reach
US$720 million in 1977/78.



2.06      Factory Sizes and Structural Characteristics.  About two thirds of
manufacturing output comes from firms registered under the 1948 Factories
Act, which generally have 10 or more employees. The other third comes from
unregistered labor intensive small scale units, which together employ about
70% of the industrial labor force. The size structure of the firms in the
registered segment and some corresponding structural ratios are shown in
Table 2.1 below. Almost 80% of the registered units are relatively small,
having less than 50 workers. However, these small units only produce about
12% of the total value added by the registered units. While capital inten-
sity tends to increase with firm size, only the very large units with more
than 5,000 workers show very substantial differences in capital intensity.
Taken as a whole, the factories of all sizes appear quite labor intensive,
with an average of Rs 24,319 (about US$3,000), of fixed capital per employee
in 1976 using depreciated book values of fixed assets. Converting to replace-
ment values and 1979 prices, the average fixed capital per employee would
rise to about US$8-10,000. The efficiency of capital utilization, as measured
by the ratio of fixed capital to value added, is similar for firms of all
sizes other than very large units, for which it is significantly lower.
2.07      Ownership Pattern.  About 66% of industrial value added by registered
units originates in the private sector. The proportion of output coming from
the public sector units has increased from 20% in 1970 to 28% in 1976/77,
reflecting heavy Government investment in certain subsectors including elec-
tricity generation, steel, and cement and the nationalization of part of the
textile industry. With government encouragement, the Joint Sector, compris-
ing mainly new medium sizes units established with public and private parti-
cipation, has also expanded and by 1976/77 contributed about 6% of industrial
value added. Table 2.2 compares the principal characteristics of industrial
firms by type of ownership. It indicates that some 93% of registered factories
are in the private sector. The private firms employ about 70% of the workers
in registered firms and contribute two thirds of value added, using only 30%
of total fixed assets. By comparison, the public sector firms are much larger,
with over 400 workers on average, and have six times as much capital invested
per employee as the private firms. Productivity in the use of capital, as
measured by the ratio of fixed capital to value added, appears substantially
better in the private sector units. While the differences between the public
and private sector productivity are partly attributable to the differences in
subsector mix, with public sector investment concentrated in the naturally
more capital intensive subsectors, more efficient management in the private
sector is also an important factor. The performance of the Joint Sector plants,
which generally have private sector management, is closer to that of the pri-
vate sector plants.
Industrial Policies and Priorities
2.08      The basic development strategy laid down in India's Industrial
Policy Resolutions of 1948 and 1956 has continued to guide the development
of the industrial sector for most of the past 25 years. The strategy focused
on achieving a high degree of self-sufficiency in manufacturing through import
substitution and curbs on foreign ownership. In addition, a program of



Table 2.1. Structural Ratios of Registered Factories by Scale of Employment (1976/77)-/
No. of    Total        Fixed -       Value         Value Added  Fixed Capital/ Fixed Capital/ Operating Surplus/
Employment Range Factories Employment  Capital          Added         Per Employee Employee         Value Added    Productive Capitalc/
(thousands) (Rs million) (Rs million)        (Rs)          (Rs)
0 -   49        64,402     1,002         8,184          6,292         6,279         8,166             1.30                0.25
50 -   99         7,915        550        4,480          3,930         7,143         8,143              1.14               0.29
100 -  199         4,274        641        5,816          4,830         7,533         9,071              1.20               0.26
200 -  499         2,609        803      11,565           9,415        11,727        14,405              1.23               0.28
500 -  999           981        679       18,704          9,755        14,364        27,541              1.92                0.16
1000 - 2000           658        931       24,276         14,071        15,107        26,062              1.73                0.22
2000 - 4999           359      1,059       17,287         13,271        12,535        16,328              1.30                0.21
5000 and above         79        984       71,335         11,543        12,751        72,579              6.19                0.05
TOTAL             81,277      6,649      161,706         73,107        10,995        24,319              2.21                0.11
a/  Based on Annual Survey of Industries 1976-77, Central Statistical Organization
b/  Fixed Capital includes plant, machinery, land and buildings at the depreciated value shown in company.
books.
c/  Productive capital is fixed capital plus working capital.



Table 2.2.  ri_ncP Il C iharacteristics of Registered Factories by Ownership Type-
PercentaQ,e DisErioution                            Structural Ratios
Number of   Fixed                                 Fixed Capital   Fixed Capital        Operating Surplus/
Factories   Capital   Employees   Value Added   per Employee    over value added   Productive Capital
Rs.
Public Sector        4.6       62.9         23.7        27.8          64,382               5.0                 0.7
Joint Sector        1.7         6.7          5.8         5.9          28,352               2.51                0.14
Private Sector     93.7        30.4         70.5        66.3          10,500               1.02                0.30
Total             100.0       100.0       100.0        100.0          24,319               2.21                0.16
a/ Based on 1976-77 Annual Survey of Industries



expanded public ownership has been pursued, particularly in respect of heavy
industries supplying basic inputs to the industrial and agricultural sectors.
Successive governments have also sought to restrict the concentration of
economic power through constraints on the expansion of large private under-
takings and special support programs for small scale industries and indus-
trially backward regions. To implement this strategy, a very comprehensive
and cumbersome regulatory framework has grown up. The principal instruments
used have been central licensing of investment, controls on imports and
exports, allocation of 'scarce' domestically produced raw materials, price
controls and reservation of production of certain items for small scale firms
and the public sector.
2.09      The industrial strategy outlined above was quite successful in pro-
moting rapid industrialization up to 1965 and in enabling India to develop a
broad based industrial structure. However, certain shortcomings have become
apparent in later years. Between 1965 and 1975 the industrial growth rate was
little faster than that of the economy as a whole and growth of employment in
the organized industrial sector, at about 1.8% p.a., did not keep pace with
the growth of the labor force. In the protective environment in which indus-
try developed, inadequate attention was paid to product quality, economies of
scale and technological development with the result that many industrial firms
were not well placed to compete in export markets as opportunities for further
import substitution declined. Domestic demand for consumer goods was con-
strained by the relatively slow growth of per capita incomes and demand
for investment goods was strongly dependent on the level of public investment
which tended to fall after 1965. Moreover, inefficiencies in management
and capacity constraints in public sector plants supplying key inputs to the
rest of the industrial sector often held back industrial production even when
domestic demand was buoyant.
2.10      Over the past five years, GOI has been reconsidering some of the
elements of its industrial strategy. Important modifications have been made
in industrial policies with the intention of boosting the industrial growth
rate, encouraging greater efficiency in capacity utilization in the public
and private sectors and stimulating industrial exports. The new industrial
strategy statement issued in 1977 reduced somewhat the emphasis on heavy
industrialization as the key to industrial growth, and gave greater weight to
employment creation and decentralization of industrial activity by increased
support for small scale activities in small towns and rural areas. This
strategy statement did not signal any major change in the character of the
regulatory system. However, the process of liberalization and streamlining
initiated earlier has continued since 1977. The new Government which assumed
office in January 1980 is still reviewing its industrial policies and stra-
tegies and it is not yet clear what modifications may be made to the 1977
strategy statement.
2.11      Liberalization of Industrial Licensing.  The process of simplifying
and speeding up procedures for the issuance of industrial licenses started
in 1973 when a time limit was established for clearing license applications.
Several subsequent changes have been made to liberalize licensing require-
ments. Diversification of production by a number of engineering industries



is now permitted, within the limits of overall licensed capacity, to facili-
tate better utilization of installed capacity in the face of varying market
conditions. Certain export-oriented engineering industries are permitted
to grow over a five-year period by 25% over their licensed capacity. Fol-
lowing the report of the Ramakrishna study group in 1978, the upper limit for
the size of investment that would be exempt from licensing was raised from
Rs 10 million to Rs 30 million for firms with total assets of less than Rs 200
million. Overall, these changes have significantly reduced the delays and
constraints of the licensing system for most industrial firms. The 'large
houses' and foreign companies (as defined in the Foreign Exchange Regulation
Act, FERA, 1974) remain fairly tightly restricted but they are now permitted
to expand in certain specified industries. In April 1979, the Committee of
Industrialists set up by the Government submitted its report proposing further
liberalization of licensing. The recommendations of this committee, which
are understood to include further raising the license exemption limit, changing
the definition of 'large houses' under the MRTP Act, 1/ and allowing private
firms to expand into activities currently reserved for the public sector, are
still under review by the Government.
2.12      Import Controls.  With the build up of foreign exchange reserves, a
more liberal import policy has been followed since 1976/77 aimed at relieving
domestic supply constraints and production bottlenecks, encouraging industrial
investment and facilitating exports. Following the recommendation of the
Alexander Committee, the import licensing system has been rationalized, pro-
cedures simplified and controls eased. Separate lists have been prepared for
import items that are 'banned' or 'restricted,' imports of items not on these
lists being allowed freely. Imports of a wide range of capital goods, compo-
nents, spares and industrial raw materials, including some on the restricted
list, is now permitted to 'actual users' on an Open General License (OGL)
basis. Certain basic industries like fertilizers, power generation, basic
drugs, cement, paper, petroleum exploration and production and fully export-
oriented industries are allowed to import plant and equipment by inviting
global tenders. The number of items for which imports are required to be
channeled through designated agencies has been significantly reduced. Imports
of raw materials and intermediate goods by registered exporters have been
substantially liberalized. Special measures have also been introduced to
increase availability and reduce costs of imports to the small scale sector.
Overall, a gradual transition has been taking place towards the development
of a protection system based more on tariffs than on quantitative restrictions,
thereby opening the economy to a more healthy degree of competition.
2.13      Export Controls and Incentives.  The principal instruments of
export promotion, including cash compensatory support (partly compensation
for payment of indirect taxes), duty free imports of inputs or duty drawback
arrangements, and concessional interest rates on export credits have continued
in force. Important improvements initiated during the last few years include
rationalization of the export licensing system, decentralization of admin-
istrative functions and strengthening of the promotional systems. Export
licensing is now required only in respect of a limited number of essential
1/   Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices Act.



- 9 -
items in short supply in the domestic economy. The range of export items that
are required to be channeled through designated agencies has been severely
reduced. However, export quotas and minimum export prices remain in force for
some commodities. Some steps have been taken to strengthen the role of Export
Houses in promoting exports, particularly those deriving from small and
cottage industries. The State Trading Corporation and the Trade Development
Authority have also increased their technical assistance and promotional
support to small exporters.
2.14      Statutory Price and Distribution Controls have been in force for
several years in respect of 'essential' products such as iron and steel,
cement, sugar, paper and fertilizers. The effect of these controls has
been to hold down profitability in the affected industries and to discourage
investments with the result that periodic or chronic shortages have emerged.
These effects have had to be mitigated at times by the introduction of special
incentives to encourage investment. Over the last few years some price controls
have been eased and improvements in price control mechanisms have been made,
particularly in respect of more frequent price reviews, setting controlled
prices so that the industries concerned can achieve an acceptable return on
investment, and increased recourse to imports in order to moderate price rises
of items in short supply.
2.15      Support for Small and Cottage Industries has been provided in suc-
cessive Government plans and policy statements in view of their predominant
role in industrial employment. Current employment in unregistered (mostly
traditional) small industries is estimated at 14 million persons and a further
2.8 million persons are employed in the small registered units in the modern
sector. Altogether over 80% of industrial employees work in the small scale
units. A wide variety of support mechanisms have been used including
exemptions from licensing requirements, reservation of production of certain
items exclusively for small units, and a host of special programs to provide
concessionary credit terms, technical assistance, hire purchase finance,
industrial buildings, and raw material supplies. Success of these programs
has been limited by inadequate attention to marketing and product quality, and
the proliferation of institutions at state and central Government levels with
overlapping functions, inadequate funding and insufficient representation at
the grass roots level. The 1977 industrial strategy statement seeks to
strengthen support for the small scale sector by additional production reser-
vations, and a substantial increase in funding for the special programs. In
addition, the District Industries Center (DIC) Program was launched in 1978 in
an attempt to improve the institutional and organizational framework for
implementing small industry support programs. The intention is to establish a
DIC in each of India's 400 districts to provide at local level a single center
for planning and coordinating all types of assistance to small industry.  The
DIC program received strong encouragement from the Government and, by March
1979, 346 DICs had been sanctioned, of which about 200 had initiated opera-
tions. It is too early yet to judge the success of the program. Difficulties
have been encountered in recruiting suitable staff and in persuading state
government departments to delegate administrative and financial powers under
various industrial and trade acts to the DICs. Nevertheless, significant
progress has been made in several states. The DIC program potentially could
help resolve some of the organizational weaknesses that have been apparent in
the past, but there is clearly a danger that unless carefully managed it could



- 10 -
become yet another level of bureaucracy of marginal usefulness. There is also
a need to forge better links between the small units and the larger private
and public sector plants through subcontracting and component supply rela-
tionships so as to foster the development of a better integrated and more
dynamic industrial structure.
Recent Industrial Performance and Investment Outlook
2.16      Helped by the stronger performance of the agricultural sector and
the more liberal policy environment, industrial output growth averaged 7%
p.a. between 1975/76 and 1978/79.  Average capacity utilization levels in
the corporate sector rose from 76% in 1976 to 82% in 1978. The after-tax
rate of return on net worth of the medium sized and large private companies,
which had been on a declining trend throughout the late 1960s and early
1970s, stabilized at about 10% after 1975/76 and increased somewhat in
1978/79. The real level of fixed investment in the private corporate sector
had been on a declining trend also for most of the 1970s because of low pro-
fitability and the slow growth of domestic demand. However, some revival
in investment started in 1977/78 and 1978/79 and there are indications, from
the applications and sanctions of ICICI and the other term lending institu-
tions, that the rising trend has continued into 1979/80. Thus, it appeared
that conditions were being created for industry to have a sustained period
of higher output growth.
2.17      As noted in para 2.03, 1979/80 has been a difficult year for the
Indian economy, with industrial production being severely constrained by the
impact of the drought on agricultural output and electricity generation, and
by the cumulative effects of power shortages, transportation bottlenecks and
labor disputes. Recessionary conditions may prevail in 1980/81 also because
of the drop in rural incomes and the need to stabilize the economy. The
industrial. sector has demonstrated its ability to recover rapidly from past
recessions. However, if such recovery is to be sustained, it is important
that an adequate level of investment in modernization and capacity expansion
is maintained, that power and infrastructure bottlenecks are overcome and that
greater attention is paid to expanding manufactured exports. With profit
levels lilkely to be relatively low in 1979/80 and 1980/81, industrial firms
will need to rely increasingly on external sources of credit to finance their
investments. ICICI can play an important role in providing the required funds
and, through its project appraisal and promotional activities, helping to
ensure that available resources are used for efficient, high priority
investments.
Industrial Finance
2.18      General.  In recent years, between two-thirds and three-quarters of
gross fixed investment in industry has taken place in the public sector units,
financed largely out of Central and State budgets. In the private sector,
internally generated funds including depreciation reserves and retained pro-
fits have traditionally been the most important source of investment finance.
However, the combined effects of inflation and relatively low profitability,
have led to an increasing reliance on external financing, which contributed
57% of total sources of funds of large and medium sized industries in 1975/76
compared to 45% in 1961/62. Available indicators suggest that this trend has
continued in the last few years.



- 11 -
2.19      Financial Institutions.  India has an extensive and well established
structure of financial institutions serving the industrial sector. These
include industrial term-lending and investment institutions at the all-India
and state levels, commercial banks, stock exchanges and a variety of special
purpose institutions supporting small industry and other priority sectors.
The principal all-India industrial finance institutions are IDBI, ICICI, IFCI,
LIC and UTI 1/ which mainly provide term-financing for large and medium sized
public limited companies in the private and joint sectors and also for some
public sector firms. At the State level, the most important institutions
are the State Financial Corporations (SFCs), which finance small and medium
scale industries 2/ and the State Industrial Development Corporations (SIDCs)
which mainly promote and help finance larger industries having direct State
Shareholding. 3/ While these term-lending institutions finance only about 6%
of total fixed investment in industry, their importance in financing private
industrial investment has been increasing. Their total disbursements were
equivalent to 29.5% of private fixed investment in industry in 1976/77 com-
pared to 18.2% in 1970/71 (see Annex 3, Table 16). Commercial banks are
important mainly as providers of working capital finance to industry, but
they also provide some term-loans, which account for 5-10% of their total
credit outstanding to industry.
2.20      IDBI, as the apex institution for industrial financing in India,
is responsible for coordinating the activities of the other all-India and
state-level institutions and provides financing (through refinance facilities
and equity participation) to SFCs and SIDCs and refinance to commercial banks
for small industry loans. The direct financing operations of IDBI, ICICI and
IFCI, comprising term-lending, equity investments and underwriting of share
and debenture issues, are similar in character. In the past IDBI and IFCI
have tended to concentrate rather more on the traditional subsectors (e.g.
textiles, sugar, food products, cement and electrical generation) and on
joint/public sector projects. ICICI is more heavily represented in the non-
traditional subsectors such as chemicals and petrochemicals, electrical equip-
ment and electronics and mechanical engineering. ICICI is also the most
important institutional source of foreign exchange financing for private
industry, accounting for about three-quarters of foreign exchange financing by
all of the institutions. Joint financing of the local currency requirements
of the larger projects among the all-India institutions is becoming increas-
ingly common, and there is now substantial overlap in their clientele.
1/   Industrial Development Bank of India (IDBI), Industrial Credit and
Investment Corporation of India (ICICI), Industrial Finance Corporation
of India (IFCI), Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC), and Unit
Trust of India (UTI).
2/   SFCs do not grant financial assistance to companies whose paid up
capital and free reserves exceed Rs 10 million. SFCs maximum assistance
to a single company is Rs 3 million.
3/   Other financial institutions at the State level are State Small Indus-
tries Corporations (SSICs) which allocate and distribute raw materials
to small industries and provide some hire purchase finance, and State
Small Industries Development Corporations (SSIDCs) whose main activities
are to establish and manage industrial estates.



- 12 -
While LIC and UTI support industrial investment through direct subscriptions
to share and debenture issues, LIC also participates in joint financing of
rupee term-loans with the other institutions. In the past five years, a
number of steps have been taken to streamline and standardize the procedures
for joint financing among the term-lending institutions, including the adop-
tion of a lead-bank system, and the procedures now work quite well (para 3.07).
2.21      Interest Rates and Credit Policy.  Total credit extended by the
commercial banking system grew by 20.8% in 1978/79, continuing a trend of
rapid credit expansion evidenced in each of the previous three years. Bank
deposits grew slightly faster, resulting in a reduction in the gross credit
to deposit ratio from 72% in June 1977 to 66.9% in June 1979. Disbursements
of the industrial term-financing institutions also increased rapidly, by 33.9%
in 1978/79 compared to 16.2% in the previous year. With inflation 1/ averag-
ing about 5% p.a. since 1975/76, credit expansion has been quite rapid in
real terms and credit availability has been a less serious problem. Commer-
cial bank interest rates on short-term loans were reduced from 16.5% to 15%
early in 1978. Interest rates on savings were also reduced, from 8% to 6%
on deposits of 1-3 years and from 9% to 7.5% on deposits of 3-5 years and
from 10% to 9% on deposits of over 5 years (see Annex 3, Table 1). Since
the inflation rate began to rise in late 1978, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI)
has taken steps to curb credit expansion, including higher statutory liquidity
ratios for the banks, credit ceilings for industrial borrowers and increases
in interest rates. Short term interest rates have now risen to 16-18% and
term deposit interest rates by one percentage point. Interest rates charged
by the industrial term-financing institutions on longer term loans have
remained at 11-12% for several years. Should current high rates of inflation
persist for some time, it is likely that the long-term interest rates would
also be adjusted upwards. However, India has traditionally been a low-
inflation country, and the authorities have demonstrated their ability to deal
rapidly with inflationary surges in the past.
2.22      The Capital Market.  Direct issuance of shares and debentures for
subscription by the public and by institutions has been a comparatively minor
source of investment financing for private industry. Total capital issues
by non-government firms have generally accounted for only about 5% of private
industrial investment and are equivalent in size to only about one fifth of
the disbursements by the term-financing institutions. In 1977/78 and 1978/79,
the capital market was somewhat more active. Total capital issues 2/ rose
by 65% in 1977/78 to Rs 1,355 million, partly because a number of companies
needed to dilute foreign shareholdings to comply with new foreign investment
regulations. Of this total Rs 794 million was in new ordinary and preference
shares, Rs 206 million in rights issues and Rs 355 million in debentures.
Although total capital issues in 1978/79, at Rs 1,145 million, were 15%
lower than in the previous year, the total was higher than in any of the
earlier years. The higher level of activity in the capital market was also
encouraged in part by the lowering of interest rates on fixed deposits and
1/   Measured by the consumer price index.
2/   Excluding bonus shares for capitalization of reserves.



- 13 -
concessions extended in the 1978 budget for investments in new issues. With
worsening economic conditions and rising interest rates, capital issue activ-
ity declined substantially in 1979/80. During the first six months of the
year total capital raised was only Rs 243 million compared to Rs 712 million
in the corresponding period of the previous year. The index of ordinary share
prices (1970/71 = 100) rose by 21.4 points in 1978/79 to reach 150.5. However,
it fell to 140 by October 1979 and continued to drop since then. Because of
the thinness of the market for equity shares, almost all issues are under-
written and frequently the underwriters have to take up part of the issue.
With public demand for share and debenture issues likely to remain weak,
private industry is expected to rely even more heavily on the financial
institutions for investment finance over the next few years.
III. INSTITUTIONAL DETAILS OF ICICI
Ownership, Organization and Staffing
3.01      Share Capital and Ownership.  ICICI's original paid-in share
capital of Rs 50 million has been gradually increased to Rs 225 million at
present. Annex 1 shows the holdings of ICICI shares by 2,422 shareholders.
Of the Rs 75 million increase in share capital that has taken place since
1976, the bulk has been subscribed by ICICI's public sector shareholders,
which are mainly government owned banks and insurance companies. Conse-
quently the public sector holding has increased from 75.6% to 80.8% and
domestic private sector holdings have fallen from 10% to 7.8%. Similarly,
the holdings of ICICI's foreign shareholders have declined from 14.4% in
1976 to 11.4% in 1979, as a result of their not subscribing to rights issues.
As the public sector holds more than 50% of its shares, ICICI is considered
a government company in terms of the Companies Act. However, this classi-
fication does not affect ICICI's operational autonomy except in respect of
the procedures for appointing auditors (para 3.10).
3.02      Board of Directors and Management.  ICICI's Board remains competent
and experienced. Mr. James S. Raj, who succeeded Mr. H.T. Parekh as Chairman
in 1978, resigned in September 1979, but remained a member of the Board until
his death in January 1980. He was succeeded as Chairman by Mr. S.S. Mehta,
who retains the post of Managing Director with responsibility for all oper-
ational aspects of ICICI. Of the fifteen member Board, eleven members have
been appointed since 1976, including five in 1979. The Board members repre-
sent the Government of India (2), public financial institutions (2), the
foreign shareholders (2), the professions and business (7), ICICI (2). The
former General Manager, Mr. S. Kumarasundaram, was appointed as a director
in 1978 but retains full time executive responsibilities under the Managing
Director. The Board, which continues to meet regularly with good attendance,
sets ICICI's overall financial and operational policies and decides on project



- 14 -
proposals above Rs 2.5 million. 1/ Mr. S.S. Nadkarni, who was appointed
General Manager in 1978, leads a capable middle management.
3.03      Staff.  At September 30, 1979, ICICI's staff numbered 595, includ-
ing 244 professionals, compared to a total of 187 professionals in September
1976. New staff members were assigned to support departments as well as oper-
ating departments, including the three regional offices, where professional
staff now number 31. The overall quality of ICICI's staff remains high.
Salaries are competitive with other financial institutions and banks and
training and housing benefits provide further incentives. Staff morale is
good and turnover remains low: about 40% of professional staff have worked
at ICICI for ten years or more. ICICI intends to increase its staff as neces-
sary to cope with the expansion of its operations and does not anticipate any
difficulties in attracting suitably qualified applicants.
3.04      Organizational Structure.  ICICI's organizational structure has con-
tinued to develop soundly as its operations have grown. Mr. S.S. Mehta as
Managing Director and Chairman of the Board is the chief executive officer,
but works closely with the Executive Director and the General Manager in the
day-to-day management of the corporation. The Executive Director has primary
responsibility for finance, including resources, follow-up and the economics
division, while the General Manager is primarily responsible for projects and
merchant banking, development and market research, secretarial and the regional
offices. A next level of management consists of five officers, including a
deputy and an assistant general manager. In 1978, ICICI created five group
manager positions, each with responsibility for two operating or support
divisions, which enabled ICICI to combine divisions with complementary activ-
ities under one manager. The role of the regional offices has been expanded
with the objective of making them self-sufficient in appraisal, 2/ follow-up
and legal work. The Delhi office also fulfills a valuable function in liaison
with Government and is headed by a senior officer of group manager level.
Operating Policies, Procedures and Standards
3.05      Operating Policies.  While ICICI has no formal policy statement,
its Memorandum of Association, together with Government guidelines and the
resolutions of the Board over time, have provided a satisfactory policy frame-
work for ICICI's operations. The pattern of ICICI's industrial financing
has tended to follow the investment priorities deriving from the evolution
of India's industrial development strategy (para 2.08). ICICI has directed
its financial support mainly towards private industry and towards the develop-
ment of non-traditional and technologically more advanced subsectors. Never-
theless, ICICI has assisted a number of clients in the more traditional sub-
sectors and has played an important role in promoting improvements in product
1/   Smaller loans up to Rs 25 million per month are approved by the Managing
Director. An investment committee of the Board headed by the Chairman
decides on debenture and share sales.
2/   Regional offices now process project applications except in cases where
specialized technical or marketing knowledge is required.



- 15 -
quality and productive efficiency in these subsectors. In 1977, ICICI's
Board approved a Statement of Financial and Operating Strategy which set out
its broad intentions in lending and specifically identified the six priority
areas on which it would concentrate: (a) export industries; (b) power and
transport; (c) agricultural inputs and outputs; (d) industries basic to
industrial expansion; (e) mass consumption goods; and (f) balancing and
modernization projects. The statement also noted ICICI's commitment to
assistance in the designated backward areas and to assist new entrepreneurs.
Since 1977, over 90% of ICICI's assistance has been for projects that fall
within the identified priorities. ICICI's decisions on exposure in individual
companies continue to be made on a case by case basis. At September 30,
1979, there were 19 companies in which ICICI had an exposure 1/ amounting
to more than 10% of its equity; exposure in the largest of these amounted to
22% of ICICI's equity. In all of these cases, the companies are performing
satisfactorily and are regular in meeting their debt service obligations.
ICICI considers that the six priority areas listed in its present statement
of financing strategy continue to provide an appropriate focus for its opera-
tions over the next few years. Nevertheless, ICICI has recently updated this
statement to reflect in greater detail certain aspects that warrant increased
emphasis within the priority areas, to reflect ICICI's plans to devote in-
creased attention to the development of the petrochemical industry, and to
include a description of its strategy for the mobilization and utilization
of different sources of funds (para 5.05).
3.06      Terms of Assistance.  For both domestic and foreign currency loans,
ICICI's standard rate of interest has been set at 11% p.a. since 1975. How-
ever, funds deriving from ICICI's 1978 eurodollar borrowing have been relent
at a floating rate of interest of 1.5% above LIBOR. In the case of foreign
currency loans, subborrowers bear the foreign exchange risk on the currencies
disbursed. Foreign currency loans to designated backward areas generally
receive a 1% interest rate concession and domestic currency loans a 1.5%
concession. 2/ An additional 1% p.a. is charged on loans to companies whose
shares are not listed on a stock exchange. 3/ With inflation averaging about
5% p.a. between 1976 and 1979, ICICI's interest rate has been significantly
positive in real terms. While inflation is running at above 15% in 1979/80,
on the basis of the Bank's present inflation projections for India, 4/ ICICI's
1/   Approvals, net of cancellations and repayments, but including guarantees.
2/   A further exemption exists in respect of rupee loans made under IDBI's
Special Modernization Scheme, which bear an interest rate of 7.5% p.a.
This scheme is intended to encourage replacement of out-of-date equip-
ment in certain specified industries.
3/   The surcharge is designed to compensate ICICI for not having the oppor-
tunity to participate in equity. It also acts as a marginal incentive
to companies to diversify their ownership.
4/   Latest Bank estimates are 10%, in 1980, 7% in 1981-83, and 5% p.a.
subsequently.



- 16 -
interest rates are expected to remain positive in real terms over the average
life of subloans made in 1980 and subsequently. ICICI also participates in
the equity of its clients and reeerves the right to convert up to 20% of its
domestic currency loan amount to ordinary shares. ICICI continues to charge a
1% p.a. commitment fee on foreign currency loans and a commitment fee, ranging
between 0.25% and 1% p.a., on domestic currency loans. ICICI's standard lend-
ing terms provide for loan maturities of up to 15 years including up to 3
years of grace. However, in special cases, including rupee loans for projects
in backward areas, ICICI may provide maturities of up to 20 years and grace
periods of up to five years.
3.07      Joint Financing.  In accordance with agreements reached with the
other all-India institutions, ICICI refers project proposals in excess of
Rs 30 million to the inter-institutional Meeting (IIM) 1/ for joint financing;
about 65% (by amount) of its business in 1978 and 1979 was jointly financed
with one or more of the other members of the IIM. This enables members
of the IIM to limit their individual exposures, while ensuring that adequate
debt and equity financing can be provided for the project. The IIM, which
coordinates the activities of the all-India term financing institutions is
attended by the institutions' chief executives under the chairmanship of IDBI.
The meeting discusses and decides on: (a) policy matters, including alloca-
tion of institutional finance between various sectors in line with Government
priorities; (b) each member's contribution to the financing of large projects;
(c) waiver of conversion options; and (d) promoters contributions to project
cost. Senior executives of the member institutions also meet to review loan
conditions, project appraisal and follow-up issues and to select the "lead"
institution for each project. 2/ The designated lead bank is responsible for
appraisal and follow-up work on projects assigned to it. However, reports
and issues in each case are discussed at the meetings and each member institu-
tion has the right to submit to its Board a recommendation by its own staff
and to decline to participate in individual projects. ICICI has continued
to make a positive contribution to the development of the inter-institutional
system and has contributed significantly in upgrading the appraisal and
follow-up' standards of the other lending institutions. In addition, ICICI
has recently initiated a system of participation certificates under which
the lead bank will complete the appraisal and documentation on each loan
before offering to sell participations to other institutions. 3/ This system
has the advantage that the borrower contracts with only one institution and
it is expected to reduce delays in legal documentation and procedures. The
system has been approved by the IIM for loans of between Rs 30 and Rs 50 mil-
lion and is expected to be implemented in 1980.
I/   Coordination of activities between the all-India and State level insti-
tutions, including joint financing operations, is handled at separate
Inter-Institutional Group (IIG) meetings.
2/   Usually on the basis of the specialized technical or marketing aspects
of the project.
3/   The certificate will be sold without recourse to the lead bank so that
the risk will continue to be shared by all participants.



- 17 -
3.08      Appraisal and Follow-Up Standards.  ICICI's appraisals continue
to be of a high standard and incorporate a thorough treatment of technical,
financial, market and economic aspects. Follow-up is conducted by five
separate units: implementation, which is concerned with supervision of new
clients; regular follow-up, for existing clients; rehabilitation, for prob-
lem projects; the small loans section, for all loans on which the outstanding
balance is below Rs I million or investment is below Rs 0.5 million; and the
coordination section that is responsible for coordination with other depart-
ments of ICICI, the Government and other financial institutions. Clients
submit detailed quarterly progress reports to ICICI for review, and follow-up
personnel conduct about 300 visits per year to the 1,144 projects under super-
vision. Problem projects are visited at least once a year and a satisfactory
system of follow-up reports and regular management review exists. ICICI also
reserves the right to appoint a director on its clients' board and has done
so in 111 cases.
3.09      Procurement and Disbursement.  ICICI normally insists on competitive
quotations from at least three reputable suppliers. The price and suitability
of plant and equipment is checked by ICICI staff and compared, where possible,
with similar plant in existing projects. ICICI's procurement procedures
are appropriate given the nature of its business. Disbursement procedures
also remain satisfactory. In 1975, ICICI started opening its own letters of
credit as a service to clients. 1/
3.10      Audit.  As ICICI is considered a Government company (para 3.01),
GOI, on the advice of the Comptroller Auditor General, appoints ICICI's joint
auditors. As GOI follows the practice of appointing new auditors about every
three years, Lodha and Company, who were appointed in 1976, were replaced by
K.S. Aiyer and Company in 1979. However, continuity is assured by staggering
the terms of the two auditors and S.B. Billmoria and Company, who were
appointed in 1977, remain joint auditors for the time being. ICICI's
accounts for 1978 were presented without qualification.
Relations with Government and Business
3.11      Relations between GOI and ICICI continue to be good.  Through the
GOI representatives on its Board and its regional office in Delhi, ICICI keeps
in close touch with GOI officials. ICICI is also represented on GOI commit-
tees and public bodies concerned with industrial investment, including the
Capital Goods Committee. Within the framework of overall Government policy,
ICICI continues to enjoy full autonomy. ICICI also enjoys cordial relations
with the business community. Through formal and informal contacts, ICICI
maintains its position as a link between business and government. In 1979,
to mark the twenty-fifth anniversary of its establishment, ICICI hosted a
symposium, attended by senior Government officials and a broad section of
the Indian business and financial community. The papers presented at this
symposium were of a high standard, and the symposium offered a very valuable
opportunity for the interested parties to exchange views on some of the major
1/   In 1979, the Bank granted ICICI the power to amend letters of credit
without prior bank approval in all cases except for an increase in
amount.



- 18 -
issues affecting industrial development in the 1980's. Copies of these papers
are included in the project file (Annex 4, Al).
IV. PAST OPERATIONS AND PERFORMANCE
Financing Operations
4.01      Overall Operations.  ICICI's total net approvals increased from
Rs 972 million in 1976 to Rs 1,379 million in 1978. In the first nine months
of 1979, total net approvals amounted to Rs 1,535 million and were expected
to reach Rs 1,990 million by the end of the year, an increase of 39% over the
figure for 1978 (Annex 3, Table 2). The sharp increase in approvals has not
yet been fully reflected in the level of commitments, which rose from Rs 905
million in 1976 to Rs 971 million in 1978 and Rs 1,113 million in the first
nine months of 1979, resulting in a doubling of the backlog of uncommitteed
net approvals from Rs 1,078 million in 1976 to Rs 2,039 million at Septem-
ber 30, 1979. Disbursements increased from Rs 664 million in 1976 to Rs 1,064
million in 1978 and are expected to reach Rs 1,260 million for 1979. ICICI's
loan disbursements account for about 15% of those of all-India financial
institutions and about 5% of total private industrial investment in India.
4.02      Lending Operations.  From 1976 to 1978, domestic currency loan
approvals increased from Rs 425 million to Rs 1,029 million, while foreign
currency approvals declined from Rs 415 million to Rs 242 million. The
trend to increased volumes of domestic currency loans reflects the improved
access of ICICI to domestic resources (para 4.20). The decline in foreign
exchange approvals in 1977 and 1978 was due to the increased availability of
free foreign exchange for certain categories of capital goods imports and
reluctance to assume the relatively high level of foreign exchange risk inhe-
rent in borrowing Bank and other foreign resources from ICICI. 1/ However, in
the first nine months of 1979, ICICI's foreign currency approvals increased to
Rs 505 million, partly because of the introduction of the Bank's special
currency disbursement scheme for DFCs, which reduced the perceived exchange
risk and enabled ICICI to place Bank funds more easily. Domestic currency
loans for the first nine months of 1979 remained at a high level (Rs 921.9
million) and are expected to reach Rs 1,350 million for the year, while for-
eign currency loans are expected to reach Rs 645 million by the end of 1979.
4.03      Investments and Guarantees.  ICICI's direct subscriptions and under-
writing of share and debenture issues accounted for 11% of its total approvals
since inception and 7% of the total in the first nine months of 1979. These
investment operations increased from Rs 73 million in 1976 to Rs 105 million
in 1978 and Rs 114 million in the first nine months of 1979. About 75% of
ICICI's investment operations derive from underwriting activities. Of the
1/   ICICI's sub-borrowers assume full exchange risk.  At September 30, 1978,
75% of ICICI's foreign obligations were denominated in D. Marks, Swiss
Francs or Japanese Yen. In the 15 months from June 30, 1978, these
obligations appreciated by 13% in rupee terms (24% in US$)



- 19 -
Rs 1,024 million in underwriting approvals since inception, ICICI had dis-
bursed Rs 500 million at September 30, 1979. ICICI's guarantees, which are
largely issued to foreign suppliers, constitute a very small part of its total
operations; about 1.5% of total net approvals since inception. Since 1976,
ICICI has not committed itself to any guarantees and has disbursed only Rs 0.5
million against previously issued guarantees.
4.04      Merchant Banking.  Through its merchant banking division established
in 1973, ICICI has continued to broaden the range of financial services offered
to clients. These services include the management of underwritings, debenture
and share capital issues, private loan placements, advice on mergers and
acquisitions, and other corporate financial services. Growth of ICICI's mer-
chant banking activities has been particularly rapid over the last few years.
Since 1977 it has successfully managed 23 share and debenture issues and pri-
vate loan placements totalling Rs 1,066 million, on which it earned fees of
Rs 4.1 million. It has a further 19 proposals on hand, involving Rs 1,109
million. In 1979, the merchant banking division and ICICI's legal staff man-
aged, for the first time in India, a debenture issue secured by an equitable
mortgage, which substantially reduced the revenue duties payable. The same
issue also involved the use of a new instrument in India; the rights deben-
ture. 1/ Because of its innovative approaches and long experience and close
contacts in the financial field, ICICI is now generating increasing demand
for its merchant banking services, particularly from sponsors of large new
ventures. These services are also providing a useful complement to its
other project promotion activities (para 4.10).
Characteristics of Projects Financed
4.05      Distribution of Assistance.  At September 30, 1979, ICICI had
approved assistance totalling Rs 12.2 billion for 2,564 projects. While these
projects were distributed over a wide range of different industrial subsectors
(Annex 3, Table 3), more than half of total financing has gone to the engineer-
ing industries, including metal and metal products, mechanical and electrical
machinery and transport equipment (36% of the total), and to the chemical
and petrochemical industries (19% of the total). Other subsectors receiving
a significant proportion of ICICI financing were textiles (11%), pulp and
paper (6%) and cement (5%). This distribution reflects ICICI's concentration
on the non-traditional and technologically more advanced industries. Some
36% of project financing was provided for new or diversification projects,
with the remainder going for capacity expansion, balancing and modernization
projects. ICICI clients are predominantly medium and large sized companies,
since small industries are supported by specialized institutions at the State
level and by the commercial banks, whose appraisal procedures and lending
terms are better adapted to small industry financing. 2/   During the last
1/   In effect an issue of debentures offered preferentially to existing
shareholders.
2/   In the past, the Bank Group has made one credit and one loan to IDBI
to help refinance small industry loans made by the State Financial
Corporations.



- 20 -
three years, ICICI's average financial assistance per project was Rs 7.2 mil-
lion, corresponding to about 20% of total project investment costs. About
86% of ICICI's financing has gone to private sector companies and the balance
to cooperatives and joint sector and public sector companies. The geographic
distribution of ICICI's clients remains somewhat skewed towards the more
industrialized states in Western India. However, ICICI has succeeded in
expanding its clientele in the Eastern and North Eastern regions of India.
These two regions now account for almost 20% of ICICI's financing, compared to
only 8% in 1976. There has been a corresponding reduction in the proportion
of financing going to Western India (from 53% to 48%) and to Southern India
(from 25% to 19%), with the proportion going to Northern India (14%) remaining
unchanged. This shift has been due in part to ICICI's participation in joint
financing with other lending institutions.
4.06      Project Performance.  Of the ICICI assisted projects completed
in the period January 1977 to September 1979, only 25% were completed on
schedule, and one third were delayed by more than one year. About half were
completed within the original cost estimate, but almost a quarter had cost
overruns of more than 25%. One reason for both completion delays and cost
overruns were the difficulties experienced by promoters in putting together
their financing. The streamlining of procedures for joint financing among the
all-India term financing institution is helping to reduce this problem.
Another important factor was delays in obtaining investment licenses, import
licenses and other central and State government clearances. The recent
liberalization and streamlining of licensing procedures (paras 2.11 and 2.12)
should help reduce the severity of such delays in future. In general, ICICI's
clients are reasonably profitable. For a sample of 417 ICICI clients analyzed
in 1977 and 1978, nearly all companies other than the sugar manufacturers,
which were affected by price and distribution controls, showed positive
pre-tax profits. For the full sample, the ratio of after-tax profits to net
worth averaged 10.5% (Annex 3, Table 3).
4.07      Economic Impact.  Since 1973, ICICI has been carrying out a detailed
economic rate of return (ERR) analysis for all projects for which its total
financial assistance exceeds Rs 5 million and for projects with capital costs
exceeding Rs 25 million. 1/ Between August 1973 and June 1976 the ex-ante
ERRs, calculated for 86 projects, averaged about 20%. In 1978 and the first
nine months of 1979, ERRs were calculated for 62 projects out of the 337 proj-
ects approved in the period. The weighted average ERR for these projects was
about 23% with a range of 10% to 80%. The highest ERRs were recorded by
projects in the fields of automobile ancilliaries, machinery manufacturing
metal products and electrical equipment. For these projects domestic output
prices were generally below world prices. The lowest ERRs (averaging 17%)
were recorded for projects in the fields of chemicals and petrochemicals.
ICICI has also been directing an increasing proportion of its financing to
projects located in the designated backward areas. In 1978 and 1979 about
1/   For smaller projects, ICICI continues to calculate the effective rate
of protection and domestic resource cost except in the case of balancing
and modernization projects with assistance of less than Rs 1 million
and service related projects.



2- 1 -
40% of total financial assistance approved was for projects in the backward
areas, compared to 27% for ICICI's total portfolio. An estimated 50% of
ICICI's clients are exporting. Exports of 207 large exporters among ICICI
assisted companies amounted to about Rs 5 billion in 1977/78. The product
groups showing the highest volumes of exports were automotive products,
cotton textiles, chemicals, machinery and metal products. In total, exports
of ICICI assisted companies amount to 15-20% of India's total exports of
manufactures. The employment impact of ICICI assisted projects has also been
significant.  The average investment cost per job created is estimated at
about US$25,000 for projects approved in 1977 to 1979. This appears reason-
able bearing in mind that ICICI's clients are mostly medium-sized and larger
companies operating in the modern and technologically more advanced subsectors.
Moreover, it is important to note that about 30% of ICICI's assistance recently
has been for balancing and modernization projects, which are directed more to
maintaining existing employment rather than creating new jobs.
Other Developmental Activities
4.08       In addition to its mainstream lending and investment operations
and merchant banking activities, ICICI is undertaking a broad range of com-
plementary activities and services so as to enhance its overall impact on
industrial development. These activities include (i) undertaking industrial
subsector and policy studies; (ii) identification and promotion of new proj-
ect ideas; (iii) backward area development programs; and (iv) training and
advisory support for other domestic and foreign financial institutions. Most
of these activities have been initiated in the last 5-6 years following a
joint Bank/ICICI study of ICICI's developmental impact in 1973. Both the
Bank and KfW have been encouraging ICICI to expand selectively these activ-
ities in the context of recent loans.
4.09       Industrial Studies.  ICICI's first major industrial policy study,
focussing on the problems and prospects for manufactured exports, was ini-
tiated under the eleventh IBRD loan. Its findings, which were summarized in
the appraisal report for the twelfth loan, have proved useful inputs to gov-
ernment committees reviewing the export incentive system. In the context
of the twelfth loan, ICICI agreed to carry out studies of selected engineer-
ing industries, starting with a study of automotive products subsector. The
draft report of this study is currently under discussion by the Bank and ICICI
and copies have been provided to GOI. In addition to these major studies,
ICICI has also completed a number of shorter studies on, for example, price
and distribution controls in the sugar and cement industries, the impact of
industrial licensing, and the economics of small scale cement and paper plants.
These studies have been well received by various government committees and
some of their recommendations have already been implemented. ICICI also par-
ticipated in a Bank study of the cement subsector. As explained in para 4.13,
ICICI intends to continue its program of industrial studies over the next
few years.
4.10      Project Promotion.  ICICI formally established a new project identi-
fication and promotion unit in 1974. This unit now forms part of the Develop-
ment Department and has four full time professionals assigned to it. The two



- 22 -
projects under implementation are an acetelyne black project for batteries,
and a project to make industrial cutting tools. Another 8 projects are at
an advanced stage of preparation, with interested entrepreneurs located and
foreign or local collaborators identified. These include several projects to
produce industrial chemicals (acetone, betanapthol, polyvinyl alcohol) and
automotive components (tie rods, shock absorbers), and projects to produce
jewel bearings, insulators and carbon products. Another 6 projects are at
earlier stages of preparation. In addition, ICICI has actively participated
in the establishment of a Foreman Training Institute and a private company
offering pilot plant facilities on a commercial basis to test out new indus-
trial processes. While the promotion unit has performed well, progress has
been slower and more manpower intensive than anticipated.
4.11      Backward Area Development.  ICICI activities in this field have
comprised (i) participation in a series of area potential studies focussing
on availability of raw materials, infrastructure, human skills and markets;
(ii) collaboration with IDBI, IFCI and state-level financial institutions in
setting up state technical consultancy institutions to assist new entrepreneurs
and (iii) helping to organize and finance voluntary rural development agencies
using grant funds made available by KfW. Overall ICICI has managed to achieve
significant progress in this field using relatively small manpower and finan-
cial inputs.
4.12      Support for Other Institutions.  In addition to its general collabo-
ration with and assistance to other Indian financial institutions through the
regular IIM and IIG meetings, ICICI has extended training facilities to the
staff of IDBI and to several of the state-level financial institutions. ICICI
also runs an annual training program for the personnel of development banks in
other countries. Recent participants have come from Jamaica, Trinidad, Kenya,
Somalia, Malaysia, Panama, Bolivia, Sri Lanka and Afghanistan. ICICI has also
seconded staff members as advisers to DFCs in several other countries, and is
currently undertaking a two year consultancy assignment to assist the new
National Development Bank of Sri Lanka.
4.13      Focus of Future Activities.  As ICICI's developmental activities
have expanded in scope and complexity, ICICI's management has recognized the
need to plan carefully their future expansion to ensure that: (i) these
activities are well integrated with ICICI's mainstream financing activities;
(ii) limited staff resources are used as effectively as possible; and (iii)
efforts are focussed on addressing problem areas that are likely to have a
significant impact on industrial development or make an important contribu-
tion to the future development of ICICI's operations. Tentatively, ICICI has
selected the following problem areas for primary focus over the next few years:
(i) addressing major industrial bottlenecks; (ii) encouraging improvements in
industrial efficiency and export performance; (iii) developing its capacity
to provide training and consultancy services to DFCs in other countries. Two
major studies would be undertaken aimed at addressing the problems faced by
industry because of recurring severe power shortages. The first would focus
on the recent and potential responses by industry to sharply increased energy
costs and reduced power supplies. It would cover, for example, opportunities
for energy conservation and use of alternative fuels, economics of installing



- 23 -
back up generating capacity, and rescheduling of operations to take best
advantage of power availability. The second would focus on identifying pos-
sible bottlenecks and constraints in the supply of equipment and components
for expansion of the power generation, transmission and distribution system.
During negotiations ICICI presented its initial proposals for these studies
and confirmed that it would continue to discuss with the Bank the design of
more detailed terms of reference. ICICI also confirmed that it would con-
tinue to discuss with the Bank possible extension of its studies of the auto-
motive sector, which might include further analysis of the subcontracting
and component supply relationships between small and large companies.
Quality of Portfolio
4.14      Loans.  Annex 3, Table 4 shows the trend in ICICI's arrears from
1973 to September 1979. Arrears over this period have shown a significant
increase: at September 30, 1979, total arrears from 171 companies amounted to
Rs 169 million, compared to Rs 40.9 million for 42 companies in 1973; principal
in arrears as a percentage of the loan portfolio was 2.1%, compared to 1.6%;
and the percentage of the portfolio affected by arrears was 15.6%, compared to
7.1%. However, the bulk of the increase took place before 1976 and arrears
ratios since then have shown comparatively little change: the 2.1% of prin-
cipal in arrears at September 30, 1979, compares with 2.0% in 1976, 1.9%
in 1977 and 2.0% in 1978, while the affected portfolio of 15.6% compares
with 17% in 1976, 17.6% in 1977 and 13.5% in 1978. The continuing relatively
high level of arrears is due in part to the effects on ICICI's clients of
continuing power shortages and an increase in strike actions, particularly in
1979. At the same time, the effect of the recent rapid increases in prices
on working capital requirements, combined with credit restrictions imposed by
commercial banks, has had a negative effect on clients' liquidity and hampered
ICICI's efforts to reduce the level of arrears. Even with improvement in
these factors, the effect on arrears will not be felt immediately and ICICI
expects to maintain its current collection ratio of about 90% of amounts
falling due, which is satisfactory.
4.15.     Annex 3, Table 5 shows the characteristics of ICICI's arrears at
September 30, 1979. The industries accounting for the major portion of
arrears were: spun pipes (18%), paper and paper products (11%), sugar (10%),
plastics (8%) and mini-steel plants. In the case of spun pipes and sugar,
ICICI's arrears reflect industry-wide problems, but in the other industries
they reflect the specific problems faced by ICICI financed units. Of the 171
companies in arrears, 42 representing 16% of the total, were considered to be
facing temporary difficulties; 49 (19%) were in need of a rescheduling to
overcome temporary financial difficulties; 32 (10%) were sugar units; and 48
(55%) faced long term management, financial, marketing or technical problems.
Of the 48 facing long term difficulties, ICICI had devised or was in the
process of implementing rehabilitation plans for 18 companies. In the remain-
ing 30 companies, which represent 39% of the total arrears, ICICI could see
little prospects for rehabilitation. About half of this amount is accounted
for by spun pipe units for which ICICI has initiated legal action for recovery.
Improvement in the sugar industry awaits Government action on incentives and
pricing. The age analysis of arrears reflects the large proportion of com-
panies with long term problems: 53% of arrears were outstanding for more than



- 24 -
two years, 25% for one to two years, 10% for six to 12 months, and 12% for
less than six months. ICICI continues to discuss with the Government and with
the other financial institutions possible measures to deal with the companies
facing lonig term problems. Recently the Government has introduced some addi-
tional financial incentives to encourage successful companies to take over
and reorganize companies in serious financial difficulties. However, it is
too early yet to judge how effective these measures will be.
4.16      Aks of December 31, 1979, ICICI loans to industrial concerns that
were considered of doubtful recovery amounted to Re 50.3 million. The aggre-
gate amouni: due from such companies was Rs 172.8 million in principal and
46.7 million in interest. Cumulative provisions against non-payment of
interest anounted to Rs 47.55 million at year end 1979. 1/ In the case of
principal amounts of doubtful recovery, ICICI allocates part of its annual
profits to a reserve for doubtful debts. As of December 31, 1979, this
reserve stood at Rs 54.5 million, equivalent to 1.1% of the outstanding
portfolio. Following a case-by-case review of loans in arrears, including a
review of collateral securities, ICICI's auditors have agreed to the adequacy
of ICICI's reserves and provisions. ICICI is also involved in a major effort
to reduce arrears and senior management and the Board pay close attention to
the problem. Apart from close supervision of the clients in arrears, ICICI
also has been able to offer financial advice on restructuring or merging of
units, arrange short term working capital finance and has in some cases been
successful in restructuring companies under new management. While the level
of arrears is a matter for concern, ICICI is in control of the situation and
no change in the present approach is recommended.
4.17      Investments.  At June 30, 1979, ICICI's equity portfolio comprised
ordinary share investments of Rs 231.8 million in 346 companies and preference
share investments of Rs 97.9 million in 146 companies. Some 41% of the in-
vestment portfolio was in companies operating profitably and paying dividends,
19% was in companies under construction and 40% in companies experiencing
difficulties. 2/ This represents a deterioration in the portfolio since 1976,
when 50% of the companies were operating profitably and 29% were experiencing
difficulties. Nevertheless, the average market price of the ordinary shares
was 120% of book value, an improvement on the 1976 figure of 105% but still
less than the 1974 figure of 132%. The average dividend yield on the ordinary
shares was 6.3%, considerably higher than the 4.4% recorded in 1976. At
June 30, 1979, ICICI also held Rs 190 million in debentures, which yielded
8.8%. In 1977,and 1978, ICICI disposed of share and debentures costing Rs
25.2 million, on which it realized a capital gain of Rs 22.7 million. ICICI's
overall investment portfolio continues to be sound and well managed.
1/   Since 1978, ICICI has adopted the practice of not recording as accrued
income interest due on certain loans of very doubtful. recovery;such
non-alccrued amounts totalled Rs 28.5 million at year end 1979.
2/   ICIC] does not make provisions against the dimunition in the value of
its investments. However, capital gains from the sale of shares are
held in reserve which at September 30, 1979 amounted to Rs 49 million.
This is an adequate cushion.



- 25 -
Resources
4.18      At September 30, 1979, ICICI's resources totalled Rs 6.37 billion.
Foreign exchange equivalent to Rs 3 billion (US$361.6 million), accounted for
47% of the total, while domestic resources provided the balance of Rs 3.37
billion, or 53%. ICICI's resource position is summarized in Annex 3, Table 6.
4.19      Foreign Currency.  The bulk of ICICI's foreign currency resources
have come from IBRD: of the total foreign exchange resources raised by ICICI
up to September 30, 1979, the twelve Bank loans accounted for US$489.7 mil-
lion, 1/ or 77%. Seventeen Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW), lines of
credit, totalling US$79.7 million equivalent, 2/ accounted for 13% and eight
United Kingdom tied lines of credit for 6% of total foreign currency resources.
The remaining 4% was made up of one USAID loan and two commercial borrowings:
one Swiss Franc bond issue and a euro-dollar syndicated loan. During the
period 1977-79, ICICI raised from official sources, one KfW loan for
D. Mark 10 million (US$5.5 million) in 1979 and two UK tied credits total-
ling E 10 million (US$21.5 million), in 1977 and 1978. ICICI was also able
to raise, under Government guarantee, a euro-dollar loan of US$20 million from
a consortium of seven foreign banks. ICICI's attempts to mobilize foreign
commercial funds have been limited so far to the Swiss Franc bond issue and
the syndicated loan. In connection with the proposed thirteenth Bank loan,
ICICI proposes to diversify its resources further by raising euro-currency
borrowings, probably in the form of syndicated loans (para 5.03). Annex 3,
Table 7 gives details of the amounts, terms and conditions of ICICI's foreign
currency borrowings.
4.20      Domestic Currency.  The major part of ICICI's domestic currency
resources has been financed by the issue of bonds: of the total of Rs 3.76
billion raised up to September 30, 1979, fourteen issues of ICICI debenture
bonds have provided Rs 2.2 billion, or 58%. The remainder was provided by GOI
and IDBI loans (28%) and shareholders' equity (14%) (Annex 3, Table 8). Since
1975, ICICI has been able to issue bonds under government guarantee, which has
conferred on them the status of "approved security" and has enabled ICICI
to tap institutional sources of funds. 3/ As ICICI has also been permitted
to offer a slightly higher rate on its bonds than other government securities,
its issues have been in demand and it was able to raise Rs 1,350 million
in five issues since 1977. Eight issues of special bonds against IDBI loans
permitted ICICI to raise a further Rs 455 million between 1977 and September
30, 1979. In addition, in 1978, it initiated a scheme for accepting fixed
deposits from the public on an experimental basis. However, as ICICI does not
have an extensive network of branch offices, raising significant sums have not
proved possible and the total raised by September 30, 1979 was only Rs 18.1
1/   Net of cancellations.
2/   At current rates of equivalent.
3/   Government regulated institutions such as insurance companies, provi-
dent funds, trusts and commercial banks are compelled to hold approved
securities.



- 26 -
million. ICICI intends to continue to issue debenture bonds to meet the bulk
of its domestic currency resource needs. It also has undertaken, in conjunc-
tion with an increase in the Bank's debt/equity covenant limit (para 4.23),
to raise a total of Rs 72 million in new share capital in the period 1980-83.
The deposit scheme will also be continued, but may temporarily be suspended
in view of high short term interest rates. In any event, it is not expected
to provide a significant source of new resources.
4.21      Although ICICI has increased its issue of bonds significantly since
1975, its role in mobilizing primary savings remains limited. ICICI, like
other DFCs, largely tap resources which have already been mobilized by com-
mercial banks and other institutions, primarily insurance companies. This is
due in part to the constraints ICICI's fixed onlending rates impose on the
rate it can offer to savers and the advantages other financial institutions
enjoy in this respect. Also, it is partly due to traditional investment habits
and the lack of a secondary market for debentures, which are major obstacles
in attracting funds direct from the public. Furthermore, RBI controls all
debenture issues by determining amounts, maturities and rates of interest,
thus limiting ICICI from increasing the yields on its debentures to make them
more attractive to the public. At the project level, however, ICICI which on
average supplies about 20% of project cost in assistance, is able to attract
four rupees from other sources, including promoters, for every rupee it grants
in assistance. Indirectly, ICICI also encourages some mobilization of savings
through persuading clients to make public offerings of shares or debentures
and through its merchant banking and underwriting activities. ICICI also acts
as a catalyst for investment through joint financing activities with foreign
financial institutions such as CDFC, DEG 1/ and IFC.
Financial Performance
4.22      Profitability.  Annex 3, Table 9 shows income statements from 1974
to September 1979. ICICI's profits before taxes and provisions increased
in line with the growth in total assets between 1977 and 1979. However,
net profits after taxation increased more sharply, from Rs 38 million in
1976 to Rs 70.6 million in 1978 and an expected level of Rs 81 million in
1979, reflecting ICICI's reduced taxation liabilities. Increased allowances,
notably the tax free ploughback of a portion of pre-tax profits, 2/ reduced
ICICI's taxation rate from 44% in 1976 to an estimated 32% in 1979. As a
result, even after an increase in share capital, ICICI's return on equity
increased from 12% in 1976 to 16% in 1978. The rate of dividend, which was
last raised in 1976, was maintained at 12% through 1978, allowing a satisfac-
tory retention of profits of 64% in 1978, compared to 53% in 1976. Administra-
tive expenses were held at 0.5% of average total assets throughout the 1977-79
1/   Commonwealth Development Finance Company (CDFC) and Deutsche Gesellschaft
fuer Wirtschaftliche Zusammenarbeit (DEG).
2/   This provision permits ICICI to deduct up to 25% of its pre-tax profits
transferred to a special reserve account from its taxable income. In
1979, this percentage was increased to a maximum of 40%.



- 27 -
period. Although margins continued to be squeezed by the increase in the aver-
age cost of borrowings and the growing volume of ICICI's loans at concessional
rates, this was offset by the relatively larger volume of domestic currency
lending, which carries a larger margin than foreign currency loans. 1/ As a
result, the average spread on lending operations increased from 2.4% in 1976
to 2.6% in 1978, which is satisfactory.
4.23      Capital Structure and Liquidity.  Annex 3, Table 10 shows ICICI's
balance sheets at December 31, 1974 to 1978 and at September 30, 1979. Total
assets increased from Rs 3.3 billion in 1976 to Rs 5.9 billion in September
1979, partly as a result of parity changes in ICICI's obligations in foreign
exchange. 2/ The level of shareholders' equity remained at about 11% of the
loan and investment porfolio. ICICI's debt/equity ratio ranged from 9:1
in 1976 to 8.8:1 in 1978: the contractual limit was 9:1. However, in 1979,
the Bank revised this limit to 11:1 on the understanding that ICICI would
raise Rs 72 million in share capital by 1983. The debt/equity ratio at
September 30, 1979, was 9.3:1, well within the new contractual limit. ICICI's
debt service coverage performance has been adequate: the debt service coverage
ratio increased from 1.08:1 in 1976 to 1.28:1 in 1978, which is an acceptable
level.
4.24      Market Quotation.  The net book value of ICICI's shares at December
31, 1978 was Rs 216.49, compared to a nominal value of Rs 100 per share.
However, from January 1979 to September 1979, the quoted share price for ICICI
shares ranged between Rs 102.0 and Rs 111.5, or about 47% to 51% of net book
value. The low share prices reflect poor stock market conditions and the
higher effective yields obtainable on alternative investments.
V. FUTURE OPERATIONS AND RESOURCE NEEDS
Operations Forecast
5.01      Annex 3, Table 11 shows ICICI's forecast of approvals, commitments
and disbursements for the period 1979 to 1983. In view of the difficult
economic conditions prevailing in 1979 and the expectation that growth of the
economy will be relatively modest in 1980 (para 2.17), ICICI has based its
operational forecast on conservative assumptions. Total net approvals are
projected to grow by only 8% to Rs 2,150 million in 1980 compared to 39%
growth in the previous year. Foreign exchange loan approvals are expected to
1/   In addition, the impact of the 1974 and 1975 lending rate increases became
felt in this period.
2/   ICICI translates its obligations and its clients obligations in foreign
currency at the rate ruling on the date of the balance sheet. Because
of changes in the parity of the rupee, the translation of these obliga-
tions has increased. Prior to 1975, translation was at the rate ruling
on the date of disbursement.



- 28 -
remain at the same level in 1980. After 1980, ICICI expects that both local
currency and foreign exchange approvals will grow by about 10% p.a. as the
economy recovers, This compares to the compound growth rate of almost 30%
p.a. in total approvals experienced between 1976 and 1979. With the tighten-
ing up of availability of free foreign exchange for capital goods imports
expected to continue, ICICI believes that demand for foreign exchange loans
will stabilize at about 30% of total approvals. Because of the considerable
backlog of uncommitted approvals on hand, and the expectation that stream-
lining of government licensing procedures will reduce commitment delays, ICICI
is projecting a more rapid growth of local currency commitments of 26% in
1980, and 20% in 1981, 14% in 1982, and 15% p.a. in 1983. Foreign exchange
commitments are projected to increase from the 1979 level of Rs 439 million
(US$53 million) to Rs 550 million (US$66 million) in 1980, and increase to
Rs 660 million (US$80 million) in 1981 and to Rs 790 million (US$95 million)
in 1982. With some time lag, disbursements are expected to follow a fairly
similar pattern to commitments. Bearing in mind the increased inflation rates
currently being experienced in India and in the countries that are the prin-
cipal suppliers of capital goods to industry, ICICI's operational forecast
may prove to be overly-conservative.
Resource Requirements
5.02      Foreign Currency.  As of October 30, 1979, ICICI has foreign cur-
rency resources available for commitment of US$38.1 million, including Bank
funds of US$15.2 million. After taking into account additional funds ex-
pected to be made available by KfW 1/ and forecast commitments, ICICI anti-
cipates that by June 30, 1980 it wiTl have only US$8 million available for
commitment. The proposed Bank loan would partially cover ICICI's additional
foreign exchange resource requirements in the period up to September 30, 1982
(i.e., about 2 years after loan effectiveness). Commitments for this period
are expected to amount to about US$190 million, resulting in a resource gap
of about US$182 million to be financed by the Bank, KfW, UK tied credit lines,
and additional commercial borrowings. As explained in para 5.04, ICICI will
need to blend the commercial funds with its other foreign exchange resources
in the ratio of about 30:70 in order to provide an appropriate balance of
maturities, interest rates and currency risks to its clients. This would
suggest commercial borrowings of about US$55 million. Since about US$27
million is expected to be available from KfW and UK credit lines, a Bank
loan of about US$100 million would be needed to complete ICICI's resource
requirements.
5.03      Commercial Borrowings.  Following consultations with a wide selection
of international banks on conditions in the euro-market, ICICI concluded
that it would be inadvisable to raise as much as US$55 million in one loan.
1/   KfW funds used in this context include direct loans and D. Mark "revolv-
ing funds", which represent KfW loan funds repaid by clients prior to
ICICI's obligation to repay KfW and relent. These funds can be "revolved"
as many as four times as KfW maturities range from 30 to 50 years.



- 29 -
Instead, ICICI has concluded arrangements to raise about US$30 million equiv-
alent in 1980 and intends to approach the market for further borrowings
towards the end of 1981. The initial borrowing is a syndicated loan, which
includes a currency mix of US$20 million and US$10 million equivalent in
Deutsch Marks. 1/  Terms and conditions negotiated for the loan are:  interest
at 1/2% over LIBOR for five years increasing to 5/8% thereafter, a 10 year
maturity with four year's grace and a 30 month drawdown, a commitment fee of
3/8% and an initial management fee of 3/8%.
5.04      Blending Arrangements.  Since ICICI's commercial borrowings have a
fixed repayment schedule, limited maturity, restricted drawdown period and
carry a floating interest rate, ICICI can only use these funds by themselves
in a minority of its operations (e.g., comparatively small and straightforward
balancing and modernization projects). In many cases, ICICI will need to make
parallel commercial and Bank (or KfW/UK) financed subloans for individual
projects so as to provide for adequate disbursement and repayment periods and
to help balance interest rate and currency risks. Analysis of the pattern of
subloan amortization schedules under past Bank and KfW loans indicates that
ICICI could blend up to 40% commercial funds with 60% Bank or KfW funds with-
out having to reduce significantly its clients repayment schedules. However,
ICICI does not believe that it could aim to use more than 30% commercial funds
in its operations until euro-dollar interest rates decline and its clients
become better acquainted with floating rate subloans. 2/ To facilitate its
blending operations, ICICI would be allowed to tailor the amortization sched-
ules of Bank subloans for projects involving parallel commercial subloans, so
as to allocate relatively more of the early maturities for repayments to the
commercial lenders. Since the overall repayment schedule of the proposed
Bank loan would be based on the composite of the amortization schedules of the
individual subloans, this would result in repayment to the Bank being slower
than normal in the initial years. Assuming an average blending ratio of 30:70
for all projects, only 25% of the loan would be repaid in the first seven
years compared to about 40% under previous Bank loans. ICICI would also be
permitted to allocate early disbursements for individual subprojects preferen-
tially to the commercial subloans so as to drawdown its commercial borrowings
within the required 30 month period, and avoid the foreign exchange risks
involved in drawing down these borrowings in advance of when they are required
for subloan disbursements. This would have the effect of slowing down dis-
bursement of the Bank loan initially, although the overall disbursement period
of about 5 years would not be affected. At a maximum this could mean that the
27% of the Bank loan that would normally be disbursed in the first two years
would be delayed until years 3 to 5. However, in practice the effect is
likely to be less pronounced, since ICICI's commercial borrowings would be in
two tranches, and because ICICI would not need to make parallel Bank and com-
mercial subloans for all projects.
1/   In its second borrowing in 1981, ICICI may decide to issue floating
rate bonds in order to expose a wider selection of investors to ICICI.
2/   During the first half of April 1980, LIBOR rates averaged about 19%
for dollars and 9.5% for D. Marks. Thus, at present, ICICI's clients
would pay an average interest rate of about 17.3% on subloans financed
through ICICI's commercial borrowings.



- 30 -
5.05      ICICI has included in its Statement of Financial and Operating
Strategy a description of the procedures 1/ it intends to adopt in blending
commercial funds with its other foreign exchange resources, including the
steps it intends to adopt to avoid incurring foreign exchange risks in using
the commercial funds. In addition, this Statement explicitly confirm ICICI's
intention to conduct its operations so as to ensure that an acceptable pro-
portion of Bank funds would be: (i) disbursed in the first 2 years (10%);
and (ii) repaid in the first seven years (25%). A statement was submitted
to the Bank for review during loan negotiations and finalized, in a form
satisfactory to the Bank. It was formally approved by ICICI's Board of
Directors on April 17, 1980.
5.06      Domestic Currency.  Annex 3, Table 12 shows the domestic currency
resource position through 1983. From 1980 to 1983, disbursements for domestic
currency loans and investments are expected to be Re 5,940 million. Total
domestic currency requirements would be funded by borrowing, primarily by
issue of bonds and debentures and loans from IDBI (73%), loan collections
(18%), internal generation (6%), portfolio sales (2%) and share capital
increases (1%). ICICI should be able to raise the required resources as its
debentures would continue to carry a Government Guarantee and offer sufficient
yield to make them attractive to institutions (para 7.03).
Financial Projections
5.07      Annex 3, Table 13 shows the projected income statements for the
period 1980 to 1983. Profits before taxation are expected to increase from
Rs 117 million in 1979 to Rs 256 million in 1983, an increase roughly in line
with the projected growth in total assets. After-tax profits are expected to
grow from Rs 81 million in 1979 to Rs 175 million in 1983, a return of between
17% and 19% on average equity, which is somewhat higher than ICICI has achieved
in the past. This reflects the reduced tax liability as a result of a larger
ploughback allowance and the relatively low increases in share capital fore-
seen. Administrative expenses are expected to rise at about 11% p.a. and
are expected to remain at around 0.5% of average total assets. The dividend
rate is expected to be maintained at 12% allowing an adequate plough-back of
net earnings.
5.08      ICICI expects that it will have an average nominal interest spread
of about 2.8% p.a. on its lending operations. At the margin, ICICI's foreign
currency loans from non-commercial sources would have a weighted average
spread of about 3.0% on normal operations and 2.0% on loans to backward areas. 2/
However, on loans from commercial sources, ICICI's spread could be as low as
1.0% depending on whether LIBOR rates on dollars remain higher than 9.5%. Due
to the relatively small proportion of ICICI's lending from these sources
1/   These procedures were further elaborated in a memorandum presented to
the Bank during loan negotiations. ICICI's intention to follow these
procedures was recorded in the agreed minutes.
2/   Assuming that the cost of Bank funds would be 8.25%, KfW about 7.5% and
UK funds 6.5%.



- 31 -
(about 9%), a low spread on this lending will not have a pignificant effect
on profits. On domestic currency loans, ICICI expects to have an average
interest spread of about 4% on normal lending operations and 2.5% on lending
to backward areas. 1/ At these rates, ICICI's average interest spread would
be satisfactory.
5.09      Annex 3, Table 14 shows the projected balance sheets for 1980 to
1983. Total assets are expected to grow from Rs 5,850 million in 1979 to
Rs 11,937 million in 1983, an annual growth rate of 19% p.a. The loan and
investment portfolio would increase at about the same rate from Rs 5,171 mil-
lion in 1979 to Rs 10,368 million in 1983. Shareholders' equity is expected
to remain at 10% of the portfolio. The debt equity ratio is expected to
increase from 9.5:1 in 1979 to 10.6 in 1982, within the new limit of 11:1 set
in 1979. ICICI would increase its share capital by Rs 23 million in 1980,
Rs 22 million in 1981 and Rs 27 million in 1983, in accordance with an under-
standing with the Bank to raise Rs 72 million by 1983. The contractual debt/
equity limit of 11:1 would continue to be appropriate for the proposed loan.
5.10      Annex 3, Table 15 shows the projected cash flow statements for
1980 to 1983. ICICI expects to maintain its collection ratio at 90%, which
is attainable in the light of past performance. On this assumption, the debt
service coverage ratio would remain above 1.2 throughout the period, which is
satisfactory. The calculated ratio ranges from 1.24 in 1979 to an estimate
of 1.63 in 1983.
VI. THE PROPOSED LOAN, ITS JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A.   The Proposed Loan
6.01.     The proposed loan of $100 million would be made to ICICI with the
guarantee of the Government of India, under standard Bank terms for loans to
development finance companies, including the normal commitment fee. The
proceeds of the loan, together with other foreign loans, would be relent by
ICICI to cover the foreign exchange costs of industrial projects mounted by
private, public and joint sector enterprises. The loan is expected to be
committed in about 2 years after loan effectiveness and to be disbursed
within 5 Years (see Annex 2). The closing date would be December 31, 1985.
The loan would be repaid on the basis of a flexible amortization schedule that
would be adjusted to conform to the aggregate of the amortization schedules of
the subloans made out of the proceeds of the loan.
6.02      Subloan Terms.  Loan procceeds would be relent at ICICI's normal
subloan terms which provide for interest rates of 11% p.a. for all projects
other than those located in designated backward areas, for which an interest
1/   ICICI bond issues are at about 6.75%.



- 32 -
rate of 10% would be charged. Subborrowers would bear the foreign exchange
risks on the currencies disbursed. Subloans would have a maximum maturity
of 15 years, and would normally have a grace period of up to three years.
However, in those cases where a parallel foreign exchange loan is being made
for the same project out of ICICI's commercial borrowings, ICICI would be
permitted to tailor the amortization schedules of the Bank subloan so as to
allow the commercial funds to be repaid more rapidly. ICICI would use
guidelines satisfactory to the Bank in setting amortization schedules in such
cases.  ICICI would also be allowed some flexibility in financing early
subproject expenditures preferentially from the commercial funds (see para
5.04). Projects for which the cumulative amount of Bank financing would
exceed US$6 million equivalent would require the Bank's prior approval.
6.03      Procurement and Disbursement.  Procurement for projects financed
would be in accordance with ICICI's standard procedures, which conform to
the Bank's recommended practice for DFCs. Disbursement would be for 100% of
foreign exchange expenditures for directly imported goods and services or
100% of the estimated C.I.F. costs for imported goods purchased through local
suppliers. In accordance with standard DFC practice, project expenditures
incurred up to 90 days prior to the Bank's receipt of a subloan application
would be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the loan.
B. Benefits
6.04      By helping to fill a gap in the availability of foreign exchange
resources to finance capital goods imports, the proposed loan would contribute
to sustaining the desirable rate of investment in the modernization and expan-
sion of industrial capacity. Moreover, loan features are designed to assist
ICICI to raise an additional $55 million from foreign commercial sources and
to be able to use these shorter maturity commercial funds effectively in its
operations. Subloan beneficiaries would mainly be medium sized and large
private firms mounting projects that conform to the priorities established in
ICICI's Statement of Financial and Operating Strategy, including (i) export
industries; (ii) power and transport; (iii) agricultural inputs and outputs;
(iv) industries basic to industrial expansion, (v) downstream petrochemicals
and (vi) production of key mass consumption items. Based on experience during
previous loans to ICICI, around one-third of loan proceeds are likely to be
used for projects established in the industrially less developed regions
(backward areas) including projects sponsored by new entrepreneurs. Also
based on previous experience, the projects could be expected to create some
20,000 jobs at an average investment cost of about $30,000 per job created.
Economic rates of return for these projects are expected to be in the range
of 15% to 40%, and to average about 20%. The primary institution building
effects of the loan would be to assist ICICI to focus better and selectively
expand its program of developmental activities, including studies designed to
address the severe power shortage problems facing industry and encourage more
efficient energy use by industry.



- 33 -
Risks
6.05      The proposed loan does not involve significant risks regarding the
attainment of its objectives, since ICICI is a mature and capable institution
with a sound record in industrial financing. Although the difficult economic
situation in India may depress the rate of industrial investment, ICICI's
financial projections and the proposed loan amount have been based on conserv-
ative assumptions. Consequently, significant delays in loan commitment and
disbursement are unlikely.
VII. RECOMMENDATION
7.01      During loan negotiations, agreement was reached with ICICI on:
(i) the loan amount and principal terms (para 6.01);
(ii) subloan terms, including a free limit of US$6 million
(para 6.02); and
(iii) disbursement arrangements (para 6.03).
7.02      During loan negotiations, the following points were discussed
and appropriate understandings reached with ICICI:
(i) ICICI's program for mobilizing funds from foreign commercial
sources (para 5.03);
(ii) ICICI's Statement of Financial and Operating Strategy, in-
cluding the procedures it intends to adopt in blending Bank
funds with commercial borrowings in financing individual
projects (para 5.05);
(iii) ICICI's future developmental activities, including the nature
and timing of industrial studies and consultation with the
Bank on their terms of reference (para 4.13).
7.03      ICICI's Statement of Financial and Operational Strategy, in a form
satisfactory to the Bank, was approved by ICICI's Board of Directors by
April 17, 1980.
7.04      With the above agreements and understandings reached, a Bank loan of
$100 million is recommended on terms and conditions outlined in Chapter 6.



ANNEX 1
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED
Distribution of Shareholding as of September 30, 1979
No. of                             Pero.-
Share-     No. of       Amount    nte
holders    Shares         Ra, 
Off icial Sector
Life Insurance Corporatio3i of India              557,421   55,742,100
New India Assurance  Co. Lt.                      248,965   24,896,500
Unit Trust of India                               240,132   24,013,200
General Insurance Corporation of India            116,486   11,648,600
National Insuranoe Co. Ltd.                       114,612   11,461,200
BanL of India                                      90,206    9,020,600
PunJab National Bank                               85,725    8,572,500
Bank of Baroda                                     50,831    5,083,100
State Bank of India                                50,000    5,000,000
United Bank of India                               46,545    4,654,500
Central Bank if India                              46,233    4,623,300
Oriental Fire & General Irsuranoe
Insurance Co. Ltd.                               43,573    4,357,300
United Coomeroial Bank                             39,692    3,969,200
Indian Overseas Bank                               30,689    3,068,900
Unitdd India Fire & General Insurance
Oo. Ltd.                                         27,748    2,774,800
11 other Official Seotor Shareholders
holding less than 11,250 sharea each             29,907    2,990,700
26   1,818,765  181,876,500   80.83
P,rivate Se tcr
Indo-Burxa Petroleum Co. Lt.                       19,992    1,999,200
Associated Cement Coe. Ltd.                        17,363    1,736,300
Clive Row Investment Holding Co. Ltd.              14,245    1,424,500
Soindia Steam Navigation Co. Ltd.                  11,391    1,139 ,100
52 other Private Sector Shareholders
holding lesa than 11,250 shares each             47,019    4,701,900
2317 Individual Shareholders holding
less then 11,250 shares eaoh                     64,916    6,491,600
2,373     174,926   17,492,600    7.78
2,399   1,993,691  199,369,100   88.61
UJ.K. GROUP
The Ohartered Bank                                 45,000    4,500,000
6 others holding less than
11,250 shares each                               11,747    1,174,700
7      56,747    5,674,700    2.52
Bank of Amerioa N.T. & S.A.                        37,550    3,755,000
Citibank N.A.                                      22,500    2,250,000
Bank ^f America                                    18,700    1,870,000
American Expreas  International
Banking Corporation                              15,003    1,500,300
Olin Corporation                                   12,500    1,250,000
4 others holding less than 11,250
shares eaoh                                      13,758    1,375,800
9     120,011   12,001,100    5.33
FEDERAL REPUBLIC C' oBaI1Y
Deutsche Bank AG                                   33,750    3,375,000
Dreadner Bank AG                                   18,750    1,875,000
2      52,500    5,250,000    2,33
Bank of Tokyo                                       7,500       750,000
The Mitsui Bank Limited                             7,500       750,000
The Industrial Bank of Japanx Ltd.                  3,552       355,200
3      18,552    1,855,200    0.83
Skandinaviska Fiskilda Barken              1        4,500       450,000    0.20
F?RANGE
Banque Nationale de Paris                   1       3,999       399,900    0.18
Total iunmber of Shares & Shareholders  2,422   2,250,000  225,000,000  100.00



- 35 -                                ANNEX 2
THE INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED
Estimated Quarterly Disbursement Schedule for Proposed Thirteenth Loan
Quarters                   Amount
(US$ million)
1980              October - December                0.1                  0.1
1981              January - March                   0.6                  0.6
April - June                      0.7                  0.7
July - September                  1.3                  1.3
October - December                1.3                  1.3
3.9                 3.9
1982              January - March                   2.0                  2.0
April - June                      2.0                 2.0
July - September                  2.0                 2.0
October - December                2.7                 2.7
8.7                 8.7
1983              January - March                  10.0                10.0
April - June                     12.8                12.8
July - September                 15.7                15.7
October - December               14.3                14.3
52.8                52.8
1984              January - March                  11.4.               11.4
April - June                     10.0                10.0
July - September                  7.4                 7.4
October - December                5.7                 5.7
34.5                34.5
100.0               100.0



- 36 -AN                                        TeI
INDUSTRIAL CREDlT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED
Selected Lendin  and Borrowin  Rates in India 1975-79
As of October
1975-76   1976-77   1977-78   1978-79          1979
Bank Rate                               9          9         9          9              9
Deposit Rates:
Post office savings                5          5         5          5             5.5
Fixed deposits -
(i)   1-3 years                 8          8         8 1/       6              7
6 (June 1)
(ii)  3-5 years                 9          9         9 1/       7.5            8.5
8 (June 1)
7.5 (March 1)
(iii) 5 years and above        10         10        10 1/       9             10
9 (March 1)
Rate on Bank Advances
Rate of scheduled banks    12.5-16.5 12.5-16.5  12.5-15.0 12.5-15.0    15-18
Long-term Lending Rates -
Rupee Loans
IDBI                                   11         ll        11         11             11
IFCI                                   12         11        11         11             11
ICICI                                  ll         11        11         ll             ll
(for both rupee
and foreign
currency loans)
Central Government Securities
3%       1986 or later                 5.0       5.0        5.0         -             -
4%        198C                         5.37      5.44       5.40       5.05 2/       3.97
4%       1979                          5.30      5.36       5.31        -             -
5%       1982                          5.45      5.52       5.34       5.37 2/       5.20
5-1/2%   1999                          5.17      6.27       6.28        -             -
5-3/4%   2003                          6.39      6.38       6.41       6.45 2/       6.62
Bazaar Bill Rate (Bombay)               21       21         N.A.        N.A.        N.A.
Private Securities
(i)    Debentures -
Redemption yield         11.10      13.50      12.54        N.A.        N.A.
Running yield             8.39       8.55       8.89        N.A.        N.A.
(ii)   Preference shares             11.88      12.36      12.66       12.33        N.A.
(iii)  Variable dividend -
Industrial securities         5.43       6.14       6.47         5.66        N.A.
1/ Date and month of *Liange in irtercst is indicated in brackets.
2/ AvPrqP? fnr thp nprinol Anril 147f, t, March 1Q7Q
Note: N.A. - Not available.



- 37 _ANNEX-3, Tabit
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED
Sumnaary of Operations to September 30, 1979
(Rs million)
Foreign                                 Direct
Currency  Rupee              Under-   subscrip-
Loans    Loans Guarantees writing    tion         Total
A,.  ApproVrll /
1973                    441.7   174.5        0.1      44.0       34.2      694.5
1974                     514.5   173.9        -       37.1       -2.9      722.6
1975                     353.1   200.6      30.8      47.1       80.7      712.3
1976                     414.8   425.6      59.3      71.3        1.4      972.4
1977                     260.6   669.9        -       36.6       60.6    t027.7
1978                     241.7  1029.2       2.6      85.4       19.9    1378.8
1979 (Jan-Sept.)         505.5- 921.9       -5.8      93.9       19.9    1535.4
Cumulative since       6247.5  4385.4    192.8   1024.0         349.0   12198.7
1955                    -  -  -  -  -                                      -
B.  Commitments 1/
1973                     551.6   134.6       1.5      32.6       25.0      745.3
1974                     376.6   173.4       6.3      23.9        4.8      585.0
1975                     349.1   106.4        -       51.4       39.4      546.3
1976                     502.8   250.7      89.8      37.9       24.0      905.2
1977                     352.8   441.0        -       72.9       30.5      897.2
1978                     298.8   601,9        -       47.4       22.6      970.7
1979 (Jan-Sept.)         331.6   676.4        -       43.7       61.5    1113,2
cumulative since        5758.5  3019.3    192.8    883.4        305.5   10159.5
-~~ ~ ~       ~ ~~~~ -  -. 
C.  Disbursements
1973                     359.2   106.1       2.0      14.4       22.3      504.0
1974                     369.2   157.7       0.1      21.0        8.3      556.3
1975                     371.0   134.2       0.1      24.2       16.3      545.8
1976                     377.1   219.3        -       25.9       42.1      664.4
1977                     427.1   347.6       0.3      25.0       33.9      833.9
1978                     383.3   606.9       0.2      48.5       25.1    1064.0
1979 (Jan-Sept.)         282.8   534.0        -       10.5       46.1      873.4
Cumulative since       5332.9  2703.8        2.7    500.9       279.5    8819,8
1955
1/ Net of cancellations.
Note: Foreign currency figures converted at the current rupee parity.



ANNEX 3. Table 3
- 38-
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED
Financial Performance of ICICI Clients in Operation
Data for 417 Companies Covering April-March 1976-77 and 1977-78
Grotss  s  Tt' :t           It                         Ad Salsi
Gross      before       Total    Aftiit Tax   and Wage.
Profits *.   ax as %    Capital    as % of        as % of    Value Added as
Industry Grouc                         Year    % of sales  of sals Es Lloved %  Nrt Worth  Value MAded  of Gross Capital
Total Sample (417 Companies)          1976-77      13.6         6.6        16.4          9.8        48.9            29.0
1977-78     13.3         6.4        16.3         10.5        49.8             29.1
Automobiles and Cycles                1976-77      14.1         4.9        15.3        11.4         52.9            28.1
(18 Companies)                        1977-78      J4.4         5.3       15.8         13.4         54.8            29.5
Cement                                1976-77      11.4         4.3       12.6          8.5         52.8            21.8
(8 Companies)                         1977-78      14.0         7.3       19.2         10.2         47.5            24.5
Chemicals and Petroohemioals          1976-77      18.5        11.0       20.4         12.8         35.1            28.6
(76 companies)                        1977-78      19.2        11.9       21.9         14.3         34.5            29.8
Eleotrioal Equipment                  1976-77      12.8         6.9       20.5          8.2         52.B            41.0
(36 Companies)                        1977-78      12.9         7.4       22.1         10.4         53.8            43.1
Food Products (excluding sugar)       1976-77      10.3         7.9        37.0        20.0         53.3            57.4
(9 Companies)                         1977-78      10.6         8.6       38.3         21.2         50.0            58.4
Glass and Pottery                     1976-77      22.2        13.6       21.6         11.4         41.7            33.8
(10 Companies)                        1977-78      22.8        14.4       24.2         15.7         40.2            36.5
Machinery Manufaoture                 1976-77      17.1         9.4       20.1         16.9         49.3            41.0
(53 Companies)                        1977-78      16.3         8.8       19.0         16.7         50.9            39.4
Metal Produots (Ferrous)              1976-77      14.7         5.2       12.4          7.8         52.3            21.8
(41 Companies)                        1977-78      12.2         2.4        9.3          4.1         58.9            20.7
Metal Produets (Us-ferrou)            1976-77      14.9         6.C        15.0         7.5         47.6            23.6
(10 Cocp.as)                          1977         15.0         6.&       14.7          7.6         50.7            25.9
Flowe - smse.tis -*d -pttti  -        1976-77      15.0         9.4        17.6        )2.9         22.6            18.0
bution (,6 Companies)                 1977-78      14.6         8.9        17.1         11.6        25.0            18.2
Pulp, Paper and Paper Produots        1976-77      16.4         7.0       13.6          5.1         48.0            25.1
(19 Companies)                        1977-78      16.1         7.0       13.3          7.2         48.7            24.4
Rubber Producte                       1976-77       9.6         4.1        14.0         6.9         53.1            31.4
(8 Companies)                         1977-78       6.1        0.1          7.9        -1.1         64.2            27.2
Shipping                              1976-77      20.8         4.9        6.6          4.6         36.3            14.2
(2 Companies)                         1977-78      17.5         2.3        4.3          3.5         39.5            11.0
Sugar                                 1976-77      12.1         3.5       14.6          0.5         38.4            20.0
(13 Companies)                        1977-78      12.2       -0.8         8.6         -7.2         44.2            15.8
Textiles (Cotton)                     1976-77       7.8         1.0        9.0         -1.8         71.0            33.0
(44 Companies)                        1977-78       8.6         2.2       12.4          4.7         67.6            36.1
Diversified                           1976-77      12.1         6.5       18.5         10.6         47.4            32.0
(24 Companies)                        1977-78      11.2         5.6       17.0         11.8         49.0            30.9
Miscellaneous                         1976-77       9.5         5.0        16.8          -          54.9            36.4
(40 Companies)                        1977-78       9.3         4.6       16.2           -          54.6            36.2
Note:   Diversified Companies consist of companies iavolved in more than one type of industrial activity.
A copanW has been treated as diversified if no single industrial activitj accounts for at
least 75 per cent of the total turnover of tho oompazq.



INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED
Trend in Arrears (1973 to September 1979)
(Rs million)
Principal in             Principal in
arrears as % of          arrears as % of
No. of       Principal                                             loans                    loans
Year    Companies    Outstanding   Principal   Interest   Total          loans outstanding       loans outstanding
1973        42          107,633       23,839       17,044    40,883           1.58                     7.14
1974        47          124,739        29,999      21,019    51,018          1.73                      7.20
1975        77          256,269       35,354       24,684    60,038           1.51                    10.97
1976        97          457,174       53,797       40,474    94,271           1.99                    16.97                 1
1977       138          549,010       58,327        51,202   109,525          1.87                    17.56
1978       156          537,277       77,721       51,903   129,624           1.95                    13.51
1979       171          688,114       93,067       75,941   169,008           2.10                    15.56
(Sept.)
m
I
H
{D



INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED
Industrial Breakdown of Arrears as of September 30, 1979
(Rs in millions)
Arrears
No. of Companies      No. of         Foreign Exchange
in ICICI's Loan      Companies           Loans              Rupee Loans
Industry                  Portfolio          in Arrears   Principal  Interest  Principal  Interest           Total
Automobile ancillaries            34                 9           700          184         462      1,679         3,025
Cables and conductors             11                 1           149            -           -          -           149
Castings                          13                 5           141          551         210        954         1,856
Ceramics/Refractories              8                 2           468          235      1,931         987         3,621
Chemicals                         33                 5           482          284         787        395         1,948
Cotton textiles                   61                 5           259          431        420         220         1,330
Cutting tools                     11                 2           293          299           -          -           592
Electronics                       15                  6          691        2,043         465        281         3,480
Food and allied                   30                 5         1,090          933        107           -         2,130
Forgings                           6                 2             -           27      1,356       1,276         2,659
GLS lamps                         10                 5         1,676          876      1,573         486         4,611        
Glass bottles                      8                 3           383        1,098         550        253         2,284
House service meters               4                 3         3,790        1,537          83           -        5,410
Hotels                            12                  2            -            -           -        170           170
Industrial machinery              32                 1             -            -        140          49           189
Leather                            9                  2            -            -         698        248           946
Machine tools                     12                  2           17            3         124           -          144
Measuring instruments              4                  2          196           41           -           -          237
Mini steel                        13                  7        2,430        1,027       2,702      3,074         9,233
Paper and paper products          42                14         6,360        3,289       2,875      6,420        18,944
Plastics                          14                 4           318          699       8,839      3,544        13,400
Rubber, rubber products and
tires                       17                 6           760         874          36         329         1,999
Scooter, mopeds and bicycles       9                 5             -            -      1,618       2,145         3,763
Spun pipes                         5                 3        13,834       12,592      1,938       1,792        30,156
Steel wire and wire ropes         10                 5             -            -      1,940       1,063         3,003
Sugar                             63                25             -            -      8,327       8,449        16,776
Woollen textiles                    7                 2            -            -         500           -          500
Miscellaneous                    377                 38       13,677        9,321       7,672      5,783        36,453
TOTAL          870               171        47,714       36,344     45,353      39,597       169,008
0*
m
,  .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



- 41 -                                ANNEX 3. Table 6
THE INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED
Resources Position at September 30, 1979
Rupee Resources                                             Rs million
Share capital                                         225.0
Reserves (3)                                          287.2
Four Government of India Loans
Total                          325.0
Less:  Repayments              258.6             66.4
Loans and grants from Government
of India out of KfW interest
differential funds (net)                               35.4
Seventeen IDBI Loans:
Total                          708.9
Less: Repayments               108.2            600.7
Debentures/bonds:
Total                        2,195.3
Less:  Redeemed                 60.0          2,135.3
Total Resources                               3,362.8
Fixed deposits
Total                           18.1
Less:  Repayments                5.3             12.8
Less: Loans and Investment
outstanding           2,557.6
Net fixed assets         20.3          2,577.9
Resources available for disbursement                  784.9
Less:  Undisbursed Commitment                   353.6
Resources available for commitment                    431.3
Foreign Currency Resources
Twelve IBRD
Total                         $515.0
Less: Cancellations and
repayments          $272.1         2,013.5
Sixteen KfW Lines of Credit
Total                       DM 134.5
Less:  Repayments           DM  47.8            396.3
Eight U.K. Lines of Credit
Total                        b  18.0
Less:  Cancellations         L   0.3            315.3
Euro dollar loan                   S  20.0            165.8
One Swiss Bond Issue
Total                       SF   8.0
Less: Management fee &
underwriting commission
and repayments           SF   1.3             34.2
DM Revolving Funds                DM  15.9             72.9
Total Resources                                     2,998.0
Less:  Loans outstanding                            2,420.4
Resources available for disbursement                  577.6
Less:  Undisbursed commitment                         425.6
Resources Available for Conmitment          152.0
Notes: (1) Guarantees have been ignored throughout.
(2) The amounts approved but not committed are rupees: Rs 1,550.2
million and foreign currencies: Rs 489.2 million.
(3) After adjusting for estimated taxation and dividend.



-42-                                   ANNEX 3, Table 7
Page 1
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED
Details of Foreign Currency Borrowings Concluded up to
September 30, 1979
Maximum Drawing
Date of         Amount (Net of       Maturity         Rate of        Without
Loan No.      Agreement        Cancellations)    (Grace Period)   Interest  Creditor's Approval
(Years)            %
IBRD                            (US$ '000)                                           USS
109           3/14/55               9.9                14             4-5/8          None
(5)
232           7/15/59               9.8                10           Variable 1/    100,000
(3)
269           10/28/60             19.3                10           Variable 1/      50,000
(3)
312           2/28/62              19.1                15  2/       Variable 1/      50,000
(3)
340           6/5/63               26.9                14  2/       Variable 1/  2,000,000
(2)
414           5/28/65              47.2                15  2/         5-1/2       2,000,000
(3)
515           9/19/67              23.9                13 2/        Variable 1/ 2,000,000
(3)
683           6/3/70               38.8                12 2/          7           4,000,00G
(1)
789           10/27/71             56.7                13 2/          7-1/4       4,000,000
(1)
9102          6/8/73               62.5                17 2/          7-1/4       4,000,000
(1)
1097          4/2/75               95.6                14 2/          8-1/2       4,000,000
(2)
11475         7/22/77              80.0                17 2/          8-1/5       4,000,000
______               (3)
489.7



- 43 -                                   ANNEX 3, Table 7
Page 2
Maximum Drawing
Date of      Amount (Net of        Maturity        Rate of         Without
Loan No.        Agreement   Cancellations)       (Grace Period)   Interest  Creditor's Approval
(Years) 
AID                            (US$ '000)                                             US$
DLF 155         3/23/61            4.5                 16             5             250,000
(2)
KfW                             (DM '000)                                             DM
62 65 144       4/26/63           20.0                18              5-1/2         500,000
(2)
63 65 522       7/29/64            5.0                 16             5-1/2       2,000,000
(2)
64 65 249       11/23/64          10.0                 15             5-1/2       2,000,000
(2)
64 65 322       6/8/65             5.0                 25             5-1/2       2,000,000
(7)
66 65 152       3/23/66           20.0                 25             5-1/2       2,000,000
(7)
67 65 135       11/3/67            5.0                 25             5-1/2       2,000,000
(7)
67 65 168       6/11/68            7.5                 25             5-1/2       2,000,000
(7)
68 65 117       4/11/69            5.0                25              5-1/2       2,000,000
(7)
69 65 156       6/2/70             5.0                30              5-1/2       2,000,000
(8)
70 65 105       6/22/71           10.0                 30             5-1/2       2,000,000
(8)
72 65 143       9/30/72            5.0                 30             6           2,000,000
(8)
73 65 083       6/15/73            5.0                 30             6           2,000,000
(10)
73 65 158       3/31/74            5.0                 30             6           2,000,000
(10)
74 65 719       6/6/75             7.0                30              7-1/2       2,000,000
(10)
75 65 575       6/25/76           10.0                 30             7-1/2       2,000,000
(10)



- 44 -                                ANNEX 3, Table 7
Page J
Maximum Drawing
Date of      Amount (Net of       Maturity         Rate of        Without
Loan No.        Agreement   Cancellations)       (Grace Period)   Interest  Creditor's Approval
(DM '000)          (Years)            %              DM
76 65 615       12/4/76          10.0                 50             7-1/2       2,0OU,000
(10)
77 65 977       8/8/79 3/        10.0                 50             7-1/2       2,000,000
(10)
144.5
U.K.                            (E '000)
I               7/18/69           0.9                  -              -             250,000
II              5/26/70           0.9                  -              -             250,000
III             11/12/71          1.0                  -              -             250,000
IV              1/1/74            1.5                  -              -            500,000
V               10/7/74           1.0                  -              -             500,000
VI              9/12/75           2.5                  -              -            500,000
VII             2/21/77           4.0                  -               -            500,000
VIII            2/22/78           6.0                  -              -             500,000
17.8
Swiss Bond Issue              (SF '000)                                              SF
I               10/18/73          8.0                 15             8
(4)
Euro dollar
Market Borrowing              (US$ '000)                                             US$
I               10/19/78         20.0                 7              1 over
(2-1/2)        LIBOR
1/ Interest will be applied to each portion of the loans at the World Bank's standard
rate when such portion is committed for a specified project.
2/ Repayment schedule is a composite of the repayment schedules of the sub-loans of
ICICI's borrowers.
3/ Net yet effective.



ANNEX 3, Table 8
- 45 -                                  Page 1
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED
Details of Rupee Borrowings Concluded up to September 30, 1979
Date of                         Maturity          Rate of       Repayment
Loan No.      Agreement         Amount        (Grace Period)      Interest      Begins in
(Rs '000)        (Years)             %
Government Loans
1              1/29/55            75               30            Free of           1970
(15)           interest
2              10/26/59          100               20            4-1/2             1971
(10)
3              7/31/65           100               15            5 for Rs 90       1970
(5)           million,
5-1/2 for
Rs 10 million
4              7/30/66            50               15            5-1/2             1971
(5)
325
IDBI Loans
1              11/1/66            50               15            5-5/8             1972
(5)
2              5/10/67            30               14            4-5/8             1972
(5)
3              11/27/68           25               15            5-5/8             1974
(6)
4              6/18/69            18               15            5-5/8             1975
(6)
5              2/17/71            18               14            6-1/4             1976
(5)
6              3/22/72            18               14            6-1/2             1977
(5)
7              11/26/73           28.5             14            6-3/4             1978
(5)
8              9/3/74             19               14            7-3/4             1979
(4)
9              11/26/75           47.4             14            7-3/4             1980
(4)
10             3/30/77            60               13            7-3/4             1981
(3)



ANNEX 3. Table 8
- 46-                                 Page 2
Date of                        Maturity          Rate of         Repayment
Loan No.       Agreement        Amount       (Grace Period)    Interest          Begins in
(is-TO-00)  (Years) 
11             12/27/77            50              15             6-1/4             1983
(5)
12             3/27/78            95               13             7-3/4             1982
(4)
13             6/8/78             50               13             6-14              1983
(4)
14             10/23/78           50               15             6-1/4             1984
(5)
15             12/22/78            50              15             6-1/2             1984
(5)
16             4/18/79            50               15             6-1/2             1984
(5)
17             8/1/79             50               15             6-1/2             1984
(5)
708.9
Debenture/Bond Issues
1              10/27/67           60           Redeemed on        6
Nov. 5, 1975
2              11/25/69           50           Redeemable at    6
par on Dec. 1
1980.
3              6/1/72             70           Redeemable at    6
par on July 1,
1984
4              3/20/73            80           Redeemable at    6
par on April 1,
1985
5              5/30/74            90           Redeemable at    6-1/4
par on June 15,
1986
6              2/10/75            55           Redeemable at    6-1/4
par on April 1,
1985
7              8/2/75            137.5         Redeemable at    6-1/4
par on Sept. 1,
1990 1/
8              4/26/76           137.5         Redeemable at    6-1/4
par on May 15,
1991 l/



- 47 -                                   ANNEX 3. Table 8
Page 3
Date of                        Maturity         Rate of          Repayment
Loan No.      Agreement       Amount       (Grace Period)    Interest          Begins in
(Rs 10-00)       (Years)            x
9              9/8/76           165        Redeemable at        6-1/4
par on Oct. 15,
1992 1/
10             4/22/77          220        Redeemable at        6-1/4              -
par on May 1,
1993  1/
11             12/29/77          99        Redeemable at        6-1/2              -
par on Feb. 1,
1998 1/
12             5/29/78          330        Redeemable at        6-1/2              -
par on July 1,
1998 1/
13             12/28/78         250        Redeemable at        6-1/2              -
par on Feb. 1,
1999 1/
14             6/29/79          451        Redeemable at        6-3/4              -
par on Aug. 1,
1999  1/
2,195
1/ Guaranteed by the Government of India as regards the repayment of principal and
payment of interest.



ANNEX 3, Table 9
- 48 -
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED
Audited Income Statements 1974-78 and January September, 1979
(Rs million)
Jan.-Sept.
1974    1975  ~1976  1977      8 1978  29
INCAME
Interest on Temporary Investments
alnd Deposits                          8.94    7.98    9.29   13.25   12.34   10.85
Interest on IRpee Loans and
Debentures                            46.17   54.26   68.23   95.38  140.69  146.17
Intcrast on Foreign Currencv Loans    133.95  164.50  176.78  193.43  225.49  174.22
Div,idends                              6.50    8.01    9.50   11.75   11.67    8.99
Capital Gains                           3.93    6.05    5.98    5.51   17.18    3.99
Underwriting Commission & Brokerage     0.59    0.95    0.59    0.89    1.27    0,4Q
Guarxnitee Commission                   0.33    0.32    0.85    0.56    0.53    0.27
Comcun;,sion on Letters of Credit        -      0.04    1.64    1.76    1.53    1.36
Mierchant Ban}ing Fees                   -      0.55    1.01    1.78    0.99    1.40
Other Income                            0.55    0.45    0.4p    1.94    1.27    0.65
200.96  243.11  274.36  326.25  412.96  348.30
EXPENSES
Salaries etc.                           6.34    9.09    c.23   11.02.  11.38    8.83
Other Administrative Expenses           4.29    6.20    6.7/    7.56   12.74    7.44
Interest & Discount on Debentures      20.92   30.63   39.20   60.73   84.18   87.41
Interest on Rupee Loans                19.16   1.8.34  20.43   21.94   30.72   3t.24
Interest on Foreign Currency Loans     96.38  120.29  129.52  141.49  167.60  129.37
Interest on Deferred Dividends           -      0.14    0.43    0.26      -
Provisions for Bad & EDubtfbul Debts 1/  -      1.54    0.82    5.60    6.28      -
Bad Debts Wri-tten Off                  1 .9Z  _o_.L      -       -       -       -
149.03  187.58  206.37  248.60  312.90  264.34
Profit before Taxes                    51.f3   55,53   67.99   77.65  100.06   83.96
Less: Taxes                            25.29   23.34   29.95   27.00   32.20   27.00 2/
Add: Excess Provision/aefund for                               -
Income-tax and Sur-tax on
Previous Years                          -      2.85      -      2.89    2.71     -
Net Profit      26.64   35.04   38.04   53.54   70.57   56.96
Dividend         -                     12.50   16.50   18.00   18.75   25.50      -
Dividend Pay out Ratio (%)             46.9   47.1    47.4   35.02   36.13        -
Net Profit/Average Net Worth (%)       10.2   11.4   12.0    14.8   15.9   14.7
Average Cost of Rupee
Borrowings (%)                         5.3     5.6     5.2     6.4      6.6     6.5
Average Cost of Foreign Currency
Borrowings (%)                        83.      7.1     7.0     7.3      7.9     7.7
Interest Spread                         2.'     2.1     2.4      2.4     2.6     2.7
Earnings per Share  (Rs) 3/            17.76   23.36   25.36   24.33   31.36   33.76
Administrative Expenses/
Average Total Assets (')               0.5     0.6     o.5      0.5    0.5      0.4
Profi-t before Tax & Provisions/
Average Total Assets (,)               2.4     2.2     2.1      2.1     2.2     2.0
1/ These provisions are made against current assets only.
2/ Tax liability worked out whichi comes to 31.93% of profit.
3/ On increased capital in 1975, 1977 and 1978



- 49 -                                    ANNEX 3.
-  49 ~                              Table 10
THE INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED
Balance Sheets 1974-78 and September 30, 1979
(Rs million)
December 31                    Sep. 30
1974       1975        1976       1977      1978    1979
ASSETS
Temporary Investments etc.             15.8        10.3        10.3       10.3     12.7       15.0
Industrial Assistance
Shares                                196.5       222.9       248.8     280.9    322.5       339.4
Debentures                            152.5       150.3       166.4      188.1    192.1      180.6
Loans in rupees                       461.1       550.0       732.6   1,005.7  1,542.6   2,037.6
810.1      923.2    1,147.8   1474.7  2,057.2   2,557.6
Loans in foreign currencies         1,270.5    1,785.8    1,957.8   2,120.5  2,370.8   2,424.2
Fixed assets (Net)                     11.3        13.8        16.4       18.6     20.1       20.3
Current Assets and Advances
Cash and bank balance                  84.3       140.8       156.3     129.0    213.7       436.8
Other assets and advances             147.8       160.5       237.1      272.3    357.8      449.8
2,339.8    3,034.4    3,325.7   4,025.4  5,031.1   5,903.7
CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES
Share capital                        126.8        150.0      150.0      187.5    225.0       225.0
Reserve surplus l/(and grants)        146.4      154.3       176.7      214.0    262.1       323.2 2/
273.2      304.3       326.7      401.5    487.1       548.2
Rupee Borrowings
Debentures                            350.0       482.5       785.0   1,005.0  1,434.0   2,135.2
Government of India                   219.3       191.7      163.8      135.4    107.0        86.1
IDBI                                  180.0      215.1       201.0      295.1    521.4       600.7
Fixed deposits - public                -           -           -          -         5.0       12.8
749.3      889.3    1,149.8   1,435.5  2,068.3   2,834.8
Foreign Currency Borrowings
IBRD                               1,035.8    1,453.8    1,580.4   1,720.7  1,912.7   1,869.1
AID                                     1.0         1.0         0.5       -        -          -
KfW                                   145.9       213.4       248.9      259.5    293.9      332.9
Swiss bonds                            15.1        27.5        29.4      31.3      35.1       35.6
Eurodollar loan                        -           -           -         -         -          16.6
1,200.8    1,695.7    1,859.2   2,011.5  2,241.7   2,254.2
Current liabilities                   116.5       145.1       190.0     176.9    234.0       266.5
2,339.8    3,034.4    3,525.7   4,025.4  5,031.1   5,903.7
Guarantees outstanding                 41.2        34.1        92.8       80.6     67.3       59.8
Long-term debt/equity ratio             7.2         8.6         9.1        8.6      8.8        8.8
Debt/equity ratio as defined
in Bank Loan Agreement             8.0         7.9         9.0        9.0       8.8        9.3
1/ Reserve up to December 31, 1974 includes dividends to be paid at the beginning of
the following year from the current year's earnings. From 1975, the practice of
providing dividends out of profits has been introduced.
2/ Tax liability worked out which comes to 31.93% of profit.
Note: In 1975 and thereafter, the figures of foreign currency loans have been arrived
at by converting each currency into rupees at the current rate of exchange as
against the past practice of conversion at the central rate of exchange.



- 50-                      ANNEX 3, Table 11
THE INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED
Forecast of Approvals, Commitments and Disbursements 1980-83
(Rs. in millions)
1979/2    1980        1981        1982        1983
Approvals /
Rupee Loans                     1194       1310        1422        1569        1737
Guarantees                        -3          10         10          10          10
Investments:  Shares             122        150         120         129         132
Debentures         39          30         33          36          40
1352       1500        1585        1744        1919
Foreign Currency Loans           645         650        715         796         861
1997       2150        2300        2540        2780
Commitments
Rupee Loans                      929       1200        1490        1700        1960
Guarantees                        -           10         10          10          10
Investments:  Shares              66          90         70          80          90
Debentures         62          30          30         40          50
1057       1330        1600        1830        2110
Foreign Currency Loans           439         550        660         790         950
1496       1880        2260        2620        3060
Disbursements
Rupee Loans                      808        1080       1250        1445        1660
Guarantees 
Investments:  Shares              27          60         60          68          75
Debentures         63          30         20          22          25
898       1170        1330        1535        1760
Foreign Currency Loans           345        450         520         595         680
1243       1620        1850        2130        2440
l/ Net of cancellations and reductions.
2/ Actuals.



- 51 -                        ANNEX 3, Table 12
THE INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED
Projected Foreign Currency and Domestic Currency Resource
Position 1980-83
(Rs. in millions)
1979 Li  1980      1981      1982      1983
Foreign Currency Resources
Resources available for commitments
at the beginning of the year                666       336      967       423       921
Plus New Resources
IBRD/Euro-dollar                           -      1060        -       1168        -
KfW                                        70        47       47        47        47
KfW Revolving Funds                        39        38       33        37        42
U.K.                                       -         36       36        36        36
109     1181       116      1288      125
Less:  New commitments                        439       550       660       790      950
Resources available for commitments
at the end of the year                      336       967      423       921        96
Rupee Resources
Resources available for disbursements
at the beginning of the year                181       203      289       410       526
Plus Resources
Internal cash generation L2               54        70       96       115       141
Collection of loans including U.K.        99      160       236       336       474
Sales from portfolio                      33        39       34        40        49
Increase in share capital                 -        23        22        -         27
Rupee borrowings                         866     1135      1185      1285      1335
1052     1427      1573      1776      2026
Less Requirements
Loan disbursements including U.K.        839     1120      1280      1480      1700
Investment disbursements                  90       90        80        90       100
Repayments of loans                       72        50       48        41        53
Redemption of debentures                  -         50       -         -         -
Fixed assets acquisition                   1       10         8         1         1
Other (increase in receivables, etc.)  28           21       36        48        53
1030     1341      1452      1660      1907
Resources available for disbursements
at the end of the year                      203       289      410       526       645
1/ Actuals.
2/ Net of taxes and dividends.



- 52 -                         ANNEX 3, Table 13
THE INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED
Projected Income Statements - 1980-83
(Rs. in millions)
1979 tl    1980         1981        1982       1983
INCOME
Interest on loans and
debentures                       428.7       518.3       616.4       743.6       883.6
Commitment charge on loans          12.2        16.2        25.5        30.9         38.5
Capital gains                         7.9         7.5         9.6       10.2         10.8
Dividend income                      12.2       12.6        13.0         14.4        16.3
Underwriting commission               1.0         1.5         2.7         2.9         3.1
Guarantee commission                  0.5         0.4         0.5         0.5         0.5
Income from non-industrial
securities, deposits etc.          15.8        18.6        26.2        33.8        41.1
Other income                          5.3         5.9         6.0         6.5         6.5
Total Income        483.6       581.0       699.9       842.8      1000.4
EXPENSES
Interest on borrowings             331.9       404.7       479.5       580.6       688.2
Commitment charge on
borrowings                           4.7         4.2         6.5         6.3         8.5
Salaries and other personnel
expenses                           14.1        15.7        18.2        22.2        25.2
Other administrative and
general expenses                   14.9        16.6        13.4        21.2        21.9
Depreciation                          0.6         0.7         1.3         1.1         1.1
Total Expenses      366.2       441.9       518.9       631.4       744.9
Profit before tax                  117.4       139.1       181.0       211.4       255.5
Provision for tax                    36.0       42.0        56.0         65.8        80.5
Net Profit           81.4 L2    97.1        125.0       145.6       175.0
APPROPRIATIONS
Dividends                           29.3        27.7         30.4        32.4        34.8
Reserve against doubtful debts    10.0          10.0        11.0        12.0        13.0
Capital Reserve                       7.4         7.5         9.6       10.2        10.8
Special reserve                     45.5        52.6         68.6       80.5         97.9
Other reserves                        1.2        (0.7)        5.4       10.5        18.5
1/ Actuals.
2/ Net profit available for appropriations is actually Rs 93.4 million, due to
an addition of Rs 12.0 million due to transfer from Special Reserve, refund
of income-tax and excess provision for taxation made in earlier years.



- 53 -                          ANNEY 3, Table 14
THE INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED
Projected Balance Sheets - 1980-83
(Rs. in millions)
Year ending December 31
/1
19791-   1980       1981      1982       1983
ASSETS
Cash and bank balances                      230       316       437       553        672
Non-industrial investment                    28        37        44        54         65
Receivables, accrued income etc.            401       475       565       671        796
659       828     1046      1278       1533
Outstanding Loans:
Rupee Loans                              2298      3190     4202      5333        6590
Loans out of U.K. Funds                   105       131       145       159        175
Foreign currency                         2242      2313      2437     2626        2840
Outstanding Investments:
Shares                                    347       404      460        519        584
Debentures                                179       183       186       185        179
5171      6221      7430      8822     10368
Fixed Assets (Net)                           20        29        36        36         36
TOTAL ASSETS                               5850      7078      8512    10136       11937
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Tax Payable                                  36        42        56        66         80
Dividend payable                             29        28        30        32         35
Accounts payable and other current
liabilities                               200       257       305       361       427
265       327       391      459         542
Rupee Borrowings                           2866      3901      5038      6282       7564
Foreign Currency Borrowings                2190      2229      2345      2543       2812
5056     6130       7383     8825      10376
Share Capital                               225       248       270       270        297
Reserve against doubtful debts               55        65        76        88        101
Other reserves and unappropriated
profits                                   249       308       392       494        621
529       621       738      852       1019
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY               5850      7078      8512    10136       11937
CONTINGENT LIABILITY
On account of Guarantees                     59        62        64        64         63
1/ Actuals.



- 54 -                             ANNEX 3, Table 15
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED
Projected Cash Flow Statements - 1980-83
(Rs. in millions)
1979  1   1980        1981       1982       1983
SOURCES
Profit before tax                           117        139        181         212        255
Add back non-cash charges
(Depreciation)                              2          1          1          1          1
Cash generation from orerations             119        140        182        213         256
Increase in share capital                   -           23         22          -          27
Draw-down on loans:
Rupee Borrowings:-
IDBI                                    150        235        235        235        235
Market Borrowings                       716        900        950       1050       1100
Foreign currency borrowings                 278        374        459        525         605
Loans converted into equity                  10         10         10           8          8
Debentures converted into equity              1          2          2          -          -
Loan collection:
Rupee loans                               101        178        228        306        395
Loans out of U.K. funds                    14         14         16         21          24
Foreign currency loans                    354        339        366        371        426
Shares from portfolio:
Shares                                     14         15         16         17          18
Debentures                                 19         24         15         23          31
Non-Industrial securities                  -          -          -          -           -
1776       2254       2504       2769       3125
USES
Increase in fixed assets                      1         10          8          1           1
Increase in non-industrial securities         9          9         10          10         11
Disbursement of loans:
Rupee loans                              808       1080       1250       1445       1660
Loans out of U.K. funds                   31         40         30         35         40
Foreign currency loans                   314        410        490        560        640
Investments:
Shares                                    27         60         60         68         75
Debentures                                63         30         20         22         25
Equity investments due to conversion         11         12         12           8          8
Repayments:
Rupee Loans                               72         50         48         41         53
Foreign Currency Borrowings              334        335        343        327        336
Redemption of rupee debentures               -          50         -          -           -
Increase in receivables etc.                 49         74         90        106         125
Less:  Increase in payable etc.            (30)       (62)       (64)        (68)       (83)
Payment of tax                               36         42         56          66         80
Payment of dividend                          29         28          30         32         35
Increase (decrease) in cash etc.             22         86        121        116         119
1776       2254       25C4       2769       3125
1/ Actual.



INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED
Contribution of Financial Institutions to Fixed Investment in Industry, 1970-71 to 1976-77
(Rs. million)
1970-71             1971-72            1972-73           1973-74            1974-75             1975-76            1976-77
Amount              Amount             Amount            Amount             Amount              Amount             Amount
Gross Fixed Capital Formation *    24040                   27430             33300              37250              43880               63910              66940
Of which:
Private Sector (Private
Corporate and Cooperatives)            6210                7820               8250             10630              11650               20010              14060
Public Sector (Department and
Non-Department undertakings)          17830               19610              25050             27620             32230               43900               52880
Ratios                                            %                   /v                %                  %                  %                   %                  %
DFC's industrial disbursement
as % of total industrial
investment of which                   1128       4.7      1221       4.5    1822        5.5    2351         6.1    3010        6.8    3135        4.9    4150       6.2
ICICI                        289       1.2       303       1.1      397       1.2      435       1.2      454        1.0      611       1.0      670      1.0
IDBI **                       87       0.4       115       0.4      301       0.9      515       1.3      426        1.0      555       0.9      972      1.5
IFCI                         174       0.7        203      0.7      280       0.8      319       0.8      370        0.8      346       0.5      549      0.8
IRCI                         -          -          11      0.4       35       0.1       52       0.1       80       0.2        47       0.1      108      0.2
SFC's                         335       1.4       396       1.5      447       1.3      566       1.5      796       1.8      988       1.5    1052       1.6
SIDC's                        111      0.5        124       0.5      166       0.5      185      0.5       267       0.6      264       0.4      350      0.5
UTI                            51       0.2        16       0.1       56       0.2       78       0.2       76       0.2       49       0.1       60       -
LIC                            81       0.3        53       0.2      140       0.4       201      0.5      541       1.2      275       0.4      389      0.6
DFC's industrial disbursement as
7. of total private industrial in-
vestment of which                     1128      18.2       1221      15.6    1822      22.1    2351       22.1    3010        25.8    3135       15.7    4150    29.5
ICICI                        289       4.7       303       3.9      397       4.8      435       4.1      454       3.9      611        3.1      670     4.8
* Gross fixed capital formation includes expenditure on construction and machinery and equipment.
** Includes direct loans other than for exports and underwriting and direct subscription.
Source: 1. CSO, National Accounts Statistics, 1970-71 to 1976-77, January 1979 P. 120 for gross fixed capital formation in
the private sector and P. 52 for public sector.
2. IDBI Annual Reports for DFC's disbursements.
5,



- 56-                                 ANNEX 4
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED
DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN PROJECT FILE
A.   The Manufacturing Sector and the Financial System
Al. Papers presented at ICICI's Silver Jubilee Symposium
on Indian Industry.
A2.  "Indian Economy: Recent Trends and Prospects, December
1979" published by the Centre for Monitoring the India
Economy in Bombay.
A3. "Annual Survey of Industries 1976-77, Summary Results
for the Factory Sector", published by the Central
Statistical Organization of the Ministry of Planning.
A4. Report on Currency and Finance by the Reserve Bank of
India, 1977-78, Volume 1.
B.   Project Related Reports and Documents
B1. ICICI's Statement of Financial and Operating Strategy.
B2. Agreed Minutes of Negotiations, including supporting
documents submitted by ICICI.
C.   Selected Working Papers
Cl. Information prepared by ICICI for the IBRD appraisal
mission of November 1979.



