OFFICILL LOAN NUMBER 19(3 IN
Loan Agreement
(Thirteenth Industrial Credit and Investment Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AC' DEVELOPMENT
and
THE INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION
OF INDIA LIMITED
Dated                    6, 1980


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated  AA/    /6    , 1980, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank) and the INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF
INDIA LIMITED (hereinafter called the Borrower), a Company estab-
lished and operating under the laws of India.
WHEREAS the Borrower has obtained financial assistance
for its investment program in terms of:
(i) the agreements referred to in Section 1.02 (i)
hereof between the Bank and the Borrower;
(ii) the agreements referred to in Section 1.02 (k)
hereof between Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau, of
Frankfurt-Main, Federal Republic of Germany (here-
inafter called the Kfw) and the Borrower;
(iii) the agreements referred to in Section 1.02 (1)
hereof between the Government of India and the
Borrower;
(iv) the loans made by the Industrial Development
Bank of India (hereinafter called IDBI) evidenced
by the debentures referred to in Section 1.02 (m)
hereof;
(v) the eleven Rupee debenture issues of the Borrower,
dated November 25, 1969, June 1, 1972, March 20,
1973, May 30, 1974, February 10, 1975, August 2,
1975, April 26, 1976, September 8, 1976, April 22,
1977, December 29, 1977 and May 29, 1978, res-
pectively, and three bond issues of the Borrower
dated December 28, 1978, June 29, 1979 and Decem-
ber 6, 1979, respectively;
(vi) the Swiss Bond Issue of the Borrower, dated
November 6, 1973; and
(vii) the syndicated Euro-currency loans evidenced by
agreements dated October 19, 1978, and April 29,
1980, respectively.
WHEREAS the Borrower has requested the Bank to make a further
loan for said program;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, as so modified,
being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth,
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Sub-loan" means a loan or credit made or proposed to be
made by the Borrower out of the proceeds of the Loan to an Invest-
ment Enterprise for an Investment Project.
(b) "Investment" means an investment, other than a sub-loan,
made or proposed to be made by the Borrower out of the proceeds
of the Loan in an Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project.
(c) "Free-limit Sub-loan" or "free-limit investment" means
a sub-loan or an investment, as defined in paragraphs (a) and (b)
of this Section, respectively, which qualifies as a free-limit
sub-loan or a free-limit investment pursuant to the provisions of
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
(d) "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which
the Borrower proposes to make or has made a sub-loan or in which
it proposes to make or has made an investment.
(e) "Investment Project" means a specific development
project to be carried out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing
the proceeds of a sub-loan or investment.
(f) "Rupees" and "Rs" mean the currency of the Guarantor.
(g) "Foreign currency" means any currency other than the
currency of the Guarantor.


﻿-3-
(h) "Charter" means the Memorandum of Association and the
Articles of Association of the Borrower dated January 5, 1955, as
amended to the date of this Agreement, and as the same may be
amended from time to time with the prior approval of the Bank.
(i) "Prior Loan Agreement" means any outstanding loan
agreement between the Bank and the Borrower dated before the
date of this Agreement and "Prior Loan" means any loan provided
for therein.
(j) "Subsidiary" means any company which is a subsidiary
of the Borrower within the meaning of the Companies Act, 1956 (or
any amendment thereof) of the Guarantor.
(k) "Kfw Agreements" means the loan agreements dated April
26, 1963, July 29, 1964, November 23, 1964, June 8, 1965,
March 23, 1966, November 3, 1967, June 11, 1968, April 11, 1969,
June 2, 1970, June 22, 1971, September 30, 1972, June 15, 1973,
March 31, 1974, June 6, 1975, June 25, 1976, December 4, 1976,
August 8, 1979 and November 27, 1979, respectively, all between
the Kfw and the Borrower, as the same have been or may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the parties thereto, or any
one or more of such agreements as so amended as the context may
require.
(1) "Government Agreements" means the agreements providing
for loans or advances to the Borrower dated January 29, 1955,
October 26, 1959, July 31, 1965 and July 30, 1966, respectively,
all between the Guarantor and the Borrower, as the same have been
or may be amended from time to time by agreement between the
parties thereto and the Bank, and any other agreements providing
for borrowings by the Borrower from the Guarantor.
(m) "IDBI Agreements" means the debentures and loans dated
November 1, 1966, May 22, 1967, November 27, 1968, June 18, 1969,
February 17, 1971, March 20, 1972, November 26, 1973, September 3,
1974, November 26, 1975, March 30, 1977, March 27, 1978, June 8,
1978, October 23, 1978, April 18, 1979, August 1, 1979, Octo-
ber 18, 1979, January 8, 1980, and March 7, 1980, respectively,
between IDBI and the Borrower, as the same have been o2 may be
amended from time to time by agreement between IDBI and the
Borrower, or either of such debentures and loans as so amended as
the context may require.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
one hundred million dollars ($100,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account for amounts expended by the Borrower for an
Investment Project or, if the Bank shall so agree, for amounts to
be expended by the Borrower for an Investment Project to finance
the reasonable foreign-currency cost of goods and services re-
quired under a sub-loan or investment for the Investment Project
in respect of which the withdrawal is requested; provided,
however, that no withdrawal shall be made in respect of a sub-loan
or investment unless (1) the sub-loan or investment shall have
been approved by the Bank, or (ii) the sub-loan or investment
shall be a free-limit sub-loan or a free-limit investment for
which the Bank shall have authorized withdrawals from the Loan
Account.
(b) A free-limit sub-loan and a free-limit investment shall
be a sub-loan or an investment in an amount to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan which, together with any other amount or
amounts financed or proposed to be financed by the Borrower out of
the proceeds of the Loan or any Prior Loan for the same project or
for any other project directly and materially related thereto, and
not repaid shall not exceed in the aggregate the equivalent of six
million dollars ($6,000,000) the foregoing amount being subject to
change from time to time as determined by the Bank.
(c) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, no withdrawals shall be made on account of expenditures
before the date of this Agreement or of expenditures made by an
Investment Enterprise in respect of a sub-loan or investment
subject to the Bank's approval, if such expenditures shall have
been made more than ninety days prior to the date on which the
Bank shall have received in respect of such sub-loan or investment
the application and information required by Section 2.03 (a) of
this Agreement or, in respect of a free-limit sub-loan or free-
limit investment, more than ninety days prior to the date on
which the Bank shall have received in respect of such free-limit
sub-loan or free-limit investment, as the case may be, the request
and information required by Section 2.03 (b) of this Agreement.


﻿Section 2.03. (a) When presenting a sub-loan or an investment
(other than a free-limit sub-loan or a free-limit investment) to
the Bank for approval, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank an
application, in form satisfactory to the Bank, together with (i) a
description of the Investment Enterprise and an appraisal of the
Investment Project, including a description of the expenditures
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; (ii) the
proposed terms and conditions of the sub-loan or investment,
including the schedule of amortization of the sub-loan or of
repayment to the Bank of the amount of the Loan to be used for the
investment; and (iii) such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request.
(b) Each request by the Borrower for authorization to
make withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit
sub-loan or free-limit investment shall contain (i) a summary
description of the Investment Enterprise and the Investment
Project, including a description of the expenditures proposed to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and (ii) the terms
and conditions of such free-limit sub-loan or free-limit invest-
ment, including the schedule of amortization of the free- limit
sub-loan or of repayment to the Bank of the amount of the 'oan to
be used for the free-limit investment, as the case may be.
(c) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions
of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section shall be presented
to the Bank on or before December 31, 1982.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1985,
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of eight and twenty-five hundredths per cent (8.25%) per annum
on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.


﻿-6-
Section 2.08. (a) The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortiz&tion schedule
set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement as such Schedule shall
be amended from time to time by the Bank to the extent required
to: (i) conform in relevant part substantially to the aggregate
of the amortization schedules applicable to sub-loans and the
schedules of repayment to the Bank in respect of investments,
which have been approved or authorized for withdrawals from the
Loan Account under Section 2.02 of this Agreement and (ii) take
into account any cancellation pursuant to Article VI of the
General Conditions and any repayments made by the Borrower under
Section 2.09 of this Agreement; provided that repayments due
hereunder shall be made on February 15 and August 15 in each
year. Such amendments of said Schedule 1 shall include amendments
to the table of premiums on prepayment, if necessary.
(b) The amortization schedule applicable to each sub-loan
and the schedule of repayment to the Bank in respect of each
investment shall provide for an appropriate period of grace,
and, unless the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree (i)
shall not extend beyond fifteen years from the date of approval
by the Bank of such sub-loan or iavestment, or in the case of a
free-limit sub-loan or a free-limit investment, of authorization
by the Bank to make withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect
thereof, and (ii) shall provide for semi-annual, or more frequent,
payments of principal and interest.
Section 2.09. Unless the Bank and the Borrower shall other-
wise agree:
(a) If a sub-loan or any part thereof shall be repaid
to the Borrower in advance of maturity or if a sub-loan or an
investment or any part thereof shall be sold, transferred,
assigned or otherwise disposed of for value by the Borrower, the
Borrower shall promptly notify the Bank and shall repay to the
Bank on the next following interest payment date, together with
the premiums specified in Schedule 1 to this Agreement or in any
amendment thereof under Section 2.08 (a) of this Agreement, the
amount withdrawn from the Loan Account in respect of such sub-loan
or investment or part thereof and not theretofore repaid to
the Bank.
(b) Any amount so repaid by the Borrower shall be applied
by the Bank as follows: (i) in the case of a sub-loan, to the
maturity or maturities of the Loan in amounts corresponding


﻿- 7 -
to the outstanding amounts of the maturity or maturities of
the sub-loan so repaid or disposed of, and (ii) in the case of
an investment, pro rata to the maturity or maturities of the Loan
reflecting amounts to be repaid on account of such investment.
(c) Paragraph (b) of Section 3.05 of the General Conditions
shall not apply to any repayment made under paragraph (a) of
this Section.
ARTICLE III
The Project;
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 3.01. (a) The purpose of the Project is to assist
the Borrower in financing such productive facilities and resources
in India as will contribute to the economic and social development
of the country. The Project consists of the financing of specific
development projects through loans to and investments in enter-
prises in India, in furtherance of the corporate purposes of the
Borrower, as set forth in the Charter.
(b) The Borrower shall carry out the Project and conduct
its operations and affairs in accordance with appropriate finan-
cial standards and practices, with qualified management and
personnel, and in accordance with the Charter.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes that, unless
the Bank shall otherwise agree, any sub-loan or investment will
be made on terms whereby the Borrower shall obtain, by written
contract with the Investment Enterprise or by other appropriate
legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the
Bank and the Borrower, including, in the case of any sub-loan and
to the extent that it shall be appropriate in the case of any
investment, the right of the Borrower to: (i) require the Invest-
ment Enterprise to carry out and operate the Investment Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with appro-
priate technical, financial and managerial standards and to
maintain adequate records; (ii) require that: (1) the goods and
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
purchased at a reasonable price, account being taken also of other
relevant factors such as time of delivery and efficiency and
reliability of the goods and availability of maintenance facili-
ties and spare parts therefor, and, in the case of services, of
their quality and the competence of the parties rendering them and


﻿- 8 -
(2) such goods and services shall be used exclusively in the
carrying out of the Investment Project; (iii) inspect, by itself
or jointly with representatives of the Bank if the Bank shall so
request, such goods and the sites, works, plants and construction
included in the Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any
relevant records and documents; (iv) require that: (1) the Invest-
ment Enterprise shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts,
as shall be consistent with sound business practice; and (2)
without any limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance shall
cover hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the
place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made
payable in a currency freely usable by the Investment Enterprise
to replace or repair such goods; (v) obtain all such information
as the Bank or the Borrower shall reasonably request relating to
the foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial
condition of the Investment Enterprise and the Investment Project;
and (vi) suspend or terminate the right of the Investment Enter-
prise to the use of the proceeds of the Loan upon failure by such
Investment Enterprise to perform its obligations under its con-
tract with the Borrower.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation
to each Investment Project in such manner as to: (i) protect
the interests of the Bank and the Borrower, (ii) comply with
its obligations under this Agreement, and (iii) achieve the
purposes of the Project.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank
all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request con-
cerning the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan, the Project,
the Investment Enterprises, the Investment Projects and the
sub-loans and investments and, where appropriate, the benefits to
be derived from the foregoing.
(b) Within six months following the last withdrawal from the
Loan Account, or such later date as may be agreed between the Bank
and the Borrower, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Investment Projects, their costs and the benefits derived and to
be derived from them, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank
of their respective obligations under this Agreement and the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.


﻿-9-
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall duly perform all its
obligations -- agreements under which funds have been lent
or otherwise put at the disposal of the Borrower by the Guarantor
or its agencies or others for relending, investment or management.
The Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any action which
would have the effect of assigning, or of amending, abrogating or
waiving any material provision of, any such agreement.
Section 3.05. If the Borrower establishes or acquires any
subsidiary, the Borrower shall cause such subsidiary to observe
and perform the obligations of the Borrower hereunder to the
extent to which such obligations shall or can be applicable
thereto, as though such obligations were binding upon such
subsidiary.
Section 3.06. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not amend the Charter.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain procedures and
records adequate to monitor and record the progress of the Project
and of each Investment Project and to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations and financial condition of the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
furnish to the Bank, as soon as available but in any case not
later than four months after the end of each such year, (A)
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably re-
quested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of the Borrower


﻿- 10 -
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall frcae time to time rea-
sonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date of
this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if any lien shall be created on any assets
of the Borrower or any subsidiary as security for any debt,
such lien will equally and ratably secure the payment of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on the Loan and that
in the creation of any such lien express provision will be made to
that effect at no cost to the Bank; and (ii) if any statutory
lien shall be created on any assets of the Borrower or of any
subsidiary as security for any debt, the Borrower shall grant, at
no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satisfactory to the Bank
to secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and
other charges on the Loan; provided, however, that the foregoing
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A) any lien
created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as
security for the payment of the purchase price of such property;
or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 4.04. Except as shall be otherwise agreed between the
Bank and the Borrower, the Borrower shall: (i) conduct its opera-
tions and affairs in such manner as shall be necessary to main-
tain, at all times, its debt/equity ratio within the limit
referred to in Section 4.06 of this Agreement; and (ii) if such
ratio shall, for reasons beyond the Borrower's control, be ex-
-eeded, take, within a reasonable time, all such action as shall
be necessary to bring such ratio within such limit.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall not make any repayment
in advance of maturity in respect of any outstanding debt of
the Borrower which, in the judgment of the Bank, would materially
affect the Borrower's ability to meet its financial obligations.
Section 4.06. Except as shall be otherwise agreed between
the Bank and the Borrower, the Borrower shall not incur or permit
any subsidiary to incur any debt if, after the incurring of
such debt, the consolidated debt of the Borrower and all its
subsidiaries then incurred and outstanding would be greater than


﻿- 11 -
eleven times the consolidated capital and surplus of the Borrower
and all its subsidiaries. For the purposes of this Section:
(a) "debt" means any debt incurred by the Borrower or
any subsidiary maturing more than one year after the date on which
it is originally incurred, provided, that current repayments of
such debt due and payable within one year shall be excluded
therefrom;
(b) debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan
contract or agreement (including the Loan Agreement and any
Prior Loan Agreement) on the date and to the extent the amount of
the loan is drawn down and outstanding pursuant to such loan
contract or agreement, and (ii) under a guarantee agreement, on
the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been
entered into but only to the extent that the guaranteed debt is
outstanding;
(c) whenever in connection with this Section it shall
be necessary to value in terms of Rupees debt payable in foreign
currency, such valuation shall be made at the prevailing lawful
rate of exchange at which such foreign currency is, at the time
of such valuation, obtainable by the Borrower for the purposes
of servicing such debt;
(d) "consolidated debt of the Borrower and all its sub-,
sidaries" means the total amount of debt of the Borrower and
its subsidiaries, excluding: (i) any debt owed by the Borrower
to any subsidiary or by any subsidiary to the Borrower or to any
other subsidiary, and (ii) such proceeds of any debt incurred
by the Borrower or by any subsidiary as are kept in liquid assets;
and
(e) "consolidated capital and surplus of the Borrower
and its subsidiaries" means the aggregate of the unimpaired
paid-up capital, surplus and free reserves of the Borrower and
its subsidiaries after excluding therefrom such amounts as shall
represent equity interests of the Borrower in any subsidiary
or of any subsidiary in the Borrower or any other subsidiary.
(f) All provisions in any Previous Loan Agreement prescrib-
ing a debt/equity ratio limit are hereby amended to read as
provided in Section 4.06 (a) through (e) of this Agreement.


﻿- 12 -
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall take such steps satisfactory
to the Bank as shall be necessary to protect itself against
risk of loss resulting from changes in the rates of exchange
between the currencies (including Rupees) used in its operations.
Section 4.08. The Bank and the Borrower shall from time
to time, at the request of either party, exchange views through
their representatives with regard to the administration, opera-
tions and financial condition of the Borrower and its subsid-
iaries, and the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank all such
information as the Bank, shall reasonably request concerning
the administration, operations and financial condition of the
Borrower and its subsidiaries.
Section 4.09. The Borrower shall enable the Bank's represen-
tatives to inspect the records referred to in Section 4.01 of this
Agreement and any relevant documents.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified:
(a) any part of the principal amount of any loan to the
Borrower having an original maturity of one year or more shall,
in accordance with its terms, have become due and payable in
advance of maturity as provided in the relative contractual
instruments, or any security for any such loan shall have become
enforceable;
(b) a resolution shall have been passed for the dissolution
or liquidation of the Borrower;
(c) a subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created
or acquired or taken over by the Borrower, if such creation,
acquisition or taking over would adversely affect the conduct
of the Borrower's business or the Borrower's financial condition
or the efficiency of the Borrower's management and personnel
or the carrying out of the Project;
(d) the Guarantor shall have taken any action under the
Companies Act, 1956, as amended, to convert all or any part of
advances of loans to the Borrower into shares in the Borrower at
the time when the Borrower is duly performing its obligations
under the Government Agreements;


﻿- 13 -
(e) a default shall occur in the performance by the Borrower
or the Guarantor of any obligation other than payment of principal
or interest or any other payment required under the Prior Loan
Agreements, the respective guarantee agreements or the bonds under
the Prior Loan Agreements.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) or paragraph
(b) or paragraph (d) of Section 5.01 shall occur; and
(b) the event specified in paragraph (c) or paragraph
(e) of Section 5.01 shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower, and, in the case of the event specified in
paragraph (e), also the Guarantor.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous
Sectior. 6.01. The date of W-Loo( 14) IfOo is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 14 -
For the Borrower:
The Industrial Credit and Investment
Corporation of India Limited
163 Backbay Reclamation
Bombay 400 020, India
Cable address:
CREDCORP
Bombay
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
1ClAw~ Regional Vice President
South Asia
THE INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT
CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED
By 401
Authorized Representative


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 1
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due         (expressed in dollars)*
August 15, 1983                   600,000
February 15, 1984               1,440,000
August 15, 1984                 2,500,000
February 15, 1985               3,500,000
August 15, 1985                 4,100,000
February 15, 1986               4,210,000
August 15, 1986                 4,330,000
February 15, 1987               4,520,000
August 15, 1987                 6,940,000
February 15, 1988               7,180,000
August 15, 1988                 7,180,000
February 15, 1989               6,720,000
August 15, 1989                 6,270,000
February 15, 1990               5,840,000
August 15, 1990                 5,820,000
February 15, 1991               5,700,000
August 15, 1991                 5,430,000
February 15, 1992               4,290,000
August 15, 1992                 2,980,000
February 15, 1993               1,580,000
August 15, 1993                 1,270,000
February 15, 1994               1,230,000
August 15, 1994                 1,200,000
February 15, 1995               1,150,000
August 15, 1995                 1,100,000
February 15, 1996               1,070,000
August 15, 1996                 1,020,000
February 15, 1997                 830,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 16 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions or to Section 2.09 (a) of the Loan
Agreement:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                             1.45%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                    2.90%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                             5.35%
More than eleven years but not
more than fifteen years
before maturity                             7.30%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                             8.25%


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 2
Modifications of the General Conditions
For the purposes of the Loan Agreement, the provisions
of the General Conditions are modified as follows:
(1) Paragraph 7 of Section 2.01 is amended to read:
"7. The term 'Guarantor' means India, acting by its
President."
(2) The following subparagraph (d) is added to Section
3.05:
"(d)  The Bank and the Borrower may from time to time
agree upon arrangements for prepayment of the Loan and
the application of such prepayment in addition to, or in
substitution for, those set forth in paragraph (b) of
Section 3.05."
(3) The words "Investment Projects" are substituted for
the words "the Project" at the end of Section 5.03.
(4) Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following
new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Bank. If (a) the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account shall have been suspended with respect to any amount
of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) by
the date specified in paragraph (c) of Section 2.03 of
the Loan Agreement no applications or requests permitted
under paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) of such Section shall
have been received by the Bank in respect of any portion of
the Loan, or having been so received, shall have been denied,
or (c) after the Closing Date an amount of the Loan shall
remain unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or (d) the Bank
shall have received notice from the Guarantor pursuant to
Section 6.07 with respect to an amount of the Loan, the Bank
may by notice to the Borrower terminate the right of the
Borrower to submit such applications or requests or to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account, as the case may be, with
respect to such amount or portion of the Loan. Upon the
giving of such notice such amount or portion of the Loan
shall be cancelled."


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this   o      day of Na, 1980
FOR SECRETARY


