Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 17243
lMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
SECOND SMALLHOLDER RUBBER REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Cr. 1909 - CE)
December 18, 1997
Rural Development Sector Unit
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency unit: Sri Lankan Rupees (Rs)
1987: US$1..00    =    Rs 30.50-
1988: US$1.00    =    Rs 31.80
1989: US$1.00    =    Rs 36.04
1990: US$1.00    =    Rs 40.06
1991: US$1.00    =    Rs 41.37
1992: US$1.00    =    Rs 43.83
1993: US$1.00    =    Rs 48.25
1994: US$1.00   =    Rs 49.41
1995: US$1.00          Rs 51.25
1996: US$1.00    =    Rs55.27
1997: US$1.00    =    Rs 58.50
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
(Metric system)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ASD          Advisory Services Department
CLSD         Corynespora Leaf Spot Disease
CPD          Commodity Purchases Department
ERR          Economic Rate of Retum
GOSL         Government of Sri Lanka
GPC          Group (Rubber) Processing Center
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
LCPC         Latex Collection and Processing Center
MPAHAPI    Ministry of Public Administration, Home Affairs and Plantation Industries
PCU          Project Coordinating Unit
RDD          Rubber Development Departnent
RDO          Rubber Development Officer
RRB          Rubber Research Board
RRF          Rubber Replanting Fund
RRI          Rubber Research Institute of Sri Lanka
SAR          Staff Appraisal Report
Vice President    Mieko Nishimizu
Sector Managers  Michael Baxter I Ridwan Ali
Country Director  Roberto Bentjerodt
Task Manager      Terrence Abeysekera



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
Preface ...................................................................................
Evaluation Summary ..................................................ii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Background and Statement/Evaluation of Objectives ...........................................1
B. Achievement of Objectives ................................................2
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project .................................................8
D. Project Sustainability  ........8........................................8
E. IDA  Performance ................................................                                                 9
F. Borrower Performance .................................................9
G. Assessment of Outcome ................................................                                          10
H. Future Operations ................................................ 10
I.  Key Lessons Learned ..................................................11
PART II:  STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments .13
Table 2. Related IDA Credits .14
Table 3. Project Timetable .14
Table 4.   Loan Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual                                              14
Table 5.  Key Indicators for Project Implementation .15
Table 6.  Key Indicators of Project Operations .15
Table 7. Studies Included in Project .16
Table 8A.  Project Costs ..........................................                                                 16
Table 8B.  Project Financing ...........................................                                           16
Table 9.        Economic Costs and  Benefits ...........................................                           17
Table 10.   Status of Legal Covenants ..........................................                                   18
Table 11.   Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ................................. 19
Table 12.   IDAResources: Staff  Inputs ..........................................                                 19
Table 13:   IDA  Resources: Missions ..........................................                                    20
APPENDICES:
A. Mission's Aide-Memoire ...............................................                                             21
Attachment - Plan for Future Operations .....................                        .......................... 33
B. Financial and Economic Re-evaluation ...............................................                               34
C. Borrower's Evaluation ............................................... 46
D. Rubber Replanting Fund Cash Flow  Statement, 1995-2002 ................................... 54
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
SECOND SMALLHOLDER RUBBER REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Cr. 1909-CE)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Smallholder Rubber
Rehabilitation Project in Sri Lanka for which Credit 1909-CE in the amount of SDR17.0 million
(US$23.5 million) was approved on May 24, 1988 and made effective on January 6, 1989. The
credit was closed on June 30, 1997 with a total disbursement of about SDR9.3 million (US$12.8
million). A sum of SDR3.75 million (US$5.4 million) was canceled as of February 6, 1996,
mainly to take account of the depreciation of the Rs. from Rs. 31.80/US$ at project inception
(1988) to Rs. 58.50/US$ at project completion (1997). The final disbursement took place on
November 12, 1997, at which time the unutilized balance was about SDR3.9 million (US$5.4
million).
Based on meetings and field visits in August/September 1997, the ICR was prepared by
Terrence Abeysekera, SASRD Agricultural Economist in the Sri Lanka Field Office, working in
close collaboration with Douglas W. Lister, SASRD Senior Agricultural Economist at
Headquarters. Henry P. Gassner, SASRD Principal Operations Officer at Headquarters, served
as peer reviewer.
Preparation of this ICR was initiated during IDA's final supervision/completion mission
for the project in August/September 1997. It is based, among other documents, on a review of the
Staff Appraisal Report and legal documents, supervision reports and project files as well as
field investigations and discussions with Bank staff and GOSL officials associated with the
project. The borrower and implementing agencies contributed to preparation of the ICR by:
providing data, arranging field visits and discussions with field staff and providing feedback
which are reflected in the mission aide memoire (Appendix A); preparing an evaluation of the
project preparation and implementation (Appendix C); preparing the cash flow statement of
Rubber Replanting Fund (Appendix D) and commenting on the draft ICR.
1






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
SECOND SMALLHOLDER RUBBER REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Cr. 1909-CE)
Evaluation Summary
Project Objectives
1.    The main objective of the project was to increase the incomes of smallholders and Sri
Lanka's foreign exchange earnings by increasing the quantity and quality of smallholder rubber
production throughout the country. The objective was to be achieved through the following broad
measures: (i) field development -- replanting 35,500 ha of over-aged rubber and planting 3,200
ha of new areas on smallholdings, providing assistance for developing private nurseries and
minimizing the effect of a major outbreak of disease; (ii) processing improvement -- establishing
20 new Latex Collecting and Processing Centres (LCPCs) and upgrading 80 existing Group
Processing Centers (GPCs); and (iii) institutional development-- enhancing the efficiency of the
institutional support available to the smallholders.
2.    The project was well conceived and its objectives were clear and consistent with the
development needs of the smallholder rubber sub-sector. The project design was largely based on
the experiences and the lessons derived from the previous project implemented during 1980-88
in the major rubber growing areas of the country. The design, however, was over optimistic on
the targets for replanting, establishing new Latex Collection and Processing Centers (LCPCs)
and upgrading of Group Processing Centres (GPCs). As regards replanting, the project design did
not fully take into account the likely impact of a host of factors outside the control of the
implementing agencies that detennine the actual rate of replanting.
Implementation Experience and Results
3.    Overall, the project achieved its physical objectives satisfactorily. Despite set backs in the
early stages due to major civil unrest and incidence of serious droughts, the project accomplished
71% of the revised replanting target of 30,500 ha and 95% of the revised new planting target of
8,000 ha, resulting in an overall achievement of 76% of the planting target. Significant
achievements were made in introducing new high yielding rubber clones to smallholders
including foreign clones, establishing clonal trials in major rubber growing areas as well as
institutional consolidation and strengthening. The project, however, did not show satisfactory
progress in establishing LCPCs and upgrading GPCs.
ii



4.    The project achieved its institutional objectives partially. The project accomplished its
goal of consolidating the agencies within the rubber smallholder sector by amalgamating
Advisory Services Department (ASD), functioning under the Rubber Research Board (RRB),
with the Rubber Control Department (RCD), functioning under the Plantation Ministry, into a
single agency, the Rubber Development Department (RDD). The abolition of the Rubber
Purchasing Centres operated by the Commodity Purchases Department of the Trade Ministry in
1995, though not a direct outcome of the project, was a major step forward in stimulating private
sector involvement in the marketing of rubber produced by the smallholders. However, the
project failed to ensure the long-term sustainability of the Rubber Replanting Fund (RRF) by
extending the cess levy to domestically processed rubber. As the cash flow statement (Appendix
D) indicates, the long-term viability of RRF and hence that of RDD is uncertain.
5.    The project did not show significant achievements in improving crop husbandry practices
and tapping techniques adopted by the rubber smallholder growers, mainly due to poor
extension-research linkages. Extension personnel were too preoccupied with "subsidy" payments
and their linkages with the research system were particularly weak.
6.     During the project period, rubber smallholders witnessed a sharp escalation of their
replanting and field maintenance costs due to sharp increases in the price of both material and
labor inputs. The cost increases had a disruptive influence on the replanting rate. In the case of
labor input for instance, which accounts for 60-75% of the total replanting costs, the average
wages rose from about Rs. 40.00 (US$1.3 1)/day at project inception to about Rs. 120.00
(S$2.05)/day at project completion.
7.    At appraisal, the total project cost was estimated at US$73.1 million. The cost was to be
financed by IDA, US$23.5 million (32%); the Rubber Replanting Fund, US$27.5 million (38%);
smallholders, US$17.1 million (23%); and the Government, US$5.0 million (7%). At project
closure, the total cost was estimated at US $63.9 million (87 % of the appraisal cost). This was
financed by IDA, US$ 12.83 million (20%), the Rubber Replanting Fund, US$ 5.0 million
(8%); the Government, US$ 1.0 million (2%), and a smallholder contribution estimated at
US$45.0 (70%). About US$5.4 million was canceled in 1996 and the undisbursed amount at
project closure was also about US$5.4 million. The actual IDA disbursements of US$12.8
million were about 55% of the appraisal estimate, mainly due to the depreciation of local
currency from Rs. 30.50/US$ at appraisal to Rs. 58.50/US$ at closing.
8.    Project economic performance measured in terms of Economic Rate of Return (ERR),
was satisfactory (16.2%), but slightly lower than the SAR estimate (18.2%). However, if the
value of timber produced from uprooted trees from replanted areas is also included, the project
return rises to 18.3%. In the SAR as well as in this ICR, benefits arising from introducing new
clonal material and other technology transfer processes, institutional strengthening and training,
although acknowledged, were not quantified due to measurement problems. Nevertheless, initial
costs of these components were included in the economic analysis.
iii



Project Sustainability
9.    The outcomes of the major field development components of the project, including the
expansion of area under rubber by replanting and new planting with improved clones,
establishment of clonal trials for evaluation purposes and introduction of imported clones are
sustainable in the long-run. However, cash flow projections of the RRF clearly suggest that the
current "subsidy" payment levels of the Rubber Development Department (RDD) are unlikely to
be sustained in the long run. The sustainability of the RDD activities are dependent on four key
factors: (i) amount of cess funds generated; (ii) availability of funds from GOSL budget;
(iii) ability of RDD to reduce its operational costs; and (iv) the degree of cost recovery.
Possibilities for enhancing RDD revenues through increased cess collection and obtaining more
funds from government budget are remote. In the long-run, therefore, RDD must seriously
consider reducing its overhead and operational costs by moving away from its present emphasis
on "subsidy" payments and input distribution to the smallholders, while simultaneously pressing
for an extension of the cess to domestically used rubber.
Key Factors Affecting Achievement of Major Objectives.
10.    A number of factors contributed to the slow progress of the project. Among them, the
more important were: (a) civil unrest in most areas in the project during 1988-89; (b) high
volatility of farm gate prices of rubber; (c) planting and production variation due to adverse
weather influences;  (d) inefficiencies in administrative and financial regulation systems
including tender award and procurement delays; (e) tendency to centralize decision making;
(f) optimistic physical targets; (g) delays in arranging foreign consultant visits and long-term
training programs; and (h) inadequate levels of awareness of the project, its goals, strategies and
resources by most stakeholders, including the farmers.
IDA Performance
11.   IDA performance during project preparation was satisfactory. The appraisal included
over optimistic targets, especially  concerning the area replanted and establishing Latex
Collection and Processing Centres (LCPCs).The appraisal also under-estimated the area under
new planting. Nevertheless, IDA recognized the problem early and showed flexibility in revising
the SAR planting targets and this was appreciated by the borrower.
12.   During the eight year implementation period, IDA fielded 12 supervision missions. The
supervision missions played a constructive and catalytic role in achieving project objectives, but
supervision efforts appear to have been biased more towards technical issues of the project. A
closer attention to the project's overall implementation progress and fielding supervision
missions with a mix of skills would have helped the project to achieve better results. Although
the Mid-Term review was ctdrried out as scheduled in January 1994, the exercise was only
partially successful in improving project performance. Given the relatively long length of the
project implementation period, a comprehensive review should have been undertaken by IDA
iv



supervision missions earlier in the project, which could have identified the emerging problems
and the necessary corrective actions.
Borrower Performance
13.      The project was prepared adequately by the borrower with assistance from IDA.
Appraisal and supervision of the project by IDA staff received adequate attention by the
borrower. Except for the covenant to extend the cess to domestically used rubber, GOSL
responded well to most recommendations made by IDA supervision missions. The performance
of GOSL, however, was mixed in actual project implementation for reasons both within and
beyond their control. Most shortcomings in the project implementation were identified and
corrected expeditiously by project implementation agencies.
14.       The borrower generally complied with the covenants and responded  to the
recommendations of IDA except for the covenant to extend the cess to domestically used rubber
and the covenant dealing with the appointment of the Head of Monitoring Unit. The non-
compliance of the covenant concerning with the cess was a major issue between the borrower
and IDA. Although the issue led to intensive communications with IDA, GOSL maintained the
status quo, mainly due to its interest in promoting the domestic rubber processing industry and
creation of employment opportunities. However, GOSL indicated that it would review the
liquidity position of the RRF periodically with a view to bringing about necessary adjustments.
They also defaulted on the covenant calling for the appointment of the Head of the Monitoring
and Evaluation Committee.
Project Outcome
15.   Overall, the project's outcome is rated as satisfactory. The key elements of the project -
field development, including replanting and new planting of rubber with improved clones,
introduction of proven foreign clones and establishment of clonal trials, control of Corynespora
leaf disease, establishment of RDD and consolidation of its activities, establishment of adaptive
research stations and support to RRI activities were successfully implemented. However, the
project outcomes were below appraisal expectations for establishing LCPCs and upgrading
GPCs, mainly due to a lack of interest shown by the smallholders. The project showed an
unsatisfactory outcome in relation to the objective of establishing a sustainable monitoring and
evaluation unit.
Summary of Findings and Future Operations Plan
16.   The future operations plan for developing the smallholder rubber sub-sector prepared by
RDD focuses on promoting the involvement of the skills and initiatives of private sector
individuals and groups. In the past, rubber smallholders appear to have been playing the role of
passive recipients of "subsidy" and other benefits from a number of state institutions. Due to
various reasons, most growers continue to adopt conventional crop management and tapping
practices. The RRI should improve its capacity to generate new, cost-effective production and
processing technologies that are focused on the smallholders. Such changes in RDD and RRI
v



should be based on a well prepared long-term plan, reflecting a well conceived vision of the
future of the rubber smallholder sub-sector. The vision needs to be compatible with the emerging
changes in the global as well as local economic conditions. The monitoring and evaluation
capabilities currently available within the Ministry need strengthening. As regards the RRF,
the government has stated its firm intention to review its cash flow status annually, or even at
shorter intervals, and to make necessary adjustments.
Key Lessons Learned for Future Projects
17.   The main lessons learned from the implementation of the project are:
a)    Roles of private and public sectors: The project experience suggests that future
development activities of the rubber smallholder growers should be based on a
clear identification of the specific development roles to be played by the public
and  private sectors, respectively.  The current development efforts in the
smallholder rubber sub-sector are mostly driven by public sector initiatives and
funds, thus reflecting a directed, supply driven approach. This has led to a
significant misallocation and wasteful use of scarce resources with a dampening
influence on the private sector initiatives.
b)    Expansion of private nursery activities: The under pricing of planting material
produced in RDD nurseries is a deterrent to expansion of private nursery
activities. The avoidance of direct competition of RDD nurseries with the
private nurseries, and provision of a complementary, backstopping role by RDD
and RRI would encourage expansion of private nurseries. There is substantial
scope for improving the quality of planting material produced by private
nurseries. A more rigorous nursery inspection and certification by Rubber
Development Officers (RDOs) is a critical need. Reducing the time during which
each nursery is certified would be an important step to minimize the common
problem of budding runts.
c)    Effectiveness of the extension and research systems: In the past, RRI has been
focusing its research attention mostly to large holdings, resulting in a relative
neglect of the development needs of the smallholders. The level of acceptance of
new innovations recommended to farmers by RRI is not solely determined by the
technical superiority of the recommendation -- a perception that seems to be
widely held by RRI -- but by a complex range of factors relating to economic
and other behavioral characteristics of the smallholder. In addition, linkages
between RRI scientists and RDOs were weak, and the flow of communication of
research findings to the smallholder and vice versa was poor. The RDOs were
also preoccupied with "subsidy" payments and distribution of inputs leaving little
time to attend to their extension activities.
d)    Sustainability of Rubber Replanting Fund (RRF): Past investigations of the
viability of RRF have been focused too narrowly and based on limited data. A
vi



detailed analysis would throw light on important policy variables relating to the
management of RRF.   Project experience suggests that continuing the
replanting/new planting "subsidy" program in its current form and intensity
without an extension of the cess to domestically used rubber is unsustainable,
mainly because the rubber exports on which the cess is collected represent a
declining share of the total. More fundamentally, the justification for continuing
to exempt the domestic rubber processing industry from the cess should be
reviewed. If the industry is economically and financially viable, it should not
need protection.
e)    Beneficiary participation:  The project demonstrated that, to a large extent, the
success of a project is dependent on the level of involvement of beneficiaries
and other stakeholders. A greater initiative by the project staff to increase project
awareness among all stakeholders from inception is a vital step in enhancing
project outcome. The adoption of a top-down approach in project implementation
and design reduces beneficiary involvement and ownership.
f)    Wider dissemination of ICR findings:  Implementation of this project has
generated many lessons of experience. A wider discussion of these lessons
including the major issues and problems encountered would be most useful for
the effective continuation of the programs financed under the project, as well as
for the successful designing and implementation of future projects.
vii



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
SECOND SMALLHOLDER RUBBER REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Cr. 1909-CE)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. BACKGROUND AND STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
Background
1.    Rubber is the second most important crop after tea, accounting for about 12% of total
export earnings from agricultural products (2% of total export earnings) and 8% of total
agricultural employment. Rubber occupies about 161,000 ha accounting for about 21% of the
total area under tree crops. Smallholders account for nearly 65% of the total area under rubber
with most holdings varying around .5 ha. Owing to many factors including increasing population
pressure and the competition from other crops, the area under rubber has shown a steady decline
over the last two decades averaging about 2% per annum. Resulting from the decline in area as
well as the stagnant yields, total output of rubber since the 1970s shows a decline, averaging
about 2% per annum. The smallholder sub-sector employs an estimated 250,000 persons or
nearly 60% of the total employment in the rubber sector. Currently, 40% of the country's total
rubber output is processed domestically, mainly for producing exportable items.
2.    The more significant problems identified at appraisal as affecting the performance of the
rubber smallholders were: low yields, adoption of poor crop husbandry practices, poor access to
processing facilities, poor institutional mechanisms to serve the needs of the smallholders and
low replanting rates. The replanting rate was particularly affected by the substantial large
investment required in the first six years without any income from the crop. Thus, with a view to
assisting the smallholders in their replanting activities, GOSL for many decades has been
operating a replanting "subsidy" programme through a Rubber Replanting Fund (RRF)
supported by a cess levied on exported rubber which currently amounts to Rs. 3.85 (US$
0.06)/kg -- 4% of FOB price. To reflect the increasing costs associated with crop establishment
the cess as well as "subsidy" payments were raised several times in the past. Although at project
inception (1988) the "subsidy" accounted for nearly 60% of the smallholders total establishment
costs, it accounted for only 40% of the total costs at project closure (1997).
3.    The justification for supporting the "subsidy" programme under the project was based
mainly on the need to address the intractable problems associated with the financing of rubber
replanting on smallholdings. Private Sri Lankan smallholders have a strong comparative
advantage in rubber production (stronger in fact than the large state-owned plantation



companies.) However, since replanting must be undertaken every 30 years as a "once in a
(working) lifetime" activity, smallholders with their low incomes face difficulty in getting the
long-term credit required until the newly planted trees become productive. Since the "subsidy"
is financed by a cess on rubber exports, it can be regarded at least in part as forced savings.
Project Objectives and Components
4.    The main objective of the project was to increase the income of smallholders and Sri
Lanka's foreign exchange earnings by increasing production and improving the quality of rubber
produced by smallholdings throughout country. This was to be achieved through the following
measures:
(a)   Field development -- replanting  35,550 ha of over-aged rubber and  new
planting of 3,200 ha of smallholdings with new high yielding clones; providing
loans and extension support to private nurseries; and minimizing the negative
impact of a major outbreak of a disease by providing relief payments for the
removal of susceptible trees;
(b)   Processing -- providing financial assistance to establish 20 Latex Collection and
Processing Centers (LCPCs) and upgrading 80 Group Latex Processing Centers
(GPCs);
(c)   Institutional development -- strengthening the role of  the Rubber Control
Department (RCD) in rubber nursery development and enhancing its capacity to
manage the Rubber Replanting Fund (RRF); strengthening the Advisory
Services Department (ASD) to carry out farm level extension activities by
providing supporting facilities; supporting the Rubber Research Institute (RRI) to
establish three adaptive research sub-centers; and providing support for the
Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) and setting up of a monitoring and evaluation
unit.
5.    Project Changes After Appraisal. The planting targets set at appraisal were changed
in the early stages of the project by reducing the replanting target from its original 35,500 ha to
30,500 ha and raising the new planting target from 3,200 ha to 8,000 ha.
6.   Project Cost.   At appraisal, the total project cost, including physical and price
contingencies, amounted to US$73.1 million. The IDA credit of US$23.5 million (SDR 17.0
million) was to finance about 32 % of the project. The remainder was to be financed by GOSL
(US$5.0 million, 7%), Rubber Replanting Fund (US$27.5 million, 38%) and smallholders
(US$17.1 million, 23% ). At project closure, the total cost was estimated at US$63.86 million
of which IDA contributed US$ 12.83 million (20%); GOSL, US$ 1.0 million (2%); Rubber
Replanting Fund US$5.0 million (8%); and smallholders US$45.0 million (70%). About
US$5.4 million was canceled in 1996 and the undisbursed amount at project closure was also
about US$5.4 million. The IDA disbursement of US$12.8 million was about 55% of the
appraisal estimate, and the shortfall was mainly due to the depreciation of local currency from
Rs. 30.50/US$ at appraisal to Rs. 58.50/US$ at completion. The project witnessed a sharp
increase in replanting and maintenance cost of rubber by smallholders, mainly due to increases
2



in input prices, particularly labor. Wage labor costs which currently account for nearly 60% of
the total replanting costs and about 80% of the maintenance cost of rubber increased threefold
during the project period in local currency terms, although in US$ terms they only went up by
56%.
Evaluation of Project Objectives.
7.    Overall, the project was well conceived and its objectives were broadly consistent with
IDA's sector development strategy defined in "Tree Crop Sector Review" of 1984 to arrest the
decline in export earnings and to strengthen the agencies responsible to ensure continuing
support to the sub-sector. The project design took into consideration the lessons derived from the
previous project. The design, however, was over optimistic as regards the targets for replanting
and establishment of Latex Collection and Processing Centers (LCPCs). The replanting rate is
determined by a host of factors and the project design did not fully reflect the impact of factors
outside the control of the implementing agencies.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Overall Achievement
8.    The project achieved its field development objective including replanting and new
planting to a substantial extent, but achieved only partially its institutional development,
processing and monitoring objectives. By preventing a major disease outbreak, and also by
increasing vegetative cover in the wet zone, the project fully achieved its environmental
objectives. The processing centers were very smallscale operations, and posed no significant
pollution hazard. Nor was excessive use of fertilizer a problem. The field development
component of the project, by expanding the area under rubber cultivation, contributed
substantially to environmental stability in the project areas. While macro-policy and gender
issues were not applicable, project achievements on sector policy and poverty reduction
objectives were partial and substantial respectively (Table 1).
9.    Replanting/New Planting Program.  Expanding the area under improved clones
through replanting and new planting was a major objective of the project. From 1988-1997, the
project established 21,549 ha (71% of the revised target of 30,500 ha) of replanting and 7,830
ha (95% of the revised target of 8,000 ha) of new plantings, reflecting an overall achievement of
76% of the revised target. Although the progress of replanting activity was relatively low, the
new planting activity far exceeded the original project expectation of 3,200 ha. The rate of
replanting was influenced by a combination of factors including rubber prices, level of
"subsidy" relative to total planting cost, value of timber coming from sale of uprooted trees,
availability of planting materials, economics of competing crops and weather conditions. The
shift in the balance between the replanting and new planting in target achievement towards new
planting reflects the relative profitability of rubber vis-a-vis other crops and the financial
incentives provided by the planting "subsidy". The increased emphasis placed on new planting
3



was useful in mitigating the reduction in area under rubber due to increased urbanization and
conversion of rubber lands into other uses in the wet zone.
10.   Private Nurseries.   The main objective of this component was to assist the expansion
of the activities of private nurseries mainly through the provision of technical advice and
improving the nursery certification processes. The objective was partially achieved. Currently,
about 60-70% of the total planting material requirement of the country is supplied by private
nurseries and the remainder is supplied by  five RDD nurseries. Private nurseries are
increasingly resorting to establish their own budwood nurseries, which is encouraging. To
catalyze this process further, RRI should provide greater support to inspect and certify private
budwood nurseries. The avoidance of direct competition of RDD nurseries with private
nurseries and provision of a complimentary backstopping role by RDD and RRI would
encourage expansion of private nurseries.
11.   There is substantial scope for improving the quality of planting material produced by the
private nurseries. Overcrowded beds, poor weeding and unremoved runts are common in most
nurseries. A more rigorous nursery inspection and certification by Rubber Development
Officers (RDOs) is essential. The RDOs should pay specific attention to improving nursery
management practices, including the authentication of budwood used by proper documentation,
removal of weak plants by more rigorous culling ad the application of recommended nutrient
dosages. Incidence of budding runts is a major nursery problem and reducing the time during
which each nursery is certified would be an important step in avoiding this situation. The
interest of the private nurseries in adopting new grafting techniques such as green budding and
young budding is growing, but the shortage of budders is a problem.
12.   RDD Nurseries.    The main objective of this component was to strengthen the
capacity of RDD to provide planting materials to the smallholders. The project expected the five
RDD operated nurseries to concentrate progressively on budwood supply to private nurseries
with a view to ensure the legitimacy of planting materials produced. This expectation, to large
extent, was not achieved. In most nurseries the land went underutilized. Brown budded stumps
are sold by RDD nurseries at Rs. 10 per plant --which is about 20 % less than the price of those
in the private nurseries. The current pricing system adopted in RDD nurseries needs careful
review, as it has major influence on (i) the financial viability of these nurseries, and (ii) the
level of participation of private nurseries in producing planting material. In addition, an
investigation of the production costs including both recurrent and overhead is also
recommended.
13.   Planting and Maintenance of New Clones of Rubber in Smallholdings. The main
objective of this component was to establish replanting/new planting of improved rubber clones
in smallholdings and to popularize the adoption of improved crop management practices to
achieve higher yields. Although the planting/replanting activities were undertaken satisfactorily,
the level of adoption of new, improved technologies recommended by RRI was low.
4



14.   The current girth criteria for "subsidy" payments are based on performance of PB86, an
older clone with less vigorous growth. Since planting is now exclusively done with more
advanced clones with greater vigor, it is necessary to update the payment criteria to encourage
effort on the part of the farmers. With the introduction of advanced clones, such as RRIC 100,
there is an urgent need to adopt appropriate tapping practices for these clones to avoid over-
exploitation. Daily tapping of improved clones was widely observed, and the problem should
receive greater attention by RDOs.
15.   Control of Corynespora Leaf Spot Disease.    The main aim of this component of
the project was to eradicate this disease by eliminating the most susceptible clone RRIC 103
through relief payment arrangements to the affected growers. This objective was largely
successful. However, RRI reports indicate that Corynespora attacks are presently observed in
isolated locations from time to time and the Plant Pathology Division of RRI is closely
monitoring these developments.
16.   Establishment and Strengthening RDD. The establishment of RDD by pooling of
staff and other resources in two separate Departments and re-designation of all field level staff
as Rubber Development Officers (RDOs) achieved its objectives to a substantial extent. The
RDOs are presently responsible for both extension as well as "subsidy" administration work at
the farm level. The RDD's mandate includes a range of functions relating to market
development and field development and "subsidy" administration. The RDD head office, after
several changes in its location, is now functioning in its permanent premises, accommodating all
staff in the same building. All seven RDD Regional offices are functioning satisfactorily.
17.   The overall effectiveness of RDD, however, was affected by the continuation of some of
the administrative and salary problems arising from the merger of staff coming from the two
parent departments. Since satisfactory solutions to these problem have not been found so far,
early action to resolve this is urgent. RDD has recruited 13 additional RDOs as recommended
by the project. Mainly because of the extensive computerization, RDD will experience a
surplus staff situation in the future, mostly in clerical grades.
18.   Computerization of RDD. Computerization of the RDD and linking all its regional
offices with the Colombo office through a computer network was a major project achievement.
The computer network is now operating satisfactorily in all intended locations. The
establishment of computer links between regional offices and head office has helped RDD to
increase its work efficiency. Computer use has resulted in shortening the time taken for releasing
"subsidy" installments to recipients and improving the accounting processes of the RDD.
Although adequate basic training was provided to computer staff, the senior staff of the RDD
need further training in computer applications. At present, the computers are mostly used for
work relating to "subsidy" payments.
5



19.   Operation of Replanting "Subsidy" and Rubber Replanting Fund (RRF). The
objective of this component was to enhance the capacity of RDD to manage the Rubber
Replanting Fund (RRF). The most important source of replenishing the RRF, from which the
"subsidy" payments are made, is the cess levied on exported rubber. The rubber replanting
"subsidy" which stood at Rs. 32,085 (US$1,008)/ha at project inception declined to US$801/ha
by 1990 due to depreciation of the Rs. It was then raised to Rs. 37,050 (US$ 925)/ha and in
1995 to Rs. 49,722 (US$ 970)/ ha. Today, however, this amount is only worth US$850, again
due to currency depreciation. The increase in the "subsidy" payment was a major factor
affecting the viability of the RRF. In order to maintain the viability of the fund, the cess levied
from exported rubber was increased in 1994 from Rs. 1.15 (US$ 0.02)/kg to Rs 3.85 (US$
0.08)/kg. In today's terms, it is the equivalent of US$0.07/kg. As the liquidity position of the
RDD was still continuing to erode in the subsequent years, mainly due to sharp reductions in the
level of raw rubber exports, and also to ensure long-term viability of the RRF, IDA in 1995
reminded GOSL of its legal obligation to extend the cess to domestically used rubber by January
1996. However, GOSL chose to maintain the status quo, arguing the need to promote the
domestic rubber products manufacturing industry.
20.   Establishment of Latex Collection and Processing Centres (LCPCs).    The  main
objective of this component of the project was to provide the farmers with an opportunity to
improve their quality of processed product. With this in view, the project planned to establish
20 new LCPCs and upgrade 80 existing GPCs. The approach to establishing the LCPCs appears
to be reminiscent of the paternalistic approach adopted earlier for sector development. Due to a
variety of reasons, achievements in processing activity were less satisfactory. In most major
rubber growing areas, smallholders prefer to sell latex directly. In general, smaliholders are
reluctant to join group processing centers, but prefer to process their latex by themselves. In
some remote areas, however, where rubber growing is totally a new activity, farmer interest to
join LCPCs is high. The low farmer involvement in establishing the building and the operational
activities of the LCPCs reflects the top-down approach followed by the project in mobilizing
group efforts. A needs assessment, if undertaken at the preparation stage, would have helped to
design this component better.
21.   Civil Works. The implementation of the civil works component of the project is
partially satisfactory, mainly due to major delays in contract awards and subsequent follow-up.
The new Regional Office building established in Galle was completed satisfactorily. Out of 10
RDO quarters planned, only seven were completed at project completion and the remaining
three are expected to be completed before December 1997. Although 20 buildings were planned
for new GPCs and LPCs, only 15 were completed before the project closure. Of the planned
rehabilitation of 80 GPC buildings, only 8 were completed by project closure. The low
performance of this component was mainly due to difficulties of locating suitable land,
complications arising from the involvement of Provincial Councils and contract administration
problems. The new building established by the project at the Training Center at Nivitigala Kele
remained idle since its commissioning in 1994. The overall quality of construction of buildings
visited, however, appeared to be satisfactory.
6



22.   Support to Rubber Research Institute (RRI).    The objective of this component
was to strengthen the capacity of the RRI to address the problems of the small scale rubber
growers. Based on the activities including the initiation of the foreign and local clone trials in
several locations in Kalutara, Ratnapura, Kegalle and Moneragala areas and the progress of work
on adaptive research , the achievements of this component of the project is considered
satisfactory. These adaptive research trials are performing well and have provided an
invaluable, long-term resource base to the development of the rubber industry. In fact, some of
the successful foreign clones tested in these trials have been recommended for wider scale use
(group II). The intermediate zone replicate of foreign clone trials at Moneragala estate suffered a
set back due to adverse weather but was established satisfactorily. The RRI indicated potential
problems of continuing some of their clonal trials after the project, because of funding
shortages.
23.   Adaptive Research. The main objective of this component was to establish three
adaptive research centers and to carryout research trials with a view to disseminate improved
technology to the smallholder rubber growers. The establishment of the adaptive research
centers has been satisfactorily carried out. Adaptive research trials were established by RRI in a
number of locations relating to a variety of practices including the use of rainguards, tapping
frequencies, spacing, yield stimulation and  inter-cropping.  However, the low level of
acceptance of new innovations by smallholders is a chronic problem affecting production
efficiency of the smallholders.  Farmers continue to be reluctant to accept the RRI
recommendations as they are not convinced of the additional benefits of adopting such
innovations. Currently, there is a substantial gap between the research information available in
the Rubber Research Institute (RRI) and the actual practices followed by farmers.
24.   Although the project aimed at improving the rates of adoption of new technologies
among smallholders, mainly due to weak research/extension linkages the achievement of this
objective has been poor. Linkages between the RRI scientists and RDOs continue to remain
weak and the flow of communication of research findings to the smallholder and vice versa
remain poor. The current arrangement to hold a week-long technical training course for RDOs
once a year at RRI is inadequate. A more intensive training for the RDOs to diagnose and solve
field problems of the smallholder, on a more frequent basis is a critical need. The RDOs are
mostly pre-occupied with "subsidy" payments and distribution of inputs leaving little time to
attend to their extension activities.
25.   Training and Consultancy Support. This component aimed to provide short-term
training, study tours abroad and to bring in international expertise to improve local capacity.
Achievement was partially satisfactory. The project provided short-term study tours abroad for
156 persons (SAR target, 43). The long-term training (MSc.) programmes, however, showed a
substantial under-achievement. Of the 6 MSc. degree courses offered to RRI, only three have
been used (para 26 of aide-memoire). The project also provided training for 20 persons, locally,
mostly on computer use.
7



26.   Although the project  provided for a few  consultancy visits from  abroad, the
opportunities were not utilized satisfactorily. The planned visit by the international nursery
consultant did not materialize. However, the alternative arrangements for RRI to undertake this
task was helpful and resulted in the preparation of a useful manual on nursery preparation. The
short-term consultancy assignment to strengthen the latex analysis capabilities and to upgrade
the technical know-how of RRI staff also did not materialize. Delays in communications have
led to the non-utilization of this facility.
27.   Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) and Monitoring Unit. The main objective of this
component was to establish a PCU and a monitoring unit within the Ministry. The PCU played
a pivotal role in undertaking the project work. Mainly due to staffing problems, the monitoring
functions were carried out by consultants recruited from outside, and with their departure the
monitoring unit has become non-functional.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
28.   The main contributory factors for the implementation delays/shortfalls were:
* Factors generally not subject to government control. These include civil unrest in most
parts of the project area during 1988-89, uncertain and volatile rubber prices in international
markets and recurrent drought conditions. The replanting/new planting and nursery
preparation activities were affected by a major drought in 1992.
- Factors generally subject to Government control. These include (i) inefficiencies in
administrative and financial regulation systems including tender award procedures and,
(ii) tendency to centralize decision making.
* Factors generally subject to implementing agencies' control. Several factors in
combination adversely influenced the achievement of project targets and the utilization of
project resources. These include: (i) optimistic physical targets, slow progress in awarding
contracts and inadequate follow-up in civil works; (ii) delays in procurement; (ii) delays in
arranging foreign consultant visits and long-term training programs; (iii) inadequate
awareness of the project; its goals, strategies and resources among most stakeholders
including the farmers; (iv) weak extension/research links; (v) inadequate support to private
nurseries; and (vi) failure to develop policy for financial sustainability.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABIIATY
29.   The outcomes of the field development activities of the project, including the
establishment of replanting and new plantings with improved clones, establishment of improved
clonal trials in several areas for evaluation purposes and introduction of imported clones, are
sustainable in the long-run. The current cash flow projections of RDD (Appendix D) indicate
8



that its activities, particularly "subsidy" payments and input distribution, are sustainable only in
the short-run. In the long term, the ability of RDD to continue to function in the present
operational mode is dependent on four key factors: (i) amount of cess funds generated;
(ii) availability of funds from the Government budget; (iii) ability to reduce its own operational
costs; and (iv) exploring possibilities for recouping some of its operational expenses. Prospects
for generating more funds for RDD operations through an increase in the cess levy and
Government budget are bleak. In order to maintain its long-term continuity therefore, RDD
must wean away from its present emphasis on administering subsidies involving input delivery,
while simultaneously pressing for extension of the cess to domestically used rubber.
E. IDA PERFORMANCE
30.   Project Concept and Design.    Overall, project identification and preparation was
guided by the experiences gained from the previous project and the appraisal established clear
project objectives consistent with sectoral strategy. The design was based on learning from
experiences from the previous project.
31.   Supervision.  IDA undertook 12 supervision missions during the eight year period.
Reports indicate that the missions undertook detailed reviews of project implementation
progress, while indicating deficiencies in implementation and gave helpful and constructive
advice to overcome such problems. Overall, IDA supervision efforts showed a bias towards
technical issues of the project. Supervision missions with a greater mix of skills would have
helped the project to achieve a better outcome. The Mid-Term review carried out in January
1994, would have been more effective if greater attention had been paid to the problems arising
from optimistic replanting targets, slow progress in awarding contracts and inadequate follow-up
of civil works. Given the relatively long project implementation period, a comprehensive
assessment should have been undertaken in the initial period of the project which could have
flagged emerging problems and indicated necessary corrective actions.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
32. - Preparation and Implementation. The project was prepared by the borrower with
assistance from IDA. Appraisal and supervision of the project by IDA staff received adequate
attention by the borrower. Except for the covenant to extend the cess to domestically used
rubber, GOSL responded well to most recommendations/suggestions made by IDA supervision
missions. Most shortcomings in project implementation were identified and corrected
expeditiously by project implementation agencies. The performance of GOSL, however, was
mixed in the actual implementation for reasons both within and beyond its control.
9



33.   Legal Covenants.   The failure of the government to carryout the agreed extension of
the cess to domestically used rubber was a major issue between the borrower and IDA.
Although the issue led to intensive communications, GOSL favored the position of maintaining
the status quo. The GOSL agreed, however, that it would review the liquidity position of the
RRF periodically to effect necessary adjustments. The covenant for calling appointment of a
Head of Monitoring and Evaluation Committee was not fulfilled. All other covenants were
carried out satisfactorily.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
34.   On the basis of its initial expectations, the project's  overall outcome is rated  as
satisfactory. The key elements of the project - field development, including replanting and new
planting of rubber with improved clones, introduction of proven foreign clones and
establishment of clonal trials, control of Corynespora disease, establishment and consolidation of
RDD activities, initiation of adaptive research stations and support to RRI were successfully
implemented. However, the effectiveness of the extension component in introducing improved
technologies to smallholders was disappointing. The project outcomes are also below appraisal
expectations for establishing LCPCs and upgrading GPCs, mainly due to a lack of involvement
of the smallholders. The project also showed an unsatisfactory outcome in relation to the
objective of establishing a monitoring and evaluation unit under the Ministry.
H. FUTURIE OPERATIONS
35.   RDD must focus on activities to involve the entrepreneurial skills and initiatives of the
private individuals and groups. The broad strategy of RRI should be to improve its
technological capacity to generate new, cost-effective technologies that are acceptable to
smallholders. GOSL should prepare a well prepared long-term plan for the smallholder sub-
sector based on a well conceived vision of the future, compatible with the emerging local and
global economic changes. The monitoring and evaluation capabilities functions in the Ministry
needs strengthening. Government is aware of the inability to sustain the replanting "subsidy"
program using current financial sources and confirmed its intention to review the cash flow
status of RRF annually and to make needed adjustments as necessary. According to current
projections made by RDD, the level of cess levied at present is adequate to keep the RRF viable
only up to until the year 2002 (Appendix D). Both the decreasing quantity of rubber exported
as well as the increases in the overhead costs of the RDD could reduce the viability of the fund.
36.   The future improvement plans of the rubber smallholder sub-sector, should be based on
a clear identification of the roles to be played by the public and private sectors agencies. Most
of the mandated activities of RDD are centered around procurement and distribution of
production inputs and issuing "subsidy" payments, and hence are supply driven. This approach
has resulted in a significant wastage of scarce resources and dampening influence on the private
sector initiatives in the smallholder rubber sub-sector.
10



I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
37.   Among many lessons that could be learnt for future projects, the following need
emphasis:
a)    Roles of private and public sectors: The future development activities of the
rubber smallholder growers, should be based on a clear identification of the
specific development roles to be played by the public and private sector
respectively. Current efforts to develop the rubber smallholders are mostly driven
by public sector initiatives and funds and reflect a directed, supply driven
approach. This approach has resulted in a significant misallocation of scarce
resources and a dampening influence on private sector initiatives.
b)     Expansion of private nursery activities:  The under pricing of planting
material produced in RDD nurseries is a deterrent to expansion of private nursery
activities. The avoidance of direct competition of RDD nurseries with the
private nurseries, and provision of a complementary, backstopping role by RDD
and RRI would encourage expansion of private nurseries. There is substantial
scope for improving the quality of planting material produced by private
nurseries. A more rigorous nursery inspection and certification by Rubber
Development Officers (RDOs) is critical. RDOs should pay specific attention to
improving nursery management practices including the authentication of the
budwood used by proper documentation, more rigorous culling of weak plants,
and use of balanced nutrient applications. Reducing the time during which each
nursery is certified would be an important step in reducing the incidence of
budding runts.
c)    Effectiveness of extension and research activities: Research conducted by RRI
is mostly focused on large rubber holdings, resulting in a relative neglect of
smallholder needs. Most modem innovations generated by RRI are unacceptable
to smallholders. The acceptance of new innovations ( e.g. rain guards) is not
solely determined by its technical efficiency -- a perception that seems to be
widely held by RRI -- but by a complex range of factors relating to economic
and  other  behavioral  characteristics  of  the  smallholder.  Technical
recommendations of RRI should therefore be evaluated adequately by appropriate
economic analyses. The extension and research services should support the
development of private nurseries. In addition, linkages between RRI scientists
and RDOs were weak, and the flow of communication of research findings to
smallholders and vice versa was poor. The RDOs were also preoccupied with
"subsidy" payments and distribution of inputs leaving little time to attend to their
extension activities.
11



d)    Sustainability of Rubber Replanting Fund (RRF):  Past analysis of the
viability of RRF is based on limited data and short-term projections. Project
experience suggests that the continuation of  the replanting/new  planting
"subsidy" program in its current form and intensity without an extension of the
cess to domestically used rubber is unsustainable, mainly because the rubber
exports on which the cess is collected represent a declining share of the total.
More fundamentally, the justification for continuing to exempt the domestic
rubber processing industry from the cess should be reviewed. If the industry is
economically and financially viable, it should not need protection.
e)    Beneficiary participation:   The success of a project, to a large extent, is
influenced by the level of involvement and sense of ownership of beneficiaries
and other stakeholders from its inception. A high degree of awareness of the
project objectives, implementation and other details by all concerned is vital for
enhancing project outcomes. The adoption of a participatory approach in project
design and implementation would have helped to improve beneficiary
involvement and ownership.
f)    Need for wider dissemination and discussions of the ICR  findings:
Implementation of this project has generated many lessons of experience. A
wider discussion of these lessons including major issues and problems
encountered would be most useful for effective continuation of the programmes
financed under this project as well as for successful designing and
implementation of future projects.
12



PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives       Substantial          Partial     Negligible Not
Applicable
("I)       (0            ( )(/
Macro policies                        O            O           Ol           0
Sector policies                       O            0           O            O
Financial objectives                  O            El           E           0
Institutional development             O            el          0            O
Physical objectives                   0            E           O            E
Poverty reduction                     0            O           O            O
Gender issues                         O            O           E            0
Other social objectives               O           O            O            0
Environmental objectives              0            O           11           O
Public sector management              O            E           0            O
Private sector development            O            0           E            O
Other (Human resource development)    O            E0          El           O
B. Project Sustainability         Likely         Unlikely           Uncertain
('/)                 (1 )               (1 )
0                    El                 E
C. Bank Performance       Highly Satisfactory   Satisfactory        Deficient
Identification                    a                 0                 El
Preparation assistance            E                 0                 El
Appraisal                         0                 0                 El
Supervision                       E                 0                 El
D. Borrower Performance   Highly Satisfactory    Satisfactory       Deficient
(V)                  (V/)                (1)
Preparation                       El               0                  0
Implementation                    E                10                 0
Covenant compliance               E                E                  0
Operation (if applicable)         E                0                  E
Highly                                         Highly
E.  Assessment of Outcome       Satisfactory      Satisfactory        Unsatisfactory
Unsatisfactory                                       ("i)            ()
(1,')             (v') 
0      0                     0                 El
13



Table 2: Related IDA Credits
Loan/                     Purpose                                                Year    of  Status
Credit Title                                                                    Approval
Preceding Operations:                               None
Smallholder Rubber  Develop  smallholder  rubber  sector  by  re-                    May  PCR
Rehabilitation Project   planting  uneconomic rubber in major rubber  1980                    issued in
growing  areas and  strengthening  institutional                   Feb.
activities.                                                         1991
Following Operations:  None
Table 3. Project Timetable
Date Actual/
Steps in Project Cycle             Date Planned                Latest Estimate
Identification                     Jan. 29, 1986               Jan. 29, 1986
Preparation                        Apr. 16,1987                Apr. 12, 1987
Appraisal                          Jun.  1, 1987               Aug. 27, 1987
Negotiations                       Dec. 7, 1987                Apr. 18, 1988
Letter of development policy
Board presentation                 Jan.  9, 1988               May 24, 1988
Signing effectiveness              Aug. 31,1988                 Jan. 6, 1989
Mid term review                    Oct. 10, 1994               Oct. 10, 1994
Project completion                 Dec. 31, 1996               Dec. 31, 1996
Loan closing                       Jun. 30, 1997               Jun. 30 1997
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY89   FY90   FY91  FY92  FY93   FY94    FY95   FY96   FY97    FY98
Appraisal estimate              1,200   3,500   6,400  9,900  12,900   15,500  18,800  21,200  23,500   23,500
Revised estimate 1/                        -      -                  -        -       14,800  18,000   18,000
Actual                          799   1,941   3,361  7,071  8,186   9,543    10,698  11,643  12,338   12,809
Actual as % of appraisal        67      55      53    71    63        62        57      55      53    55
|Actual as % of revised estimate                            l -                         79  l70   l 1         l
|Date of fmaldisbursement  November I1',1997 
D/ USo5.4 million was canceled as of February 6, 1996.
14



Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key Implementation Indicators in  SAR Estimated     Revised             Actual
SAR                                                                                        l
1. Field Development:                                                                      I
Area replanted                  35,500 ha             30,000 ha        20,428 ha
Incremental area new planted    3,200 ha           8,750 ha            7,830 ha
Establishment of clonal trials   7                __7
2. Institutional Strengthening:
Establishment of LCPCs         20                 15                  15
Upgrading GPCs                 80                  8                    8
Establishment of Adaptive
Research Centers                3                  2                    2
Computer Terminals             11                 34                   34
Vehicles;
Cars/ Jeeps/4WD            11                                      14
Motorcycles                     250                               156
Tractors                   1                                        1
3. Civil Works:
LCPC buildings                20                  12                   8
4. Project Management:
Project Director                     102           -                   102
(person months)
5. Corynespora Control             2750 ha                                2750 ha
Table 6: Key Indicators of Project Operations
Key   Operating   Indicators  in  Estimated                    Actual
SAR/President's Reportl
Training of computer operators     10
|Staff Training :                                                                          l
4. Foreign: Long term                       15 persons                7 persons
|Short term                      70 persons              156 persons
Local:                           20 persons               20 persons
5. Quarterly Reports                        26                       24
15



Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study               Purpose as Defined at Status            Impact of Study
Appraisal/Redefined
1. Implications     To investigate the impact Completed     Assisted in highlighting
of using RRF funds of using RRF funds for                   the economic and other
for      subsidizing processing   machinery                 issues  involved  in
processing machinery  purchases                             operating the "subsidy"
2. Manual of        To  provide  technical Completed        Recommendations  are
Nursery             guidelines for improving                extensively  used  by
Management          nursery    management                   extension officials and
practices                              farmers  in  raising
nursery standards.
3.           Clone To  provide guidelines Completed         Assisted    extension
Recommendation:    for   the   extension                    workers  and  rubber
RRI Advisory circular workers  and  rubber                  growers  in  choosing
No 1996/04          growers  in  selecting                  clones
clones
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate (US$ M) 1/ Actual/Latest Estimate (US$M)
ITEM                      Local   Foreign    Total    Local    Foreign        Total
Costs    Costs      Costs    Costs    Costs      Costs
Field operations           53.38    13.28     66.66      60.93     0.21      61.14
Civil works                  .59      .13       .72       0.60     0.04       0.64
Vehicles and equipment      1.04     1.17       2.21      0.40     0.36       0.76
Training and consultancies   .19     1.18       1.37      0.01     0.52       0.53
Incremental staff & operating   2.05  0.01      2.06      0.77     0.02       0.79
Total                     57.25   15.77      73.02     62.71     1.15      63.86
1/ SAR - Annex 2, Table 1.
Table 8B: Project Financing
Source                  Appraisal Estimate (US$M) 1/   Actual/Latest Estimate (US$M)
Local   Foreign    Total   Local      Foreign      Total
Costs    Costs      Costs   Costs    Costs
IDA                      7.7      15.8       23.5   11.68      1.15      12.83
GOSL                     5.0       -          5.0    1.03        -        1.03
RRF                     27.5       -         27.5    5.00        -        5.00
Smallholders            17.1       -         17.1   44.91        -      45.00
Total                 57.3      15.8       73.1   62.71      1.15     63.86
1/ SAR-pagev.
16



Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Variables                                    SAR Estimate       ICR Estimate
Output from replanting ('000 tons)           602                452
Output from new planting ('000 tons)         172                158
Total output ('000 tons)                     774                610
Economic Rate of Return (%)                  18.2               16.2
Underlying assumptions:
- Project life (yrs) 1/                     37                37
- Standard conversion factor (average)     0.9                0.9
-Specific conversion factor for unskilled labor    0.9        0.9
/ Implementation phased over 8 years, the immature period of rubber is 6 years and trees
would be tapped for 24 years before the next cycle of replanting.
17



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement      Text reference   Covenant      Present      Original        Revised          Description of covenant                            Comments
type           status       fulfillnent date   fulfillment date
CREDIT        2.02b           I               C                                             Borrower shall maintain in US $ special Account in  In compliance
Central Bank
Schedule      P4.1 (a)        12              C            12/31/88                         Issue directives to LCPC and GPC                   In compliance
P4.1 (c)        11              C                                             Make budgetary locations for LCPC and GPC          In compliance
0P4.1 (d)        3              C            12/31/88                         Establish Revolving funds for loans and grants to LCPC   In compliance
and GPC
P2 (b)           3              C            12/31/88                         maintain full time project coordinator             In compliance
P 3              3              C                                             Extend loans to field staff to purchase motorcycles.  In compliance
P4(a)           12              C            12/31/89                         Transfernursery inspection unitto RCD              In compliance
P 4 (b)         10              C            12/31/90                         Recruit field staffto raise number to 200          In compliance
P4(b)            5              C
P6               9              NC                                            Establish M&E Committee                            Head not appointed
P7              12              C                                             Establish RRF certification procedure              In compliance
P8(a)           13              C            10/1/88                          Begin study on rubber machinery subsidies          In compliance
P 8 (b)         13              C            3/31/89                          Complete study                                     In compliance
P 8 (c)         13              C            9/30/89                          Implement study findings                           In compliance
P9 (c)          13              NC           1/1/96                           Extend RRF cess to rubber used domestically        Not in compliance
Status:                                               Covenant Class
C     - Complied with                          I Accounts/audit
CD    - Complied after delay                  2 Financial perfomnance/generate revenue from beneficiaries
NC   - Not complied with                      3 Flow and utilization of project funds
SOON - Compliance expected                    4 Counterpart funding
in reasonably short time             5 Management aspects of the project or its executing agency
CP    - Complied partially                     6 Environmental covenants
NYD  - Not yet due                            7 Involuntary settlement
8 Indigenous people
9 Monitoring reviewing and reporting
10 Implementation
11 Sectoral or cross sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12 Sectoral or cross sectoral regulatory institutional action
13 Others
18



Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement Number and Title              I Describe and Comment on Lack of Compliance
I No deviation from applicable Operational Manual Statements observed
Table 12: IDA Resource: Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle    Planned 1/           Revised 1/                 Actual 2/
Weeks        US$      Weeks       US$    Weeks         US$
(000)              (000)                 (000)
Preparation      to    N/A        N/A       N/A       N/A         40.6      104.0
appraisal
Appraisal              N/A        N/A       N/A       N/A         41.3      103.3
Negotiations through    N/A       N/A       N/A       N/A          2.9        7.7
Board approval
Supervision            N/A        N/A       N/A       N/A         64.2      223.4
Completion 3/          12.8       25        N/A       N/A          9.0        2.7
TOTAL              N/A        N/A       N/A       N/A        157.0      441.1
I/    Estimates for original and revised staff weeks and dollar budgeting introduced only in FY95
and therefore total original and revised staff weeks and costs cannot be computed.
2/    Data from World Bank MIS
3/    Actual cost relates only to staff in Colombo office.
19



Table 13: IDA Resources: Missions
_  _      _~ ~~~~~_    ....                                                                          -     
Stage of               Month/Year  Numbe   Days   Specialized                                          Types of
Project Cycle                       r         in     Staff Skills    Performance Rating b/             Problems c/
of       field   Represented al
Persons
Implementation   Develop-ment
Status          Objectives
Through Appraisal e/
Appraisal    through
Board Approval el      _
Supervision 1          Nov. 1989    1         12     Ag.             2                2                M
Supervision 2          May 1990    2          15     Ag., FA         2                1                M
Supervision 3          May 1991    1          19     Ag.             2                2
Supervision 4          Nov. 1991    1          7     Ag.             2                2
Supervision 5          Feb. 1992    1         24     Ag.             2                1                T
Supervision 6          Dec. 1992    1         12     Ag.             2                1
Supervision 7          July 1993    2         17     Ag., FA         2                1                M
Supervision8           Jan. 1994    1         16     Ag.             2                1                T
Supervision 9-fl       Sep. 1994    2         15     Ag., EC         s                s
Supervision IO         Apr. 1995    1         19     Ag.             s                s                F
Supervision Il         Nov. 1995    1         15     Ag.             s                s                F
Supervision 12         July 1996    1         14     Ag.             u                s                F
Completion             Aug. 1997    1         7                         ECs
a! Staff specialization: Ag. - Agriculturist; EC - Economist; FA - Financial analyst.
bl Performance ratings based on IBRD and IDA - implementation summary Form 590
(before FY94) =l-.Problem free; 2- Moderate; 3- Major problems, Implementation/development impact status
(from FY94) - HS - Highly satisfactory; S- Satisfactory; U- Unsatisfactory; HU- Highly Unsatisfactory
c/ Types of problems: T - technical; M - Managerial; and F - Financial.
d/ Project identification.
e/ Information not found in project files.
f/ Mid-Term review.
20



APPENDIX A
SRI LANKA
SECOND SMALLHOLDER RUBBER REHABILITATION PROJECT (CR: 1909 CE)
SUPERVISION/COMPLETION MISSION - AUGUST/SEPTEMBER 1997
AIDE-MEMOIRE
Introduction
1.    A mission to undertake the final supervision and the preparation of Implementation
Completion Report (ICR) comprising of Terrence Abeysekera, SASRD Agricultural Economist
in the World Bank Colombo Field Office, visited the project during the period August 20 to
September 20, 1997. The mission had detailed discussions with the additional Secretary
(Plantation Industries), Ministry of Public Administration, Home Affairs and Plantation
Industries (MPAHAPI); Director General (Development, MPAHAPI); Director General and
senior staff of the Rubber Development Department (RDD); Director and senior scientists of the
Rubber Research Institute (RRI); and the Project Coordinator and  staff of the Project
Coordinating Unit (PCU). Visits were made to selected project sites in Kalutara, Homagama,
Ratnapura, Galle and Moneragala districts. The mission inspected  foreign clonal trials and
adaptive research trials; newly constructed project buildings; computer installations in the RDD
regional offices; a range of newly planted smallholdings; RDD nurseries; and several private
nurseries. The views and preliminary findings presented in this draft aide-memoire reflect those
of the mission and are based on discussions with project staff and information available in
project documents at World Bank and are subject to review by IDA management.
2.    The mission wishes to thank all staff in the Ministry, PCU and RDD, staff in field offices
and scientific staff in RRI for their excellent cooperation and support, giving generously of their
time, sharing information and providing assistance at the meetings and field visits.
A. Statement/Evaluation of Project Objectives
3.    The project was prepared in May 1987 by GOSL with IDA assistance and was appraised
by an IDA mission in September, 1987. The project was a follow-up of the Smallholder Rubber
Rehabilitation Project implemented during 1980-88 by extending the area coverage to all rubber
growing areas. The project primarily intended to accelerate the replanting of unproductive,
senile trees in smallholdings with proven high yielding clones and establish a firm institutional
base capable of addressing problems of the smallholder rubber growers.
21



Project Objectives
4.    The main objective of the project was to increase the income of the smallholders and Sri
Lanka's foreign exchange earnings by stimulating improvements in the quantity and quality of
smallholders rubber output throughout the country. This was to be achieved through:
(i)   Field development -- replanting  35,550 ha of over-aged rubber and  new
planting of 3,200 ha of smallholdings with new high yielding clones, providing loans and
extension support to private nurseries; and minimizing the negative impact of a major outbreak
of a disease by providing relief payments for the removal of susceptible trees; 1
(ii)   Processing -- providing financial assistance to establish 20 Latex Collection and
Processing Centres (LCPCs) and upgrading 80 Group Latex Processing Centers (GPCs);
(iii)  Institutional development -- strengthen the role of  the Rubber Control
Department (RCD) in rubber nursery development and enhance its capacity to manage the
Rubber Replanting Fund (RRF); strengthen Advisory Services Department (ASD) to carry out
its extension activities by providing supporting facilities; establish three adaptive research sub-
centres of the Rubber Research Institute (RRI) and enhance the capacity of RRI to support
rubber smallholders; and
(iv)   Support for the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) and setting up of a monitoring
and evaluation unit within the Ministry.
5.    Project Costs. The project was planned to be implemented over eight years from May
1988 to June 1996. The total project cost including physical and price contingencies was
estimated at US$ 73.1 million. The IDA credit of US$ 23.5 million (SDR 17.0 million) was to
finance about 32 % of the project. The remainder was to be financed by GOSL (US$ 5.0
million, 7%), Rubber Replanting Fund (US$ 27.5 million, 38% ) and smallholders (US$ 17.1
million, 23%).
B. Achievement of Project Objectives
Evaluation of Project Objectives
6.    The project was well conceived and its objectives were consistent with IDA sector
development strategy defined in "Tree Crop Sector Review" of 1984. The project design took
into consideration the lessons derived from the previous project. The design, however, was over
The planting targets set at appraisal were changed subsequently. The replanting target was reduced
from its original 35,500 ha to 30,000 ha and the new planting target was raised from 3,200 ha to
8,700 ha.
22



optimistic as regards the targets for replanting and establishment of Latex Collection and
Processing Centres (LCPCs). Replanting rate is determined by a host of factors and the project
design has not fully analyzed the impact of factors outside the control of the implementing
agencies.
Overall Achievement
7.    The project achieved its field development objective to a substantial extent, but achieved
only partially its institutional development, processing and monitoring objectives. The objective
of eliminating the disease problem was fully achieved. The field development component of the
project, by expanding bringing a large area under rubber cultivation, contributed substantially to
the environmental stability in the project areas. Macro policy, sector policy, poverty reduction
and gender objectives were not applicable to this project.
Field Development
8.    Replanting/New Planting Program.        Expanding the area under improved clones
through replanting and new planting was a major objective of the project. During 1989-1997,
the project has established 20,428 ha (67% of the revised target of 30,500 ha) of replanting and
7,830 ha (90% of the revised target of 8,700 ha) of new plantings, reflecting an overall
achievement of 72% of the revised target. Although the progress of replanting activity was
relatively low, the new planting activity has far exceeded the original project expectation of
3,200 ha. The rate of replanting was influenced by a combination of factors including rubber
prices, level of "subsidy" payment2 relative to the total planting costs, value of timber coming
from sale of uprooted trees, availability of planting materials, economics of competing crops
and weather conditions. The shift in the balance between the replanting and new planting in
target achievement towards new planting, reflects the relative profitability of rubber vis-a-vis
other crops and the financial incentives provided by the replanting "subsidy". The increased
emphasis placed on new planting was useful in mitigating the reduction in area under rubber
due to increased urbanization and conversion of rubber lands into other uses in the wet zone.
9.    Private Nurseries.   The main objective of this component was to assist the expansion
of the activities of private nurseries, mainly through the provision of technical advice and
improving the nursery certification processes. The objective was partially achieved. Currently,
about 60-70% of the total planting material requirement of the country is supplied by private
nurseries and the remainder is supplied by RDD nurseries. It was observed that the recent
increase in price of the  planting material produced by RDD nurseries from Rs. 6.00 to
10. 00/plant, has resulted in renewed enthusiasm of private nurseries.
2   This refers to the payment made by the government to the smallholders through the Rubber
Replanting Fund (RRF) financed out of the cess levied from exported rubber, to partly offset the
large initial costs involved in replanting and new planting.
23



10.   There is substantial scope for further improvements in the quality of planting material
produced by private nurseries and in their management. Over crowded beds, poor weeding, and
unremoved runts are common in most nurseries. A more rigorous nursery inspection and
certification by Rubber Development Officers (RDOs) is a critical need. The RDOs should pay
specific attention to improving nursery management practices including the authentication of
the budwood used by proper documentation, removal of weak plants by more rigorous culling
and systematic application of recommended fertilizer dosages. Incidence of budding runts is a
major nursery problem and reducing the time during which each nursery is certified is an
important step in avoiding this situation. The interest of the private nurseries to take to new
grafting techniques such as green budding and young budding is also on the increase, but the
shortage of budders is a major problem in most nurseries. The adoption of green and young
budding techniques by private nurseries are increasing, though slowly. The expansion of the use
of these techniques would be possible by providing more training opportunities to nursery
operators.
11.   Private nurseries are increasingly resorting to establish their own budwood nurseries and
this is an encouraging trend. To catalyze and expand this process further, RRI should provide
greater support by extending their support to inspect and certify private budwood nurseries. In
any case, RRI is unlikely to get into the operation of large budwood nurseries. The avoidance
of direct competition of RDD nurseries with the private nurseries, and provision of a
complementary, backstopping role by RDD and RRI could encourage expansion of private
nurseries.
12.   RDD Nurseries. The main objective of this component was to strengthen the capacity
of RDD to provide planting materials to the smallholders. The project expected the five RDD
nurseries to concentrate progressively on budwood supply to private nurseries with a view to
ensure the legitimacy of planting materials produced. However, this expectation, to a large
extent, not been achieved. Although the visits to RDD nurseries in Ratnapura and Kalutara
indicated that commendable attempts to produce high quality planting material, their emphasis
is placed mostly on producing planting material. Currently, brown budded stumps are sold by
the RDD nurseries at Rs. 10 per plant --which is about 20 % less than the price of those in the
private nurseries. The pricing system of planting material produced the RDD nurseries, is an
important issue that needs careful examination, as it has major influence on (i) the financial
stability of these nurseries and (ii) the level of participation of private nurseries in producing
planting material. A detailed study designed to investigate the production costs including both
recurrent and overhead, pricing mechanism adopted and the resource utilization of RDD
operated nurseries is recommended.
13.   Planting and Maintenance of Rubber in Smallholdings.    The main objective of
this component was to establish replanting/new planting of improved rubber clones in
smallholdings and to maintain improved crop husbandry practices to achieve higher yields.
Visits to smallholders indicated that the planting/replanting activities are implemented
24



satisfactorily. However, the level of adoption of new, improved technologies recommended by
RRI by smallholders are generally low. In some farms visited, intercropping has been done in a
manner that it is in direct competition with the main plant.
14.   The current girth criteria for "subsidy" payments are based on performance of PB86, an
older clone with less vigorous growth. Since planting is now exclusively done with more
advanced clones with greater vigor, it is necessary to update the payment criteria to encourage
effort on the part of the farmers. With the introduction of advanced clones, such as RRIC 100
there is an urgent need to adopt appropriate tapping practices for these clones to avoid over-
exploitation. Daily tapping of improved clones was widely observed, and the problem should
receive greater attention by RDOs.
15.   Control of Corynespora Leaf Spot Disease.    The main aim of this component of
the project was to eradicate this disease by eliminating the most susceptible clone RRIC 103
through relief payment arrangements to the affected growers. This objective was largely
successful. However, RRI reports indicate that Corynespora attacks are presently observed in
isolated locations from time to time. The Plant Pathology Division of RRI is closely monitoring
the situation.
Institutional Development.
16.  Establishment and Strengthening RDD.    The formation of RDD by amalgamating
Advisory Services Department (ASD) and the Rubber Control Department (RCD) was a major
project objective that evolved after the project was initiated. The amalgamation has achieved its
objectives to a substantial extent. The change involved the pooling of staff and other resources
in two separate Departments and re-designation of all field level staff as Rubber Development
Officers (RDOs). The RDOs are presently responsible for both extension as well as "subsidy"
administration work at the farm level. The RDD's mandate includes a range of functions relating
to market development, field development and "subsidy" administration. The RDD head office,
after several changes in its location, is now  functioning in its permanent  premises,
accommodating all staff in the same building. All seven RDD Regional offices are functioning
satisfactorily. The Moneragala regional office has recently shifted to its new location and is
functioning well.
17.   The overall effectiveness of RDD, however, appears to be affected by the continuation
of some of the administrative and salary problems arising from the merger of staff coming from
two parent departments. Since satisfactory solutions to the problem have not been found so far,
early action to resolve this is urgent. RDD has recruited 13 additional RDOs as recommended
by the project. Mainly because of the expanded computer usage, RDD is likely to experience a
surplus staff situation in the future, mostly in clerical grades, and the Department is well aware
of the situation.
25



18.   Computerization of RDD. Computerization of the RDD and linking all its regional
offices with the Colombo office through a computer network was a major achievement of the
project. The computer network is now operating satisfactorily in all intended locations. The
establishment of computer links between regional offices and head office has helped RDD to
increase its work efficiency. Computer use has resulted in shortening the time taken for releasing
"subsidy" installments to recipients and improving the accounting processes of the RDD.
Adequate basic training has been provided to computer staff. However, the senior staff of the
RDD, both in head office and regional offices, need further training in computer applications as
this would help to increase the overall management efficiency of the Department. At present,
the computers are mostly used for work relating to "subsidy" payments and efforts to extend the
use of computers for other administrative and related activities of the RDD should be
encouraged.
19.   Operation of Replanting "Subsidy" and Rubber Replanting Fund (RRF).    The
objective of this component was to enhance the capacity of RDD to manage the Rubber
Replanting Fund (RRF). The most important source of replenishing RRF, through which the
"subsidy" payments are made, is the cess levied from exported rubber. The rubber replanting
"subsidy" which stood at Rs. 32,085/ha prior to 1990 was raised to Rs. 37,050 in 1990 and this
was furthered raised in Rs. 49,722/ ha in 1995. The increase in the "subsidy" payment was a
major factor affecting the viability of RRF. In order to maintain the fund in a positive balance,
the cess levied from exported rubber was increased in 1994 from Rs. 1.15/Kg to Rs. 3.85/Kg
As the liquidity position of the RDD continued to erode further in the subsequent years, and
also to ensure long- term viability of the RRF, the Bank in 1995 suggested GOSL to extend the
cess levy to cover the domestically used rubber as well (by covenant to be agreed before
January, 1996). The appropriateness of cess-funded "subsidy" payments to smallholders needs
to be assessed in light of other alternatives means available to finance their long-term financial
requirement for replanting/new planting.
20.   Establishment of Group Processing Centres (GPCs).       The main objective of
supporting group activities for processing latex by the project was to provide the farmers with an
opportunity to improve their quality of processed product. With this in view, the project planned
for establishing 20 new LCPCs and upgrading of 80 existing GPCs. Due to a variety of reasons
achievements in this activity are less satisfactory. In fact, in most major rubber growing areas,
smallholders sell unprocessed latex directly to buyers. In general, most smallholders are
reluctant to join group processing centres, but prefer to process their latex by themselves.
However, in some remote areas, where rubber growing is totally a new activity as in parts of
Moneragala, farmer enthusiasm to join GPCs are high. The mission visits to some of the newly
established GPCs indicated poor levels of farmer involvement in establishing the building and
its operational activities. The main reason for this problem appears to be the top-down approach
followed by the project in mobilizing group efforts. A clear assessment of the actual needs of
the farmers, if conducted before implementing this component, would have led to better results.
26



21.   Civil Works.    The implementation of the civil works component of the project is
partially satisfactory, mainly due to major delays in contract awards and subsequent follow-up.
The new Regional Office building established in Galle was completed satisfactorily. Out of 10
RDO quarters planned, only seven were completed at project completion and the remaining
three are expected to be completed before December 1997. Although 20 buildings planned for
new GPCs and LPCs, only 15 were completed before the project closure and the remaining are
expected to be completed by December 1997. Of the planned rehabilitation of 80 GPC buildings
only 8 were completed by project closure. The low performance was due to a range of problems
including difficulties of locating suitable land, complications arising from the involvement of
Provincial Councils and contract administration problems. The mission also observed that the
new building established by the project at the training centre at Nivitigal Kele remained idle
since its commissioning in 1994. This building is not maintained adequately and is currently
used only as a storehouse for discarded items. This building could, perhaps, be better utilized by
RRI for their training purposes as it is located in close proximity to the RRI. The overall quality
of construction of all buildings visited appeared to be satisfactory.
22.   Support to Rubber Research Institute (RRI).  The objective of this component was
to strengthen the capacity of the RRI to address the problems of the small scale rubber growers.
Based on the activities including the initiation of the foreign and local clone trials in several
locations in Kalutara, Ratnapura, Kegalle, and Moneragala areas and the progress of work on
adaptive research, the achievement of this component of the project is considered satisfactory.
These adaptive research trials in particular, are continuing to perform well and have provided an
invaluable, long-term resource base to the development of the rubber industry as a whole. In
fact, some of the successful foreign clones tested in these trials have been recommended for
wider scale use (group II). The intermediate zone replicate of foreign clone trials at Moneragala
estate suffered a set back due to a fire, but since then it has been re-established. The RRI
indicated potential problems of continuing some of their clonal trials after the project, because
of funding shortages.
23.   Adaptive Research.   The main objective of this component was to establish three
adaptive research centres and to carryout research trials with a view to disseminate improved
technology to the smallholder rubber growers. The establishment of the adaptive research
centres has been satisfactorily carried out. Adaptive research trials have been established by
RRI in a number locations relating to a variety of practices including the use of rainguards,
tapping frequencies, spacing,, yield stimulation and inter-cropping. However, the low level of
acceptance of new innovations by smallholders is a common problem affecting production
efficiency of the smallholders. On a purely technical basis, some of the new innovations
recommended by RRI through their trials are superior when compared to the conventional
practices adopted by farmers. However, the actual rates of acceptance of these recommendations
by smallholders are low as farmers are not convinced of the additional benefits coming from
adoption of such innovations. Field observations confirmed the existence of a substantial gap
27



between the research information/knowledge available in the Rubber Research Institute (RRI)
and farmer's actual crop husbandry practices. Bridging this gap is a crucial step in improving
the productivity of the smallholder.
24.   Although the project aimed at improving the rates of adoption of new technologies
among smallholders, mainly due to weak research/extension linkages the achievement of this
objectives has been poor. Discussions with farmers and scientists indicated that the linkages
between the RRI scientists and RDOs continue to remain extremely weak and the flow of
communication of research findings to the smallholder and vice versa are poor. The current
arrangement of RRI scientists to hold a week-long technical training/refresher course for
training RDOs once a year at RRI seems to be totally inadequate. An intensive effort for
training RDOs to diagnose and solve field problems of the smallholder on a more frequent basis
is a critical need. New approaches should be explored to strengthen the technical competency of
the RDOs and to improve the RRI involvement with actual problems of the smallholder rubber
growers.
25.   The mission also observed that in most areas visited, the RDOs are mostly pre-occupied
with "subsidy" payments and distribution of inputs such as planting material, fertilizer and
polythene bags etc., with little time left to focus on extension activities. The priority given for
"subsidy" related work by the RDO is partly a result of the orientation of the "subsidy" program
itself, in which the RDO is expected to deliver pre-determined work targets at the end of the
year.
26.   Training and Consultancy Support.   An objective of this activity was to provide
short-term training, study tours abroad and to bring in international expertise to improve local
capacity. Overall, the achievement of this component is partially satisfactory. The project
provided short-term study tours abroad for 156 persons (SAR target, 43), the long-term training,
(MSc.) programs showed a substantial under-achievement. Of the 6 MSc. degree courses offered
to RRI, only three have been used. The requirement laid by the project for the trainees to
undertake a MSc degree with one year duration has not been useful to the younger scientific
staff in RRI because their promotions are based on completing a MSc. degree by research,
which usually takes two years. The project provided satisfactory training for 20 persons, locally,
mostly on computer application.
27.   Although the project provided for a smaller number of consultancy visits, the actual
utilization of these opportunities by the project, were unsatisfactory due to various reasons
including some, beyond control of the project. The planned visit by the international nursery
consultant did not materialize. However, the alternative arrangements made for an RRI scientist
to undertake this task was satisfactory and this has resulted in the preparation and distribution
28



of an extremely useful manual on nursery preparation. A second short-term  consultancy
assignment to strengthen the latex analysis capabilities and to upgrade the technical-know-how
of RRI staff also did not materialize. This consultancy would have been an extremely useful
opportunity to upgrade the laboratory facilities of RRI. Delays in communication and
inadequate institutional coordination have led to the non-utilization of this facility.
28.   PCU and Monitoring Unit. The main objective of this component was to establish a
project coordinating unit as well as a monitoring and evaluation unit within the Ministry of
Plantation Industries. The PCU, played a pivotal role undertaking the project work. Mainly due
to staffing problems, the monitoring functions were carried out by consultants recruited from
outside and with their departure, the monitoring unit has become virtually non-functional.
Absence of a sustainable arrangement for monitoring and evaluation of the development
activities in the rubber smallholder sector is a major problem that needs closer attention of the
Ministry.
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project
29.   Factors generally not subject to government control: These include civil unrest in
most parts of the project area during 1988-99, uncertain and volatile rubber prices in
international markets and recurrent drought conditions. The replanting/new planting and
nursery preparation activities were affected by a major drought in 1992.
30.   Factors generally subject to Government control: These include (i) inefficiencies in
administrative and financial regulation systems including tender award procedures and,
(ii) tendency to centralize decision making.
31.  Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:  Several factors in
combination had adverse influence on the achievement of project targets and the utilization of
project resources. These include; (i) optimistic physical targets, slow progress in awarding
contracts and inadequate follow-up in civil works, (ii) delays in procurement (ii) delays in
arranging foreign consultant visits and long-term training programs and, (iii) inadequate
awareness of the project, its goals, strategies and resources by all stakeholders.
D. Project Sustainability
32.   The outcomes of the field development activities of the project, including the
establishment of replanting and new planting with improved clones, establishment of improved
clonal trials in several areas for evaluation purposes, introduction of imported clones, are
sustainable in the long-run. Given the current cash flow projections, the RDD activities,
particularly "subsidy" payments and input distribution, are sustainable only in the short-run. In
the medium to long term, however, the ability of RDD to continue to function in the present
29



operational mode is highly unlikely, and is dependent on four key factors; (i) level of cess funds
generated, (ii) availability of funds from the consolidated funds, (iii) ability to reduce its own
operational costs and (iv) exploring possible means of recouping some of its operational
expenses. Prospects for generating more funds for RDD operations through an increase in the
cess levy appears to be bleak. In order to maintain its sustainability in the longer term, therefore
RDD must design a planned effort to wean away from its present emphasis on administering
subsidies involving input delivery and "subsidy" payment to the smallholders. In executing this
change, RDD must focus more on a supportive and catalytic role with emphasis on extension
work on production, processing and marketing of output.
E. Bank Performance
33.   Overall, project identification and preparation was guided by the experiences gained
from the previous project and the appraisal established clear project objectives consistent with
sectoral strategy. The design was based on learning from the experiences of the previous
project. The supervision missions have played a constructive and catalytic role in achieving
project objectives. During the eight year project period, Bank fielded 12 supervision missions.
Supervision efforts were biased more towards technical issues of the project and a closer
attention by the Bank staff on project's financial progress of civil works component would have
produced better results. A better skill mix in the supervision missions would have helped to
improve project performance. Although the Mid-Term review was carried out in January 1994,
it was partially successful in improving project performance. The low impact of the Mid-Term
review on the project is partly due to its lack of focus on key problems arising from optimistic
replanting targets, slow progress in awarding contracts and inadequate follow-up of civil works.
F. Borrower Performance
34.   The project was prepared adequately by the borrower with assistance from IDA.
Appraisal and supervision of the project by the Bank staff have received adequate attention by
the borrower. Except for the covenant to extend the cess collection to domestically used rubber,
GOSL has responded well to most recommendations/suggestions made by Bank supervision
missions. The performance of GOSL, however, was mixed in the actual implementation for
reasons both within and beyond their control. Despite many problems, in general, the borrower
has responded well to the suggestions of Bank supervision missions. Most shortcomings in the
project implementation, were identified and corrected expeditiously by project implementation
agencies. The need for extending the cess to domestically used rubber was a major issue raised
by the borrower with the Bank. Although the issue led to intensive communications with the
Bank, GOSL favored the position of maintaining the status quo. However, GOSL indicated that
it would review the liquidity position of the RRF periodically with a view to bring about
necessary adjustments.
30



G. Assessment of Outcome
35.   On the basis of its initial expectations, the project's  overall outcome is rated  as
satisfactory. The key elements of the project - field development, including replanting and new
planting of rubber with improved clones, introduction of proven foreign clones and
establishment of clonal trials, control of Corynespora leaf disease, establishment of RDD and
consolidation of its activities, establishment of adaptive research stations and support to RRI
activities were successfully implemented. However, the project outcomes reflect a below
appraisal expectation for establishing LCPCs and GPCs, mainly due to a lack of involvement of
the smallholders. The project also shows an unsatisfactory outcome in relation to the objective of
creating a monitoring and evaluation unit under the Ministry.
H. Key Lessons Learned
36.       Among many lessons that could be learnt from the project, the more significant are:
a)    Efficiency of extension/research service delivery: The relative neglect of the
research-extension interface as an integral component of the knowledge dissemination process
underlying the project has resulted in a lower project performance with respect to the adoption
of new research information by farmers. In this regard, a fundamental assumption underlying the
project design seems to imply that once the RDD is established and extension workers (RDOs)
are in place, and the RRI is entrusted to undertake research, the rest, including the flow of
information back and forth from the farmer to RRI would automatically follow. The project
experiences clearly indicate that designing research/extension components of a project that
reflects a highly top-down and a supply driven approach is unlikely to deliver expectations.
This also suggests that there is a clear need for RRI to shift the balance of its current research
focus more towards of the smallholder. The project provided ample evidence to suggest that the
level of farmer acceptance of new innovations recommended by RRI is not entirely dependent
on the technical superiority of the recommendation -- a perception that seems to be widely held
by RRI -- but by a complex range of factors relating to economic and other behavioral
characteristics of the smallholder.
b)    Beneficiary participation: The project's success to a large extent, appears to
have been reduced by the low level of involvement of beneficiaries on project related activities.
The attempt to establish GPCs in which the beneficiary farmers were reduced to mere recipients
of the whole investment activity is a clear illustration of the results of lack of farmer
participation. A greater initiative by the project staff to increase the level of participation of the
main beneficiaries and other key interest groups in key activities of the project during its initial
stages would have paid substantial dividends in terms of improved implementation and
31



outcomes of the project. In particular, a beneficiary assessment undertaken at the inception
would have helped the project by identifying key issues and problems that are likely to affect
the project progress well in advance. The project implementation process, by and large, has
followed a blue-print approach and this too was also responsible for lower beneficiary
involvement.
c)    Level of awareness of project stakeholders: Mission observations strongly
suggested a relatively low level of awareness of the project details by stakeholders. The low
level of awareness relating to the objectives, development strategies and resource availability of
the project by stakeholders had an adverse influence on the effectiveness of project
implementation. A greater effort made at project inception to provide such information to all key
actors of the project would have helped them to understand and carryout their respective roles
and responsibilities of the project better. The absence of an effective Mid-Term review covering
all project components, focusing on the problems affecting its progress and identifying needed
adjustments was also a major impediment to project success.
d)    Viability of Rubber Replanting Fund (RRF) and continued need for
subsidies: Given the wide ranging revenue, employment and other implications associated with
the current system of levying the cess only from exported rubber and cross subsidization of the
smallholder sector, there is a critical need for investigating the issues involved in-depth.
Attempts made so far to examine the status of viability of RRF appears to be focused relatively
narrowly and is based on a limited data base with unrealistic projections. A broader data base
and a more insightful analysis with more precise information on important variables including
replanting/new planting rates and export volumes etc. would throw light on important economic
issues including sustainability of the current approach. Similarly, the need for continuing the
replanting and new planting "subsidy" programme in the current form and intensity is an
emerging issue that needs critical evaluation.
e)    Need for looking beyond production: The project experience suggests that in
designing projects of this nature, a heavy emphasis on increasing production levels at the farm
level alone is unable to deliver expectations. In this connection it is essential to recognize that
the problems associated with the low incomes of the rubber smallholders are also related to the
processing and marketing of the output. A project design with a greater emphasis on
improving the quality of processed product and on developing better marketing approaches
would have been more effective.
I. Next Steps
37.   The mission will prepare a draft ICR in accordance with the Bank's guidelines for
submission to the Bank by mid-December 1997. The GOSL must prepare their final assessment
of the project according to the guidelines provided by the mission. The amended aide memoire,
with a copy of the GOSL project completion report to the ICR prepared by the mission for
submission to the world Bank.
32



Aide Memoire
Attachment
Plan for Future Operations
1.    The future operations of the RDD for improving the rubber smallholder sub-sector
performance will focus on activities to promote the involvement of the entrepreneurial skills
and initiatives of the private individuals and groups. This would be based on a clear
identification of the relative roles to be played by the public and private sectors for developing
rubber smallholder sector. Currently, most of the mandated activities of RDD are centered
around procurement and distribution of basic production inputs such as planting material,
fertilizer and rubber milling equipment and also on issuing "subsidy" payments to the
smallholders. Future development of RDD would therefore be based on a broad approach that
will reduce dependency of the smallholders on the government for input distribution and
enhance greater involvement of the private sector.
2.     As regards the involvement of RRI in developing the smallholder rubber growers,
further attempts will be made to reduce the gap between the available research information and
the actual farm practices adopted by smallholders, through improvements in the extension
system operated by RDD. The strategy would also involve the improvement of the capacity of
RRI to generate new, cost-effective production and processing technologies that are more
acceptable to the smallholders. Such changes in RDD and RRI, however, will be implemented
within a well prepared long-term plan involving a well conceived vision of the future of rubber
smallholder sector. The vision would be compatible with the emerging changes in the global as
well as local market and economic conditions. The monitoring evaluation capabilities currently
available within the Ministry will be further developed.
3.     Government is aware of the fast changing situation of the RRF and the inability to
sustain the replanting "subsidy" programme using current financial sources. As a means of
maintaining the viability of the RRF, therefore, the government intends to review the cash flow
status of RRF annually and to make adjustments as necessary. According to current cash-flow
projections made by RDD, the level of cess levied at present is adequate to keep the RRF viable
only up to until the year 2002 (See Appendix D).
33



APPENDIX B
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
SECOND SMALLHOLDER RUBBER REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Cr. 1909-CE)
FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION
A. Introduction
1.    This appendix presents the results and assumptions of the financial and economic re-
evaluation of the investments made by the project, based on actual physical and financial
information of the project up to 1997. To facilitate comparison the analytical approach adopted
in this re-evaluation closely followed the methodology used in the SAR and is based on the data
provided by the RDD. Farmer interviews and information gathered from RRI suggested that the
basic production related coefficients of the smallholder farmers including crop yield profiles and
physical input mix have not undergone significant changes during the project period.
B. Financial and Price Analysis
2.    Analysis of financial data relating to farm level costs and returns indicated two key
factors were affecting farm profitability and economic viability of the smallholder rubber
growers during the project period. They are: (a) rising production costs, and (b) high variability
of the farm gate prices of rubber. The cost of production of processed rubber, has risen nearly
three times over the project period, from Rs. 13.41/kg in 1988 to Rs 40.37/kg in 1997, reflecting
an average increase of about 22% per annum. The main source of this increase is the wage labor
costs which accounts for nearly 60% of the total farm production costs. During this period,
average daily wages have risen from Rs 40.00/worker in 1988 to about Rs 125.00/worker in
1997. The increase is even more in areas closer to urban centres. Currently, in most rubber
growing areas there is an acute shortage of labor, particularly for tapping because of the
reluctance of the younger age groups to undertake tapping.
34



3.    In terms of output prices, however, smallholder rubber growers have not witnessed major
increases. The average farm gate price of processed rubber has increased form Rs. 19.50/Kg in
1987 to Rs. 55.88/Kg in 1997, reflecting an annual increase of about 23% --barely keeping up
with increases in production costs. Moreover farm gate prices of rubber during the project period
were extremely erratic creating a high degree of price uncertainty for the growers. The analysis
of farm data in 1977 indicated that the break-even price of rubber for the smallholders is
currently about Rs. 38.00/Kg suggesting the high degree of vulnerability of farmers to price
fluctuations.
4.    In the major rubber growing areas, direct sales of rubber latex to nearby factories is the
preferred mode of disposal. However, at present, bulk of the rubber sales by most smallholder is
in the form of ribbed smoked sheets (RSS). Farmer preference for selling unprocessed latex is
due to its higher farm gate price-- about 20% more than the price of RSS.
5.    The financial analysis of this ICR was undertaken using two farm models of one ha each.
The first, reflecting only family labor use, showed an estimated internal rate of return of 23.2%,
as compared to 30.9% in SAR (Table 5). The second farm model reflecting the only hired labor
use, showed an estimated internal rate of return was 16.9%, as compared to 18.2% in SAR
(Table 6). If the value of timber from uprooted trees at the time of replanting is also included in
the analysis, the rate of return improves substantially; 25.3% for farms using only family labor
and (18.6%) for the farms using hired labor.
C. Economic analysis
6.    The economic rates of return (ERR) is re-estimated at 16.2% for the project as compared
to SAR estimate of 18.2%. Both direct and indirect costs have been included in estimating the
ERR for the project. A re-estimation of the ERR incorporating the value of timber from
uprooted trees indicated a higher ERR of 18.2%. The main assumptions made in the SAR and
the ICR are set out below.
D. Appraisal Estimates
7.    At appraisal, the project's ERR was estimated to be 18.25%, and this was based on the
following assumptions:
- project life of 37 years
-  all values expressed in constant 1989 prices
- quantifiable benefits to be the output of rubber
-  economic prices of non-tradable outputs derived from their financial prices adjusted
by .75 SCF, and unskilled labor by a conversion factor of 0.65.
- exchange rate purchasing power parity would be maintained.
35



E. ICR Estimates
8.    The re-calculation of the ERRs basically followed the SAR methodology, refined by
ICR mission evaluations. The main differences are: all values expressed in constant 1997 prices;
quantifiable benefits to be the output of rubber (an additional re-estimation was done to include
the value of timber from uprooted trees); SCF of 0.9 used to convert financial price to economic
values in respect of tradable inputs; and outputs and a conversion factor of 0.9 for converting
financial wage (unskilled labor) into economic prices. The SAR estimates have not taken the
value of timber generated by the uprooted trees at the time of replanting.
36



SRI LANKA: SECOND SMALLHOLDER RUBBER PROJECT (Cr.1909 - CE)
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix B: Economic Re-evaluation
Table 1. Rubber Yields and Tapping Systems (kg/ha)
Year from Planting      Without  Project  With Project       Tapping
| ___________________   (kg/ha)           (Kg/ha)            System
1                       800
2                       800
3                       750                                .
4                       750
5                       700
6                       600
7                       500                 300              s/2,d/2
8                       500                 675
9                       300                 840
10                                         955
11                                        1,000
12                                        1,100
153                                       1,100             ,,
1 4                     _ _ _ _ _ _ _      1,100
1 5                     __ _ _ _ _ _   _  1,100             _ _ _ _ _  _
16                                        1,100
17                                        1,100
1 8                     __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  1,100
19                                        1,100
20                                        1,000
21                                       -900
22                                          850
23                                         750               ,
24                      _ _ _  _ _ _ _     700                _  _  _ _ _
25                                        1,000              s/4,s/2,d/2
26                                        1,000              ,,
27                                          800              ,,
28                                          700              ,,
29                                          700              2s/4,s/2,d2
30                                          400              4s/4,2s/2,d3
Total production per ha.   5,700                20,970
Mean yield             633 kg/ha           875 kg/ha
37



SRI LANKA: SECOND SMALLHOLDER RUBBER PROJECT (Cr.1909 - CE)
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix B: Economic Re-evaluation
Table 2. Estimated Rubber Production From the Project Area
Year     Without Project   Project Production               With Project
(M.Tons)          (M.Tons)                        (M. Tons)
1988     16,333                                             16,333
1989     13,963                                             13,963
1990     10,403                                             10,403
1991     8,036                                              8,036
1992     6,049                                              6,049
1993     3,750                                      .        3,750
1994     2,275                451                          2,726
1995     1,380               2,148                          3,527
1996       307               5,198                          5,505
1997                         9,088                          9,088
1998                        12,879                          12,879
1999                        16,435                          16,435
2000                        19,862                          19,862
2001                        22,959                          22,959
2002                        25,953                          25,953
2003                        28,472                          28,472
2004                        30,176                          30,176
2005                        31,706                          31,076
2006                        31,461                          31,461
2007                        31,262                          31,262
2008                        30,504                          30,504
2009                        29,324                          29,324
2010                        28,100                          28,100
2011                        26,795                          26,795
2012                        25,917                          25,917
2013                        25,674                          25,674
2014                        25,398                          25,398
2015                        24,824                          24,824
2016                        23,679                          23,679
2017                        22,516                          22,516
2018                        20,127                          20,127
2019                        16,922                          16,922
2020                        13,623                          13,623
2021                        10,720                          10,720
2022                         8,040                          8,040
2023                         5,684                          5,684
2024                         3,860                          3,862
2025                         2,129                          2,129
Total                                  611,256                        611,256
38



SRI LANKA: SECOND SMALLHOLDER RUBBER PROJECT (Cr.1909 - CE)
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix B: Economic Re-evaluation
Table 3. Changes in Smallholder Producer Margins, 1988-1997
(Rs./Kg)
1988    1991    1994    1997       Average
(1988-97)
Cost of Production:
Cultivation Costs
Labor              7.62     11.29    14.06    22.80    13.94
Other              0.92      1.76    2.20    3.56      2.11
Sub Total       8.54    13.05    16.26    26.36    16.05
Processing Costs
Labor              1.05    1.57     1.97     3.19      1.94
Other              1.01    1.29     1.57     2.55      1.60
2.06    2.86     3.54    5.74      3.54
Marketing Costs        0.53    0.65     0.82     1.33      0.83
Other Charges          2.30    3.37     4.28     6.94      4.36
Total Cost of Production:  13.41    19.96    24.90    40.37  24.66
Farm- gate Price       19.50   18.66    44.81    55.88    34.71
Producer Margin        6.09    -1.30    19.91    15.51    10.05
Source: Rubber Control Department.
39



SRI LANKA: SECOND SMALLHOLDER RUBBER PROJECT (Cr.1909 - CE)
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix B: Economic Re-evaluation
Table 4. Financial Price of Rubber
1994     1995     1996     1997    Average    1998       1999    2000    2005       2010
1994-97
World Market Price                  1.13     1.58     1.39     1.32      1.36       1.41     1.42     1.43      1.68     1.95
(US$ /kg)al _a
Farm-gate Price  (tJS$/kg)b/        0.90     0.86     1.10     0.95      0.95       0.97     0.99      1 .00    1.17     1.36
Farm-gate Price                     44.64    44.36    61.27    55.88    55.44       58.68    61.38    64.00    76.05    88.40
(Rs/kg) b/                                                                 ---
Projected Farm-gate Price (Rs/lg)                                                   58.68    59.58    60.41    63.37    65.00
1998 Constant Value                                                                         ______
a/ IBRD price projections (August 1997) in current dollars.
b/ Prices up to 1997 derived from actual farm-gate price available in RDD for RSS I and RSS III.
Projection based on the relationship between 1994-1997 farm-gate price and world market price
40



SRI LANKA: SECOND SMALLHOLDER RUBBER PROJECT (Cr.1909 - CE)
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix B: Economic Re-evaluation
Table 5. Financial Analysis of Smallholder Farm of One Ha. in Extent
- Operated With Family Labor
(Rupees)
1988     1989      1990      1991       1992      1993      1994      1995      1996      2000      2005      2010      2017
Benefits:
Production With Project (kg)    -         -         -         -         -         -         300       675       840       1100      1100      750       400
Price (Rs/lkg)                  19.50     20.97     20.31     22.39     29.65     35.90     53.56     53.23     73.52     60.41     63.37     65.00      65.00
Benefit With Project            -         -         -         -         -         -         16068    35930    61756    66451        69707    48750    26000
Replanting Payment              11120    4201       3952      5928      5928      5928      6175      -         -         -         -         -          -
Total Benefit With Project      11120    4201       3952      5928      5928      5928      22343     35930    61756    66451       69707    48750    26000
Production Without Project (kg)    550    500       450       400       350       300       250       200       150       -         -         -          -
Price (Rs/kg)                   19.50     20.97     20.31     22.39     29.65     35.90     53.56     53.23     73.52     60.42     63.37     65.00      65.00
Benefit Without Project         10725     10485    9139       8956      10377    10770      13390     10646     11028    -          -         -          -
Incremental Benefit             -10725   -10485   -9139    -8956        -10377   -10770    2678       25284    50728      66451     69707    48750    26000
Costs:
Operating Cost (labor)          -         -         -         -         -         -         -          -         -         -         -         -         -
Other Operating Cost            -         -         -         -         -         -         2581       3672      4171      4200      4300      3800      3800
Total Operating Cost             -         -        -         -          -        -         2581       3672      4171      4200      4300      3800      3800
Establishment Cost (Material)    15500    2000      2700       3900      3200      3200     3900       -         -         -         -         -         -
Establishment Cost (Labor)       15435    5460      6000       7125      6400     4725      4320       -
Total Establishment Cost         15500    2000      2700       3900      3200      3200      3900      -         -         -         -         -         -
Total Cost                       15500    2000      2700      3900       3200     3200      6481       3672     4171       4200      4300      3800      3800
Operating Cost of Labor (Without)   -      -        -         -          -        -         -          -         -         -         -         -         -
Other Operating Cost (Without)   992      600       400       200        175       175
Total Operating Cost (Without)   992       600      400       200        175       175      -          -         -         -         -         -         -
hncremental Cost                 14508    1400      2300       3700      3025      3025     6481       3672      4171      4200      4300      3800      3800
IncrementalNet Benefit           -25233   -11885   -11439   -12656   -13402   -13795   -3803           21612    46557    62251       65407    44950    22200
Internal Rate of Return of Net Benefit Stream 23.22%. (SAR = 30.90%)
41



SRI LANKA: SECOND SMALLHOLDER RUBBER PROJECT (Cr.1909 - CE)
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix B: Economic Re-evaluation
Table 6. Financial Analysis of a Smallholder Farm of One Ha in Extent
Operated with Hired Labor
(Rupees)
1988      1989      1990      1991      1992      1993       1994      1995      1996      2000      2005      2010       2017
Benefits:
Production With Project (kg)    -         -          -         -         -         -         300       675        840       1100      1100      750       400
Price (Rs/kg)                   19.50     20.97     20.31      22.39     29.65     35.90     53.56     53.23      73.52    60.41      63.37     65.00     65.00
Benefit WithProject             -         -          -         -         -         -         16068     35930      61756    66451      69707     48750     26000
Replanting Payment              11120    4201        3952      5928      5928      5928      6175      -          -        -          -         -         -
TotalBenefit WithProject        11120    4201        3952      5928      5928      5928      22243     35930      61756    666451    619707   48750       26000
production Withoutproject (kg)  550       500        450       400       350       300       250       200        150      -          -         -         -
Price (Rs/kg)                   19.50     20.97     20.31      22.39     29.65     35.90     53.56     53.23      73.51    60.41      63.37     65.00     65.00
Benefit Without Project         10725      10485     9139      8956      10377     10770     13390     10646      11028    -          -         -         -
Incremental Benefit             -10725    -10485    -9139      -8956     -10377    -10770    2678      25284      50728    66451      69707     48750     26000
Costs:
Operating Cost (labor)           -         -         -         -         -          -         11000     11500     12000    13000      13000      6000      6000
Other Operating Cost             -         -         -         -         -         -          2581      3672      4171      4200      4300       3800      3800
Total Operating Cost             -         -         -         -         -          -         13581     15172     16171    17200      17300      9800      9800
Establishment Cost (Material)    15500    2000       2700      3900      3200       3200      3900      -         -         -         -          -         -
Establishunent Cost (Labor)      15435     5460      6000      7125      6400       4725      4320      -
Total Establishment Cost         30935    74602      8700      11025     9600       7925      8220      -         -         -         -          -         -
Total Cost                       30935    7460       8700      11025     9600       7925      21801     15172     16171    17200      17300      9800      9800
Operating Cost of Labor (Without)  6200    5270      4300      3330      2300       2300      -         -         -         -         -          -         -
Other Operating Cost (Without)   992       600       400       200        175       175
Total Operating Cost (Without)   7192      5870      4700      3530      2475       2475      -         -         -         -         -          -         -
Incremental Cost                 23743     1590      4000      7495      7125       5450      21801     15172     16171    17200      17300      9800      9800
IncrenentalNetBenefit            -34468    -12075    -13139   -16451    -17502    -16220    -19123    10112        34557    49251      52407     38950      16200
Internal Rate of Retumn of Net Streams 16.89 %. (SAR= 18.25%)
42



SRI LANKA: SECOND SMALLHOLDER RUBBER PROJECT (Cr.1909 - CE)
-       Implementation Completion Report
Appendix B: Economic Re-evaluation
Table 7. Projected Economic Price of Rubber
1994     1995     1996     1997     Average  1998       1999     2000     2005      2010
1994-97
World Market Price (US$/kg) a/  1.13     1.58      1.39     1.32     1.36      1.41     1.42      1.43     1.68     1.95
Colombo FOB Price (US$/kg)b/    0.98      1.30     1.15     1.20     1.16      1.20     1.21     1.22      1.43     1.66
Colombo FOB price (Rs/kg)       48.42    66.63    63.56    70.20    62.19    72.60    75.02    78.08    91.52       106.24
Projected FOB Price Rs/kg) (1998  -      -         -        -        -         72.60    73.10    73.58    76.27    78.26
constant price)
Less Marketing and Other Local -                                               4.50     4.50     4.50      4.50     4.50
Costs in Economic Values   c/                                                          I
Economic Farm-gate Price        -                                              68.10    68.60    69.08    72.77    73.66
Source; IBRD Price Projections (August 1997) in current dollars.
a/ Financial costs adjusted by standard conversion factor of .90.
b/ Actual average Colombo FOB price converted at relevant year's rate of exchange rate.
c/ Financial costs adjusted by standard conversion factor of .90.
43



SRI LANKA: SECOND SMALLHOLDER RUBBER PROJECT (Cr. 1909 - CE)
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix B: Economic Re-evaluation
Table 8. Replanting Costs and Financing Arrangements, 1989-97
(Rs/ha)a/
Stage       of Labor  Labor   Material   Total Cost "Subsidy"   Farmer
Payment                 Cost    Cost                 Payment    Contribution
(M.d.)  Value   (Rs.)    (Rs.)       (Rs.)      (Rs.)
_ _ _ _ _ _ _   (R s.)       _  _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _
1               130    5,850       4,500   10,350    1,483       8,867
2               207     9,585     11,000    20,585    9,637        10,948
3               123    5,460      2,000     7,460    4,201       3,259
4               71      6,500     2,700     9,200    3,952       5,248
5               71      7,625     3,900    11,525    5,928       5,597
6               59      6,900     3,200    10,100    5,928       4,172
7               42      4,725     3,200     7,925    5,928       1,997
8               27      3,420     3,900     7,320    6,175       1,145
Total           730    49,465   34,400    84,465    43,232       41,233
________     _    _  _  l_   _   l _   _    l (100%)  (51%)      (49%)
Source: RDD
a! Since 1988, the "subsidy" payment rates were revised three times, the latest being in 1995.
The amount paid per ha. varied from Rs. 22,230 (1988) to Rs. 49,722 (1995).
44



SRI LANKA: SECOND SMALLHOLDER RUBBER PROJECT (Cr.1909 - CE)
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix B: Economic Re-evaluation
Table 9. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
(Rs.'000)
1988       1989       1990        1991       1992        1993       1994        1995       2000        2005       2010        2015        2024
ECONOMIC BENEFITS
Production with Project (Tons)                             -                -           -          -          451         2148        19862      31076       28100      24824       3862
Economic Price                           43.25       43.46      33.96       32.85      39.45       44.25      60.72       83.92      69.08       72.77       73.76      73.76       73.76
Benefit with Project                      -                     -           -          -           -          27379       180229      1372049    2261369    2072663    1831040    284839
Production Foregone (Tons)                623        2048       3455        4334       4518        4590       4250        3758       -
Benefit Foregone                          26951      88984       117335     142359      178227     203094     258045      315371     -           -           -          -           -
Incremental Benefit                      -26951      -88984     -117335    -142359    -178227    -203094    -230666    -135143    1372049    2261369    2072663    1831040    284839
ECONOMIC COSTS
Operating Cost (labor)                          -    -           -          -           -                      17626      63086       410810     612073      627349      627349     141444
Other Operating Costs                     -          -           -          -           -                      3634        13012      84154       124976     127832      124059     79921
Total Operating Cost                      -           -          -           -                     -           21260      76098       494964      737049     755180      751408     221365
OperatingCostofLabor(Without)             20416       17454      13871       10715      8641       6250        4550       2759        -           -          -
Other Operating Costs (Without)           12250       10472      8323        6429       5185       3750        2730        1655
Total Operating Cost (Without)            32666      27926       22194       17144      13826       10000      7280       4414        -           -          -
Incremental Operating Cost                -32666     -27996      -22194      -17144     -13826     -10000      13980      71684       494964      737049     755180      751408     221365
Converted Establishment Cost (Labor)       14479      65133       141625     71677      68223       53208      98531       83824      36431       -                -           -
Converted Establishment Costs (Material)   67356      94486       110584     99452      206096      105837     107751      105507      15522      -           -          -           --
TotalEstablishmentcost                     81835      159619     252209      171126      274319     159045     206282      189331     51953       -
ConvettedCivil Works                       60         859        2121        396         378        1598       6023        8910       -           -
Converted Machinery and Equipment         874        3220        2357        1349       9446       2945        8277       9982        -           -
Converted Technical Assistance/Training    3240       1692        1845       1663        950        2910       2754        5494       -           -           -          -
Converted Adaptive Research                39         144        299         154         172        136        236         221         -
Converted Operating Costs                  1166       1224        1550       1821        6998       7585       2754        2574       -           -           -
Total Economic Costs                       54548      138832     238187      159365      278437     164219     240306      288196      546917     737049      755180     751408-    221365
Incremental Net Benefits                   -81500     -227816    -355523    -301724    -456665    -367313    -470972    -423339    825132         1524320    1317483    1079632    63476
Internal Rate ofReturn ofNet Benefit Stream = 16.22%. (SAR = 18.25%)
45



A?PENDIX C
Second Smallholder Rubber Rehabilitation Project (Cr-1909-CE)
Borrower's Final Evaluation Report
1.   Prelude
In discharging its assigned responsibilities in the preparation of the Implementation
Completion Report concerning the above subject the Borrower is pleased to state its views as
captured hereunder. Mindful of the space limitations set for the write up, the Borrower
proposes to confine its views to what are deemed to be critical components and issues that
characterize Project objectives, design, pragmatic experiences and constraints while highlighting
lessons to be drawn.
2.    Partnership and Relations with the IIDA
By way of a fitting preface to this exercise the Government of Sri Lanka seeks to place
on record its candid appreciation over the highly supportive role and contribution through the
staff resources of the Agriculture Division and Credit line of the IDA thus partnering the many
positive achievements of the Project. Technology transfer through training of staff at several
levels attached to the implementing agencies, overseas as well as locally, institutional
strengthening via additional staff, machinery, equipment, vehicles and buildings redounded to
the inventory of resources, which will continue to have a decisive impact on servicing the
Rubber Sector in Sri Lanka for years to come.
Shortfalls in physical targets and time frames are to be expected in implementing a
Project of such magnitude spanning almost a decade. It will be agreed that what could not be
realized cannot obliterate the signal achievements of the Project.
The close rapport maintained throughout the Project between the Sri Lankan participants
and the IDA staff through correspondence, reporting, periodical Country Portfolio Performance
Reviews, and regular Bank Supervision Missions and Aide Memoires, stimulating discussions on
and off the field unfolded the status of the Project from time to time. The advantage of having a
formal Mid-Term Review of the Project could have been made available to the Borrower. It is
also felt that disclosing the rating given by the Bank annually on the performance levels would
have had a salutary effect in apprising the Borrower of the need to steer the Project on course
and sustain the momentum.
46



On the contrary the announcement made in the letter of 21st October 1997 to the effect
that the concern over the issue of the domestic cess had resulted in a situation of "an otherwise
satisfactory project being downgraded to a problem Project status in the IDA portfolio" was not
well received by the Borrower who labored over the past 9 years to achieve what has been
indelibly registered.
With the experience gained from the First Project and the lessons learnt in the course of
implementing the Second, it emerges that a higher degree of flexibility to readjust and
restructure the original design would have yielded better results.
3.    Replanting and New Planting Activities Versus Project Targets
In appraising the field performance of a tree crop one has to reckon the retarding impact
of natural causes such as adverse weather conditions, disturbed civil conditions and violent
market fluctuations.
During its implementation SRRP II did have more than its tolerable share of such forces.
Beginning with the turbulent civil strife which almost coincided with the launch of the Project in
July, 1998 extending till about 1990, prolonged periods of drought and, spells of torrential rains
which in 1992 submerged most parts of the country etc. Besides poor seed fall and resulting
scarcity of planting material in 1995 had protracted unfavorable effects. Such unforeseen
disruptions as were recognized even by successive Supervision Missions were real causal factors
for periodical depressions in planting activities rendering original targets unattainable.
Owing to such interruptions, efforts to motivate smallholder participation in planting
activities became doubly difficult by the fact that unlike tea, rubber is a crop with a relatively
long gestation period. An equally important factor that has had a potent influence on the
motivation of smallholders to stay in the industry is the market scenario. Understandably a
downturn in prices will dampen their interest in Replanting as well as New Planting.
Paradoxically, boom conditions which for instance persisted for a considerable interval since the
second half of 1994 could not have encouraged smallholders to uproot and replant. Perhaps
consistently remunerative price levels over a protracted period will be the ideal, for replanting.
When the real experience is viewed against the concomitant factors analyzed, it emerges
that the targets set by the Project for Replanting and New Planting activities are seen to be
exceedingly high to the point of being acutely unrealistic. In the First Project a target of
Replanting 18800 ha. was set and it was only after an extension by another 2 years, i.e. after 7
years that it could be achieved. The Performance Audit Report dated January, 1993 on the First
Project observed that "unrealistically high targets such as were eventually set in the case of the
Rubber Project imposed undue strains on the institutions responsible for implementation."
47



Accordingly, attaining a target of 35,500 ha. in Replanting and 3200 ha. of New Planting
when taken together (38,700 ha) represents an overall increase of 106% over and above the
target of SRRP I. Where Replanting is concerned when it was realized though rather late in 1992
the IDA agreed to readjust the original targets to 30,000 ha. of Replanting and New Planting of
8,700 ha.
The combined achievement of 28279 ha. at the end of the Project marks a 72%
fulfillment, on which a fair judgment should be passed. The contentions of the Borrower is by no
means intended to rely on certain circumstances and developments as extenuating factors for not
being able to realize the targets. We make the point, that, had a realistic planting target been
given the performance would have been appreciated better.
4.    Propagation of Planting Material and High Yielding Clone Trials
Well-conceived, meaningful and resolute measures were taken to ensure an uninterrupted
supply of high quality, select, planting material in adequate quantities. Programmes to train
private/commercial nursery owners in advanced plant propagation techniques such as green-
budding and young budding have been launched and client response is promising as is
heartening. Collecting seeds from surplus areas and distributing these among smallholders in
regions where the seed fall failed and promoting polybagging of plants to preserve the quality
and enabling carry over from one season to the next were other strategies adopted.
Exposure offered to a group consisting of nurserymen from the private sector and
Nursery Managers and Field Officers of the RDD to visit Thailand was of significant value and
use. The assignment of the Sri Lankan Consultant from the RRI in taking the practitioners on a
guided tour of some areas raising planting material in Thailand was followed up on his return by
conducting a series of seminars and workshops on nursery management and practices for the
benefit of Field Officers and smallholders. The publication of a Manual on the subject in Sinhala
is a permanent contribution that was facilitated by the Project.
This commentary is meant to focus attention on the fact that this Project succeeded
largely in remedying a serious shortcomings identified in the First Project, namely, non
production of quality planting material by the then State-owned Estate Sector to satisfy the
demand. Besides, stress on stringent enforcement of conditions governing nursery permits and
legitimizing issue of budwood material by proper records and certification and carrying out
inspections by teams of monitoring officials were important measures.
Agriculturally, another positive and permanent achievement of the Project is the very
successful experiments carried out by the RRI in proven high yielding, exotic clones, planted
side by side with selected RRIC varieties covering 7 different ago- climatic regions.
48



In the 2 large trials at Salawa and Eladuwa Estates, 7 and in the 5 smaller trials, 6
foreign clones were replicated and were tested for disease tolerance with varying results. Except
for PR 261 and RRIM 712 all clones were recommended to the Estate Sector for experimental
scale planting and sufficient quantities of budwood were distributed. PR 260 and PB 235 were
upgraded to Group II in the recommended list. The dedicated efforts to implement the clonal
trials programme, where in 6 of 7 locations the trees have reached tappable girth is a means of
assuring that a fair basket of clones is in hand to guarantee against any untoward eventuality.
Hence, in discussing the field development programme and targets under the Project it is
urged that credit be given to the resourceful measures adopted to ease the problem of raising
planting material and experimenting with foreign high yielding clones which, when viewed in
the correct perspective should be acknowledged as satisfactorily compensating for the inability
to reach a tall order in planting per se.
5.    Concept of Group Processing Centres (GPCs) and Latex Collecting and Processing
Centres (LCPCs)
Prospects of establishing viable GPCs that would produce high quality Ribbed Smoked
Sheet RSS are seen to be presumptuous when the experience under SRRP I is evaluated. In 1981
there were 65 GPCs in the 3 Project Districts, which increased to 79 under the Project. However
by the end of the Project period only about 48 were found to be functioning.
The exercise of establishing 20 new GPCs and upgrading 80 existing GPCs to LCPCs
status goes well beyond the concept of "limited development" envisaged under the Project.
Despite the fact that from the early phase of the SRRP II all determined efforts launched to
popularize these institutions among smallholders, they were not enamored as their real problems
were subsumed in the visionary goals set by an external agency. To delve into some of the
realities;
1.    Lofty ideals of the Co-operative system could not fire the imagination of
significant numbers of clients who were witnesses to many instances of
operational failures of these bodies due to inefficiencies of one kind or another
under the First Project. Failure to recognize such negative attitudinal response and
the pervasive individualistic and free market development trends can be described
as the aftermath of a design fault about the Project.
2.    Obtaining a plot of land in a suitably well appointed location is easily said than
found, particularly with an escalating opportunity-cost of land year by year.
Giving legal status to these Centres by registering them with the Co-operative
Development Department is no big issue as was made out to be in the SAR.
49



3.    To conjure a situation of setting up " bulk latex handling facilities that would
enable smallholders to sell latex directly to crepe factories" presume the
availability of several ground conditions, such as availability of transport
facilities, location of processing factories within a reasonable radius of the
LCPCs, a sustained demand for field latex, without which, smallholders will be
driven to roll into sheet rubber. Also, what is the demand for latex and the
capacity of factories processing crepe rubber?
4.    It is a home-truth that efforts to enthuse smallholders to produce high quality
sheet rubber cannot produce the desired results as long as the system of visual
grading and bulk purchases by rubber dealers prevails.
The real impediment to smallholders securing a reasonable farmgate price for their
produce should be identified with lack of marketing facilities. Providing LCPCs and GPCs with
processing facilities alone will not suffice. They could have been assisted with some amount of
working capital to collect the produce of the members after paying spot cash and have the goods
transported for disposal where required. Even though this problem was brought to the notice of
the Supervision Missions, the Bank did not view with favor the proposal to support smallholder
marketing activities.
Notwithstanding the handicaps and constraints another thrust was made in the final lap of
the Project to establish 15 LCPCs and rehabilitate 8 GPCs.
6.    The Rubber Control Department (RCD), Advisory Services Department (ASD) and
the Rubber Development Department (RDD)
Under SRRP I the ASD was separated from the Rubber Research Board (RRB) to
become a Department in its own right and its staff position was strengthened. Its responsibilities
were to include provision of advice to smallholders and estates on all aspects of rubber
husbandry, transmission of research findings, provision of technical advice to rubber processors,
inspection of replanting for registration permits and "subsidy" payments, distribution of
replanting inputs etc.
RCD was to relinquish to ASD its responsibilities for inspection of holdings,
authorization of "subsidy" payments and distribution of planting inputs. However, gradually, in
actual practice the functions relating to inspection of holdings meant for "subsidy"
administration came to be exercised by the Rubber Inspectors of the RCD, thus negating the
objective of forging a strong extension-farmer linkage for optimum results. Rubber extension
Officers (REOs) of the ASD felt themselves to be less acceptable to the smallholder rubber
growers.
50



Call the ASD into existence and giving it a distinctly separate identity, severing it from
the RRB and advocacy of reinforcing its manpower resources for extension, training and
advisory activities, generated undesirable trends, which had the ultimate effect of placing the
smallholder in a hapless quandary.
Authors of SRRP 2 were quick to detect and declare, on inefficiencies due to overlapped
functions of the RCD and ASD and wanted a Committee appointed by the Ministry of Plantation
Industries to study the respective roles of the RCD and ASD in respect of field activities. The
eventual outcome of the exercise was the amalgamation of the two organizations with effect
from 1st July 1994 to form the Rubber Development Department. Stiff resistance and much
lobbying at several levels were encountered over a prolonged period before a single organization
in the present form emerged. The Borrower has this to say about the creation of the ASD and
establishment of the RDD.
1.    Dissecting the extension functions from the RRB to form a new independent institution
under the name and style of the ASD in a way atrophied the research - extension linkage.
2.    Vehement insistence under SRRP II to "formalize the status of the ASD" and strengthen
it physically and institutionally by increasing the number of Extension Officers to 254 with
appropriate supporting facilities, which unfold an attempt to perpetuate its separate existence
meant ignoring the lessons drawn from the First Project.
3.    The ASD survived in such form for well over 12 years. which according to the staff
seemed to lend a basis to stake claims over and above their RCD counterparts. The friction
spilling over at times to acrimony was exacerbated by the fact that Field Officers of the RCD in
general claim to possess higher pre-entry qualifications than the ASD outfit. The oft-repeated
contention that Extension, Training and Advisory functions remain the exclusive preserve and
forte of ROE and that the II are not competent to perform such services is a grave misconception
generating unsalutory repercussions.
4.    The ill-effects of a separate identity which both Projects labored to foster brought about
irreconcilable differences in the terms and conditions of employment applicable to the staff and
internal relations in the two institutions.
5.    Even after three years following amalgamation, the clash of identities persist with
competing claims made for higher remuneration scales, more fringe benefits, promotions and
intense rivalry, which remain as the outcome of creating a separate entity, personified in the
ASD. It generated a host of problems for the Smallholder Rubber Sector with which the Ministry
and the Department are still grappling to resolve.
51



7.    Addressing the Real Problems of the Smallholders
That the Project focused heavily on "accelerating replanting of over-aged trees and
planting new areas," is evidenced in the fact that 82% of the IDA Credit support was meant for
field development activities. While expansion in the physical extent of planting would have
worked towards raising the production potential of rubber, taking the country as a whole, such a
scenario by itself could not have improved the lot of the smallholder without providing him with
the facilities and incentives that he really required. The great expectations for upgrading the
quality of the farmer's produce, thereby adding to the value and assuring him of an enhanced
income through propagating the GPC concept were not realized (as referred to elsewhere).
Besides, the emphasis placed by Project on stepping up "the efficiency of institutional
support available to smallholders" should have taken into account their requirements in a
pragmatic sense. In regard to a number of matters what the Project was determined to force feed
him, was not what he wanted to take in, which caused a dissipation of valuable resources and
efforts. The assumptions on which some proposals and activities were mounted and vigorously
pursued turned out to be glibly over-optimistic as illustrated below. "Family labor participation
is forthcoming and assured in both cultivation and processing and the increased income would
raise the standard of living of the household". In the Financing Plan a component of US$17.1
million was expected to be contributed by smallholders in the form of notional value of their
labor and this factor was to cause a sizable reduction in the COP thus guaranteeing attractive
producer margins. This thesis came to grips with the reality of a perennial acute scarcity of labor
in this industry, pushing the COP upwards through excessive rates of hired hands, which became
a serious disincentive to their continuing in the rubber industry.
Dearth of skilled tappers to work on lands of smallholders unsupported by family labor is
an issue that should be addressed so that the youth are encouraged to take to this vocation by
bringing about an attitudinal change in them. Giving them a uniform and if possible
concessionery credit facilities to buy a motor cycle should provide an attraction to lure them
away from urban based employment spawned by rapid industrialization.
In this context, the heavily-sponsored Project proposal of training rural youth to be
licensed private Rubber Planting Aides to undertake field tasks relating to contouring, marking
planting points and holing, did not find any significant appeal. Despite the offer of loans through
a Revolving Fund to purchase the basic equipment, the selectees dropped out rapidly. They did
not find the employment to be an attractive proposition as they could not secure a living income.
Fizzling out of this experiment once again should make us cautious not to misread real
constraints and expectations.
52



8.    Covenant No. 9 (A) in the Development Credit Agreement Relating to Extending
the Cess to Domestically used Rubber
The above Covenant which was required to be implemented by January 1996 was
rendered a conflicting issue by reason of the stance adopted by the IDA in response to what the
Borrower proposed as eminently rational modifications in the incremental quantum of such cess
and extending the deadline to the end of 1998.                                1
While the Borrower conceded in principle that domestic manufacturers of rubber too
should be called upon to subscribe to sustain the Rubber Replanting "Subsidy" Fund (RRSF) in a
healthy positive balance, it was indisputably shown that the financial reserves of the RRSF, the
projected inflow of funds and the prevailing rate of planting do not give any cause for alarm as
the Cash Flow till about the year 2002 was noted to be satisfactory.
Action taken by the Borrower to increase the Rubber Replanting Cess from Rs. 1.15 to
Rs. 3.85 per Kg. (235% like) as from 1995 and enhancing the Replanting and New Planting
"subsidy" rates by as much as 35% illustrate the positive measures taken on behalf of the RRSF
and its beneficiaries.
It must also be emphasized that in the context of an economic policy of promoting
domestic value addition pursued by the GOSL, when the Rubber industry in Sri Lanka has
entered a phase where a premium is placed on exporting rubber in value-added forms by
promoting downstream activities, generating increased export earnings and more employment
opportunities, it will be most inopportune and counter productive to impose a cess on
domestically-used rubber.
When the Project proposals were evolved almost a decade ago, and the deadline was
fixed as 1st January 1996 even economists with the most penetrating foresight could not have
forecasted the path of the Sri Lanka economy that is characterized by the present trends.
The Borrower is convinced that a dogmatic insistence on compliance with a covenant by
the IDA stood in the way of being granted an extension in the life of the Project, which would
have enabled the implementing agencies to meet the project targets as endorsed by the following
statement by Mr. Ridwan Ali in his letter of 15/8/1997.
"We recognize that the slippage which has occurred is almost entirely the result
of circumstances beyond the control of the implementing agencies and that they
are capable of meeting the Project targets with additional time".
53



APPENDIX D
SRI LANKA: SECOND SMALLHOLDER RUBBER PROJECT (Cr.1909 - CE)
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix D: Rubber Replanting Fund Cash-Flow Statement, 1995- 2002
Table 1. RUBBER REPLANTING FUND CASH-FLOW STATEMENT, 1995-2002
1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002
Annual exports  (000 tons)         68.24   72.59   68.00   68.00   60.00   62.50   62.60   62.75
Local consumption  (000 tons)      36.94   39.91   44.00   50.00   56.00   62.50   62.50   62.50
Total  (000 tons)                  105.18  112.5   112.00  118.00  115.00  125.0   125.10  125.25
Smallholder replanting   (ha)      17.78   1983    2400    2400    2400    2400    2400    2400
Smallholder new planting (ha)      651     1208    850     850     850     850     850      850
Total area replanted/ new planted  2429    3191    3250    3250    3250    3250    3250    3250
Cash inflow (Rs. million):
Cess collection 1/                 262.72  279.47  169.4   192.5   211.75  240.63  240.63  240.63
IDA receipts (SRRP II)             39.65   51.06   -       -       -       -        -       -
Sale of planting material          6.18    6.70    7.00    8.40    8.40    10.50   10.50   10.50
lIlvestments (Bank interest)      10.40   10.40   10.40   10.40   10.40   10.40   10.40   10.40
Treasury grant                    26.00   26.00   26.00   26.00   26.00   26.00   26.00   26.00
Total                  344.95  373.63  212.8   237.30  256.35  287.53  287.53  287.53
Cash Outflow (Rs. Million)
Payments for replanting 2/       77.32   77.71   96.96   94.55   99.92   103.21  109.26  112.4
Payments for new planting 2/     27.38   29.33   4.37    37.82   41.17   42.83   45.44   47.35
Nursery maintenance cost         7.30    6.30    11.55   11.00   10.00   10.00   10.00   10.00
RDD expenses                     55.00   56.50   58.28   61.29   64.25   67.46   70.83   74.37
Total                   167.00  169.34  207.16  204.56  215.34  223.50  235.53  244.12
Net Flow (Rs. million):
Opening balance                  187.90  365.85  570.14  575.78  608.52  649.73  713.76  765.76
Cash inflow                      344.95  373.63  212.80  237.30  256.5   287.53  287.53  287.53
Cash outflow                     167.00  169.34  207.16  204.56  215.34  223.50  235.35  244.12
Net Closing Balance               365.85  570.14  575.18  608.52  649.73  713.76  765.76  809,17
Source: Rubber Development Department
1/ Cess collection calculated @ Rs. 3.85/Kg.
2/ Replanting "subsidy" of Rs. 49,722/ha
3/ New planting "subsidy" of Rs. 48,165/ha
4/ Replanting rate, 3.5% over the previous year
54



IBRD 19987
-ai LANKA
-ECND-$mAkLLHOLDER-RUBBER.
s                                                        -S~~~~~~A
  REHAS IUITATIO PRJC
-    RUBER GfOWING DISTRICTS
- - - - 0- GALLE Rubt  ro
w~~~~~~tRA                    =u,lialX w2sytlv  Rb%&t c,@ :ises 
YV&,iv'~~~~~ Di o'stict Cap          '--"'-'
A .-Provtnoe CapItals  9'
< 5/ VavunlyaS  ,>         District foundries
> /> } 's; 87 F>~~~-   rovince Rundafles
ANURADHAPURA /"""           f    AcSjqrH
Polonnaruwa
t         ~~KURUNEGALA
G> KANDYmpaha.1    sKANY             *msra
;'-~~ Ai:-''D MPA HA            TRA
QMpaha                       U VA
OLM0 CCL O.,i          ,    ;,,s,2a)MBO r l>aj AtW4'
s) MADARA '., ,'"l-.-B,- ,,A
//Moneragala
/EMOtERA7GALA
SALLE/
~~         ,,.'   j        4atC'     I- -~~~~~tI  I   I
DECEMBER 1987



