Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1909 CE
        (Second Smallholder Rubber Rehabilitation Project)
                              between
            DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated July 13, 1988
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1909 CE
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated July 13,  1988, between DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST
REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
     WHEREAS the  Borrower,  having  satisfied  itself  as  to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
     Section 1.O1. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the  last  sentence  of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.O2.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Subsidy Act"  means  the  Borrower's  Rubber Replanting
Subsidy Act, No.  36  of  1953,  as  amended  to  the date of this
Agreement;
     (b)  "Replanting Fund"  means  the  Rubber Replanting Subsidy
Fund established under the Subsidy Act;
     (c)  "Control Act" means  the  Borrower's Rubber Control Act,
No. 11 of 1956, as amended to the date of this Agreement;
     (d)  "Project Coordination Unit"  means the Project Coordina-
tion Unit as  headed  by  the  Project  Coordinator referred to in
paragraph 5 (b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
     (e)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
     (f)  "Rupees"  and  "Rs"  means   Rupees  in  the  Borrower's
currency.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.O1. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to in the
Development Credit  Agreement,  an  amount  in  various currencies
equivalent   to   seventeen   million   Special   Drawing   Rights
(SDR 17,000,000).
     Section 2.O2. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be  made) in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to  this  Agreement  and  to  be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in its Central Bank
on terms and conditions  satisfactory to the Association. Deposits
into, and payments out of,  the  Special  Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.O3. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1997 or such
later date as  the  Association  shall  establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge  on  the  principal  amount  of  the  Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment  charge  shall  accrue:  (i)  from a date
sixty days after the date of  this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit  Account  or  cancelled; (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates  as  may  be  set  from  time  to time thereafter
Page  3
pursuant to paragraph (a) above.   The  rate  set as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied  as  of  the  next payment date in that
year specified in Section 2.06  of this Agreement, except that the
rate set as of June 30, 1988 shall be applied as of July 1, 1988.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association   shall   reasonably  request;  (ii)  without
restrictions of any kind imposed  by,  or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in  the  currency  specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section  4.02  of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency  or  currencies  as  may from time to
time be designated or selected  pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
     Section 2.O5. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semiannual installments  payable  on  each  May  1  and November 1
commencing  November  1,  1998  and   ending  May  1,  2028.  Each
installment to and  including  the  installment  payable on May 1,
2008 shall be one percent (1%)  of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
     (b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the  Executive  Directors  of  the  Association  and  after due
consideration  by  them  of  the  development  of  the  Borrower's
economy, modify  the  terms  of  repayment  of  installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring  the  Borrower to repay twice the
amount of each such  installment  not  yet due until the principal
amount of the Credit shall  have  been  repaid. If so requested by
the Borrower,  the  Association  may  revise  such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all  of the increase in the amounts of
such installments,  the  payment  of  interest  at  an annual rate
agreed with the Association on  the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the
judgment of the Association,  such  revision  shall not change the
grant  element  obtained   under   the  above-mentioned  repayment
modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.O8. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes  of  Section 4.O2 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.O1. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to  this  end,  shall  carry  out  or  cause to be
carried out the Project with  due  diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate financial, administrative and agricul-
tural practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
Page  4
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and  except  as  the  Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
     Section  3.O2.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed  by  the  provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.O1. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures in  respect  of  the  Project  of  the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible  for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
               paragraph (a) of  this  Section including those for
               the Special Account  for  each fiscal year audited,
               in accordance with  appropriate auditing principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association,  as soon as available,
               but in any case not  later than twelve months after
               the end of each such  year, a certified copy of the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in such  detail  as the Association shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said  records,  accounts  and  the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least  one year after the Associa-
               tion has received the audit  for the fiscal year in
               which the last  withdrawal  from the Credit Account
               was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures  and  internal  controls  involved  in  their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
Page  5
               related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified, namely,
that the Subsidy Act, the Control Act and any other legislation or
regulation of the Borrower governing  the rubber sector shall have
been amended,  suspended,  abrogated,  repealed,  waived, or shall
cease to be enforced, so as to materially and adversely affect the
Replanting Scheme, the Replanting Fund or the Project.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified, namely,
that any event specified in  Section  6.01 of this Agreement shall
occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01. The  following  events  are  specified as addi-
tional conditions to the  effectiveness  of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of  Section  12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
     (a)  the monitoring and  evaluation  committee referred to in
paragraph 6 of Schedule 4  to this Agreement, has been established
and is in operation; and
     (b)  the certification procedures referred  to in paragraph 7
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, are in force.
     Section 6.02. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.O4 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The Secretary, Ministry of Finance and Planning
of the Borrower is  designated  as  representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance and Planning
          Democratic Socialist Republic of
             Sri Lanka
          Colombo, Sri Lanka
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                SECMINFIN                       FINMIN 21409
                Colombo                         FORAID 21232
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 2O433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                INDEVAS                          44OO98 (ITT)
Page  6
                Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                          DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC
                             OF SRI LANKA
                          By /s/ Susantha de Alwis
                                         Authorized Representative
                          INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Replanting and           13,500,000         100% of local
     planting support                            expenditures
(2)  Civil works                 300,000         80%
(3)  Vehicles, equipment         800,000         100% of foreign
     and materials                               expenditures,
                                                 100% of local
                                                 expenditures
                                                 (ex-factory
                                                 cost) and 70%
                                                 of local ex-
                                                 penditures for
                                                 other items pro-
                                                 cured locally
(4)  Consultants'                700,000         100%
     services and
     training
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(5)  Incremental                 600,000         90% of local
Page  7
     operating                                   expenditures
     costs                                       until June 30,
                                                 1990, 70% of
                                                 local expen-
                                                 ditures until
                                                 June 30, 1992,
                                                 50% of local
                                                 expenditures
                                                 until June 30,
                                                 1994, and 30%
                                                 of local ex-
                                                 penditures
                                                 thereafter
(6)  Unallocated               1,100,000
                              __________
         TOTAL                17,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower;
     (c)  the  term  "incremental   operating   costs"  means  the
expenditures for incremental  staff  salaries and benefits, travel
allowances,  offices   expenses,   and   vehicle  maintenance  and
operation; and
     (d)  the dates in paragraph 1 (Category (5)) of this Schedule
refer to dates of receipt  by  the Association of applications for
withdrawals from the Credit Account.
3.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals  shall  be  made  in  respect  of  payments  made  for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are: (i) to improve smallholder
rubber production and quality;  (ii) enhance institutional support
to  rubber  smallholders;  and  (iii)  minimize  impact  of rubber
disease.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Field Development
1.   Replanting  with  clonal  rubber  on  smallholdings replacing
about 35,500 hectares of overaged rubber.
2.   New planting with clonal  rubber  on  about 3,200 hectares of
smallholdings.
3.   Provision of planting  material  and  technical assistance to
rubber smallholders.
4.   Implementation  of  a  program  to  minimize  the  impact  of
corynespora rubber disease.
Page  8
Part B:   Processing
     Establishment of 20  Latex  Collecting and Processing Centers
and upgrading of about 80 Group Processing Centers.
Part C:   Institutional Development
1.   Strengthening of the Rubber Control Department to effectively
provide planting material and  manage the Replanting Fund, through
improvements in equipment  and  provision  of technical assistance
and training.
2.   Strengthening  of   the   Advisory   Services  Department  to
effectively provide services to farmers, through staff recruitment
and training, and improvements in equipment and physical plant.
3.   Strengthening of the Rubber Research Institute to effectively
provide support to smallholders, through establishment of adaptive
research substations, and  improvements  in equipment and physical
plant.
4.   Support of the Project Coordination Unit.
5.   Support of a monitoring and evaluation committee.
                           *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1996.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part  C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded  in  accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections  I  and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   To the  extent  practicable,  contracts  for  goods  shall be
grouped in  bid  packages  estimated  to  cost  the  equivalent of
$50,000 or more each.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof,  goods manufactured in Sri Lanka may
be granted a margin of  preference in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs  2.55  and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Under Part A of  the  Project,  in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Association:
     (a)  Field work  may  be  carried  out  by smallholders using
family or hired labor; and
     (b)  Planting materials may be supplied by the Rubber Control
Department.
2.   Contracts for civil works  may  be awarded in accordance with
competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to the Association.
3.   Contracts for goods  grouped  in  packages  estimated to cost
less than the equivalent of $50,000, and up to an aggregate amount
not exceeding  the  equivalent  of  $500,000,  may  be  awarded in
Page  9
accordance with competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to the
Association.
4.   Miscellaneous  items  estimated   to   cost   less  than  the
equivalent of  $200  each,  and  up  to  an  aggregate  amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $50,000,  may be procured on the basis
of  comparison  of  quotations   solicited  from  at  least  three
suppliers  eligible  under  the  Guidelines,  in  accordance  with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect  to  each  contract  estimated  to cost the
equivalent of  $100,000  or  more,  the  procedures  set  forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of  Appendix  1  to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be  modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract  required  to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the  making  of  the first payment out of
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With respect to each  contract  not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth  in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to  be  furnished  to  the  Association  pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished  to  the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to  paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b)  shall  not  apply  to  contracts  on  account  of  which  the
Association has authorized withdrawals  from the Credit Account on
the basis of statements  of  expenditure.  Such contracts shall be
retained  in  accordance  with  Section  4.01  (c)  (ii)  of  this
Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.   Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the  Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the  Borrower  shall   employ  consultants  whose  qualifications,
experience  and  terms  and  conditions  of  employment  shall  be
satisfactory  to  the  Association.   Such  consultants  shall  be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Association on the basis  of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World  Bank  Borrowers  and  by  the  World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
1.   (a)  The  Borrower  shall,   by   December  31,  1988,  issue
directives satisfactory to the  Association, for the establishment
and operation of Latex Collection and Processing Centers and Group
Processing Centers.
     (b)  The directives shall  allow  the  establishment of a new
Latex Collection and Processing  Center  only after rubber growers
owning between them not less  than 100 acres of productive rubber,
pledge to join the Latex  Collection and Processing Centers and to
deliver their latex to it.
Page  10
     (c)  Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 (a)
of this Agreement,  the  Borrower  shall make budgetary allocation
for its fiscal year 1989 and for the following three fiscal years,
sufficient to  finance  the  annual  establishment  of  five Latex
Collection and Processing Centers  and  the annual upgrading of at
least 20 Group Processing Centers.
     (d)  The Borrower shall establish,  by  December 31, 1988, in
the Advisory  Services  Department,  a  fund  satisfactory  to the
Association to be financed  in  accordance  with the provisions of
sub-paragraph (c) above, for the provision to Latex Collection and
Processing Centers and Group Processing Centers of:
        (i)    loans for 50% of  the  cost of the establishment of
               Latex Collection and  Processing Centers or upgrad-
               ing  of  Group  Processing  Centers,  on  terms and
               conditions satisfactory  to  the  Association which
               shall include an annual  interest  rate of 10% with
               repayment periods  of  up  to  12  years, and which
               shall be periodically reviewed  by the Borrower and
               the Association; and
       (ii)    grants for 50% of the cost of such establishment or
               upgrading.
     Without limitation to the  provisions  of Section 3.01 (a) of
this Agreement,  the  Borrower  shall  make  budgetary allocations
sufficient to finance the fund.
2.   (a)  Planting  technical   assistance   satisfactory  to  the
Association shall be provided by Rubber Planting Aides selected in
accordance with criteria of  the Advisory Services Department. The
Borrower shall implement a program satisfactory to the Association
for the training of Rubber Planting Aide candidates.
     (b)  The  Borrower  shall  establish  in  the  Rubber Control
Department, and by December  31,  1988  fully finance, a revolving
fund satisfactory to  the  Association,  for  the provision of the
following:
        (i)    Loans  to   nurseries   for   the  establisment  of
               nurseries  and  for   the   provision  of  planting
               materials and  equipment  on  terms  and conditions
               satisfactory to the Association which shall include
               an annual rate of  interest of 12.5% with repayment
               periods of  up  to  5  years,  and  which  shall be
               periodically  reviewed  by  the  Borrower  and  the
               Association; and
       (ii)    Loans  to  Rubber   Planting  Aides  for  technical
               equipment on terms  and  conditions satisfactory to
               the Association which shall  include an annual rate
               of interest of 12.5%  with  repayment periods of up
               to 2 years and which shall be periodically reviewed
               by the Borrower and the Association.
3.   The Borrower  shall  extend  loans  to  the Advisory Services
Department field staff for  the  purchase  of motorcycles on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
4.   The Borrower shall complete:
     (a)  the  transfer  by  December  31,  1989  of  the  Nursery
Inspection Unit from the  Rubber  Research Institute to the Rubber
Control Department; and
     (b)  the recruitment by December  31, 1990 of qualified staff
in adequate numbers to field about 250 Rubber Extension Officers.
5.   The Borrower shall maintain:
     (a)  in  the  Rubber  Research  Institute  adaptive  research
Page  11
program, priority to  the  testing  of  clones  in accordance with
criteria satisfactory to the Association; and
     (b)  in the  full-time  position  of  Project  Coordinator, a
person whose qualifications and experience are satisfactory to the
Association.
6.   The Borrower shall  establish  and  maintain a monitoring and
evaluation committee  with  composition,  resources  and  terms of
reference satisfactory to the Association.
7.   The Borrower shall establish  and implement procedures satis-
factory to the  Association  for  the  certification of Replanting
Fund payments for planting and replanting of rubber.
8.   The Borrower shall,  in  accordance  with  terms of reference
satisfactory to the Association:
     (a)  by October 1, 1988 begin  a  study of the implication of
subsidized rubber processing equipment and machinery;
     (b)  by March 31, 1989 complete the study; and
     (c)  by September 30, 1989 commence the implementation of the
recommendations resulting from the study.
9.   The Borrower shall:
     (a)  by January  1,  1996  cause  the  rubber replanting cess
levied under the Subsidy Act,  to be extended to domestically used
rubber;
     (b)  gradually increase the  rate  of  such  cess  to a level
adequate to maintain the  Replanting  Fund  in a positive balance;
and
     (c)  ensure that rubber producer's  margins are not adversely
affected by said cess increases.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the  term  "eligible  Categories"  means  Categories (1)
through (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed  out  of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time  to  the eligible Categories in accor-
dance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the  term  "Authorized   Allocation"   means  an  amount
equivalent to SDR 575,000 to  be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited in the Special  Account  pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of the Special  Account  shall  be  made  exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account  has  been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and  subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Page  12
Borrower, withdraw from  the  Credit  Account  and  deposit in the
Special Account such amount or  amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
     (b)  The Borrower shall  furnish  to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special  Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify.  On  the  basis  of  such requests, the
Association shall withdraw  from  the  Credit  Account and deposit
into the Special  Account  such  amounts  as  shall be required to
replenish the  Special  Account  with  amounts  not  exceeding the
amount of payments made  out  of  the Special Account for eligible
expenditures.  All  such  deposits   shall  be  withdrawn  by  the
Association from the Credit  Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in  the  respective  equivalent  amounts, as shall
have been justified  by  the  evidence  supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to  or  at  the  time of such request, such
documents and other evidence  as  the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such  payment  was  made for eligible expen-
ditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Association  when  either  of the following situations
first arises:
          (i)  the  Association  shall  have  determined  that all
               further withdrawals should be  made by the Borrower
               directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
               the provisions of Article  V  of the General Condi-
               tions and paragraph  (a)  of  Section  2.02 of this
               Agreement; or
         (ii)  the  total   unwithdrawn   amount   of  the  Credit
               allocated to  the  eligible  Categories,  minus the
               amount  of   any   outstanding  special  commitment
               entered into by the Association pursuant to Section
               5.02 of the General  Conditions with respect to the
               Project, shall be equal  to the equivalent of twice
               the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account of the
remaining  unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Credit  allocated  to the
eligible  Categories   shall   follow   such   procedures  as  the
Association shall specify by notice  to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only  after  and  to the extent that the
Association  shall  have  been  satisfied  that  all  such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such
notice  will  be   utilized   in   making  payments  for  eligible
expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the  Special Account: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount  not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this  Schedule,  or  (ii)  was  not  justified  by the evidence
furnished to the  Association,  the  Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Association deposit  into the Special Account (or,
if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an
amount equal to the amount of  such payment or the portion thereof
not  so  eligible  or   justified.   No  further  deposit  by  the
Association into  the  Special  Account  shall  be  made until the
Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such  outstanding  amount  for crediting to the
Page  13
Credit Account.
