Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15819
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALI
ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
(CREDIT 2580-MLI)
June 25, 1996
Country Operations Division
Western Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       =     CFA franc (CFAF)
US$1.00            =      CFAF 591.7 (at appraisal on Jan. 31, 1994)
SDR 1.00           =      CFAF 816.9 (at appraisal on Jan. 31, 1994)
US$1.00            =      CFAF 485.3 (at closing on June 30, 1995)
SDR 1.00           =      CFAF 761.3 (at closing on June 30, 1995)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric                              US Eauivalent
I meter (m)            =            3.28 feet (ft)
I kilometer (km)                    0.62 miles (mi)
I square kilometer (km2)            0.39 square miles (sq. mi)
I metric ton (t)       =            2,205 pounds (lb)
1 kilogram (kg)        =            2.2046 pounds (lb)
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCEAO         Banque centrale des Etats de I 'Afrique de I 'Ouest (Central Bank of West African
States)
CFA           Communautefinanciere africaine (African Financial Community)
CFAF          CFA franc
CNMDT         Compagnie malienne de developpement des textiles (Malian Textile Development
Company)
COMANAV    Compagnie malienne de navigation (Malian Navigation Company)
COMATEX    Compagnie malienne des textiles (Malian Textile Company)
CPI           Consumer Price Index
EDM           Energie dii Mali (Mali Energy and Power Company)
ERC           Economic Recovery Credit
ESAF          Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
GDP           Gross Domestic Product
GHB           Grand H6tel de Bamako (Bamako Grand Hotel)
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
IDA           International Development Association
IMF           International Monetary Fund
OPAM          Offices des produits agricoles dii Mali (Mali Agriculture Products Office)
OTER          Operation des travaux d equipement rural (Rural Equipment Works Operation)
PFP           Policy Framework Paper
SUKALA        Complexe sucrier dii Kala Superieur (Upper Kala sugar complex)
ULB           Union laitiere de Bamako (Bamako Dairy Union)
UMOA          Union monetaire ouest africaine (West African Monetary Union)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction ..........................i
Program Objectives ...........................                                                    l
Implementation Experience and Results ..........................1. ,,
Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned ...............................                       iii
PART I - PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
I.  Program Identity .......................                                        ....                .I
II.  Background .......................................,,.,,,.,.1
III.  Statement and Evaluation of Program  Objectives                  ......................................3
IV.   Achievement of Program  Objectives .....................................4
A. Providing Emergency Financial Assistance .......................................4
B. Supporting the Government's Reform Program ....................................               4
C. Policy Dialogue with the Government ....................................,,.,,.,.7
V.   Major Factors Affecting the Program .................................... , . , . , .7
VI.  Program  Sustainability ........................................        ....      ,        .       8
VII. Bank Performance .........................,.8
VIII. Borrower Performance ............................ ...........8
IX.  Assessment of Outcome ..................................          ,,.9
X. Future Operations .....9
XI, Key Lessons Learned ......................9
PART II - STATISTICAL ANNEXFS
Table 1: Summary of Assessments                     ...........................          ,     .. 11
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits....,,.,,,.,,.,.,,,.,.,.,.12
Table 3: Program  Timetable                   .......................... 12
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual                        . .    12
Table 5: Up-front Conditionalities and Key Indicators for Program
Implementation .......... ..... ...,,..,,..,...13
Table 6: Status of Legal Covenants                   .......................... 14
Table 7: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ..........                 ................ 14
Table 8: Bank Resources: Missions                    .......................... 14
APPENDICES
A - Borrower Contribution to the ICR
B - Map of Mali
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of their officlal
duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALI
ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
(CREDIT 2580-MLI)
PREFACE
1.   This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Economic Recovery Credit
(ERC) to Mali. The Credit 2580-MLI in the amount of SDR18.2 million (US$25 million
equivalent) was approved on March 17, 1994 and made effective on May 5, 1994. The Credit
was fully disbursed in one single tranche on June 7, 1994 and closed on June 30, 1995, as
scheduled. The reform program under the ERC was supported by a second annual arrangement
under the Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF) from the IMF for SDR 29.46 million,
approved on March 16, 1994.
2.   The ICR was prepared by Nanasamudd Chhim of the Country Operations Division of the
Western Africa Department (AF5CO), and reviewed by Victoria Kwakwa, Senior Economist and
Country Team Leader, and Birger Fredriksen, Acting Director (AF5). Preparation of the ICR
began in December 1995. It is based on documentation in the project files, including the
President's Report, Government's Letter of Development Policy, the Development Credit
Agreement, supervision report, audit report, and internal IDA memoranda. The borrower's
evaluation of the operation is attached.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALI
ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
(CREDIT 2580-MLI)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.   Since 1988, the Government of Mali has implemented a wide range of economic policy
reforms under its structural adjustment program, supported by IDA through two adjustment
credits (Education Sector Adjustment Credit and Structural Adjustment Credit) and two hybrid
adjustment/investment credits (Education Sector Consolidation Credit and Agricultural Sector
Adjustment/Investment Credit).  The program was also supported by the IMF through an
Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF). Until end-1993, the Government continued to
strengthen its reform measures as described in three Policy Framework Papers (PFP), prepared
with Bank and IMF assistance.
2.   The structural adjustment measures taken until the end of 1993 were based on a strategy of
internal adjustment designed to improve competitiveness by reducing domestic cost structure and
prices through strict fiscal and monetary policies. Despite good progress in implementing these
reforms, reliance on these internal adjustment policies failed to increase the competitiveness of the
economy.  The strengthening of the French franc against the zone's trading partners and
competitors made it increasingly difficult to restore competitiveness by a deflationary policy alone.
By end-1993, the real exchange rate was overvalued by as much as 30 percent in domestic
currency terms. To improve the competitiveness of the economy, the fixed parity of the CFA
franc was changed from 50 to 100 CFAF per French franc, effective January 12, 1994 - a major
policy change.
Program Objectives
3.   The ERC was designed to provide emergency support to the post-devaluation reform
program, supported by the second year PFP (1994-96) and a second-year arrangement under the
IMF's ESAF. The most pressing objectives of the ERC for 1994 were to contain the adverse
impacts of the devaluation, while continuing and strengthening ongoing and structural reforms to
ensure improved competitiveness and an economic environment conducive to private sector-led
growth.



ii
4.   The objectives of the program were clearly defined and consistent with the Government's
economic policy and with the Bank's strategy of promoting sustainable economic growth and
alleviating poverty. The program's scope and timing were realistic, appropriate and responsive to
the country's circumstances and priorities.
Implementation Experience and Results
5.   Achievement of Objectives.  Overall achievement of program objectives is rated as
substantial. The ERC was successful in achieving the three specific objectives set out in the
President's Report.
6.   Provision of Emergency Financial Assistance. This most pressing objective was achieved
through the swift availability of funds, as the ERC was fully disbursed in a single tranche on June
7, 1994 after a significant program of up-front conditionalities were met. This quick disbursement
was facilitated by allowing retroactive financing for expenditures incurred about nine months prior
to credit effectiveness (in lieu of the normal four months set forth in the OD 12. 10 Guidelines).
7.   Supporting the Government's Reform Program. The reform program for 1994, which
covered public finance, monetary policy, tariff and taxation policy, price policy, agricultural
policy, public enterprise reform, and accompanying social safety net measures was successfully
implemented. These measures ensured that the positive effects of the devaluation were not
eroded by inflationary fiscal or monetary policy. The appreciation in CFA franc values of
agricultural exports was passed on to the producers to encourage a strong supply response, and
the short-term negative impact of the devaluation on the poorest social classes was eased through
appropriate social interventions.
8.   Continuing Policy Dialogue with the Government. The Bank continued to have excellent
policy dialogue with the Government on the reform agenda as described in three successive PFPs
prepared since the devaluation (the last one was prepared in March 1996). Together with the
IMF, the Bank monitored progress made and discussed with the Government any remedial actions
or other policy measures to be implemented. The policy dialogue was further reinforced through
continuation of other long-term lending operations since 1994.
9.   Major Factors Affecting  the Program.   Factors that affected  positively the
implementation of the program included: (i) strong commitment of the Government and its open
dialogue with the Bank; (ii) the Government's clear vision of the objectives of the reform program
and its willingness to adopt appropriate means to achieve the objectives; (iii) an effective mass
media campaign to inform and educate the public about the merits and consequences of the
devaluation and the accompanying policy reforms; (iv) effective utilization of available funds from
other donors which helped design and implement economic reforms; (v) timely response from the
Bank and other donors in providing the much needed financial assistance to support the reform
program in the aftermath of the devaluation, and (vi) increases in world prices for cotton, gold
and livestock, which helped boost export receipts and government revenue. On the negative side,
student unrest in February 1994 threatened to disrupt the financial program, but Government
refused to give in to pressure from students and vigorously pursued its reform agenda.



iii
10.  Performance of the Bank and the Borrower.  The Bank's performance during
identification, preparation and appraisal of the program was satisfactory, with good consultation
on the design of the reform agenda. Supervision was effectively carried out during a joint Bank-
Fund mission.  Overall, Government's performance was satisfactory.  Commitment to the
program was strong. Program objectives were internalized and reform measures were well
prepared. The Borrower has complied with the Bank's legal covenants, except for the late
preparation of the audit report.
11. Program Outcome and Sustainability. The outcome of the ERC is rated as highly
satisfactory. The reforms implemented under the program helped increase the competitiveness of
the economy through an improved supply response and a pickup in general economic activity, one
year after the devaluation.  Structural measures already implemented helped introduce an
appropriate economic environment for private sector-led growth and strengthened the economy's
ability to cope with exogenous shocks. Given the Government's continuing commitment to
reforms, the ERC outcome is expected to be sustainable as it is accompanied with other long-term
lending instruments designed to deepen further the economic policy reforms.
Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
12. Subsequent to the ERC, an Education Sector Adjustment Credit (US$50 million) was
approved in January 1995. An Economic Management Credit (US$60 million) is planned for
FY96 and aims at strengthening fiscal management through greater reliance on expansion of
revenue and closer coherence with long-term social development objectives. An Institutional
Development Project (US$8 million) to improve capacity building and public administration, and
an Agricultural Services Project (US$50 million) to increase the supply response and improve
efficiency in the agriculture sector are planned for FY97 and FY98, respectively.
13. The following lessons may be drawn from this operation: (i) Strong and sustained
Government commitment is a sine qua non for success in the design and implementation of an
emergency financing program. Adjustment success also requires dynamic leadership and full
ownership of the program by the Government, as well as consensus-building with civil society;
(ii) Up-front conditionalities and a single tranche disbursement are deemed appropriate for a
short-term financing operation of this nature.  They ensure that reform measures are fully
implemented as planned before the credit proceeds can be effectively used; and (iii) Special
arrangements for retroactive financing help keep the reforms on track and facilitate quick
disbursement of credit proceeds.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALI
ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
(CREDIT 2580-MLI)
PART I - PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
I. PROGRAM IDENTITY
Program Name:             Economic Recovery Credit (ERC)
Credit Number:            Credit 2580-MLI
Amount:                   SDR 18.2 million (US$25 million equivalent)
Borrower:                 Republic of Mali
Sector:                   Economic Management (quick-disbursing credit)
Date Approved:            March 17, 1994
Date Signed:              March 18, 1994
Date Effective:           May 5, 1994
Date Closed:              June 30, 1995
II. BACKGROUND
1.   Pre-1994 Adjustment Strategy. Since 1988, the Government of Mali has implemented a
wide range of economic policy reforms under its structural adjustment program, supported by a
Public Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit, approved in May 1988, an Education Sector
Consolidation Credit, approved in June 1989, an Agriculture Sector Adjustment/Investment
Credit, approved in July 1990, a Structural Adjustment Credit (SAL I), approved in December
1990, and an Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF) from the IMF. Macroeconomic
policies have emphasized: (i) restoring macroeconomic equilibria through greater fiscal and
monetary discipline; (ii) improving efficiency in public sector resource allocation and use through
containment of the public sector wage bill and restructuring expenditures in favor of social
sectors; and (iii) improving incentives for private sector development through trade, tax and
regulatory reform, public enterprise sector reform, and the liberalization of domestic trade and
prices. Sectoral reforms focused on: (i) improving the efficiency and competitiveness of the
cotton sector through institutional, pricing and taxation reforms; (ii) ensuring adequate supply and
efficient distribution of cereals through liberalization of the cereals market; (iii) improving access
to basic health services through greater community participation in the management and financing
of primary health care service delivery; and (iv) raising primary enrollment ratios while developing



2
education in line with labor market trends through the introduction of efficiency measures such as
restructuring education sector expenditures in favor of primary education, double shift teaching in
primary schools, and better control of new entrants into post-primary institutions. The underlying
objective of these reforms was to lay the foundation for the sustained longer term growth needed
to help raise standards of living and alleviate poverty.
2.   Until the end of 1993, the structural adjustment program was combined with a strategy of
internal adjustment designed to improve competitiveness by reducing domestic cost structure and
prices through strict fiscal and monetary policies. Overall, the reforms allowed greater play of
market forces in the determination of economic outcomes and the removal of some bottlenecks to
private sector participation in economic activity. The impact of these reforms was evidenced by
some improvement in economic performance over the adjustment period. Inflation remained low
at below 3 percent per annum on average. The overall fiscal deficit declined from 12.1 percent of
GDP in 1991 to 9.6 percent in 1993. Despite declining terms of trade due largely to falling world
market prices of cotton, the external current account deficit, excluding official transfers, improved
from 14.8 percent of GDP in 1991 to 12.9 percent in 1993.
3. Limits of Internal Adjustment Strategy. Despite good progress in implementing these
reforms, the reliance on internal adjustment strategy alone failed to increase the competitiveness
of the economy. The strengthening of the French franc against the zone's trading partners and
competitors made it increasingly difficult to restore competitiveness by a deflationary policy alone,
Industries such as textiles, matches and cigarettes, which flourished in the past, lost their
competitive edge and found it increasingly hard to compete with imports. Mali's already fragile
industrial base was thus weakened further, putting the sector into a slump. In agriculture, despite
cost efficiency gains, Malian cotton production was unable to cover its operating costs, and rice
and livestock production remained below their full potential. Not much progress was made in
expanding the revenue base, which continued to depend heavily on external trade. Savings and
investment performance did not improve significantly. Growth performance continued to be
much influenced by the vagaries of weather conditions and showed wide fluctuations from year to
year. Average GDP growth was only about 1.7 percent per year during 1991-93, significantly
below the population growth rate of 3 percent.
4. Devaluation of the CFA franc. By end-1993, the real exchange rate was overvalued by as
much as 30% in domestic currency terms. After close consultation with other member countries
of the CFA zone, the Government of Mali decided to strengthen its adjustment strategy. Effective
January 12, 1994 the fixed parity of the CFA franc was changed from 50 to 100 CFAF per French
franc. This historic decision represented a major step to launch a broad development agenda
aimed at accelerating growth. The nominal devaluation of the CFA franc was part of a
comprehensive program designed to deepen development and poverty alleviation efforts. It
formed the center piece of Mali's macroeconomic framework for the 1994-96 period.
m. STATEMENT AND EVALUATION OF PROGRAM OBJECTIVES
5. Program Objectives. The ERC was designed to provide emergency support to the post-
devaluation reform program as described in the Government's Statement of Economic and Social
Policy dated February 26, 1994, supported by the Fourth-Year Policy Framework Paper (1994-



3
96) and a second-year arrangement under the IMF's ESAF. The most pressing objectives of the
ERC for 1994 were to contain the adverse impacts of the devaluation, while continuing and
strengthening ongoing sectoral and structural reforms to ensure improved competitiveness and an
economic environment conducive to private sector growth. As stated in para. 30 of the ERC
President's Report, the main objectives of the Credit were to:
(i) provide the necessary financial assistance during the transition period following the
devaluation;
(ii) support the Government's reform program, and
(iii) continue the policy dialogue between the Government and IDA.
6.   Evaluation of Objectives.  The objectives of the program  were clearly defined and
consistent with the Government's economic policy outlined in the fourth PFP and with the Bank's
strategy of promoting sustainable private sector-led growth. Based on the severe constraints
facing Mali at the time, the program's scope and timing were realistic and appropriate. It was
built on Mali's past experience and the Government's record of commitment in implementing
structural reforms. The main benefit of the ERC was clearly and correctly identified: it aimed to
help the Government meet short-term financing requirements in its effort to implement policy
changes to ensure significant real depreciation and improved competitiveness of the economy, and
in particular to address the social dimensions of its adjustment program for 1994.
7.   Risks and Design of the Program. The major risks identified during appraisal were
realistic. These were the short-term costs of the devaluation, particularly loss of employment,
high inflation, and decrease in urban standard of living. These potential costs could put the
Government in difficulty with opposition parties and various interest groups such as students and
labor unions. To dampen the potential impact of these risks, Government put in place social
safety net measures over a three-year period (1994-96) through exceptional budgetary provisions
of CFAF 13 billion for 1994 and CFAF 10 billion each for 1995 and 1996. Also, important
remedial measures (reduction in tax and tariff rates to limit price impact) were put in place to help
address these risks. Furthermore, Government mounted an effective public information campaign
to explain the rationale and implications of the devaluation and the accompanying economic
reforms. To keep the program on track and to allow quick access to the ERC proceeds, the Bank
permitted retroactive financing for those expenditures incurred on or after August 2, 1993, about
nine months prior to credit effectiveness (in lieu of the normal four months set forth in the
OD12.10 Guidelines). The program was designed as heavily front-loaded so that critical reforms
would be implemented prior to Board approval: the Credit was disbursed in one single tranche
after all the up-front conditionalities were fully met. This swift availability of funds was justified
by the very nature of the operation (emergency credit) and the need to capitalize on the
momentum created by the devaluation.
IV. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROGRAM OBJECTIVES
8.   The ERC was successful in achieving the objectives set out at appraisal. The overall
achievement of the program objectives is rated as substantial. The main reason for success was
the strong ownership of reform agenda and sustained commitment by the Malian Government to
strengthen its policy reforms and its open dialogue with the Bank.



4
A. Providing Emergency Financial Assistance
9.   The Credit has achieved its most pressing objective in helping the Government stabilize the
economy through meeting its short-term financing requirements. This was made possible through
the swift availability of funds, as the ERC was fully disbursed in one single tranche on June 7,
1994, after all up-front conditionalities were fully met. Credit proceeds were used to finance 100
percent of the foreign exchange cost of eligible general imports. Contracts valued less than
US$2,500 were not eligible for financing under this Credit. However, on an exceptional basis, to
allow for timely disbursements, no limitation was placed on petrol and food imports, and
retroactive financing was permitted for expenditures incurred about nine months prior to credit
effectiveness. The ERC represented about 14.2 percent of overall budgetary support received in
1994. Total IDA adjustment lending accounted for about 27.4 percent, while the remaining
support came from IMF (23.7 percent) and other donors (48.9 percent).
B. Supporting the Government's Reform Program
10. The second objective of the ERC was fully achieved. The reform program in 1994 was
successfully implemented on the basis of an extensive list of 14 up-front conditionalities which
were implemented as conditions of credit approval (Table 5 of Part :[I). The Government was
strongly committed to its reform program as those up-front policies, once taken, were not
reversed and the financial program remained on track.
11. The Statement of Economic and Social Policy dated February 26, 1994, outlined the
Government's commitment to deepen its policy reforms in 1994 in seven areas covering public
finance, monetary policy, tariff and taxation policy, price policy, agricultural policy, public
enterprise reform, and accompanying social measures. These measures aimed at ensuring that:
(i) the positive effects of the devaluation were not eroded by inflationary fiscal or monetary
policy; (ii) the appreciation in CFA franc values of agricultural exports were passed on to the
producers to encourage a strong supply response, and (iii) the short-term negative impact of the
devaluation on the poorest social classes was eased through appropriate social interventions.
Overall, stabilization reforms were much more rapid than the structural reforms. This was normal
given the clear need to focus more on the immediate to short-term inflationary impact of the
devaluation.  Structural reforms, on the other hand, normally required the development of
complex legislation and consensus building, all of which were more time consuming than many of
the macroeconomic decisions required to carry out the stabilization part of the program.
B.1. Macroeconomic Performance
12. Agenda. In 1994, key macroeconomic aggregates (inflation, fiscal balance, external current
account balance) were expected to dip from their pre-devaluation levels, but to make strong
recovery from 1995 onwards, assuming rigorous implementation of policy reform measures. The
main macroeconomic targets for 1994 were: real GDP growth of 2.4 percent, inflation of 35.1
percent as measured by the GDP deflator, and 40.1 percent as measured by the average consumer
price index; fiscal deficit, excluding grants, limited to 15.1 percent of GDP, external current



5
account deficit, excluding official transfers, contained at 20.4 percent of GDP; and real exchange
rate depreciation of at least 30 percent.
13.  Results.   The  1994 program  was effectively  implemented  and the macroeconomic
objectives were achieved and in some instances exceeded. The economy responded positively to
the improvement in competitiveness that followed the devaluation as the real effective exchange
rate based on relative consumer prices, depreciated by about 38.8 percent. Inflation, as measured
by the GDP deflator, was contained at 33.2 percent, and the average increase in the consumer
price index for Bamako was limited to 24.8 percent, both below the program targets, thus limiting
erosion in real incomes. Real GDP increased by 2.3 percent, reflecting an acceleration of growth
in agriculture and a pickup in economic activity in the private sector in the second half of the year
as a number of enterprises, particularly in the textile and agro-industrial sectors, resumed
operations. Domestic savings was higher than projected owing to a better than expected fiscal
performance.
Table 1: Key Macroeconomic Indicators
___________________________  1990  1991    1992     1993        1994             1995
actual   actual   actual   actual   prog.   actual   prog.   actual
Real GDP groNvth rate(%)       0.4    -0.9      8.4    -2.4      2.4     2.3      5.1     6.0
GDP deflator grovth rate (%/6)  2.7     2.1     1.9      2.6    35.1    33.2      8.0    12.7
Average CPI growth rate (%)    0.6      1.8    -6.3    -0.6    40.1    24.8       8.0    12.4
Investment/GDP (%)            22.4    22.8    21.9    21.9    26.9    26.5    26.0    26.0
Domestic savings/GDP (%)       6.2      6.4     4.4      6.5     3.9     6.6      9.1      8.8
Overall fiscal balance, excl.  -8.5   -12.1   -11.0    -9.6   -15.1   -13.7   -12.4   -10.5
grants (in % of GDP)
Current account, excl. official    -13.8   -14.8   -16.3   -12.9   -20.4   -18.2   -14.5   -15.2
transfers (in % of GDP)
Sources: PFP IV, February 8, 1994: and PFP VI, March 27, 1996.
14.  In the fiscal area, Government implemented measures aimed at increasing revenue and
limiting spending. Customs duties and certain domestic taxes were reduced in order to moderate
cost and price increases and to lower external protection. The overall budget deficit, on a
commitment basis and excluding grants, was contained at 13.7 percent of GDP in 1994, lower
than the programmed 15.1 percent. Total receipts were slightly higher than the projected level, as
a shortfall in customs receipts was offset by higher receipts from the cotton sector, better
domestic tax yields and higher proceeds from privatization. On the expenditure side, total outlays
were kept below the projected level (27.2 percent of GDP as compared to the programmed 28.2
percent). Government pursued a restrained wage policy, limiting wage increases to 10 percent,
effective April 1, 1994, in line with the program undertakings. As a result, the wage bill remained
within the program ceiling of CFAF 45 billion. Increased budgetary allocations were made for
essential services, especially education and health, and non-priority outlays were strictly limited.
Appropriations for social safety net measures (CFAF 13 billion in 1994) were fully utilized. These
included expenditures on health (particularly temporary subsidies for essential generic drugs) and



6
education (primary school textbooks and educational materials), and financing of arrears on public
sector salaries. All external payment arrears were eliminated by end-1994 as planned, and
domestic arrears were reduced by CFAF 9.9 billion, slightly higher than the projected CFAF 8.6
billion.
15. As regards the external sector, with the real effective exchange rate depreciating by close to
39 percent and the competitiveness of the economy much improved, there was an increase in
exports and a restructuring of private consumption in favor of local products, all of which resulted
in a lower volume of imports, and significant capital reflows. There was, in particular, a strong
increase in the volume of cattle exports to neighboring countries; exports of fruits and vegetables
also increased while the volume of cotton exports was equivalent to the projected level; exports
of gold were, however, lower than projected due to delays caused by technical difficulties
encountered in the expansion of the Syama mine. Overall, these developments resulted in a lower
external current account deficit, excluding official transfers, which --at 18.2 percent of GDP-- was
more than one percentage point lower than the programmed 20.4 percent.
16. In the monetary area, the Central Bank (BCEAO) raised the discount rate from 10.5 percent
to 14.5 percent on January 18, 1994, in an effort to reduce the inflationary impact of the
devaluation. Subsequently, as inflation in the region subsided, the discount rate was reduced in
four steps to 9 percent on January 23, 1995. Money supply increased by 39 percent in 1994,
faster than programmed, reflecting the return of confidence and a strong recovery of money
demand. The increases in net credit to the Government and to the economy remained within the
applicable ceilings, and there was a pronounced improvement in the net foreign assets position of
the banking system. After an initially sluggish expansion of bank credit to the economy, due to
weak demand and a cautious lending stance by commercial banks, private sector credit rose
moderately during the last months of 1994, reflecting the pickup in activity.
B.2. Structural Reforms
17. Agenda Structural reforms aimed at making full use of the new competitive position of the
Malian economy through: (i) the implementation of flexible pricing policies; (ii) the strengthening
of reforms in the agricultural sector, particularly to ensure that the increase in CFA franc values of
agricultural exports were passed on to the producers, and (iii) the acceleration of public enterprise
reform.
18.  Results. The overall implementation of the reform measures was satisfactory. As regards
pricing policy, tariffs for water, electricity and telecommunications were raised by 10-20 percent
in January 1994. Taxation on petroleum products were reduced such that price increases were
limited to less than 30 percent. All other prices remained market-determined, with the exception
of the producer prices for cotton, which were determined annually and automatically on the basis
of export price developments, within the framework of the June 1994 performance contract
involving the Government, the Compagnie malienne de developpement des textiles (CMDT), and
cotton producers.
19.  In the agricultural sector, the competitiveness of Malian cotton on the international market
was enhanced by reducing unit costs of production and by providing incentives for improving



7
quality, strengthening sector management, and ensuring that structural and long-term changes in
world market prices are passed on to the sector. The performance contract with CMDT provided
for an increase in the producer floor price of first quality cotton from CFAF 85/kg to CFAF
125/kg for the 1994/95 crop year and included a mechanism for raising the producers' share in
profits in the cotton sector from 25 percent to 35 percent. The restructuring of the traditional
cereals sector was also reinforced with a performance contract with the Office des produits
agricoles dii Mali (OPAM) for the period 1994-96 which called for a further gradual reduction of
OPAM activities and costs in managing the food security stocks and the distribution of food aid in
deficit areas. In the rice sector, a new Office dii Niger was created in March 1994 and its
activities focused on responsibility for water management, improvement in yields, and the
maintenance of related infrastructure.
20. As regards public enterprise reforms, a new Privatization Law was approved in August
1994, providing a legal framework for accelerating the public enterprise reform program.
Liabilities from privatized or liquidated public enterprises were settled during 1994 through the
issuance of Treasury notes. Successfully completed restructuring operations included: (i) the
transformation of the Upper Kala sugar complex (SUKALA) into a mixed capital company;
(ii) the leasing of the Sikasso Tea Operation to a foreign company for a 10-year period; (iii) the
completion of the restructuring of five rural development operations; (iv) the privatization of the
Compagnie malienne des textiles (COMATEX), the UJnion laitikre de Bamako (ULB), the
Operation travaux d 'equipement riural (OTER), and the Kalana gold mine; and (v) the sale of the
shipyards and the barrel factory of the Compagniie malienne de navigation (COMANAV), and
that of the Grand H6tel cle Bamako (GHB). To improve the management in the energy sector, a
contract temporarily entrusting management of Energie dii Mali (EDM) to a private consortium
for four to five years was signed in January 1995.
C. Policy Dialogue with the Government
21. The third objective of the ERC was fully achieved as the Bank continued to have excellent
policy dialogue with the Government on further deepening the reform agenda as described in the
three successive Policy Framework Papers prepared since the devaluation (the last one was done
in March 1996). Together with the IMNF, the Bank monitored progress made and discussed with
the Government on remedial actions and other policy measures to be implemented. Also, policy
dialogue was further reinforced through continuation of other long-term lending operations since
1994.
V. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROGRAM
22.  The following factors, subject to Government control, positively affected the program
implementation: (i) strong commitment of the Government and its open dialogue with the Bank-;
(ii) the Government's clear vision of the objectives of the economic reform program and its
willingness to adopt the appropriate means to achieve the objectives; (iii) an effective mass media
campaign to inform and educate the public about the merits and consequences of the devaluation
and the accompanying policy reforms; and (iv) effective utilization of available funds from other
donors which were used to help design and implement economic reforms. Exogenous factors,



8
which helped in achieving the program objectives, included the timely response from the Bank and
other donors in providing the much needed financial assistance to support the economic reform
program in the aftermath of the parity change, and the Bank's readiness to continue to support the
Government's reform agenda. Furthermore, a 38 percent increase in world prices for cotton
(from US$1.28/kg in 1993 to US$1.76/kg in 1994), combined with increases in export prices for
gold and livestock, helped boost export receipts and government revenue. On the negative side,
student unrest in February 1994 threatened to disrupt the financial program, but Government
refused to give in to pressure from students and vigorously pursued its reform agenda.
VI. PROGRAM SUSTAINABILITY
23.  The achievements of the ERC are sustainable provided the Government remains fully
committed to deepening its reform agenda. The macroeconomic and structural reforms already
implemented are sustainable because they are based on legally adopted regulations. However,
reforms and administrative improvements initiated within a broader macroeconomic framework
policy but not completed (e.g., improvements of government revenue through strengthening of
Customs Administration to reduce fraud) are sustainable only if the Government successfully
completes these reforms.
VII. BANK PERFORMANCE
24.  Overall, Bank performance in identification, preparation, appraisal and supervision of the
program was satisfactory. As part of a contingency plan for the CFA franc zone in the aftermath
of the devaluation, the Bank quickly mobilized resources to assist the Malian Government,
moving from discussions on the ERC in January 1994 to Board approval in March 1994. The
Credit was fully disbursed in a single tranche in June 1994. Bank supervision took place during a
joint Bank-Fund mission in June 1994 which monitored progress and discussed its findings with
the Government. Given the Government's strong commitment to reform and the excellent policy
dialogue with the Bank, this discussion and associated dialogue helped the Malian authorities in
sustaining and focusing their efforts. In retrospect, the Bank's response was timely and effective
given the urgent nature of the operation.
VIII. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
25.  The Ministry of Finance and Commerce was responsible for coordinating and implementing
the program.  Overall, the Government performance was satisfactory.  The borrower has
complied with the Bank's legal covenants, except for the late preparation of the audit (received in
March 1996 instead of the original due date of April 30, 1995). It has engaged in an open and
healthy dialogue with the Bank and the IMF on the preparation and implementation of the reform
program. It launched an effective media campaign to inform and educate the public about the
merits and consequences of the devaluation and the accompanying policy reforms. It forged
ahead with the reform and was able to gain labor union adherence to the program and take the
firm steps needed to quell student resistance. Government took strong measures to improve
revenue mobilization and engaged itself fully in the preparation of a follow-up operation,
Education Sector Adjustment Credit, approved in January 1995.



9
IX. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
26. Program outcome is rated as highly satisfactory. Since the historic parity change of the
CFA franc, adherence to the reform program --supported by the ERC-- has contributed to a real
depreciation of the exchange rate in 1994 of about 38.8 percent in domestic currency terms and
an improvement in the competitiveness of the Malian economy; the diversification of exports has
been facilitated through better supply response and an improvement in general economic activity.
A strong rebound in exports, especially livestock, gold, fruits and vegetables, was observed one
year after the devaluation. The financial viability of the cotton sector has been restored, allowing
the expansion of ginning infrastructure needed to raise production levels, while favorable
international prices have further improved the outlook for producers. Rice production has
become competitive in the domestic and regional markets as expected. Industrial production has
also benefited from the ERC as there was an upsurge of activity in industries such as textiles,
agro-processing, and construction. The positive supply response, as evidenced by the buoyancy
of the economy and improved GDP growth, is evidence of achievements so far and, with strong
and sustained commitment to the adjustment efforts, augurs well for the country's future.
X. FUTURE OPERATIONS
27.  The ERC was designed as a short-term balance of payment assistance and represented an
exceptional response to a historic decision.  The subsequent adjustment operation was an
Education Sector Adjustment Credit (US$50 million) approved in January 1995. An Economic
Management Credit (US$60 million) is planned for FY96 and aims at strengthening fiscal
management through greater reliance on expansion of revenue and closer coherence with long-
term social development objectives. An Institutional Development Project (US$8 million) to
improve the capacity building and public administration in Mali, and an Agricultural Services
Project (US$50 million) to increase the supply response and improve the efficiency in the
agriculture sector, are planned for FY97 and FY98, respectively.
XI. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
28.  Overall, IDA's experience with the ERC has been positive. The following observations
emerge from the ERC's implementation record and outcome:
(i) Strong Government Commitment. A sine qua non for success in the design and
implementation of an emergency financing program is strong and sustained Government
commitment to the policy reform package, as well as dynamic leadership and full ownership of the
program by the Government. The design of the adjustment measures must be accompanied by
consensus-building efforts by the Government with civil society (private sector, government
officials and civil servants, labor unions, students) so that actions can proceed rapidly and
smoothly in the areas where structural reforms are required.
(ii) Up-front Conditionalities and Single Tranche Disbursement. As a short-term financing
instrument, the ERC was well designed to respond on time to the immediate constraints faced by
Mali after the devaluation.  The use of up-front conditionalities and one single tranche



10
disbursement was well warranted and ensured that reform measures were fully inmplemented as
planned.
(iii) Retroactive Financing. In light of the urgent and extraordinary nature of the ERC, the
Bank decided on an exceptional basis to extend the period of retroactive financing to August 2,
1993, about nine months prior to credit effectiveness, in lieu of the normal four months set forth
in the OD12. 10 Guidelines. This decision led to faster disbursement arrangements and facilitated
quick and easy availability of the credit proceeds.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALI
ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
(CREDIT 2580-MLI)
PART II- STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives        Substantial       Partial        Negligible       Not Applicable
Macro policies                          x
Sector policies                         X
Financial objectives                    X
Institutional development                                                                   X
Physical objectives                                                                         X
Poverty reduction                       X
Gender issues                                                                               X
Other social objectives                                                                     X
Environmental objectives                                                                    X
Public sector management                X
Private sector development                                                                  X
B. Project Sustainability             Likely         Unlikely                           Uncertain
x
C. Bank Performance                  Highly         Satisfactory                         Deficient
Satisfactory
Identification                                          X
Preparation assistance                                  X
Appraisal                                               X
Supervision                                             X
D. Borrower Performance              Highly         Satisfactory                         Deficient
Satisfactory
Preparation                                             X
Implementation                                          X
Covenant compliance                                     X
E. Assessment of Outcome             Highly         Satisfactory    Unsatisfactorv        Highly
Satisfactory                                       Unsatisfactory
x         ____________________



12
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Public Enterprise Sector  Rationalize and improve performance of public    June 1988  Closed
Adjustment Credit      enterprise sector to reduce the burden on public
(CR 1937-MLI)          finances.
Education Sector       Reduce inefficiencies in the large education sector    June 1989  2nd and 3rd tranches
Consolidation Credit    and accelerate the development of primary                    canceled in April
(CR 2054-MLI)          education.                                                    1993
Agricultural Sector    Improve the incentive system for the cotton sector  July 1990  Under
Adjustment/Investment  through institutional and pricing/taxation reforms,           implementation
Credit (CR 2163 -MLI)   consolidate the cereals market liberalization
program, increase efficiency in the public
investment program for the agricultural sector,
and improve natural resources management.
Structural Adjustment    Support the program as outlined in the PFP for  December 1990   Closed
Credit (CR 2188-MLI)   1990-92, with special emphasis on private sector
incentives and public resources management.
Education Sector       Improve performance and organization of the   January 1995    Under
Adjustment Credit      education system, and remove distortions and                  implementation
(CR 2673 -MLI)         inefficiencies in sector resource allocation and
use.
Table 3: Program Timetable
00StpsX in Proet Cycle              Date Plad                           Date Actual
Identification                                 1/94                                1/94
Preparation                                    1/94                                1/94
Appraisal                                      1/94                                1/94
Negotiations                                   2/94                               2/28/94
Letter of Development Policy                   2/94                              2/26/94
Board presentation                             3/94                              3/17/94
Signing                                        3/94                              3/18/94
Effectiveness                                  4/94                              5/05/94
First (single) tranche release                 4/94                              6/07/94
Midterm review                                                                   6/10/94
Project completion                             6/95                              6/30/95
Loan closing                                   6/95                              6/30/95
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
__________________________________________              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FY94  .........
Appraisal estimate                                                        25,000
Actual                                                                    25,000
Actual as % of estimate                                                    100%
Date of final disbursement                                                6/7/94



13
Table 5: Up-front Conditionalities and Key Indicators for Program Implementation
Indicators                                     Implementation
Status
1. Macroeconomic Policies
Realignment of the exchange rate: 100 CFAF for I FF                                   1/12/94
Public Finance
Limit increases in minimum wage rates to 10%                                           3/31/94
Limit increases in civil service salaries and in public and parapublic sector pensions to 10%  3/31/94
Set civil service wage bill ceiling in 1994 budget at CFAF 45 billion                 1/30/94
Ensure no net new recruitment in civil service in 1994                                  1994
Freeze all civil service benefits and limit student scholarship payments to CFAF 5.9 billion  1994 *
Eliminate the entire stock of external payment arrears of CFAF 19.4 billion             1994
Reduce domestic arrears by at least CFAF 8.6 billion                                    1994
Monetary Policy
Limit increase in net credit to central government to 0.5% relative to beginning-of-period  1994
money stock
Limit increase in credit to the economy to 11.5%, and increase in money supply to 36.8%  1994
Increase the Central bank discount rate from 10.5% to 14.5%                           1/18/94
Tariff and Taxation Policy
Reduce maximum cumulative tariff rate to 36% and set minimum rate at 6%               1/30/94
Suspend variable protection tax on sugar and rice imports, and the declining protection tax  1/30/94
Abolish all ad hoc exemptions                                                          1/30/94
Reduce corporate income tax rate to 35%, tax on individual entrepreneurs to 15% and tax on  1/30/94 *
craftsmen to 10%
Maintain the existing TVA structure of three rates, and reduce maximum rate from 17% to 15%  1/30/94 *
Reduce exemptions to a limited number of goods                                         1/30/94
2. Structural Policies
Price Policy
Limit increases in the prices of water, electricity and telecommunications to 10 to 20%  1/30/94 *
Reduce taxation on petroleum products such that price increases are limited to 0 to 30%  1/30/94 *
Agricultural Policy
Increase producer price of first quality cotton from CFAF 85/kg to at least CFAF 115/kg for the  1/30/94 *
1994/95 crop year
Propose payment of a premium of CFAF 12.5/kg to cotton producers for the 1993/94 crop year  4/94
Finalize and sign the revised performance contract with the CMDT                        6/94
Complete restructuring of Office du Niger                                               6/94
Sign revised performance contract with OPAM                                             3/94
Finalize National Environment Action Plan                                               12/94
Public Enterprise Reform
Settle the residual debts of liquidated or privatized public enterprises of CFAF 10 billion  1994
Transform COMATEX into a mixed capital company, privatize ULB, OTER, OERHN, ORT         1994
Delegate management of EDM to a private professional partner                            1994
3. Accompanying Social Measures
Allocate CFAF 13 billion in the 1994 budget, for social safety measures, including health (in  1994
particular temporary subsidies on essential generic medicines) and education sector
expenditures, and financing of labor intensive public works.
* Up-front conditionality



14
Table 6: Status of Legal Covenants
0 l'00DCA:000   CovlienantTy  Status   Oiginal    Revis                  Comments
Sectioni00-;;000                    Due:i;E0i 0Date:  ;Due Date:
3.03        Accounts/audits   NC      4/30/95     4/30/96    Audit report, received by IDA in March
1996, is rated "qualified".
Schedule I   Utilization of    C         --          --      Utilization of funds: negative list of imports
funds
Legend: C    = covenant complied with
NC  = not complied with
DCA = Development Credit Agreement
Table 7: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
(US$ thousands)
,,.. . .. . .. . .. . . . . . . . .  . .. .   . . . . . . . ...........,H.w... H
Preparation to appraisal    .......
Appraisal                                 -                      --                  4.5       15.3
Negotiations to Board approval                                                       2.8        9.7
Supervision                               2.8        6.5       2.8        6.5        7.5       22.4
Completion                                8.0       13.5       8.0        13.5       1.9        8.6
TOTAL                                   10.8      20.0       10.8       20.0       16.7      56.0
Table 8: Bank Resources: Missions
:Staef Proec :0:t;   0j Monthf /;0  Numbe:r    Days;: -Sp; eciali;t I-inplem,I  D. elp        Type of, , 
tVii il0 000  04 00 0 0 -i __ 00_  0Field  _          _         =        tives
Through appraisal    Jan/Feb 94      515    Economics                  -             --
Appraisal to Board
approval                ,- -- ........                                              --          --
Supervision           June 94        2         15    Economics        HS           HS           -
Completion              ,--                               -            --



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALI
ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
(CREDIT 2580-MLI)
APPENDICES
A - BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
(Translation)
MINISTRY OF FINANCE                                           REPUBLIC OF MALI
AND COMMERCE
GENERAL
SECRETARIAT
POST-EVALUATION REPORT
OF THE ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
The Economic Recovery Credit (ERC), Credit 2580-MLI, was executed in 1994. This
Credit is aimed to sustain efforts by Mali in its strategy of deepening the adjustment process after
the monetary realignment decided upon on January 12, 1994.
The presert report relates the borrower's point of view on the progress of the different
phases of this operation.
I.    Background
The ERC intervened after several years of internal adjustment marked by the liberalization
of the goods and services market, including the labor market. During the 1982-1993 period, the
Government's adjustment strategy was centered around internal policy adjustments seeking
productivity growth as well as control of salary costs. The search for improvement of internal and
external equilibria in a changing economic environment led to the acceleration of the adjustment
process without achieving the expected short or medium-term benefits. However, this austerity
enabled authorities to maintain the public sector deficit and the inflation rate at low levels.
The end of 1993 was characterized by a loss of competivity which led to an accumulation
of surpluses in the main production sectors and a massive flight of capital outside of the West
African Monetary Union (UMOA). The transfer of State assets (public enterprises) to the private



16
sector was also difficult due to the fact that long-term economic prospects of these enterprises
were not very viable. The program's main objectives were to sustain the adjustment efforts
undertaken in the framework of the Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF);
particularly, to support:
- the accompanying measures aimed at reducing the negative impact of the devaluation on
the most disadvantaged populations;
- the efforts by the authorities aimed at maintaining the real actual exchange rate at a level
attractive for producers.
II.   Design and formulation of program measures
The government had a very limited experience in managing a devaluation; its experience
was nonetheless richer than in other countries in the CFAF zone. Indeed, the parity of the Malian
franc in relation to the CFAF was adjusted a first time in 1963 (by 50%), and a second time in
1984 (by 50%).
The Government was widely assisted by the World Bank in preparing for the devaluation
as senior government officials and Malian authorities were able to review, with Bank staff,
potential consequences and risks of the devaluation measures that should be addressed. The Bank
assisted the Government in carrying out economic and financial simulations, so as to define the
implementation measures. Program implementation was aided by frequent travels of Malian
experts to the Bank's headquarters and vice versa.
III.  Modalities of program implementation
Once the measures were identified, an extensive public information and awareness
campaign was immediately launched by the Government. Each member of the Government was
responsible for informing a particular target group of the population on the consequences of the
devaluation and for gathering opinions of the populations and professionals in that sector. The
measures were discussed by each concerned party. This consultation process took place during
the first 15 days following the devaluation.
The measures decided upon by the Government were officially announced to the National
Assembly during a special session where delegates were given the opportunity to direct specific
questions to all Government members.
IV.  Extent to which program objectives were achieved
The measures adopted under the program were fully implemented. This allowed the
Government to regain its financial credibility, considerably weakened in 1993, and to maintain
social peace during 1994 and 1995.
V.   Main factors that hampered the achievement of program objectives
The program was executed satisfactorily. However, the mobilization of the Credit was
slower than expected due to the fact that import invoices required for withdrawal were difficult to
obtain and because the invoices available for the previous year were in non-devaluated CFA
francs.



17
VI.   Future viability of program implementation
The results obtained under the program constitute a set of factors which ensure their
viability. In particular, the cautious management of public finance under the program led to: (i) a
mobilization of internal resources of a magnitude greater than expected, despite a lower fiscal
pressure; (ii) an inflation lower than expected; and (iii) a lasting revival of exports and industrial
units which had shut down due to lack of competitiveness.
VII. World Bank performance during design, formulation, and implementation of
the program, including efficiency/inefficiency of its relation with the Malian
authorities
The Bank remained steadily available during the preparation of the operation which was
done in a very open manner, as the Government took the time necessary to dialogue with social
partners and operators in the different economic sectors (health, education, power, international
and urban transport, petroleum, industrialists, bakers, and flour-millers, etc.), before deciding on
the allocation of the Credit resources. Also, in order to accelerate the effectiveness of the Credit,
the Bank agreed to hold negotiations of the operation in Bamako, a first since the advent of the
Third Republic.
VIII. Lessons for the future
The involvement of the entire Government in the dialogue was a key element of the
program's success.
Initially, the devaluation was seen by the Malian and most other Africans as a French
initiative. A strong political commitment and support to the program, as well as an extensive
communication effort, led to a broadly shared understanding of the need for monetary
realignment, justified by significant economic and financial disequilibria. Discussions were
extended to universities and schools. The awareness campaign also dealt with the limitation of
the policies of adjustment followed for more than a decade. Publicizing the utilization of the
resources available for the social safety net contributed greatly to developing national solidarity
and support for the program.






MAP SECTION



I



FORMER         Y'N                                                                                .                                                         0                                                          5
SPANISH!                        ALGERIAr                                                      N
SAHARA /                 N                                                                                                                                           The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
N                                                                              'N j   \                                                  shown on this mop do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group,
N-. i"i                                                                           ' N \                                               any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement
or acceptance of such boundaries.
MAURITANIA    !                     '-.                                                                                                                          0               150              300 KfLOMETERS
- -                                                    I                                          .
T SENEGAL                         y"'    NIGER                                                                                                " .
GAMAI*rao5oo',JR I A. 
GUINEA -                            FASO    ,5N                                             i
BISSAU    GUINEA        .A                                                                                                                                                              L     G       E      R     I    A
M A L I~~~~~~~~                                                                                                           IGE   
i    'COTE D'M5185 iG^N                                                                                                                          N   .
MAlI                                                                                                                                             K 
- 20'o    SELECTED TOWNS AND CITIES                                                                                                                                                0
*    CERCLE CAPITALS                                                                                                                                                                                                 /20-n-Zoou5ien,  7'30
1    REGION CAPITALS                                                  j                                                                                ,AqseIhok
NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                 a                         0Arsouooe                                                                          ,       -
FLOOD AREA!                                                                                                                                             Koj
RIVERS ARE                                                                                                                                              Kdo1
CERCLE BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                             OA&fis
REGION BOUNDARIES
-- -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                            !                                                                .oorem
Tomoucou*Gorm  Rhorou
7                                                        DoiouGGr Go.
M    A    U  R  I T A    N    I A                                            o   * .Dire                          OD*Me So
\                                                                  ;                 N;o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mfoanke                                                  eok 
L%)                                           4 %   Gog                                  _____ Ioris_o_                        B0fuOboi-Mooosdc  cf'                    Ansong        A
'N.   ~~~~~N.                0                           NoispoIo~   Yousi_           0        T.I              H6o,.oi--                                            -i
15'                      j -  0ouo        YouriA                               No.,                                     B-ri       n       0*      o                                                     N       IG E R
Moreno         0SoiidoiA                  G-urbou0                 Sokolo sKoKo                           Dou-.toB                                                                 N    I   G    E
g  Keyes0   aSeo            ig Dii-                 oMourdio.h              Teneekoo    Mop,4  eo..e.
K ,yoeou    Googosteri   DSAetgo          Didi K i    NBoron                     *io *iKoro'
SENEGAL             I   odiol. BRoFoob6         at(ouro.n-ko.t            oog0cn, F.                                       Bes&oss/
__SaduC   *KookTmtsi0            %Tofossodo o 1,-om0i,                0Segou   D          K    erana                                                         ' \Kk-,
TB otiMko mo             Felody9 k      ro o90lsi                 *So borono  ..J
Msoetoli0      KIO.   omodnki- 0Fendy  OS,k.   OT          nd               __                                                                                                              N I
,-oodogou*nioioToebogo        K      *I T  lb *     oF.lo     a 0 Kieporoso
Kouicilioin  ~~~~0            0,                orel
>.10       BAMAKO  FoIodi6          Kioit " lm                                                                                      'N
- G   UIbNEA    Koorogue   o     r--r.   - -    Sib-  I  N                       KDioo y
Boeroskoro(           oSide 0K-,I, ONi.eo Sik-                                                                                                                           N
G   U  I N   E  A                         Kse0Yoisbougools           0Kodioo                                                                                                B NnI
'010.                                                                                                                                                        ,s   N                                    P                                  N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~k   Z.~~GH     A'
10,  ~~~Sf0'_.                                                                                                                              _       __         __          _












