Document of
The World Bank
FOR OmcFlAL USE ONLY
C~/c z 2s42D- /V717L
Report No. P-6274-MLI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED
ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
OF SDR 18.2 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF MALI
FEBRUARY 28, 1994
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No: P-   6274 MLI
Type: PR
This document has a restricted distribution and may
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise       u ..U dusvListiLUon.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                =           CFA franc (CFAF)
US$1.00                      =           CFAF 592 (January 31, 1994)
CFAF I million               =           US$ 1,687 (January 31, 1994)
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURE: METRIC
Metric                                   U.S. Equivalent
I meter (m)                  =           3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (Iam)            =           0.62 miles (mi)
I square kllometer (km2)     =           0.39 square mile (sq mi)
1 hectare (ha)               =           2.47 acres (a)
I metric ton (t)             =           2,205 pounds (lb)
1 kilogram (kg)              -           2.2046 pounds (lb)
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADM         : A6roports du Mali
AFB         : Abattoir Frigorifique de Bamako
AGETIPE   : Agence d'Execution des Travaux d'Interet Public
BCEAO       : Banque Centrale des Etats de I'Afrique de l'Ouest (Central Bank)
CMR         : Caisse Malienne de Retraite
CMDT        : Compagnie Malienne pour le Developpement des Textiles
CNAR        : Caisse Nationale d'Assurance et de Reassurance
COMANAV: Compagnie Malienne de Navigation
COMATEX: Compagnie Malienne des Textiles
EDM           Energie du Mali
HUICOMA  : Huilerie Cotonniere du Mali
INPS        : Institut National de la Prevoyance Sociale
OERHN       : Office d'Exploitation des Ressources du Haut Niger
ON          : Office du Niger
ONG         : Organisation non-gouvemementale
ONP         : Office National des Postes
OPAM        : Office des Produits Agricoles du Mali
OTER:       : Operation des Travaux d'Equipement Rural
ORT         : Office des Relais Touristiques
PPM           Phannacie Populaire du Mali
PVM         : Pharmacie Veterinaire du Mali
RCFM        : Regie du Chemri de Fer du Mali
SCPCE       : Societe des Cheques Postaux et de la Caisse d'Epargne
SONAREM  : Socieee Nationale de Recherche et d'Exploitation Miniere
SONATAM  : Societ6 Nationale des Tabacs et Allumettes du Mali
SOTELMA  : Societe des Telecommunications du Mali
SUKALA   : Complexe Sucrier du Kala Sup6rieur
ULB         : Union Laitiere de Bamako
UEMOA    : Union Econoniique et Monetaire Ouest-Africaine
UMOA        : Union Monetaire Ouest-Africaine (West African Monetary Union)



FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF MALI
ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDfT (ERC)
Table of Contents
Credit and Program Summnary                                                                             i
PART I. THE GOVERNMENT'S ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL
PROGRAM ...............................................1
A. Recent Economic Developments ...............................................               1
B. Government Economic Policies --1994-96 .....................................3
The 1994 Economic Recovery Program ..................................3
Macroeconomic Policies ...............................................3
Structural Policies ..............................................6
Human resources development ...............................................8
Education ...............................................8
Health ...............................................8
Social Aspects ...............................................9
C. Financing Requirements ....................                   .......................... 10
PART II. IDA'S STRATEGY AND OPERATIONS IN 1994 ..................... 10
A.  Country Strategy and Priorities ..............................................     10
B. Follow-up Operations to the ERC  in 1994 ........................1.......... 11
PART Im. THE PROPOSED ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT ............ 12
A. Financing and Management of the Program ................................. 12
B. Procurement and Disbursement ..............................................     12
C. Environmental Aspects ...................                   ........................... 13
D. Project Implementation ..............................................                    14
E.  Benefits and Risks .............................................. 15
PART IV. RECOMMENDATION  .....................                              ......................... 15
ANNEXES
Annex I             Main Economic Indicators
Annex II            Status of Bank Group Operations in Mali
Annex III    Timetable of Key Processing Events
Annex IV            Govemment's Statement of Economic and Social Policies
Annex V             Matrix of ERC Actions for 1994
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- i -
REPUBLIC OF MALI
ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT (ERC)
Credit and Program Summary
Borrower:         Republic of Mali
Amounts:          IDA Credit: SDR 18.2 million (US$25 million equivalent)
Terms:            IDA Credit: Standard with 40-year maturity
Program
Description:       The African member countries of the Franc zone decided to devalue their currency,
the CFA franc, effective January 12, 1994. The proposed credit would support the
post-devaluation reform program as outlined in the Government's Statement of
Econiomic and Social Policy whose main objectives are private sector led growth
ar,d the alleviation of poverty. The Government's program has also obtained the
support of a second year arrangement under the IMF's Enhanced Structural
Adjustment Facility (ESAF). By shoring up support for measures taken in the
aftermath of the devaluation, the proposed operation is a crucial element in helping
the Government deepen its adjustment strategy. Since 1991, adjustment in Mali
has been supported by a Structural Adjustment Credit (SAL-I) and a first year
arrangement under the IMF's ESAF. Implementation of SAL-I has been
satisfactory overall, and all three tranches have been disbursed.
The Malian Government has already taken a series of key macroeconomic and
structural measures to regain and consolidate competitiveness. The ERC is
designed tL support the implementation of these measures in 1994. The major
measures are: (i) the devaluation of the CFA Franc from 50 CFAF to 100 CFAF/1
FF; (ii) increase in the producer price of prime quality cotton by at least 35%; (iii)
a program of social measures to attenuate the effects of the devaluation on
vulnerable groups; (iv) prudent demand management policies to reduce absorption
by the public sector and limit wage increases; (v) reduction and simplification of
tariffs and domestic taxation; and (vi) protection of social sector expenditures.
Estimated
Disbursements:    Due to the urgent nature of the operation, the entire US$25 million would be
disbursed in a single tranche shortly after effectiveness.
There is no separate staff appraisal report.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF MALI
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a
proposed Economic Recovery Credit of SDR 18.2 million (US$25 million equi; alent) to
the Republic of Mali. The credit is to help support the Government's reform efforts
following the devaluation of the CFA Franc on January 12, 1994. The Credit would be on
standard IDA terms with a maturity of 40 years.
2.    A Fourth Year Policy Framework Paper was distributed to the Board for
information on February 25, 1994. A corresponding Second Year ESAF arrangement for
the equivalent of US$41 million is scheduled for consideration by the IMF Board in
March, 1994. A Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) is under preparation and will be
presented to the Board with the planned follow up adjustment operation scheduled for
Board presentation in the first half ofFY1995. The last Board discussion of the Mali CAS
took place on November 12, 1992.
PART L THE GOVERNMENT'S ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL PROGRAM
A. Recent Economic Developments
3.    Since 1988, the Government of Mali has implemented a wide range of economic
and sectoral policy reforms under its structural adjustment program. Macroeconomic
policies have emphasized: (i) restoring macroeconomic equilibria through greater fiscal
and monetary discipline; (ii) improving efficiency in public sector resource allocation and
use through containment of the public sector wage bill, and restructuring of expenditures
in favor of social sectors, and operations and maintenance spending; and (iii) improving
incentives for private sector development through trade, tax and regulatory reform, reform
of the public enterprise sector, and the liberalization of domestic trade and prices.
Sectoral reforms have focused on improving the efficiency and international
competitiveness of the cotton sector through institutional and pricing and taxation
reforms; ensuring adequate supply and efficient distribution of cereals through
liberalization of the cereals market; and raising primary enrollment ratios while developing
education in line with labor market trends, through the introduction of efficiency measures
such as restructuring education sector expenditures in favour of primary education, double
shifting in primary schools, and better control of new entrants into post-primary
institutions. The underlying objective has been to improve the competitiveness of the



2
economy, and lay the foundation for the sustained longer term growth needed to help raise
standards of living and alleviate poverty. Good progress in implementing these reforms,
has allowed full disbursement of three of the four adjustment operations supporting the
reform program. The second and third tranches of the Human Resources SECAL were
cancelled in early 1993 due to non compliance on key conditionalities, in particular, the
restructuring of expenditures away from post-primary scholarship spending and in favor of
primary education.
4.    These reforms have allowed greater play of market forces in the determination of
economic outcomes and the removal of some bottlenecks to private sector participation in
economic activity. Their impact is evidenced by improvement in economic performance
over the acjustment period. The overall fiscal deficit declined from 12% of GDP in 1991,
to 9.6% in 1993. Despite declining terms of trade due largely to falling world market
cotton prices, the current account balance improved marginally from 14.1% of GDP in
1991 to 13.8% of GDP in 1993. Inflation has been kept in check (under 3% per annum on
average), and real GDP growth rose from an annual average of less than 2% over the first
half of the 1980s, to about 3% between 1988 and 1993.
5.    Nevertheless, major issues still remain to be addressed. The economy's lack of
competitiveness continued to limit the rate of sustained growth necessary to increase per
capita incomes and make significant inroads into poverty alleviation. This lack of
competitiveness has been aggravated by the steady and significant depreciation of
currencies of competitor countries in the region such as Ghana and Nigeria, and by Mali's
worsening terns of trade. Industries such as textiles, matches and cigarettes which
flourished in the past, have lost their competitive edge and found it increasingly hard to
compete with imports. Mali's already fragile industrial base has thus been weakened
further, putting the sector into a slump. In agriculture, despite cost efficiency gains,
Malian cotton production has been unable to cover its operating costs, and rice and
livestock production have remained below their full potential.
6.    Overall, the Malian economy still remains a mono-crop economy, with minimal
diversification. Growth performance is thus still very much influenced by weather patterns
and shows wide fluctuations from year to year. Savings and investment performance have
not improved significantly during the adjustment period. Gains in restoring
macroequilibria are equally fragile. Not much progress has been made in expanding the
revenue base, which continues to be heavily dependent on external trade. The lack of
export diversification also constrains performance on the external current actount.
7.    The Government of Mali, after close consultation with other member countries of
the CFA zone, decided to strengthen its adjustment strategy. Effective January 12, 1994
the fixed parity of the CFA franc was changed from 50 to 100 CFAF per FF. This historic
decision represented a major step to launch a broad development agenda, aimed at
accelerating growth in a region which had experienced serious economic decline. The
nominal devaluation of the CFA franc is part of a comprehensive program designed to
pursue and deepen development and poverty alleviation efforts.



3
B. Government Economic Policies -1994-96.
8.    The Government's medium term economic development strategy is spelled out in
the fourth Year PEP which was circulated to the Board on February 25, 1994. It aims at
restoring the economy's competitiveness through improved short term macro-economic
management and the intensification of structural and sectoral reforms geared towards
removing longer term constraints to development. Full implementation of this strategy is
expected to promote private sector development and help generate the levels of growth
critical for poverty alleviation. It is also expected to ensure greater equity through
increased access to basic social services for the poorer segments of the population.
9.    The parity change tbrms the center piece of Mali's macroeconomic framework for
the 1994-96 period. The PFP recognizes, however, the importance of accompanying
measures and of strict policies to ensure that the anticipated real depreciation benefits do
materialize. The objective is to achieve and maintain a real depreciation of 31% in foreign
currency terms. Improved competitiveness should provide the impetus for growth in all
sectors of the Malian economy. In agriculture, it will restore the financial viability of
cotton production; allow local rice production to compete better with imports without
recourse to distortionary trade tariffs; allow the livestock subsector to compete more
effectively against imports from the EEC; and promote diversification into new
agricultural products and exports, notably fruits and vegetables and other high value
crops. The ailing industrial sector could be rejuvenated and light manufactures and agro-
industry should receive a boost.
10.  In the context of the Government's medium term economic and social development
strategy, the most pressing objectives for 1994 are to contain the adverse impacts of the
parity change, while continuing and strengthening ongoing sectoral and structural reforms
to ensure improved competitiveness and an economic environment conducive to private
sector growth. The Government will in parallel, ensure that gains from earlier reforms,
e.g. price liberalization, are not compromised in the effort to address the adverse short
term consequences of the parity change.
The 1994 Economic Recovery Program
Macroeconomic Policies
11.  In 1994, key macroeconomic aggregates are expected to dip from their pre-
devaluation levels, but they should make a strong recovery from 1995 onwards, assuming
vigorous and rigorous implementation of policy reform measures. The main
macroeconomic objectives for 1994-96 are to: achieve real GDP growth rate of 2.4%,
increasing to 5.1% in 1996; limit inflation to less than 35%, and return to low pre-
devaluation levels by 1996; improve the current budget surplus position from 2.7% of
GDP in 1994, to 5.6% of GDP by 1996; reduce the overall fiscal deficit from 15.1% of



4
GDP in 1994 to 10% of GDP by I Q96, and reduce the current account deficit from
20.4% of GDP in 1994, to 13.4% of GDP by 1996. The framework also aims to achieve
external viability by 1997.
12.   Public Finance. Public finance policy will aim at increasing domestic revenue
effort, rationalizing and improving the efficiency of expenditures and the strict
enforcement of procedures for execution of expenditures in order to avoid the
accumulation of domestic arrears.
13.   Taxation and Revenues. The broad objectives in this area, are' to expand the tax
base, reduce tax (particularly customs) fraud, and strengthen tax collection. In line with
the parity change, the Government has introduced tax and tariff measures aimed at
reversing second best polices that had been necessitated by the overvaluation of the
currency, simplifying the tax system further, and limiting the inflationary impact of the
parity change. These measures include: (i) reduction of the maximum tariff rate to 36%,
and the institution of a minimum rate of 6%; (ii) suspension of the special protection tax
on sugar and rice imports and of the digressive protection tax; (iii) reduction in the
maximum rate of the Value Added Tax (TVA) from 17% to 15%; (iv) reduction of the
company income tax to 35%; and the tax rates on individual entrepreneurs and craftsmen
to 15% and 10% respectively. Cuts in tariffrates average about 30% overall.
Furthermore, the Government will continue implementation of reverue measures detailed
in the austerity package of August/September, 1993, in particular, the campaign against
customs fraud, and intensification of recovery of tax arrears. Domestic revenues are
expected to amount to 13.2% of GDP in 1994.
14.   Expenditures. Expenditure policy will place emphasis on improved efficiency of
public resource allocation and use through ensuring adequate budgetary allocations for the
social sectors and for operations and maintenance spending, while containing the wage bill
and reducing non-essential current expenditures.
(a)   Increases in the civil service wage bill will be limited to 10% for the year,
with no increases before the end of the first quarter (March 31, 1994). In
addition, there will be no net new recruitment in the civil service, and all
indemnities will be frozen during the year. The new salary grid, which will
eliminate the divergence between salaries actually paid and those legally
owed by the Government that occurred in the past, will become effective
during 1994.
(b)   To ensure that road maintenance activities are not jeopardized in the wake
of the parity change, the allocation has been increased to CFAF3.3 billion
from the pre-devaluation level of CFAF2.5 billion. Allocations for
operations and maintenance expenditures, particularly in the social sectors
have been increased by about 35% to ensure the proper functioning of
Government services. Government will strictly monitor non-essential
recurrent spending such as for travel, particularly for overseas missions
with a view .o limiting expenditures to those that are clearly justified.



S
(c)   The shares of education and health in the 1994 recurrent budget are 20%
and 7.8% respectively. Student scholarship spending will be limited to
CFAF3.9 billion to reflect mainly, the doubling in domestic currency termis
of transfers to students overseas, and limiting increases in transfers to
domestic students to 10%.
(d)   A budgetary provision of about CFAF 13 billion has been made to cover
the costs of social safety net measures.
(e)   Investment Spending will be focused on agriculture, infrastructure and on
social services, and greater emphasis will be placed on ensuring that
counterpart fiunds are executed as budgeted. Investment would increase
from its current level of 22% of GDP, to 27% of GDP in 1994, with
private investment increasing significantly due to the improvement in
competitiveness, the increased liberalization of the regulatory and
incentives framework that is underway, and the introduction of structural
measures designed to encourage private initiative.
(t)    Total Expenditures will be contained within the limit of CFAF294.6
billion, representing about 28% cf GDP, an increase from 23.4% of GDP
in 1993. The entire stock of extemal arrears, totaling CFAF19.4 will be
eliminated in 1994 and no new external arrears will be accumulated.
(g)   Given the importance of adequate financing for private sector activity, the
Government will endeavor to eliminate the entire stock of verified domestic
arrears, totaling about CFAF4.3 billion over 1994 and 1995. (CFAF8.6
billion in 1994). In addition, before September 1994, the Government will
undertake an exhaustive audit and verification of other domestic arrears
claims and agree on an action plan for their settlement within three years.
To prevent future accumulation of domestic extra- budgetary arrears, the
Government will enforce strictly its expenditure execution regulations, with
a view to eliminating irregular execution practices.
15.   Price Policy. Since 1986, the Government has pursued a policy of price
liberalization, which has led to the total deregulation of all prices with the exception of
those of key utilities, for which price increases have to be approved by the Government.
The Government's approach in dealing with the price impacts of the parity change, is to
avoid reinstating price controls, to allow full pass through of the parity change while
attenuating the full price impact only through cuts in various taxes and tariffs. As of
February 1, 1994, the prices of all goods have gone up to reflect increased costs arising
from the parity change and the lowering impact of the tax and tariff cuts. Price increases
for key utilities have been kept within the range of 10 to 20%, and petroleum product
prices have increased between 0 and 30%. Prices of essential generic drugs provided by
the public sector have remained unchanged. Preliminary estimates show that the CPI has
increased by about 26% since the devaluation. To break speculative price behavior and to



6
prevent undue increases in prices, particularly on essential imports such as sugar, the
Government, will undertake a massive public education campaign and will ensure
adequate supplies of these goods.
16.   Monetary Policy. The pursuit of prudent monetary policy is a key component of
Government's program to manage the inflationary impacts of the devaluation. The central
objective of monetary policy in 1994 is to limit growth in net credit to government, while
allowing reasonable expansion in credit to the rest of the economy. Net credit to
Government will not increase by more than 0.5% of beginning-of-period money stock,
while increase in credit to the economy will be limited to 11.5%. The increase in money
supply will be limited to 36.8%. Credit and financial intermediation policy will continue
to benefit from the ongoing reform of monetary instruments being carried out by the
BCEAO, notably the ;eplacement of administrative credit controls with more indirect
instruments, including a more flexible interest rate policy, the introduction of required
reserve ratios, and the expansion of the role of the money market. The Central Bank
discount rate has been increased to 14.5% from 10.5%. To facilitate extension of credit
to private sector, and to increase the level of guarantees provided by borrowers, the
Government will place special emphasis on improving judicial and legal procedures,
particularly with the view of increasing and accelerating the recovery of debts. As part of
efforts to rehabilitate the financial sector, the Government will strengthen the monitoring
of primary banks and will in this context, conduct a study of the impact of the parity
change on the capital position of banks and will solicit help from donors to recapitalize
these banks, if this is found to be needed.
Structural Policies
17.   The structural measures are primarily g.eared towards reinforcing the
improvements to competitiveness resulting from the parity change and ensuring that Mali
benefits fully from this improvement. Given the importance of agriculture and livestock to
the economy, special emphasis is placed on reforms in these sectors. To promote private
sector activity, emphasis is also placed on the public enterprise reform program, on the
continuation of reforms in the regulatory and incentives framework, and on improved
efficiency in the provision of basic infrastructure, notably energy, communication, and
transportation
18.   Agriculture Sector Policy. The agriculture sector should benefit significantly
from the parity change. Measures in this sector aim at continued efficiency improvements,
through the implementation of performance contracts, and improvements in incentives to
producers to ensure a strong supply response.
(a)   In the cotton subsector, the Government will sign by June 1994 a revised
"contrat-plan" with producers and the cotton company (CMDT). This
contract will guide operations in the sector and CMDT activities for 1994-
98. Its key elements include: (i) increase in floor producer price to farmers
of at least 35% for first quality cotton for the 1994/95 crop year; (ii)
continuation of the policy of price differentiation across different qualities



7
of cotton; (iii) continued reduction in CMDT's unit costs of production;
(iv) greater farmer participation in the coxtton stabilization fund; and (v)
fanner and village level association access to CMDT capital. The increase
in producer price for first quality cotton has already been announced and
will be ratified during the negotiations between Government, CMDT and
producers in March. Producers are also being paid a premium of
CFAF12.5/kg for the current crop year. Both of these measures, and the
fact that imported inputs account for about 30% of fanner costs, should
allow a substantial increase in net returns to producers and help generate a
good supply response. The parity change and the reductions to CMDT
unit costs should restore the financial viability of the sector with effect from
the 1993/94 crop year even with conser'ative estimates of world price
movements.
(b)   The Government will pursue the reorganization of the rice sector through
implementation of the letter of development policy for the sector, agreed
with donors in January 1993. The centerpiece of this policy is the
transformation of the Office du Niger, the rice parastatal, into a public
industrial and commercial institution, with a much smaller staff. The Office
du Niger will have the permanent responsibility for water management and
the maintenance of related infrastructure, to be firnded from beneficiary
fees, and a temporary role of prime contractor entrusted with special
responsibility for the design and supervision of wo,rks, the maintenance of
primary infrastructure and for agricultural extension services to be funded
by appropriate budgetary allocations. The remaining commercial and
industrial activities of the former Office du Niger will be transferred to
mixed capital companies by the end of 1994. This restructuring will
require the retrenchment of about 540 staff by end June 1994.
(c)   In the cereals sector, the Government will negotiate and sign before March
1994, a new perfonnance contract with the Malian Agricultural Products
Office (OPAM). The contract will limit OPAMs role to that of
administering food securty stocks and distributing food aid. Furthermore,
the Government's agricultural policy will place special emphasis on
developing and maximizing agricultural potential in particular by
rehabilitating the irrigation system and encouraging private initiative in
expanding irrigated areas and the processing of agricultural output.
(d)   In the livestock sector, the Government will study appropriate measures to
promote livestock exports, notably in the area of transportation, improving
sanitary and veterinary conditions in order to allow full exploitation of
Mali's renowned comparative advantage in this sector.
19.   Industrial Policy/Private Sector Development. The key policies to promote
private sector and industrial activity in 1994 are the continuation of the public enterprise
reform program, the liberalization of the regulatory framework, and the strengthening of



8
financial intermediation and banking services. Over the last year and a half, as part of
efforts to promote private sector activity, the Government has already put in place revised
labor, commercial, investment, al,d procurement codes. These revisions are aimed at
simplifying the various rules governing private enterprise activity. Emphasis will be on
ensuring the improved functioning of the legal framework, and monitoring the
implementation of these new codes, with a view to making further changes as needed. In
tht public enterprise sector, the gover-nment will continue efforts to strengthen the few
enterprises that remain in the public portfolio, while accelerating the process of
disengagement from other non essential enterprises. The Government will conclude
before the end of 1994, the transformation of COMATEX (textiles) into a mixed capital
company, and the privatization of ULB (milk), OTER (rural sanitation), OEHRN
(agricultural resource management), and OTR (tourism). The Government will update by
June 1994 its public enterprise reform program and define an action plan and
implementation timetable to ensure its completion bv end 1996. Furthermore, the
Government will undertake the final settlement of the residual debts (after cross
compensation) of liquidated public enterprises amounting to about CFAF1O billion
through the issuance of treasury notes redeemable in 10 years, or immediate cash payment
of 20% of individual debts. The strengthening of the management of SOTELMA
(telecommunications), ONP (Post Office), PPM (pharmaceuticals), and EDM (the power
utility) wiil be purs ed through strict implementation of their performance contracts. In
the case of EDM, management will be transferred to a private professional partner for the
next five years by June 1994. Improved efficiency of the operation of these key
parastatals should reduce the cost of their services, particularly energy, thus lowering
production costs over time, and bolstering overall competitiveness.
Human resources development
Education
20.   Mali suffers from one of the lowest primary school enrollment ratios in the world.
This represents a significant constraint to the Government's development strategy. As part
of efforts to restructure sectoral expenditures in favor of primary education, the
Government will pursue efforts to contain student scholarships spending. In particular, it
will continue application of scholarship selection criteria at higher education levels, and
will before June 1994, conduct a detailed study of the composition of expenditures on
didactic material with a view to achieving further rationalization and additional savings.
Before the end of 1994, the Government will complete a detailed plan of action and
timetable for the redeployment of teachers currently in Bamako, and will pursue efforts to
expand double shift teaching in primary schools. The Government's objective is to raise
the primary enrollment ratio to at least 35% by 1996.
Health
21.   Emphasis will be placed on primary health care and the development of preventive
care facilities. This policy will rely largely on private initiative in the direct provision of
medical services and on the decentralization of the management of health services. The



9
Government will continue application of its policy of essential drugs, with a view to
expanding access to essential drugs at affordable prices. By subsidizing prices of essential
generic drugs provided by the public and private non-profit sectors at their pre-
devaluation levels, the Government will also attempt to shift consumption patterns toward
essential generic drugs, and encourage private pharmacies to move towards importing a
larger amount of cheaper generic drugs. The share of health in the recurrent budget has
been increased from about 6% in 1993 to about 7.8% in 1994 and will increase to 10% by
1996.
22.   Regional Integration. In parallel with the devaluation, a major step towards
regional economic integration was taken by the seven Heads of State of the UMOA in
Dakar with the signing of the Treaty transforming the UMOA into an economic and
monetary union (UEMOA)'. This improves the prospects for agricultural and
manufacturing development in Mali, by increasing the potential for intra-regional trade on
a market of nearly 60 million persons and permitting reaiisatinn of economies of scale.
Moreover, the strengthening of the Union's institutions and the proposed convergence of
fiscal policies and the harmonization of sectoral policies among the seven countries
increases the likelihood for maintaining a viable macroeconomic framework.
Social Aspects
23.   Over the long term, the adjustment program, if fully implemented, should allow the
growth levels needed to improve standards of living and alleviate poverty. The 80% of
the population in the rural sector should benefit significantly from the increase in value in
domestic currency terms of the agricultural exports they produce. In the immediate to
short run however, there are likely to be strong adverse impacts on the population at large
and in particular on certain vulnerable groups, notably the urban poor, the handicapped,
female heads of households and the unemployed and under employed. These adverse
impacts are due to the significant content of imports in the consumption basket,
particularly in urban centers, and the contraction in aggregate demand and overall
economic activity that can be expected in the aftermath of the devaluation. The
Government has outlined a package of measures aimed at addressing these likely adverse
impacts. These include
(a)   fiscal measures aimed at containing price increases;
(b)   budgetary allocation of CFAF 13 billion to undertake certain emergency
social interventions namely ensuring adequate supplies of key imported
goods; keeping constant the price of imported essential generic drugs
provided by the public and private non-profit sectors in 1994; responding
to needs of food deficit areas; and other needed social interventions as they
arise; and
Berin, 13urkina-lFaso, Colc di'voire, Muli, Niger, Scinegal wid T'ogo.



10
(c)   increased job creation through accelerated implementation and expansion
of the ongoing labor intensive public works project (AGETIPE).
C. Financing Requirements
24.   After taking into account commitments already made for project loans, use of IF
resources of CFAF24.8 billion, and CFAF2 billion of debt reduction recently announced
by France, the external financing requirements for 1994 will amount to about CFAF90.5
billion (US$149.3 million). These requirements will be covered by exceptional financial
assistance. CFAF42.5 billion is expected to come through loans from multilateral
institutions; CFAF 10.2 billion in transfers from the European Communities; and
CFAF37.8 billion in official bilateral assistance.
PART II. IDA'S STRATEGY AND OPERATIONS IN 1994
A. Country Strategy and Priorities
25.   A full Country Assistance Strategy is under preparation. The following paragraphs
outline the principles which will guide future Bank interventions and provide a context for
the present operation:
26.   Country's potential. Over the medium term, agriculture will continue to be the
mainstay of the Malian economy. Full implementation of the reforms outlined in the 4th
year PFP, and supported by this operation and the planned follow up adjustment
operation, should allow significant improvement in Mali's international competitiveness.
This, coupled with ongoing efforts towards greater regional integration, should allow
fluler exploitation of the opportunities provided by relatively large areas suitable for
rainfed agriculture and the irrigation potential of the Niger river. Production and export of
traditional exports notably cotton and livestock can be expected to expand significantly,
while cereals, notably rice production can be expected to expand to allow self-sufficiency
and export to other countries in the region. The potential for diversification into new
exports such as fresh and processed fruits and vegetables .s also considerable. Mali's
ailing industrial sector could be strengthened, through the expansion of industrial growth
linked to the agriculture sector (textiles, hides, edible oils) and the growth of other light
industrial manufacturing activity. In the mining sector, gold production is expected to
increase significantly with the expansion of activity at the Siama mines (production is
expected to increase by about 50% in 1994 and double by 1995), and the exploitation of
the resources of the Sadiola mine which is expected to come on stream by 1996.
27.   Refocusing On Long-Term Issues. By creating conditions which maximize
Mali's chances to realize its full economic potential, the adjustment effort in 1994 marks a
new beginning and the possibility to refocus the development agenda on long term issues.
The Govemnment and Bank staff held a joint seminar in the Spring of 1993 to map out the
agenda that will underpin the Bank's support to Mali:



1)
(a)   Human Resources: An Absolute Priority. Realizing Mali's potential will
require not only the pursuit of sound economic policies and the
maintenance of a stable macroeconomic framework, but also a strong push
to improve the country's human resource base. The policies launched in
1994 represent an opportunity for a broad based human resource effort.
Without significant improvement in its primary school enrollment ratio,
access to primary health care, and concerted effort to reduce population
growth, and to improve the efficiency of education and health expenditures,
the country is unlikely to make much progress. IDA's assistance is geared
to help the Government make rapid progress in these areas which have
received a great deal of attention in the design of the measures
accompanying the devaluation in 1994. Performance on human resource
development will be a weighty indicator in assessing the country's overall
economic performance and gauging the future level of IDA assistance.
(b)   Institutional Deve.opment: Public and Private. Institutional issues
constitute a particularly acute problem with regard to the implementation
of key aspects of the Government's reform effort, the improved
competitiveness of the private sector, and overall longer term development.
Weaknesses in institutional capacity are evident in the lack of
accountability for actions and lack of transparency in most transactions.
This applies to the public sector and to the institutions needed to promote
private sector development (Chamber of Commerce, business law, trade
courts, etc.). Some progress is being made on these issues with the
transition to democratic government. However, major strengthening of
public and private institutions at all levels is still required. IDA's assistance
will be geared towards helping Government achieve this goal through a
planned Institutional Development Project.
(c)   Natural Resource Management. Land degradation is the most serious
environmental problem faced by Mali. This problem has been aggravated
by inappropriate cultivation methods and increasing population pressure.
Improved natural resources management is critical to Mali's longer term
agricultural and overall growth performance. IDA's assistance to Mali in
this area, will continue through the ongoing Natural Resources
Management Project which supports the Government strategy of increased
community participation in, and responsibility for natural resources
management. A National Environmental Action Plan is under preparation
and will be completed by end- 1 994.
B. Follow-up Operations to the ERC in 1994
28.   The ERC represents an exceptional response to a historic decision. In particular,
its design and conditionality reflect two constraints: (i) the need to provide a timely first
response to the measures taken to accompany the devaluation; and (ii) the absence of any



12
other quick-disbursing instrument to do so. The ERC is, however, part of the response
planned by IDA to ensure the necessary conditions for a favorable supply response
following the devaluation. This response includes both quick-disbursing adjustment
operations to provide the necessary financing in support of strong reform efforts, and
investment operations aimed at generating a strong supply response and employment
creation. The first subsequent adjustment operation will be a Public Enterprise SECAL.
This operation, which is expected to be presented to the Board in the first half of FY95
will aim to complete the Government agenda on public enterprise reform (para. 19). The
second adjustment operation would be a Second Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit
which is expected to be presented to the Board in FY95. Its main objective would be to
support improved efficiency in the agriculture sector.
29.   IDA also intends to accelerate the implementation of existing projects and provide
supplementary credits. A first step toward employment and income generation is a
planned supplement to AGETIPE which would effectively double the output of AGETIPE
over the next year with a substantial impact on employment. The supplement would
accelerate the provision of basic urban services. The possibility of including an Emergency
Social Window is under consideration to finance sub-projects, especially in rural areas,
presented by NGOs and community organizations.
PART m. THE PROPOSED ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
A.   Financing and Management of the Program
30.   It is proposed that an Economic Recovery Credit in the equivalent of US$25
million be allocated to Mali on IDA standard terms. The objectives of the credit are: (i)
to support the Government's reform program, outlined in the Government's "Statement on
Economic and Social Policies" dated February 26, 1994; (ii) to provide the necessary
financial assistance during the transition period in which follow-up operations are being
prepared; and (iii) to continue the policy dialogue between the Government and IDA.
31.   Due to the urgent nature of the operation, it is proposed that the credit be
disbursed in one tranche. The Government's ability to consolidate early gains from the
devaluation and respect its financial program requires that budgetary support be made
available rapid!y. Thus the full amount of the Economic Recovery Credit resources have
been programmed for disbursement by end-June 1994.
B.    Procurement and Disbursement
32.   Procurement procedures have been designed to permit rapid use of funds while
ensuring efficiency and accountability in the process. Simplified international competitive
bidding (ICB) would be required for eligible imports by public agencies and by the private
sector exceeding US$5 million Procurement by public agencies for items costing below
the threshold will follow standard government practices found to be acceptable in the past.
Eligible imports below the threshold by private entities would be procured in accordance



13
with normal commercial practices, and wherever possible, quotations from eligible
suppliers from at least two countries would be sought. Single source purchasing would
be permitted for proprietary equipment or where compatibility with existing equipment
requires standardization. Contracts valued less than US$2,500 would not be eligible for
financing under this credit. Procurement documentation will be maintained for ex-post
review by the Bank. This documentation may consist of (i) a brief description of
procurement procedures; (ii) an evaluation summary giving number of bids received; (iii) a
comparative statement of prices received; (iv) dates of contract and payments; (v) a copy
of the contract; (vi) copy of invoice; and (vii) any other documentation required by
disbursements.
33.   The proceeds of the credit would be used to reimburse 100% of the foreign
exchange cost of eligible general imports On an exceptional basis, to allow for timely
disbursements, no limitation is placed on petrol or food imports. Public and private sector
imports would be eligible, except for:
(a)   Negative list;
(b)   Imported Goods already financed under bilateral or multilateral credits.
34.   The Government will establish a special account at the Central Bank (BCEAO) to
facilitate disbursements. The authorized allocation for the special account would be
CFAF6 billion (US$10 million equivalent). This account would be replenished regularly
on the basis of fully documented reimbursement applications in excess of US$2 million or
on the basis of statements of expenditures (SOEs) for expenditures below that amount.
The Borrower would indicate on the SOEs the nature and origin of the goods, as well as
the payment date, and would maintain all relevant supporting documentation (invoices,
evidence of shipment, customs declarations, evidence of payment) for review by Bank
supervision missions. Expenditures under the IDA credit would be in accordance with
normal IDA rules. The proposed date of eligibility would be set in light of the
Government's adoption of a deepened austerity program in August 1993. In order to
permit timely disbursements in the amount needed to keep the program on track, the total
amount of the credit would need to be eligible for use for retroactive financing. Given
Mali's disbursement patterns, the selection of August 2, 1993 as the cut-off date for
retroactive financing would provide timely effective access to the credit proceeds.
Exceptional retroactive financing would thus meet an essential objective of the operation.
C.    Environmental Aspects
35.   The project would be consistent with IDA policy and would follow acceptable
IDA procedures. In conformity with IDA policies for adjustment operations, no
environmental rating has been assigned.



14
D.   Project Implementation
36.   The Ministry of Finance and Commerce is the Government's organization
responsible for coordinating and implementing the proposed project. Bank staff will
continue to coordinate closely with IMF staff to ensure adequate monitoring of key
economic policies and indicators. The Government will arrange for an audit report by an
auditor acceptable to IDA to be provided within four months after the end of each fiscal
year of the Borrower.
37.   The policy measures to be taken under the proposed credit are detailed in the
Government's Statement of Economic and Social Policies (Annex IV). As conditions of
negotiations, the Government agreed to the following actions which have already been
taken:
(a)    Realignment of the exchange rate, fixed at 100 CFAF for 1 FF effective
January 12, 1994;
(b)   Increase producer price of prime quality cotton by at least 35%;
(c)    Reduce maximum tariff rate to 36%, and institute a minimum rate of 6%;
(d)   Suspend the variable protection tax on sugar and rice imports, and the
declining protection tax;
(e)    Reduce maximum VAT rate to 15% from 17%;
(f)   Reduce corporate tax rate to 35%, the tax on individual entrepreneurs to
15% and the tax on craftsmen to 10%;
(g)    Reduce taxation on petroleum products to limit price increases stemming
from parity change within range of 0 to 30%;
(h)   Limit increases in prices of water, electricity and telecommunications
within the range of 10 to 20%;
(i)    Limit increases in minimum wage rates to 10% in 1994;
()    Freeze all civil service benefits;
(k)   Limit increases in civil service salaries and in public and parapublic sector
pensions to 10%;
(1)   Set civil service wage bill ceiling in 1994 budget to CFAF45 million;
(m)   Increase the central bank discount rate from 10.5% to 14.5%; and



'S
(n)    Maintain social expenditures in real terms and make budgetary provision in
1994 budget for CFAF 13 billion to be used to address the short term
adverse impacts of the parity change.
All of these measures have already been implemented by the Government.
E.    Benefits and Risks
38.   Benefits. The proposed operation is expected to help the Government of Mali
implement appropriate policy changes to ensure significant real depreciation and improved
competitiveness of the economy. This improved competitiveness will help boost growth
and incomes, particularly in rural areas of Mali. The Credit will also allow Government to
meet the short term financing requirements of the parity change and in particular address
the social dimensions of its adjustment program for 1994. This will ensure that poverty
alleviation objectives are not compromised in the immediate to short term aftermath of the
devaluation.
39.   Risks. Short-term costs, particularly loss of employment and decrease in urban
standard of living, may put the Govemment in difficulty with opposition parties and
various interest groups such as students, labor unions, and civil servants. However,
important remedial measures (reduction in tax and tariff rates to limit price impact, and the
establishment of an exceptional budgetary provision of CFAF13 billion to address negative
short term impacts of the devaluation) have been put in place to help address these risks.
The immediate and visible impact of employment creation in urban areas will also help
mnitigate some of the risks.
PART IV. RECOMP.tWNDATION
40.   I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the Articles of
Agreement of the International Development Association and recommnend that the
Executive Directors approve it.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Washington, DC
February 28, 1994
Attachments



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
Table 1
MALI - SOCIAL INDICATORS
Samw regio&/ inc-,aw  group
Moat                               Ns
2S-30      15.20      rece         Sb                    highr
Unit of         year       yI        agStMd      Saharan      LOWi       tncofc
mearwe           a8        ago        (we)        Afrios    income       group
HUMAN RESOURCES
Size, growth, structure Of popuoa
To           (ma    IM)                      moons              4.79       5.91       8.46         495       3058         629
14 anis under                  ~~% of pop.         43.4        45.4       46.6        46.4       5.3        37.3
15-64                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~54.1  51.3   50.2        50.8        60.3       57.8
Age dependency matio                         unit             0.8S       0.93        0.99        0.98       0.66        0.72
Pementage in urban amas                    % of pop.          126         16.2       19.2        32.8       38.7        58.6
Females per 100 males
Urban                                      nunber               .           .                      .
Rural                                                           ..          -          .
Pooulation gmwth rmze                       anmal %              2.0        1.9        2.7         3.0         2.0        2.0
utban                                         -                4.4        4.3         3.8         4.9        5.4         32
Urban/ru!a growth differuial                diffetence           2.7        2.8         1.0        2.6         5.9        2.4
Projeed population: 2000                     millicns             _                   11.41        669       3,672        769
Stationary populazti                                              ..         ..        7.9 8
Determinants of population growth
Fertility
Crude birth raze                          erthou. pop.        50.4       49.7        50.1        45.9       29.4        29.5
Total fertlty mi e                      bit  S pet whman      6.51        6.50       7.06        6.46       3.72        3.74
Coninceptive prevalence                % of womcn 1549          ..          ..        5.0          ..       56.2
Child (0-4) / woman (15-49) ratios
Urban                                   per 100 woazen           ..         .          ..
Rural                                                           ..          ..         ..
Mortality.
Crude death rate                         per hou. pop-        26.8        23.6       18.7        15.6         9.7        8.5
fan morut rate                         pcrthouz live buths   206.8       195.8      166.0       107.3        66.9       49.5
UnderS5mortlIt                                                                      223.8       166.8      166.6        79.5
Life expectancy at binh: oe                     n             38.2       42.6        47.9        50.6       62.1        65.3
Lif execncyatbirlfomaen                                  381.9      43.6        49.6        52.4       62.8        67.9
AL abor force(lS64)                          milli              1.78       2.09       2.96         198       1.413        238
Agriculto foflaborfrc                                        90.4       873           -           -          -
Indusuy13                                                                 . 
Fanale                                                        17.2        17.5       16.2        37.6       35.6        32.3
Fenales per 100 miles
Urban                                      nmir                 _           _          _                       ..         -
Rualipao m   vnoflbroce                                        34.8       33.2        31.6        41.0       49.4        40.3
-anicipaiionraeovetal                    Sflabforfle             4115      11.2        i0O        30.0        34.6       25.6
Educational attainment oflabor fome
School yeam completed: overa                                                  ..         ..          -
NATUYRAL RESOURCES
Area                                       thou. sq. k1m       1,240      1.240       1,240     23,066      37,780      22,765
Density                                          sq. 4a                       5          7          21         79          27
Agfncsulal land                           DP9 6  ead am         25.6       25.7       25.9        38.3        38.5        40.9
Agricultural density                      pi 15                              19         26          54        206          66
Fomsts and woodland                         o~in77                          74          70       6,677       8,944      6,174
Dfcm.station rate (net)                     a0.4                           -0.4       -0.4        -0.4        -0.3       *0.5
Access to safe water           *               of pOp.                        -        17.0       36.2        67.8
Urban                                      -           ..     ~~~~~ ~~~~~ ~~~~~ ~~~~~~~46.0  75.5  64.5  73.
Urban                                                                                10.0        24.1       79.5        46.9
Population growth                             Infant mortality                       Primary school enrollment
6                               zo                                           in./
2j0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5
3~~~~~~~~~1
2                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~40
0                                 0~~~~~~~~~ 
U.1 - -                                                I~a        I    -   I



ANNEX I
Table  1  (Cont'd)                                       Page  2   f  5
MALI - SOCIAL IND CATORS
S.ii region  L.some group
Mosl                              Next
25-30      15.20      recent      Sub.                  higher
Unit of        Ydarl      yar        estinsa    Saharan      Low-       unom
mawure           ago        ago        (mr.)      Afric     incomw       gro
INCOME AND POVERTY
Income
GCNP per capita (mrem= 1990)                 USS                          120         270        340        350        1.530
Total household inomne
Share to top 10% of households           % of inonie
Share to top 20% of households 
Share to botton 40% of householts                              .
Share to bottom 20% of households
Poverty
Absolute poverty income: urban           USS per peron
mral                                                  60
Pop. in absolute poverty urban               of pop                       4.27.0
rud                        Po..                      48.0
Prvalence of malnutrition (underS)       %of age group           .                   31.0
EXPENDITURE
Food                                       % of GDP
Staples
Meat, fish, milk, cheese, eggs
Cereal umports                         thou. metric tonnes      22        120         61       7,859      35.7S5     38,868
Food aid in cerals                                                        107         38       3.S95       6 839
Food production percapita                 1979-81=100         98.1       97.3        92.5       91.5      1f1.8        98.9
Share of agriculture in GDP                % of GDP                       61.0       46.0       31.7        29.5        16.8
Dailycaloriesupply                      calofiesperperson     1.938      1,842      2,314      2,120       2,416      2,780
Dailyproteinsuppl7y                     grarspeperson           60         55         64          51         58          72
Housing                                    % of GDP              .          .         6.5
Average household size                persons per household
Urban                                                          ..         .           ..                     ..
Fixedinvestmnin housing                    %ofGDP               3. ..                 3.9
Fuel and power                             % of GDP              ..         ..        5.6
Energy      u      pimkg of oil equivalent                    14.2        20.1       23.8      101.7       349.5     1,1=2
Hous--holds wit eiiy
urban                                  % of househols          ..         ..         .. 
Rural                                                          .
Transport and commtunmkato                 % of GDP              ..         _         1.9          .
Popuaopepsngra                              penans           1,064        500        399         183        540          24
Ppulton per passetger car                  nero0647                                                                     2
Fixcd invatmesn  urnspoequpent             % 'of GDP                                  42
Total rad length                              hn                 ..         ..    13.50 0
Population per telephone                    persons             ..         ..          ..
INVESTIMENT IN HUMAN CAPITAL
Medical care                               % of GDP                                                ..
Population per. physician                   persns          55                         .. Z,               1,740          *-
nurse3;6                                                   257174
hospial bed                                        ..       1,400                              755
Access to health care                      % of pop.
Immunized (under 12 months): measles     % of A,e group                               8.6       48.7        44.        653
DPT                                                         6.0        37.9       43.1        67.1
OralRehydrazionTherapyuse(under5)          % ofcaes             ..          ..       41.0       35.7        36.3       39.8
Education                                  % of GDP              ..         ..        03
Gross enrolment ratios
Primary: total                       % of school-age group   24.0       24.0       23.0        68.8      109.0       100.5
female                                               16.0        17.0       17.0       59.6        98.8       97.4
Secondary: total                             f                4.0        7.0        6.0        18.2       40.2        58.3
female                                              2.0        3.0         4.0.      14.8       326         S6.5
Tertiary scineiangincedng              % of eary stats         0.0        11.7       14.8
Pupil-teacher rario: pndasy             pupis per teacher       46         41         42          39         28          26
secday                                          19         19         12           .         17          18
Pupils eaching gude 4                     % of cohot                     69.3        72.6          .           .       86.7
Repeater rate: pnimy                   % of tol enrollment    25.8        22.9       27.5                      .        6.6
lliteracy rate: overa                  % of pop. (age 1S.5)+..                       68.0       51.1i       38.9       22.9
female                    %of fmles (age 15)         .                   76.1       62.3        509         28.8
Newspaperciraaiion                        per thou. pop.       0.4         0.5        0.5        5.2        20.8       72.0
Sw. WaId  B    amtlam1 co m  Dapui Apil BI9.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
TABLE 2
MALI - KEY INDICATORS
1987   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996
Est.  Prog.       Proj.
Economic Indicators (annual % change)
Real GDP                                        1.2    0.8   -2.5    7.8   -0.8    2.4    4.9    5.1
Total real consumption per capita              -4.8   -2.4   -1.0    7.2   -3.8    3.4   -2.3    0.4
Exports of goods and nonfactor services         8.0    7.0    4.6   -8.3    8.5  113.5   17.0   11.8
Imports of goods and nonfactor services    -11.0    6.6    2.0    1.6    2.3  104.7    5.0    5.7
Cur. Acot. Bal., bef. grants (% of GDP)    -15.3  -14.8  -14.1  -14.8  -13.8  -20.4  -15.6  -13.4
Consumer price index                          ---      1.5    1.5    2.0    2.5   40.1    8.1    3.5
National Accounts
1/ GDP at constant prices (USS millions)        1964.4 2428.2 2285.7 2626.4 2408.4 1168.8 1212.9 1257.7
GDP at current prices (USS millions)        1964.4 2477.0 2383.2 2785.0 2631.1 1724.8 1935.4 2077.7
GDI/GDP                                        20.4   22.4   23.1   21.9   21.9   26.9   26.9   26.9
Private investment/GDP                        10.2   12.1   10.8   12.2   12.6   13.7   13.5   14.1
GDS/GDP                                         4.1    5.7    6.4    4.8    5.7    3.9    8.2   10.1
Private savings/GDP                             2.9    1.9    4.9    4.8    4.7    2.7    5.4    5.8
Public savings/GDP                              1.2    3.7    1.5    0.0    1.0    1.2    2.7    4.3
External Debt
Total debt outstanding (USS millions)        1991.0 2374.9 2452.3 2330.0 2374.0 2349.0 2270.5 2162.9
Total debt service (US$ million)              134.1  178.5  155.3  190.4  174.9  165.2  146.5  141.3
Debt outstanding/GDP (%)                      101.4   95.9  102.9   83.7   90.2  136.2  117.3  104.1
Debt Service/exp. of gds. and serv. (%)        41.9   42.5   36.6   43.7   40.0   38.3   29.7   26.0
Fiscal Indicators (% of GDP)
Central government rev., excl. grants          15.1   17.1   15.9   13.7   13.8   13.2   14.0   15.0
Central government expenditures                25.7   25.6   27.8   24.9   23.4   28.2   26.4   25.0
Current expenditures                           15.6   16.5   17.7   16.0   14.5   15.0   13.0   12.2
Capital expenditures                           10.1    9.1   10.1    8.9    8.9   13.2   13.4   12.8
Other
Population growth rate (%)                      2.5    2.5    2.5    2.5    2.5    2.5    2.5    2.5
1/ 1987 prices



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
TABLE 3
MPLI- BALANCE. OF PAYMENTS
(USS Millions)
1987    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996
Est.    Prog.       Proj.
Trade Balance                              -223.2  -279.5  -284.7  -351.0  -314.8  -295.2  -277.0  -271.1
Merchandise exports, f.o.b.       255.8   337.9   354.5   339.3   339.6   340.7   397.0   440.0
Merchandise imports, c.i.f.   -479.0  -617.3  -639.1  -690.2  -654.5  -635.9  -674.0  -711.1
Services (net)                             -128.1  -171.1  -139.3  -156,0  -1'8.2  -134.8  -108.5   -96.7
Credits                            63.9    91.8    80.5    87.3    88.0    92.6   104.2   112.9
Debits                           -191.9  -262.9  -219.8  -243.3  -226.2  -227.4  -212.7  -209.6
Private Transfers   (net)                    49.9    84.8    88.6    94.4    90.1    78.2    83.6    88.8
Current Acct Bal.(excl. public transfers)   -301.4  -365.8  -335.3  -412.5  -363.0  -351.7  -301.9  -279.0
Public  Transfers   (net)                   202.3   226.2   294.2   306.4   261.8   213.8   211.1   210.1
Current Acot Bal.(incl. public transfers)    -99.1  -139.6   -41.1  -106.2  -101.2  -137.9   -90.8   -68.9
Nonmonetary Capital                               47.9    76.0    68.8       5.3   -17.8    12.1    33.2    37.9
Public sector (net)                          53.9    82.6    65.2    12.8   -17.8    -5.3    16.0    21.0
Drawings                          129.1   193.9   174.8   146.2   105.8   105.8   121.1   122.7
Amortization                      -75.2  -111.3  -109.5  -133.4  -123.6  -111.1  -105.1  -101.7
Private sector (net)                         -6.0    -6.6      3.5    -7.6       0.0    17.4    17.2    17.0
Debt Relief                                       60.2   101.0    84.4   111.1   106.8    78.6    71.2    69.6
Errors and Omissions                              -1.7     4.0    24.8   -15.9    -6.6        0.0     0.0      0.0
Overall Balance (deficit -)                        7.3    41.5   136.8    -5.7   -18.8   -47.3    13.6    38.6
Financing                                        -7.3   -41.5  -136.8       5.7    18.8  -102.0   -83.3   -59.4
Net Foreign Assets                          -27.9   -51.8  -136.1    -9.8        1.4   -70.0   -83.3   -59.4
Net use of Fund resources         -69.2   -25.0    -9.6       7.9     5.2    31.4    34.5    -6.9
Revaluation Adjustment                        7.0    10.3    -4.6       1.5      0.0    ---    ---       ---
Payments arrears (reduction -)               13.6      0.0     3.9    14.0    17.5   -32.1        0.0     0.0
Financing Gap                                      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0   149.3    69.7    20.8



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
TABLE 4
MALI - Statement of Government Financial Operations
(In Billions of CFA francs)
1987   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996
Est.   Prog.      Proj.
Total revenue                          89.2  116.1  109.6  100.7  104.1  137.2  165.9  193.2
Total expenditure                    151.7  173.7  192.3  183.4  176.1  294.6  312.2  321.6
Current expenditure                63.0   66.5   82.0   86.0   87.9  136.6  138.9  141.1
Capital expenditure                59.9   61.9   69.5   65.5   67.3  137.4  158.6  164.7
Other                              28.8   45.3   40.8   31.9   20.9   20.6   14.7   15.8
overall Fiscal Bal. (comm. basis)  -62.5  -57.6  -82.7  -82.7  -72.0 -157.4 -146.3 -128.4
Changes in arrears                  6.1   -3.7    0.7    2.4    8.6  -28.0   -7.4    0.0
Adjustment to cash basis            0.6   -1.1   -4.3    2.5   -0.5   -3.0    0.0    0.0
overall Fiscal Bal. (cash basis)   -55.8  -62.4  -86.3  -77.8  -63.9 -188.4 -153.7 -128.4
Financing                             55.9   62.4   86.4   77.8   63.9   97.9  111.0  115.6
External Financing                 59.8   79.7   98.5   86.4   67.5  105.6  113.3  122.1
Grants                         31.2   39.6   56.2   53.6   42.0   61.3   66.0   66.0
Loans                          33.1   41.6   49.3   38.7   30.3   64.0   74.0   76.0
Amortization due              -22.6  -29.0  -30.9  -35.3  -35.4  -67.2  -64.2  -63.0
Debt relief                    18.1   27.5   23.9   29.4   30.6   47.5   43.5   43.1
Domestic Financing                 -3.9  -17.3  -12.1   -8.6   -3.6   -7.7   -8.3   -6.5
Banking system                 -3.6  -20.1  -10.8   -5.4   -1.3   -4.7   -7.4   -6.5
Other                          -0.3    2.8   -1.3   -3.2   -2.3   -3.0   -0.9    0.0
Financing gap                             0      0       0    0.0    0.0  -90.5  -42.7  -12.8
memo:
Current Surplus/GDP (%)                 6.2    9.6    5.8    3.8    3.9    2.6    4.1    5.6



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF MALI
STATUS OF WORLD BANK OPERATIONS
(As of January 31, 1994)
Amount in US$ million
(less cancellations)
Credit      IDA Fiscal                                                       Closing
Number           Year          Purpose                  IDA    Undisburspd      Date
Thirty eight (38) credits closed                     388.59
1629-MLI    1986      Highways V                      48.60  16.18        06/30/95(R)
1677-MLI    1986      Urban II                        28.00   3.19        03/31/94(R)
1906-MLI(S) 1988      Office Du Niger II              39.80  23.20        06/30/97
1938-MLI    1988      Public Enterprise Inst. Dev.   9.50   1.29          12/31/94
1998-NLI    1989      Power II                        33.00  26.79         12/31/95
2054-MLI(S) 1989      Human Resources SECAL           26.00  11.69         12/31/94
2163-MLI(S) 1990      Agricultural SECAL              53.00  19.48         12/31/96
2188-MLI(S) 1991      SAL I                           70.00  10.01         12/'1/94(R)
2217-MLI    1991      Health/Population/Rural         26.60  21.17         12/41/97
2235-MLI    1991      Agricultural Services           24.40  17.45         09/30/95
2370-MLI    1992      Natural Resources Nanagement  20.40  18.75           06/30/98
2371-MLI    1992      Public Works & Capacity Bldg  20.00  10.84           03/31/97
2390-MLI    1992      Mining Capacity                  6.00   5.69         06/30/97
2432-MLI    1993      Private Sector Assistance       12.00   9.66         12/31/99
2557-MLI    1994      Agricultural Research           20.00  19.57         12/31/01
TOTAL number of Credits - fifteen (15)               437.30
TOTAL (incl. closed projects)           825.89
of which repaid                          20.28
TOTAL held by IDA                       805.61
TOTAL undisbursed                       214.95
Notes:
---------------------------------------------
(R) indicates formally revised Closing Date
(S) indicates SAL/SECAL Loans and Credits
Closing dates are based upon the Loan Department official data and are not taken
from the Task Budget file.



AN_EX II
Page 2 of 2
REPUBLIC OF MALI
SUMMARY OF TFC INVESTMENTS
(As of December 31, 1993)
Original Gross Commitments
Fiscal                             Type of
-Year           Comoany           Ousiness              Loan         Eauitv       Total
--------USS MLN -------------
1978        Soci6t6 Mamadou       General                0.64        -            0.64
Sada Diallo and       Manufacturing
Frares (SOMACI)
1982        Soci6t6 indus-         Sheanut               1.85        0.45         2.30 2
trielle de            Processing
Karit6 (SIKA)
1991        Labo-Mali (AEF)       Medical Lab            0.11        -            0.11
1992        St6 Mini6re de        Mining                 21.7         1.4         23.1
Syama (SOMISY)
Gross Commitments                           24.30        1.85         26.15
LESS repayments,                            2.60         0.44         3.04
write-offs and
cancellations
NET commitments                             21.70        1.41
TOTAL UNDISBURSED                           4.98         -           4.98
held by IFC
Fully repaid.
2 Written off.



ANNEX III
REPUBLIC OF MALI
ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
TIMETABLE OF KEY PROCESSING EVENTS
1.    Time taken to prepare program:                   Two months
2.    Initial discussions with IDA:                    January 10-14, 1994
3.    Appraisal missionl:                              January 19 to February 3, 1994
4.    Negotiations:                                    February 28, 1994
5.    Board presentation:                              March 17, 1994
6.    Planned date of effectiveness:                   April 17, 19942
7.    Expected project completion:                     June 30, 1995
1/ This program was appraised in January 1994 by an IDA mission consisting of Messrs./Mmes. Hasan Tuluy,
Principal Country Officer, Victoria Kwakwa, Country Economist, Adriana de Leva, Economist (AF5CO), Linda
McGinnis, Resident Representative (Mali), and Youssouf Thiam, Economist (Mali Resident Mission). Ms.
Mireille Hansel (AF5CO) assisted with the processing of the operation. Ms. Katherine Marshall and Mr. Jean-
Louis Sarbib are the Department Director and the Managing Division Chief, respectively, for the operation and
Francois Laporte is the Lead Economist.
2/Legal Opinion in Mali requires ratification by Parliament which is currently in recess.



ANNEX IV
Page I of 14
(Translatlonfirom French Original)
REPUBLIC OF MALI
STATEMENT OF ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL POLICY
February 26, 1994
1.    Following consultation with the Heads of State and Government of African member
countries of the Franc Area, the Government of Mali decided to effect a comprehensive
adjustment of its economy, by complementing its pursuit of an austere budgetary and monetary
policy with a change in the parity of the CFA franc, which was fixed at CFAF 100 to F 1 effective
January 12, 1994.
2.    This decision to adjust the parity of the CFA franc should contribute significantly to
economic recovery and poverty reduction. With the set of accompanying measures associated
with it, the devaluation should make it possible to ensure a more competitive economy and to
achieve growth on a healthy and lasting basis. The objectives sought are an annual growth rate of
approximately 5 percent from 1995 and financial viability from 1997.
3.     The success of the new adjustment program is heavily dependent on the accompanying
measures introduced immediately following the parity adjustment. In the medium term, the
Government will continue to make its economic liberalization policy more comprehensive,
pursuing the structural reforms required to improve the economic environment, implementing
public investment programs hinged on the development of human resources, and supporting the
private sector. The purpose of this letter is twofold: (i) to describe the accompanying measures
that will be introduced by the Government in 1994, which is a crucial year for the success of the
adjustment; and (ii) to provide an overview of the Government's medium-term economic and
social policy, the details of which appear in the fourth policy framework paper. This policy
represents the framework in which the cooperation between Mali and the World Bank will take
place.
I. Economic Trends to End-1993
4.     Since 1982 and with renewed effort since 1988, Mali has been pursuing a series of
stabilization and structural adjustment programs. Since 1990, these programs have been
accompanied by a domestic adjustment strategy within the monetary context prevailing for
countries of the Franc Area (in particular, an exchange rate fixed at CFAF 50 to F 1). This
strategy was aimed at improving the competitiveness of the Malian economy, primarily by



STATEMENT OF ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL POLICY                                 ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 14
reducing costs and maintaining their structure and price levels below those of competitor
countries and its trading partners, in order to ensure sustained economic growth.
5.     For this strategy to succeed, extremely restrictive budgetary and monetary policies had to
be maintained. In particular, for domestic adjustment to be achieved, the management of
government resources had to be strengthened and, consequently, public sector absorption had to
be reduced. At the same time, the strategy involved seeking to promote private sector economic
activities through a set of economic and structural reforms. These reforms were aimed at
increasing productivity, diversifying agricultural production, and increasing the growth of the
industrial and commercial sectors. The strategy also encompassed the development of human
resources and the improvement of natural resource management.
6.     In order to implement this strategy, the Government introduced a series of specific
measures, consisting mainly of: (i) a restrictive wages policy, (ii) the liberalization of prices and
domestic trade, (iii) the simplification of the regulatory framework governing economic activities,
(iv) the simplification and rationalization of the tariff structure of domestic taxation, (v) state
disengagement from certain public enterprises and the strengthening of the management of
enterprises remaining in the government's portfolio, and (vi) increasing the share of the education
and health sectors in the recurrent budget.
7.     These programs produced some encouraging results. With the reduction and elimination
of certain of the more significant economic distortions, a better environment was created for the
recovery of economic activity. Following the liberalization, market mechanisms became more
important in the allocation of resources. As for macroeconomic equilibria, the budget deficit was
reduced from 12 percent of GDP in 1991 to 9.6 percent of GDP in 1993 and the rate of inflation
remained below 3 percent.
8.     In spite of these encouraging results, the basic objectives of a substantial improvement in
competitiveness and in economic growth were not achieved. The lack of competitiveness was
exacerbated by the continued appreciation of the CFA franc in light of devaluations in the
competitor countries (e.g., Ghana, Nigeria, and countries of Southern Asia) and by the fall in the
price of cotton on the world market. The overall economic growth rate for the period 1988-92
(approximately 3.7 percent annually on average) was still not enough to ensure a perceptible
improvement in per capita income, notwithstanding a slight improvement compared with the
period 1983-87 (3 percent annually on average). Moreover, these averages mask very uneven
developments, with years of strong growth alternating with periods of recession, mainly because
of variations in rainfall trends and a rather high rate of demographic growth.
9.     Following a decade of adjustment, Mali's outlook for development remains hampered by
major obstacles, especially the weak productivity of the production systems and the continued



STATEMENT OF ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL POLICY                                 ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 14
degradation of the environment, the absence of basic infrastructures (roads, energy, and
telecommunications), weak human resource development and an absence of control over
population problems, and a precarious government finance and balance of payments position.
II. Program for 1994
10.    Given the poor results of internal adjustment and in order to increase economic growth
in a sustainable manner and attain domestic and external financial viability, the Malian
Government decided to deepen its structural adjustment strategy. The key factor of this new
strategy is the realignment of the parity of the CFA franc from CFAF 50 to CFAF 100 for F 1.
I1.    The Government is aware of the need to accompany the change in the parity of the CFA
franc with a coherent set of appropriate macroeconomic and structural measures, in order to
enable Mali to take full advantage of the change in parity. These measures are aimed at ensuring:
(i) that the positive effects of the devaluation are not eroded by an inflationary fiscal or monetary
policy; (ii) that the appreciation in CFA franc values of agricultural exports are passed on to the
producers, so that they will be encouraged to produce more; (iii) that the conditions exist for an
economic environment that encourages a strong supply response; and (iv) that the short-term
negative impact of the devaluation on the poorest social classes are eased through appropriate
social interventions.
Price policy
12.    In order to increase the efficiency of resource allocation in the economy, the Government
has gradually liberalized the prices of all consumer goods since 1986 and in 1992, abolished the
import monopolies, including the one in the petroleum sector. This strategy led to the end of
administered prices in Mali, except those for water, electricity, and telecommunications. The
Government will maintain this price liberalization policy. Price increases will be eased by way of
tax relief measures and by the prudent incomes and demand policies described below. The
Government will carry out a vast national persuasion and information campaign aimed at
sensitizing consumers and business people, so as to reduce the risk of inflationary expectations
that could lead to slippages in the prices of certain high-consumption products. In addition, the
Government will ensure that any slow-downs in the flows of imports of certain key products do
not contribute to future pressures on prices. For water, electricity, and telecommunications,
prices were adjusted by 15-30 percent to reflect cost increases as a result of the change in parity.
The rise in petroleum product prices was contained between 0 percent and 30 percent.



STATEMENT OF ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL POLICY                                  ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 14
Accompanying social measures
13.    The comprehensive adjustmeit strategy adopted by the Government is aimed at
improving the population's standard of living and reducing poverty. In the short term, however,
the change in parity will have negative effects for certain sections of the population. The
Government has irittoduced social accompanying measures aimed at reducing such effiects and
protecting the poorest social classes. In particular, these measures cons,st of:
(a)  Controlling the rise in prices for sensitive produicts with a large share in the basket
of household consumption, through import duty arrangements. The overall rate of of taxation on
key products has been reduced from: 99.1 percent to 42.6 percent for rice; 99.1 percent to
29.6 percent for sugar; and 77.1 percent to 64.2 percent for oil. The taxation on basic generic
medicines was reduced to the minimum rate of 6 percent;
(b)  Maintaining the prices of basic generic medicines supplied by the public sector and
private non-profit sector at the same level as before the change in parity, through a budgetary
subsidy;
(c)  Speeding up the implementation of the AGETIPE project activities and preparing a
supplement to expand the project, in order to facilitate the creation of labor-intensive
employment; and;
(d) Earmarking a sum of CFAF 13 billion in the 1994 budget to meet social
intervention needs. A committee will be created to manage and coordinate the use of these funds
and to propose and select other priority social interventions during the year.
Government finance
14.    The success of the Government's policy to restrict demand and provide incentives for
saving will depend, to a large extent, on its capacity to strengthen the budgetary position. The
1 Q94 hi idaet snhnted hv the Government in Fehniarv nrovides fnr the overill  :  -  I-* 
over expenditure and an increase in revenue, so that the objectives set for 1994 can be achieved.
Any revenue loss or overruns, with respect to the wage bill objective will be offset by corrective
measures, so that the program objectives can be attained in the area of government finance.
Should the export price of cotton be less than CFAF 745 per metric ton, as estimated in the
program, the fiscal impact will be offset by measures to increase revenue or reduce expenditure.
15.    Revenue. The Government will place special emphasis on expanding the tax base,
strengthening collections, and reducing tax fraud. In order to contain any rise in domestic prices



STATEMENT OF ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL POLICY                                 ANNEX IV
Page 5 of 14
and costs, the Government has taken the following fiscal measures: (i) the maximum cumulative
import tax rates are reduced to 36 percent, and the minimum rate is fixed at 6 percent; (ii) the
special import tax [taxe conjoncturelle a l'importation] and the digressive protection tax [taxe
degressive de protection] were suspended; (iii) in order to ensure a more equitable distribution of
the tax burden and consequently to harmonize the conditions for competition within the economy,
the corporate income tax is reduced to 35 percent; the tax on individual entrepreneurs is reduced
to 15 percent; and the tax on craftsmen is reduced to 10 percent; and (iv) the present three-rate
VAT system is maintained, with the maximum rate reduced from 17 percent to 15 percent. The
number of VAT-exempt products has been reduced to the strict minimum. All these measures
should make it possible to mobilize a total revenue of CFAF 137.2 billion in 1994.
16.    Expenditure. Total expenditure, on a commitments basis, will be limited to
CFAF 294.6 billion in 1994. The wage bill will be contained at CFAF 45 billion, and salary
increases granted in 1994 will not exceed 10 percent and will take effect after March 31, 1994 out
of a concern to avoid starting an inflationary spiral likely to send the wrong signals to other
sectors of the economy. In addition, the Government will ensure there are no new net
recruitments in the civil service in 1994. All allowances will also be blocked. While the
Government has ensured the containment of current expenditure in keeping with the overall
macroeconomic framework, it has taken care not to deprive the country's essential services of the
appropriations that are indispensable for their maintenance and, in some cases, for strengthening
their activities. While special attention was paid to restricting non-essential expenditure, certain
operating appropriations in the area of tax administration, health, and education were raised.
17.    As for the public sectores domestic payment arrears, an exhaustive inventory is to be
prepared by end-September 1994, in order to determine and audit the amounts of these arrears.
Once the net central government arrears have been audited, a schedule will be established for their
payment over a period not exceeding three years. In addition, the already audited stock of
approximately CFAF 14.2 billion will be reduced by CFAF 8.6 billion in 1994. The Government
will from now on ensure the strict enforcement of the procedures for executing expenditure for
materials and equipment by government administrations, with a view to avoiding the accumulation
of further extrabudgetary arrears, and it will impose severe penalties on any government official
who commits extrabudgetary expenditure.
18.    In consultation with the World Bank, the Government has adopted a three-year public
investment program for 1994-96, totaling CFAF 460 billion. In the program selected for 1994,
priority is given to the rural sector, which will absorb 41 percent of the resources, and
infrastructures, which accounts for 16 percent of the total.
19.    Monetary policy. Credit policy in 1994 will be characterized by prudence. The increase
in net credit to the central government will be limited to 0.5 percent of beginning-of-period money



STATEMENT OF ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL POLICY                                  ANNEX IV
Page 6 of 14
stock between January and December 1994, compared with the money stock at the beginning of
1994, while the increase in domestic credit will be limited to 11.5 percent. The money stock will
increase by 36.8 percent. Pending the stabilization of monetary conditions, the discount rate was
raised from 10.5 percent to 14.5 percent on January 18, 1994. In the pursuit of financial sector
rehabilitation, the situation of the primary banks will be more closely monitored. An assessment
will be made of the impact of the change in parity on their financial structure and, if necessary, the
Government will seek the assistance of the donor community to deal with any problems that may
arise in this sector.
Structural policies
20.    The structural measures in the program are designed to enable Mali take full advantage
of the enhancement of the economy's competitiveness as a result of the change in parity. Given
the importance of agriculture in the economy, a particular effort will be devoted to speeding up
the reforms in this sector. To revitalize the private sector, the Government has decided to
accelerate the public enterprise reform program, particularly the ongoing privatizations.
Agricultural policy
21.    Cotton. The Government will pursue the restructuring of the subsector through the
amended performance contract it will sign with the CMDT by end-June 1994 for the purpose of
increasing the subsectors flexibility and capacity to adapt to world price fluctuations. Priority
objectives include continuing to reduce the average production cost of cotton fiber, maintaining a
level of seed cotton production that is compatible with processing capacities and adjusting
producer prices in keeping with trends in world prices, and increasing the production of first-
grade cotton. Consequences of the change in parity will be the absorption of the cotton subsector
deficit and the possibility of increasing producer prices, while realizing a surplus (following
transfers to the stabilization fund and after payment of the premium and business profits tax). The
floor producer price for first-grade cotton will be increased by at least 35 percent (from CFAF 85
per kg to at least CFAF 1 15 per kg) for the 1994/95 crop year. This increase has already been
announced and will be ratified during negotiations between producers, the CMDT, and the
Government scheduled for March. For the current 1993/94 crop year, a premium of CFAF 12.5
per kg of seed cotton will be paid to producers at the end of the crop year.
22.    Cereals. The beneficial impact of the set of reforms already introduced within the
framework of the first structural adjustment program is particularly noteworthy in the cereals
subsector. The combined impact of the program to liberalize the cereals market and crop seasons
with good rainfall produced a sharp increase in production; so much so, that Mali is today self-
sufficient in cereals. The change in parity will generate more benefits for this subsector by
providing it with protection and opening up the possibility of exporting cereals to the markets of



STATEMENT OF ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL POLICY                                 ANNEX IV
Page 7 of 14
countries in the subregion. With this aim in mind, the Government will continue to improve the
operations of the cereals market and the productivity of the sector, by strengthening agricultural
extension services. By end-March 1994, the Government will finalize and sign with OPAM a new
performance contract, providing especially for OPAM to limit its role primarily to managing food
security stocks and distributing food aid.
23.    Rice represents considerable export potential for Mali. The change in parity creates an
opportunity for the realization of this potential, on the condition that certain other measures are
also introduced. For this purpose, the Government will actively pursue the reforms already being
implemented in the subsector. The restructuring of the Office du Niger will continue in 1994.
The new Office du Niger, created in January 1994 with the status of a public industrial and
commercial institution (EPIC) and a small staff, will have as its only functions: (i) a permanent
water management and facilities maintenance role; (ii) a temporary role as the public service with
delegated oversight responsibility for studies and works supervision; (iii) the maintenance of
primary infrastructures; and (iv) agricultural extension services. The Office's permanent mission
should be funded by user fees paid by producers, and its government delegated mission, by a
suitable budget appropriation. Other commercial and industrial activities of the former Office du
Niger will be transferred to semipublic companies that will be established by end-1994. Primarily,
these will be a rice milling company and a works company, in which government equity will not
exceed 20 percent. The assets remaining after the transfer of the main activities to the new Office
du Niger, will be managed as government property pursuant to a conservatorship arrangement
that should, by end-1995, ensure the transfer or liquidation of all activities of the former Office du
Niger. The restructuring will involve a round of dismissals or departures affecting about 540
persons. Given that departure conditions were negotiated in late-1993, departures should actually
have taken place by end-1994.
24.    The livestock subsector will benefit from the rise in the price of imported meat (and other
imported livestock products) that took place in the entire subregion following the devaluation.
The change in parity makes it possible to reconquer these subregional markets. In this spirit, the
Government has already announced, among the accompanying measures, the suppression of the
business license on livestock exports. The Government will consider appropriate measures for
facilitating and developing livestock exports, particularly with respect to means of transportation,
receiving infrastructures, and hygienic conditions, in order to make the most of Mali's
comparative advantage in an area where the quality of its products is recognized in the countries
of the area.
25.    Operations concerning the privatization of the Upper Kala complex (sugar) will be
accelerated as much as possible, while the Government will make every effort to raise, as soon as
possible, the external resources needed for reforming the five other rural development operations.



STATEMENT OF ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL POLICY                                 ANNEX IV
Page 8 of 14
26.    Public enterprises reform. The Government will pursue its program of public enterprises
reformn, with the major objective of restructuring and strengthening the management of a number
of essential enterprises and privatizing or liquidating those from which the Government of Mali
has decided to divest itself in the framework of its overall economic strategy. By end-1994, the
Government will complete the conversion of COMATEX into a semipublic company and the
privatization of Union Laitiere de Bamako (ULB), Operation d'Equipement Rural (OTER), Office
dExploitation des Ressources du Haut Niger (OERHN) and Office des Relais Touristiques
(ORT). In 1993, the Government decided to transfer the Selingue development from the OERHN
to the EDM, effective January 1, 1994, and to delegate the management of the EDM to a
professional enterprise for a five-year period (1994-98). These measures will be initiated by end-
June 1994. The final settlement of the liquidated or privatized public enterprises' debts will also
be completed by end-1994, through the issuance of Treasury notes for the amount corresponding
to government debt net of any offsetting, i.e., CFAF1O billion as at end-1993. By end-1994, the
activities of the Bureau of Public Enterprises, which is responsible for the reform program, will be
the subject of a detailed evaluation, designed to give said activities greater impetus and
transparency.
HII. Medium-Term Objectives and Strat
27.    The fourth policy framework paper just negotiated between IMF and World Bank staffs
in January 1994 describes the Government's medium-term strategy and provides the framework
for the cooperation between Mali and the World Bank. It is placed within an overall sectoral
approach to longer-tern objectives. The policy framework paper was signed and adopted by the
Government on FebruaTy 17, 1994. An overview of this strategy and other key factors of the
sectoral policies are summarized below.
28.    Three key factors of the strategy are: (i) a change in parity from CFAF 50 to CFAF 100
for F 1, which will contribute to restoring the competitiveness of the economy and should, as a
result, lead to growth in import substitution activities and in exports, particularly of cotton, gold,
and livestock products; (ii) the pursuit of a restrictive demand policy centered on a reduction in
the resources absorbed by the public sector and seeking to ensure that the positive effects of the
devaluation are not eroded by an acceleration in the inflation rate; and (iii) a strengthening of the
structural reforms, designed to accelerate the development of a dynamic private sector and ensure
a strong supply response. It reflects an overall approach that takes account of the entire
production system and will be placed in a context of the administration's decentralization,
strengthened consultation that ensures the participation of the beneficiaries in the preparation and
implementation of the measures, actions, or projects, and increased regional integration.



STATEMENT OF ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL POLICY                                  ANNEX IV
Page 9 of 14
Macroeconomic objectives
29.    This strategy should enable Mali to achieve a real GDP growth rate of about 5 percent
annually as of 1995, which would mean an annual increase of approximately 2 percent in per
capita income and the gradual reduction of poverty, especially in rural areas. The rate of inflation
should decrease gradually from 35 percent in 1994, returning by 1996 to the low annual levels of
2-3 percent that it held in recent years.
30.    The external current account deficit (excluding government transfers) should be reduced
from 20.4 percent of GDP in 1994 to 13.4 percent in 1996, mainly through a growth in exports.
In the medium term, imports should grow moderately, owing to the prudent demand policy and
the reorientation toward local products. The balance of payments should reach a viable situation
from 1997. For a sustainable rehabilitation of government finance, it will be indispensable to
achieve current balance surpluses, excluding grants, as of 1994. The overall deficit will be limited
to the equivalent of 15.1 percent of GDP in 1994 and gradually brought down to 10 percent in
1996, through a substantial improvement in revenue and effective control of current expenditure.
31.    In order to achieve the rate of growth envisaged, the level of investment must be
maintained in real terms and its efficiency must be improved. The planned macroeconomic and
structural measures should lead to an increase in domestic saving from 5.7 percent of GDP in
1993 to 10.1 percent in 1996, while government saving should increase from 1 percent to
4.3 percent during the same period. The share of private investment should also increase
significantly in response to the restoring of competitiveness in terms of relative prices, the
continued liberalization of the regulatory framework, and the effective implementation of
measures designed to stimulate private initiative. This will thus contribute to the improvement of
the overall effectiveness of investment.
Structural policies
32.    The structural measures in the program are aimed essentiallv at improving private sector
competitiveness, diversifying production, and increasing the profitability of activities in agriculture
and mining, in particular. Growth potential will also be strengthened through increased efforts in
favor of human resources development, in particular through an increase in the rate of school
enrollment, public health improvement, and the strengthening of institutional capacity. The
agricultural sector should benefit from restructuring in cotton, the improved efficiency in rice
production, and the emphasis placed on agriculture, particularly food production, under the public
investment program. The secondary sector should benefit considerably from the improvement in
competitiveness, the liberalization of the economic and legal framework, and the expansion of the
gold sector.



STATEMENT OF ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL POLICY                                 ANNEX IV
Page 10 of 14
Agricultural sector
33.    The rural development sector plays an essential role in the economic and social life of
Mali, contributing 45 percent of GDP, representing about 50 percent of exports, and employing
80 percent of the population. In spite of the rapid growth recorded in the sector for some years,
the sector remains excessively vulnerable to climatic vagaries. Productivity in the sector is limited
by the extreme inadequacy of the technological level and production systems, and by insufficient
basic infrastructure. The change in parity, supported by the macro financial policies presented
above, creates an advantageous context for attaining the objectives of strengthening the
competitiveness of export subsectors (cotton and textile products, livestock and its subproducts,
rice in the near future, firuits, and vegetables) and expanding the national market in local products.
For this purpose, the Government will pursue and accelerate the ongoing restructuring in cotton,
rice, and cereals.
34.    Natural resource management is critical to the sustainable development of Mali. The
rapid degradation of the soil, vegetation, and water represents the most serious environmental
problem faced by the country today. This degradation hampers the development of productivity
in the rural economy and lessens its viability. This problem is exacerbated by the size of the
demographic pressure and by traditional cultivating practices. The Government's natural resource
management policy is based on the principle of making local communities responsible for the
management of all natural resources, in an overall approach that takes account of the entire
production system. In keeping with this principle, preliminary studies were prepared on the law
relating to land ownership, on the basis of which grassroots communities will formulate concrete
proposals for a new legal and institutional framework aimed at improving natural resource
management. The national plan for the fight against desertification that was updated in 1987, the
blueprint for water planning and treatment (1989), and the document on the economic strategy for
domestic energy sources (1993) include priority programs and provide for the increased
involvement of rural communities in the management of all natural resources. The natural
resource management project initiated in 1993 provides for a joint natural resource management
program for the agricultural, pastoral, and forestry subsectors. An evaluation and monitoring unit
was created in 1993 within the Ministry of the Environment, with responsibility for defining an
environmental strategy and monitoring the impact of projects on the environment. The
Environmental Action Plan is being prepared and will be completed by end-1994.
Private sector promotion
35.    The Government is firrly convinced that industrial and commercial activities should be
left to private initiative. The change in parity provides the private sector with new, profitable
opportunities that have remained inaccessible to date because of cheap imports. In order to



STATEMENT OF ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL POLICY                                    ANNEX IV
Page 11 of 14
encourage the private sector to avail itself fully of these opportunities, the Government intends to
consolidate previous gains and to make the reforms already initiated more comprehensive. In
particular, the Government will pay particular attention to improving the legislative and regulatory
framework, rehabilitating and strengthening the financial system, accelerating the public enterprise
reforms, and developing the basic infrastructure.
36.    The Government will also pay special attention to improving the operations of the one-
stop agency designed to facilitate the creation of private enterprises. Finally, with the adoption of
revised labor and trade codes in 1992, priority will be given to the operations of the judicial
apparatus and to improving its efficiency: in particular, administrative courts will be established in
a number of regions and the trade courts will be made fully operational.
37.    The implementation of the recently completed first public enterprises adjustment
program revealed the limitations of the present privatization mechanisms. The Governrent will
set up a true legislative and regulatory framework for the privatization of public enterprises, in
which all the procedures will be spelled out and a system of implementation will be established.
The Government v..1 make arrangements to ensure that the reforms program is completed by
end-1 996. Steps will also be taken for the continued strengthening of the performance of those
enterprises remaining in the Government's portfolio.
38.    Basic infrastructure. For a landlocked country such as Mali, where economic activities
and urbanization are scattered over a vast territory and which relies on foreign and regional trade,
infrastructures, particularly transportation, represent a key factor in development, private sector
promotion, and the competitiveness of the economy. Today, transportation accounts for
approximately 20-30 percent of the cost of most essential goods. Government policy is aimed at
improving the efficiency of transportation sector operations in the medium term, through more
comprehensive action in favor of the development of healthy competition between transportation
means and enterprises, as well as the improvement of the state of existing infrastructures,
especially roads and railways, by an adequate maintenance policy and continuation of the opening-
up process. The Government's policy in the transportation sector is set out in its Letter of
General Policy concerning the sector, adopted on November 2, 1993. The actions are aimed,
among other things, at: (i) absorbing the excess capacity of the road transportation industry; (ii)
improving the operations of international transportation routes; (iii) pursuing the restructuring of
the public enterprises in the sector; (iv) improving the recovery of costs for infrastructure use; (v)
reorganizing the administration of transportation and infrastructure maintenance; and (vi)
improving the security and conditions for taking charge of rural transportation and roads. At the
same time, a major investment program hinged upon the rehabilitation and maintenance of a
priority infrastructure network will be pursued as part of the enhancement of road infrastructures.
In addition, the Government will continue to improve the living environment in urban and rural



STATEMENT OF ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL POLICY                                   ANNEX IV
Page 12 of 14
areas (sanitation, water supplies, garbage disposal, etc.), develop a sustainabie municipal policy,
and establish appropriate mechanisms for funding housing.
Human resource development
39.    Human resource development, supported by a veritable population policy, is a
prerequisite to increasing productivity and reducing poverty.
40.    Public health. The main objective of Mali's health policy is access to primary health
services for all by 2020. Priority in health is given to rural and suburban areas, primary health
care, disease prevention, the promotion of family health and well-being, and the health needs of
mothers and children. For this purpose, the Government will take steps with a view to:
(i) expanding access to health services, i.e., increasing their coverage and utilization; (ii)
improving the quality of the services; and (iii) making the local community health system viable
through the rational and efficient use of resources (personnel, medicine, finance, equity) and the
organization of participation by the people. This policy will be strongly based on private initiative
as far as concerns the direct provision of medical services and on the decentralization of the
management of health services. The policy with respect to medicines is aimed at making basic
generic medicines available and reasonably priced throughout Mali. The Government will ensure
that the share of the health sector in recurrent expenditure is gradually increased, to reach
10 percent in 1996.
41.    Education. In the field of education, the Government's major priority will be to raise the
enrollment ratio at the primary level. This rise should also be accompanied by an improvement in
the quality of education at all levels, with a view to ensuring a better match between the supply of
education and the needs of the labor market. For this purpose, the Govermnent will implement:
(i) a policy of double shifts at the primary level; (ii) the redeployment of teachers occupying
administrative positions to teaching positions, particularly starting with the Bamako region, while
identifying additional needs for teachers, and recruiting teachers; (iii) the legislation required to
encourage the development of private and communal schools; and (iv) the restructuring of
expenditure in the sector so as to increase the share of the primary level in total education
expenditure gradually.
42.    With a view to a better utilization of expenditure in the sector, the Government will
pursue the rationalization of expenditure on scholarships at the secondary and university levels.
In particular, measures will be taken to control the number of scholarship holders and the content
of expenditure on instructional materials. In addition, the authorities are commnitted to
strengthening the application of the measures to rationalize spending on scholarships-stipends by,
among other things: (a) applying entitlement criteria in order to give a boost to academic
performance and offer more access to the poorest students; and (b) leading debate on orientation



STATEMENT OF ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL POLICY                                  ANNEX IV
Page 13 of 14
policy, in order to gain control of flows of pupils and students at the post-basic levels. These
measures should lead to a gradual decline in the ratio of spending on scholarships-stipends to
expenditure on the first basic six years of primary education.
Institutional development
43.    The improper functioning of public institutions has considerably hampered development.
Given the failure of the development strategy centered on a dominant public sector with its largely
ill-adapted structures and the continuous difficulties of applying decisions, the Government has
reassessed the functions of general government. A basic factor in this reassessment is the aim of
decentralizing government authority (administrative decisions and development actions) and the
people's assumption of responsibility for their own future, through community and private
initiatives. This will make it possible to create a government administration with new dimensions,
organized to give better proof of management capacities.
44.    For the administration to be effective, the quality of its personnel must also be
strengthened. The necessary steps will be taken to improve the capacities and productivity of
fiscal--especially customs and tax--services. This improvement will concern, first of all, the
computerization of the financial administrations and the constitution of a central computer file for
each taxpayer. A program of training and periodic retraining for staff and a complement of
material resources are also to be provided. The control of public expenditure, current
expenditure, and investment requires better programming, execution, and monitoring. In order to
improve selection and evaluation and ensure rigorous follow-up of the financial and concrete
execution of the three-year investment program, the Government will provide the planning units
that have just been created within the key ministries with material and financial resources to make
them operational and enable them to play their role in the evaluation and selectioni of investment
projects.
45.    The Government will pursue and strengthen the actions already under way with respect
to improving the statistics base, in the interests of sound economic and financial management.
These actions concern mainly the strict application of the law on statistics, the regular monitoring
of macroeconomic indicators, the collection and analysis of the data required for establishing
social indicators, and the updating of a centralized statistical database.
Regional integration
46.    During the Dakar meeting of January 10-11, 1994, the UMOA Heads of State signed the
treaty converting the Monetary Union into an Economic and Monetary Union. This treaty
provides for the setting up of mechanisms aimed at ensuring the convergence of national
economic policies and their harmonization with the Union's monetary policy, and the



STATEMENT OF ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL POLICY                                  ANNEX IV
Page 14 of 14
standardization of taxation and foreign trade rules for the countries in question. These
mechanisms will join those that are already being used at the monetary level. Together, they will
constitute an asset for complying with the restrictive fiscal and monetary policies that are
necessary for the success of the adjustment program. The UEMOA economic area will also make
it possible to increase the region's economic productions through the expansion of markets and
economies of scale. This will enhance the growth of exports from the countries in the Union.
UEMOA will also give greater weight to countries of the subregion in their economic relations
with their partners.



ANNEX V
Page 1 of 2
MALI ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
ACTION MATRIX FOR 1994
1. MACROECONOMIC POLICIES
Realignment of the exchange rate, fixed at 100 CFAF for I FF                                   January 12, 1994
PUBLIC FINANCE
Limit increases in minimum wage rates to 10%                                                 after March 31, 1994
Limit increases in civil service salaries and in public and parapublic sector pensions to 10%  after March 31, 1994
Set civil service wage bill ceiling in 1994 budget at CFAF 45.0 billion                        January 30,1994
Ensure no net new recruitment in civil service in 1994                                              1994
Freeze all civil service benefits                                                                    1994
Limit student scholarship payments to CFAF 5.9 billion: CFAF 3.9 billion for direct monetary tansfers  1994
to students, and CFAF 2 billion to institutions, for expenditures on didactic materials
Eliminate the entire stock of external payments arrears of CFAF 19.4 billion                        1994
Reduce domestic arrears by at least CFAF 8.6 billion                                                 1994
MONETARY POLICY
Limit increase in net credit to central govemment to 0.5% relative to beginning-of-period money stock  1994
Limit increase in credit to the economy to 11.5%                                                    1994
Limit increase in money supply to 36.8%                                                             1994
Increase the Central Bank discount rate from 10.5% to 14.5%                                    January 18, 1994
TARIFF AND TAXATION POLICY
Reduce maximum cummulative tariff rate to 36% and set minimum rate at 6%                       January 30, 1994
Suspend variable protection tax on sugar and rice imports, and the declining protection tax    January 30, 1994
Abolish all ad hoc exemptions                                                                  January 30, 1994
Reduce the corporate income tax rate to 35%, the tax on individual entrepreneurs to 15% and the tax
on craftsmen to 10%                                                                            January 30, 1994
Maintain the existing TVA structure of three rates, and reduce maxinmum rate from 17h to 15%,  January 30, 1994
Reduce exemptions to a limited number of goods.                                                January 30, 1994



ANNEX V
Page 2 of 2
2. STRUCTURAL POLICIES
PRICE POLICY
Limit increases in the prices of water, electricity and teleconununications to within 10 to 20%  January 30, 1994
Reduce taxation on petroleum products such that price increases are limited within 0 to 30%    January 30, 1994
AGRICULTURAL POLICY
Increase producer price of first quality cotton from CFAF 85/kg to at least CFAF 115/kg for the
1994/95 crop year                                                                              January 30, 1994
Propose payment of a premium of CFAF 12.5/kg to cotton producers for the 1993/94 crop year        April 1994
Finalize and sign the revised performance contract with the CMDT                                  June 1994
Complete restructuring of Office du Niger                                                         June 1994
Sign revised performance contract with OPAM                                                      March 1994
Finalize National Environmental Action Plan                                                     December 1994
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM
Finalize settlement of residual debts of liquidated or privatised public enterprises of CFAF 10 billion  1994
Transform COMATEX into a mixed capital company                                                      1994
Privatise ULB, OTER, OERHN, ORT                                                                     1994
Delegate management of EDM to a private professional partner                                     June 1994
3. ACCOMPANYING SOCIAL MEASURES
Allocate CFAF 13 billion in the budget for 1994, for social safety mes.ures, including health (in   1994
particular ternporary subsidies on essential generic medicines) and education sector expenditures, and
fnancing of labor intensive public works.



