Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15656
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BHUTAN
SECOND FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1900-BHU)
May 28, 1996
Agricultural and Water Operations Division
Country Department II
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BHUTAN
SECOND FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Creditl900-BHU)
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Conversion Rate                  Conversion Rate
Project Year                     (Nu./US$)                        (US$/SDR)
1987/88                          13.0                              1.30
1988/89                          13.0                              1.25
1989/90                          16.7                              1.32
1990/91                          18.3                              1.42
1991/92                          25.8                              1.38
1992/93                          29.9                              1.34
1993/94                          31.4                              1.38
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
July 1-June 30
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The International Metric System is Used Throughout This Report.
ABBREVIATIONS
BLC                        Bhutan Logging Corporation
DCA                       Development Credit Agreement
DFO                       Divisional Forest Officer
ERR                       Economic Rate of Return
FAO                       Food and Agriculture Organization
FD                        Forest Department
IDA                       International Development Association
IRR                       Internal (Financial) Rate of Return
Nu                        Bhutan Ngultrum
RGOB                      Royal Government of Bhutan
SAR                       Staff Appraisal Report
SDC                       Swiss Development Cooperation
SDR                       Special Drawing Rights
SwF                       Swiss Franc
TA                        Technical Assistance
UNDP                      United Nations Development Program
US$                       United States Dollars
WB                        World Bank



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
The World Bank
Washingon, DC 20433
USA
ofce of the Director-General
Openron Evaluaton
May 28, 1996
OED EVALUATIVE MEMORANDUM
ON PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Bhutan: Second Forestry Development Project (Credit 1900-BHU)
The Bhutan Second Forestry Development project, supported by Credit 1900-BHU for SDR 0.8
million (US$1.06 million equivalent) and US$1.03 million reallocated from the Bhutan First Forestry
Development project, Credit 1460-BHU, was approved in FY88. The credit closed on schedule in FY94.
The project was cofinanced with a contribution of SwF8 million (US$5 million equivalent) from the
Swiss Development Corporation (SDC). The credit was not fully disbursed because foreign exchange
gains made more local currency available than expected, and implementation proceeded faster than
planned. At completion, an undisbursed balance of SDR 198,000 (US$262,000 equivalent) was
canceled. The Project Completion Report (PCR) was prepared by the South Asia Regional Office.
Comments by the borrower are included as Part 2.
The project was prepared in response to borrower concern over increased degradation of
Himalayan forest areas caused by insect infestations that endangered tens of thousands of hectares of
forest in three western districts of Bhutan. The objectives of the project were to: (i) strengthen the
capacities of the Bhutan Logging Corporation (BLC) and the Forest Department (FD) in the fields of
forest pest management, forest management planning, reforestation and harvesting; (ii) salvage and
market insect-damaged trees before they deteriorated; and (iii) reforest affected areas. These objectives
were to be met through project components for forest pest management; mechanized logging; road
construction; workshop provision and upgrading; forest nursery development; reforestation; marketing
support; and strengthened management of the BLC.
The project had a satisfactory outcome, was well designed, with a clear conceptual foundation
and pragmatic objectives. A pre-project year in which several start-up activities were initiated provided
experience from which subsequent implementation benefited. Experience gained by SDC, in the
Integrated Forestry Development Project in Central Bhutan, and technical assistance provided by
UNDP/FAO, also provided valuable experience on aspects of project design and implementation. As a
result, the project achieved most of its major objectives, establishing a capacity to monitor and control
forest pests, introducing mechanized logging, building roads in ways that limit erosion, and
strengthening management of BLC. Forest nursery and road construction exceeded their targets
substantially, and forest regeneration approached 92 percent of the planned target. Accounting and
management information systems were established. Logging activity was below expectations, however,
achieving only 68 percent of the planned area and 35 percent of the planned volume. But this was partly
a result of the project bringing pest infestations under control quickly, and partly the result of changes in
government policy which placed a moratorium on logging in areas without forest management plans.
The Economic Rate of Return was reestimated to be 39 percent, slightly below the 42 percent estimated
at appraisal, but still very high. The Financial Rate of Return, however, was reestimated to be only 2
percent, well below the 55 percent estimated at appraisal. The cause of this decline was the government
requirement that BLC price its domestic products well below the market price, providing a substantial,
This document has a retricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of their
officil duties. lIts contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Worid Bank authorizaton.



uncompensated subsidy to domestic consumers of logs and timber, and undermining prospects for
sustainability.
The Operations Evaluation Department (OED) rates the outcome of the project as satisfactory
and institutional development as substantial. Sustainability is rated as uncertain because BLC has been
unable to set prices for its products which cover its operating costs, plus a reserve for equipment financed
under the project, and a modest profit.
Lessons learned from this project are: (i) high quality at entry and borrower commitment
contribute to satisfactory project outcome; (ii) cofinancing and technical assistance can contribute to
effective project performance, but the details of these relationships should be defined during project
preparation, not after credit approval; and (iii) clear definition of, and commitment to, policies on natural
resource use and pricing must be sought during project preparation to avoid disagreements during
implementation.
The PCR is satisfactory, providing a comprehensive account of project preparation,
implementation, results and future outlook. The PCR includes project performance indicators, the aide
memoire of the PCR mission, an operational plan for the post-project period through 1997, and a post-
implementation assessment of the forest pest management situation. Part 2, however, fails to address the
issue of financial sustainability of BLC.
No audit is planned.
Robert Picciotto
by Ulrich Thumm
Attachment



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BHUTAN
SECOND FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1900-BHU)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE ...................................................                                   i
EVALUATION SUN4MARY               ........................      ........................... ii
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE ....................                           1
1. Project Identity.                                                                  1
2. Background.                                                                        1
3.  Project Objectives and Description                            .2
4.  Project Concept and Design.                                                       3
5. Project Implementation.                                                            4
6. Project Results.                                                                   7
7.  Sustainability of Future Operations.                                              9
8. BankPerformance .10
9. Borrower Performance .                                                             1
10.  Performance by Co-Financiers and Others .1 1
11. Project Relationship .11
12. Lessons Learned .                                                                1
14. Project Documentation and Data .12
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ........................... 13
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornmce of their
ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wi hout World Bank authorization.



PART m . STATISTICAL INFORMATION ..............................   14
1.  Related Bank Loans and Credits .14
2. Project Timetable .15
3. Credit Disbursements .16
4.    Project Implementation ....................................................... ........ ..  17
5.  Project Cost and Financing.                                                      19
6. Project Results    ..20
A. Direct Benefits .20
B.  Financial and Economic Impact .20
C. Studies .21
7. Status of Covenants .22
8. Use of Bank Resources .24
A. Staff Inputs .24
Appendix 1. Re-evaluation of Economic and Financial Rates of Return ............................. 25
Appendix 2. Aide Memoire of the Project Completion Mission ................  ..................... 28
Appendix 3. Operational Plan for Post Project Period ........................... I ..................... 37
Appendix 4. Bark Beetle Management Program in Bhutan ........................................... 40
Map IBRD 19860
Map IBRD 19861



i
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BHUTAN
SECOND FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1900-BHU)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second Forestry Development Project
in Bhutan, for which IDA Credit 1900-BHU in the amount of SDR 0.8 million was approved on
May 9, 1988. The project was co-financed by a contribution from the Swiss Development
Cooperation (SDC) in the amount of Swiss Francs (SwF) 8 million. Final disbursement from the
Credit was made on April 14, 1994 at which time the undisbursed balance of SDR 198,004.91
was cancelled. Of the Swiss Francs (SwF) 8 million grant contribution from SDC, a total of SwF
5,603,061.60 (70%) was disbursed, leaving an undisbursed amount of SwF 2,396,938.40 which
was cancelled.
Parts I and III of the PCR were prepared by a mission from the Asia Technical
Department's Environment and Natural Resources Divison which visited Bhutan in June 1994.
Part II was prepared by the Borrower. The PCR was based on a review of the Staff Appraisal
Report (SAR) and legal documents, supervision reports, project files and correspondence, field
visits and discussions with beneficiaries, the Borrower and implementating agency representatives,
the co-financier, and Bank staff associated with the project. SDC was consulted during the
preparation and review of the PCR and their comments have been taken into account.






iii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BHUTAN
SECOND FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1900-BHU)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.        The objectives of the Second Forestry Development Project were to strengthen the
managerial and technical capacity of the Bhutal Logging Corporation (BLC) and the Forest
Department (FD) in the fields of forest pest management, forest management planning,
reforestation, harvesting and marketing of timber products and financial control.
Implementation Experience
2.        The project was implemented over a six-year period between 1988 and 1993. During
the first three years, project activities were concentrated on salvage of timber killed by an
infestation of bark beetle and in reforestation of the affected areas. The pest attack was controlled
earlier than expected and at the mid-term review it was decided that the project should shift from
salvage of dead and dying trees to selective harvesting of mature and over-mature trees, as
prescribed by forest management plans.
Project Results
3.        Project actions led to a solution for the emerging environmental problems stemming
from degradation of natural forests through an epidemic of bark beetle infestation brought on by
unsanitary logging in settled areas of western Bhutan.
4.        The process of training Bhutanese nationals in the fields of forest management
planning, road construction, logging, forest nursery and plantation establishment, and commercial
aspects of forest enterprise management was initiated by the project and is continuing.
5.        Project Costs and Financing. Estimated project cost at appraisal was US$ 31.29
million. Actual project cost was US$ 21.45 million, including an estimated US$ 5 million in
foreign exchange. Of the total project expenditure, IDA provided 8% (compared to 11%, estimated
in the SAR), or a total of US$ 1.81 million (US $ 1.03 million - Credit 1460-BHU; US$ 0.78
million - Credit 1900-BHU). IDA Credit funds were on-lent from the Royal Government of
Bhutan (RGOB) to BLC under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement at 12% interest. The grant from the
Swiss Development Cooperation (SDC) financed 16% or US$ 3.34 million in equipment, technical
assistance and training. RGOB and BLC financed staff and other local costs, estimated at US$
16.2 million (75%). Although not included in the project costs, UNDP/FAO Technical
Cooperation Program funded additional Technical Assistance and training which complemented
project activities.
6.        Physical Targets. The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) forecast 2,640 ha of forest
infested by bark beetle would be harvested during the project (1989-93) producing a total of
600,000 cu.m. of logs. Actually, 1,800 ha were harvested, producing 187,000 m3 of logs and
12,000 cu.m. of sawntimber, or a total roundwood equivalent of 211,000 m3 -- one-third of that
estimated in the SAR. These reductions in physical achievements reflect reduced salvage logging
due to earlier than expected control of the bark beetle. SAR technical assistance (TA) targets (250
man-months) were slightly exceeded with a total of 255 man-months of TA being provided by the
project. SAR road construction targets of 20 km were exceeded. A total of 92 km of road were
constructed. SAR forest plantation targets of 1,350 ha were reduced due to better than expected



iv
natural regeneration. Only 940 ha were planted. An additional 800 ha regenerated naturally --
double the 400 ha planned in the SAR.
7.        Financial Benefits. Significant financial benefits accrued from the timely salvage
and sale of beetle-killed timber. Revenues from the sale of forest products by BLC totalled Nu 400
million. After deducting its costs, and retaining a portion of earnings as working capital, BLC
contributed Nu 170 million - Nu 30 million per year - to Bhutan's Treasury in timber royalties,
dividends, corporate income taxes, and principal, interest and exchange rate fluctuation payments
on the subsidiary loan.
Project Outcomes, Findings and Lessons Learned
8.        The project succeeded in achieving its major objectives of strengthening the
managerial and technical capacity of BLC and FD in the fields of forest pest management, forest
management planning, road planning, construction and maintenance, forest harvesting,
reforestation, marketing of timber products and financial control.
9.        Potential environmental problems arising from a bark beetle epidemic were resolved
by bringing the epidemic under control through removal of infested trees, arresting the spread of
infestations and facilitating timber recovery before excessive loss of value. Introduction of
mechanized logging, utilizing low-impact, overhead cableways, was very timely; reducing
dependence on scarce, imported labour and ending the traditional practice of manually rolling logs
down steep hillsides, damaging or killing residual trees and leading to future erosion problems.
10.       The project was successful in differentiating and strengthening the institutional
capacity of FD and BLC in their separate, but complementary roles, and in developing efficient
procedures for forest and pest management, reforestation, marketing, national revenue generation
and financial control. In five years, BLC has developed remarkably from its former status as the
Logging Division of the Forest Department, to a semi-autonomous corporation and an important
source of national revenue. BLC presently has a staff of 300, plus equipment operators, logging
and road crews who work on contract. This staff will provide a nucleus from which to expand
BLC operations to eastern Bhutan under the current Bank-funded Third Forestry Development
Project (Credit 2533-BHU).
Sustainability
11.       Although the project succeeded in achieving its major objectives, a number of problem
areas jeopardize the sustainabililty of institutions and activities initiated by the project. Particularly
troubling are the interconnected issues of BLC profitability, RGOB resource pricing policies and
BLC status as a semi-autonomous body. RGOB is urged to review BLC's role and mandate and
to clarify these in light of the incompatible demands being placed on it. Other institutional issues
requiring attention include the continuing need to strengthen BLC and FD management skills and
the degree to which BLC functions should be privatized. Technical factors requiring strengthening
include pest control, road construction and equipment maintenance.



1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BHUTAN
SECOND FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1900-BHU)
PART 1: PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA'S PERSPECTIVE
1.  Project Identity
Project Name:   Second Forestry Development Project
Credit No.:     1900-BHU
RVP Unit:       South Asia Region
Country:        Bhutan
Sector:         Agriculture
Sub-sector:     Forestry
2. Background
2.1.      Forestry Sector. Bhutan is abundantly endowed with forest resources which cover
2.4 million ha, representing 59% of the land area. Bhutan's forests have always played a
prominent role in the economy and culture of the nation. Bhutan's per capita consumption of
timber and fuelwood is one of the highest in Asia at 0.9 m3 and 1.66 m3 respectively. Most of
Bhutan's wood supply comes from natural forest. There are only 12,000 ha of forest plantations.
Most of the people live in rural areas and meet their requirements for forest products by accessing
the forest directly. Traditionally, the forest of Bhutan have been used for domestic building
materials, fuelwood, fodder and non-timber forest products, including wildlife, medicinal and
edible plants, and essential oils.
2.2.      During the last two decades commercial use of wood has increased and today
represents about 60% of total annual roundwood production. It is estimated that commercial
timber production can be doubled to about 350,000 m3 within the next ten years. The current
contribution of forest products manufacturing to the economy is about 15% of gross domestic
product (GDP). Forestry taxes and royalties account for 5% of the Royal Government of Bhutan's
(RGOB) receipts. Exports of forest products account for 20% national exports.
2.3.      Forest Degradation in Project Area.  Bhutan's forests contain a great many
mature, overmature and diseased and dying trees. Commencing in the mid-1980s, epidemic
outbreaks of bark beetle (Ips spp.) attack, triggered by unhygienic logging practices in coniferous
forests, had killed several thousand hectares of spruce forest and were threatening tens of
thousands of hectares more in the three western districts of Bhutan which, collectively, account for



2
half of Bhutan's forest area. There was evidence that the attack could spread to other coniferous
forests which, due to overmaturity, were also susceptible to attack.
2.4.      Project Rationale. RGOB's concern over increasing degradation of forest areas
due to the serious outbreak of bark beetle attack attributed to a drought immediately preceding and
associated risks of ecological damage to the relatively fragile Himalayan environment, coupled with
the need to ensure long-term wood supply to existing and planned users, prompted the decision to
request the International Development Association's (IDA) assistance to combat the spread of the
bark beetle, reduce its population to normal levels, salvage the dead trees, and recover their value
before they deteriorated. In addition, areas degraded by the insect attack were to be reforested,
and forest management controls were to be introduced to prevent further insect outbreaks. Beyond
the need for pest management, a comprehensive forest resource management and development
program was identified to address fundamental forest resource issues facing Bhutan.
2.5.      IDA's Involvement in Bhutan's Forestry Sector. Early 1982, IDA began
preparing a Wood Industries Project in Bhutan. However, about one year later, RGOB's Planning
Commission identified forestry plantation for the denuded and degraded forests in the foothills as a
higher priority. IDA's assistance was requested to fund these plantations. The first Forestry
Development Project (Credit 1460-BHU) undertook afforestation of large areas in Southern
Bhutan commencing in 1984. The United Nations Development Program (UNDP) funded a
parallel program of technical assistance consultancies, coupled with overseas training of Bhutanese
staff. The Second Forestry Development Project (Credit 1900-IN), the subject of this PCR,
followed in 1988. In 1993, the Third Forestry Development Project (Credit 2533-BHU) was
inititated which will strengthen forest management capacity of local government units in Eastern
Bhutan.
3.        Project Objectives and Description
3. 1.     Objectives. The objectives of Bhutan's Second Forestry Development Project
(Credit 1900-BHU) were: (a) to strengthen the managerial and technical capacity of the Bhutan
Logging Corporation (BLC) and the Forest Department (FD) in the fields of forest pest
management, forest management planning, reforestation, harvesting, and marketing of timber
products and financial control; (b) to salvage and market insect damaged trees; and (c) to reforest
affected areas.
3.2.      Location and Implementing Agencies. The project covered three districts
(Paro, Haa, and Thimphu) in Western Bhutan and was implemented jointly by the Bhutan Forestry
Department and Bhutan Logging Corporation.
3.3.      Project Description. The project's eight components were implemented over six
years, commencing in 1988 and ending in 1993.
*    Pest and Forest Management - pest surveys and bark beetle management program in
affected areas including preventive and counteractive measures which are closely
linked to general forest management;
*    Mechanized Logging - salvage of dead trees on approximately 2640 ha of mixed
coniferous forest, within the context of a forest management plan based on sound
silvicultural principles;



3
*    Road Construction - construction of 15 km of permanent forest access roads and 5 km
of spur roads, in areas selected for salvage logging as part of a long-term management
plan;
*    Workshop Facilities - provision of a modern workshop at Paro to repair BLC
equipment, and training to upgrade skills of mechanical and supervisory staff to
enable them to maintain and repair project equipment procured for roads and logging
and roads components;
*    Forest Nursery Development - establishment of permanent forest nurseries at central
locations to serve the reforestation needs of the areas where salvage logging was
undertaken;
*    Reforestation - regeneration (natural and artificial seeding and replanting) of native tree
species in clearcut areas with provisions for controlling grazing and wild fires, to
ensure regeneration;
*    Marketing Support - provision of sheds, equipment, and technical assistance and
training to assist in developing a more active marketing strategy for timber products;
and
*    Support to BLC Management - provision of technical. assistance, vehicles, and other
facilities to strengthen management skills, including assistance for setting up a
commercial accounting system.
3.4.      Project Costs and Financing Plan. Total project cost was estimated at US$31.3
million including US$8.6 million of foreign exchange. The project was cofinanced by IDA, the
Swiss Development Cooperation (SDC) and the Royal Government of Bhutan (RGOB) and
Bhutan Logging Corporation (BLC). IDA would fund $3.56 million (11%); SDC - $5 million
(16%); and RGOB/BLC - $22.73 million (73%). IDA and SDC funds were on-lent from RGOB
to BLC under subsidiary loan agreements.
3.5.      Project Startup and Subsidiary Financing. The project included a pre-project
year (1987-88) during which a number of start-up activities were carried out, funded in part
through reallocation of US$2.5 million (SDR 1.923 million) from the first Forestry Development
Project (Credit 1460-BHU).
4.        Project Concept and Design
4.1.      Project Concept. The project's conceptual foundation was clear, well understood
and in conformity with RGOB's development strategy of ensuring environmental stability and
wood security for present and future domestic and industrial users. The objectives were clear and
pragmatic. The project helped to organize systematic production of timber under strict guidance of
forest management plans, and to maintain pest control measures to help ensure the health of the
forest resource -- the second most important contributor to national revenue.
4.2.      Recognizing the need to maintain efficient production operations, the Project assisted
RGOB to set up the BLC - an autonomous Corporation that did not depend on budgetary
allocations to undertake its work, that could transact business and undertake revenue generation
and maintain detailed cost accounting records of its operations.
4.3.      Systems instituted under the Project were complex, relative to the earlier rudimentary
systems of harvesting and accounting. The Project helped modernize operations and establish



4
these systems, based on sound management and control procedures, to guide future growth and
development, paving the way for proposed future privatization of selected aspects of BLC's
operations.
4.4.      Project Design and Timing. The project was responsive to RGOB's changing
circumstances and priorities. From 1979, RGOB banned logging by commercial operators (which
were thought to be over-exploiting the forest), and entrusted logging to the Forest Department's
Logging Division - which was later to develop into BLC. RGOB's Fifth and Sixth Five Year
Plans (1981/82 - 1991/92) viewed the forests as a natural resource that needed to be managed and
conserved, and recognized the need for selective access road construction and phased timber
extraction, together with systematic reforestation to restore the ecology of exploited forests. The
project took up these concerns from 1988 and helped to establish the institutional capacity through
the Forest Department and BLC to undertake these functions.
5.        Project Implementation
5.1.      Credit Effectiveness and Project Start-up. Following negotiations in January
1988 and signing of the Credit agreement on May 9, 1988, the Credit became effective in October
1988.
5.2.      Project Staffing and Technical Assistance. Project staff and technical
assistance consultants were engaged in a timely manner in accordance with the negotiated
timetable. With the exception of accounting staff, project management were recruited from within
Bhutan. A total of 255 man-months of consultant TA were utilized - approximately equal to that
envisioned in the SAR. Additional training was provided by equipment suppliers as part of their
procurement contracts and by FAO as part of their cooperative program. The Forest Engineer and
Logging supervisor were extended beyond the periods envisioned in the SAR, reflecting a need for
more assistance in planning and supervision of mechanized logging.
5.3.      Equipment Procurement. A large quantity of road and logging equipment was
purchased by international competitive bidding (ICB) in mid-1989 and arrived at the project site in
late 1989 or early 1990. Procurement was delayed due to expiration of letters of credit caused by
delays in Credit effectiveness and slow customs clearance procedures at Calcutta port. Initially
road and log depots were constructed using contracted equipment, while awaiting delivery of
equipment purchased by the project.
5.4.      Timber Yields From  Log Salvage Operations. In the SAR annual log
production were estimated to average 130,000 m3 per year for the project period. Actual annual
log production during initial years of the project (1989-1990), when beetle-killed timber was being
salvaged, was 66,000 m3 - about half of the SAR estimates.
5.5.      The shortfall was due to FD's refusal to permit clear felling of affected areas1,
limiting salvage operations to harvesting dead or dying trees. This policy reduced the timber
volume recovered per hectare and BLC's annual timber production and sales volume. It also led to
relogging of many areas as beetle attacks reoccured and further salvage had to be undertaken. FD
followed a conservative policy of limited clearfelling and the use of pheromone traps, which was
FD's preference. Despite ambivalence about extensive clearfelling, the epidemic was largely
1 Even though clearfelling was recommended by entomologists as a bark-beetle control measure.



5
contained after three years. The combined strategy seemed to work, helped by the relatively low
levels of logging and BLC' s scrupulous debarking and forest hygiene prescriptions.
5.6.      Forest Management Planning. In 1990 the FD declared a moratorium on
logging in forests for which forest management plans had not been prepared. This meant that when
the insect epidemic was brought under control half-way through the project, BLC's operations
became entirely dependent on timely preparation of forest management plans. As a result of delays
in preparation of these plans, BLC's log production and sales declined to levels far below those
projected in the SAR. With log production limited to salvage of remaining beetle-killed timber,
annual volumes which had averaged 66,000 m3 per year during log salvage in 1989-199 1, fell to
43,500 m3 per year in 1992-1993.
5.7.      Declining Profitability. Because project investment in equipment, infrastructure
and Technical Assistance were all based on SAR forecasts of log production volumes and sales
revenues, declining sales volumes and revenues adversely affected the project's financial viability.
The transition from log salvage (1989-91) to selection cutting based on management plans (1992---
onwards) saw BLC's log sales revenues decline from Nu 90 million to Nu 76 million and before
tax profits fall from Nu 12 million, to a loss of Nu 7 million in 1993.
5.8.      Although the project was generally implemented within the framework of the SAR,
the above situation required some changes to be made. Since preparation of forest management
plans was entrusted to other donor supported projects, without formal linkages to IDA's Second
Forestry Project, the project sought agreement to initiate mitigating measures. In order expedite
forest management plan preparation, BLC engaged specialists in interpretation of air photos,
mapping and forest management planning to assist FD in this task. Group selection logging trials
were also initiated during this period, which provided BLC with logging sites to continue its
operations until the required additional forest management plans were prepared.
5.9.      RGOB  Policy  of Subsidized  Forest Products Sales.   Throughout the
project, BLC has not been able to pass along the increased costs of operating at lower levels of
production to consumers, due to RGOB policy of administratively fixing forest product prices.
Approximately half of BLC's log production is sold to local rural and urban consumers at prices
which, on average, represent only 13% and 30% respectively, of auction (free market) prices.
During the years 1990 to 1992, the total value of this subsidy amounted to approximately Nu 200
million. Several supervision missions noted that BLC should account for this subsidy as a
separate budget allocation, possibly entitled "social welfare subsidy", rather than permit this
unidentified cost to negatively affect its profitability.
5.10.     Road Construction. The SAR road constuction target of 20 km was exceeded,
with a total of 69 km of primary road and 23 km of secondary road constructed by BLC during the
project.
5.11.     Forest Nurseries and Regeneration of Logged Areas. Four nurseries were
established by the project, compared to three specified in the SAR. A total of 2 million seedlings
were raised at these nurseries during the project. The need for nursery-raised planting stock was
reduced compared to SAR estimates, due to successful natural regeneration of logged forest areas.
This success resulted in the planned 480 ha of natural regeneration being increased to 800 ha
during implementation. A total of 940 hectares were planted compared to 1350 ha planned in the
SAR. An average survival rate of 90% was achieved on the plantations. SAR plans for 70 ha of
direct seeding were abandoned after unsuccessful initial trials. Problems included seed losses to
rodents and birds, poor germination and poor survival.
5.12.     Silviculture.  The project silviculturist initiated group selection felling trials as an
alternative to the single tree selection felling which had been the standard silvicultural system for



6
regenerating natural forsets. Natural regeneration on these small openings2, which approximate
natural forest openings caused by wind, fire or insect damage, was so successful that this system
is now being widely adopted throughout the country. Although there were initial problems in
achieving sufficient volumes from group selection fellings to warrant setting up of cable crane
lines, this is being overcome by including in the harvest individual mature/overmature trees which
lie along the cable ways between group selection openings.
5.13.     Mechanical Workshops. It was noted by successive supervision missions that
workshop operations were failing to maintain BLC equipment in good operating condition.
Reasons for this included problems in obtaining funds for spare parts, fuel and lubricants and in
funding transport and subsistence allowances of workshop personnel for travel to field sites. As a
result there were considerable delays and frequent inaction.
5.14.     Project Equipment. Project equipment is, for the most part in operating condition.
This is in part due to the lower than expected log production, as equipment was under-utilized.
Most equipment purchased under the project was appropriate, however, some items were not
required or proved to be unsuitable. During the project BLC disposed of a number equipment
items. (see Annex 3 for additional information on project equipment)
5.15.     Project Costs and Financing. Estimated project cost at appraisal was US$ 31.29
million. Actual project costs were US$ 21.45 million, including an estimated US$ 5 million of
foreign exchange. Of the total project expenditure, IDA provided 8% (compared to 11%, estimated
in the SAR), or a total of US$ 1.81 million. IDA credit funds were on-lent from RGOB to BLC
under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement. SDC financed 16% or US$ 3.34 million in equipment,
technical assistance and training. RGOB and BLC financed staff and other local costs of US$ 16.3
million (75%). UNDP/FAO cooperation program funded additional Technical Assistance and
training which, although not included in project cost, complemented the project.
5.16.     Credit Disbursements. Credit disbursements proceeded smoothly, though
slightly behind the appraisal schedule. At mid-term, US$ 3 million of the three credits had been
disbursed, compared to US$ 5 million estimated at appraisal. At credit closing - April 14, 1994 -
US$ 5.15 million (62%) had been disbursed from the total US$ 8.29 million available from the
three credits. The rate of disbursal to credit total for each credit was as follows: IDA Cr. 1900-
BHU - 73.6%; IDA Cr.1460-BHU - 46%; and SDC Cr.14-01660 - 70%. From the CHF 8
million, SDC credit, CHF 5.6 million (70%) was disbursed.
5.17.     Credit Allocation Revision. Under a Credit allocation revision in 1987, IDA
approved reallocation of US$ 2.5 million from the First Forestry Development Project (Credit
1460-BHU) to permit preparatory works and equipment purchases for start-up activities in areas
covered by the Second Forestry Project (IDA Cr. 1900-BHU). The funds (SDR 1.923 million)
were on-lent from RGOB to BLC under a subsidiary loan agreement. Only US$ 1.03 (41%) of
this was utilized and BLC subsequently returned the balance to RGOB.
5.18.     Project Completion and Credit Closing. The project was completed, as
planned, on December 31, 1993. IDA accepted applications for credit withdrawal (Cr.1900-
BHU) up until April 14, 1994, at which time all pending applications had been paid and the
remaining undisbursed balance of SDR 198,004.91 was cancelled.
2 Group selection involves harvesting all of the trees on small opencing of 0.23 to 0.3 ha. Approximately 25%-
33% of the standing volume is removed.



7
5.19.       Compliance with  Legal Covenants. The majority of covenants in the DCA
were complied with. In the early years of the project there were delays in submission of audited
account statements. This has now been remedied.
5.20.       Project Risks. Project risks were accurately identified at appraisal. The risk of the
pest attack being more wide-spread than observed was dealt with by ensuring that project
equipment had a capacity to harvest 10% more than required to salvage the observed pest attack.
In implementing the project, the area infested was less than predicted. This, combined with FD
policy disallowing clearfelling of infested areas, resulted in volumes available for harvest being
less than the production capacity of project equipment. The second risk, that of delays in mapping,
planning, road construction causing project benefits to be reduced was addressed by having
advance financing reallocated from Credit Cr. 1460-BHU. This permitted timely salvage of insect-
killed timber thus minimizing value losses and the risk of further spread of insect attack. However,
post salvage delays in mapping, forest inventory and forest management planning, as discussed
earlier, resulted in reduced project benefits at a later stage.
6.          Project Results
6.1.        In general the project has achieved its major objectives of strengthening the managerial
and technical capacity of BLC and FD in the fields of forest pest management, forest management
planning, road planning and construction, forest harvesting, reforestation, marketing of timber
products and financial control. The project demonstrated that efficiently managed mechanized
logging, undertaken by a parastatal body, specialized in and exclusively dedicated to forest
harvesting and timber disposal, can ensure wood supply to existing and planned users while at the
same time avoiding the considerable environmental damage associated with previous, adhoc timber
removals using manual methods. Another major achievement is the introduction of forest planning
as an operational tool for FD. A brief overview of project accomplishments is included below.
Further details are included in Appendices 3 and 4.
(a)   Pest Control. The project developed the capability to mount pest surveillance and
control programs which arrested the epidemic within three years, salvaged pest
attacked timber in a timely manner, ensuring that its value contributed to the national
economy rather than being lost due to futher deterioration.
(b)   Bark Beetle Epidemic Control. The project resolved environmental problems
caused by a bark beetle epidemic, over 3,000 ha of coniferous forest. The epidemic
was triggered by a combination of drought, which further weakened already
overmature forest, and unsanitary, ad-hoc timber removals in settled areas of Western
Bhutan. The project controlled the epidemic by removal of infested trees, minimnizing
the spread of infestations and facilitating timber recovery before excessive loss of
value. Ongoing controls include debarking and removal or burning of slash material
to eliminate favourable breeding sites and prevent further increase in beetle population
levels.3
(c)   Environmental Benefits.   Introduction of mechanized logging, based on low
density road networks built to specifications which control erosion was very timely.
The use of low-impact, overhead cableway logging systems reduced dependence on
scarce, imported labour. It also eliminated the previous destructive, manual systems
3 The entomologist's report states that ..."there are no epidemic infestations of bark beetles in the forests of
western Bhutan. The current absence of serious bark beetle attack can be attributed to the bark beetle management program
established under the project. Major benefits of the project were: prevention of the spread of infestations to adjacent
susceptible forests and recovery of timber values before losses occurred due to degrade."



8
in which logs were rolled down steep mountainsides, resulting in killing residual trees
and leading to future erosion problems.
(d)  Institutional Strengthening.  The project was successful in differentiating and
strengthening the institutional capacity of FD and BLC in their separate, but
complementary roles. It developed efficient procedures for pest management, forest
management and planning, reforestation, marketing, national revenue generation and
financial control. In five years, BLC has developed remarkably from its former status
as the Logging Division of the Forest Department, to a well managed, financially
viable (at least until recently) semi-autonomous Corporation and an important source
of national revenue.4 BLC presently has a staff of 300 plus equipment operators,
logging and road crews who work on contract. This staff will provide a nucleus from
which to expand BLC operations to eastern Bhutan under the Third Forestry
Development Project.
(e)   Established workshop facilities to train technicians to maintain logging and road
equipment in working order.
(f)   Strengthened BLC capacity to transport and market timber products in an efficient and
timely manner, thus avoiding pre-project delays which resulted in loss of value due to
product deterioration.
(g)   Strengthened BLC capacity in cost accounting and preparation of financial statements.
6.2.       Benefits from  Salvage Operations.  Considerable financial and economic
benefit accrued to Bhutan from timely log salvage and marketing, much of which would have been
lost due to deterioration if its salvage had been limited to manual road construction and logging,
utilizing a diminishing labour supply, due to RGOB's ban on importation of foreign workers.
6.3        Re-evaluation of BLC's Financial Rate of Return (IRR). BLC's financial
rate of return was recalculated using actual project implementation experience in place of SAR
estimates. The recalculation showed that the SAR estimated IRR of 55% was not borne out by
implementation experience. The actual IRR was only 2%. Based on the assumption that BLC
sales of logs and sawn timber to local consumers at prices below BLC's costs and auction prices
have led to this unacceptably low financial performance, the IRR was recalculated, this time adding
the value of the subsidy, as a "social welfare" contribution instead of an unidentified source of
negative financial performance. When this subsidy, which was calculated to be in excess of Nu
200 million during the project, is credited to BLC, the IRR over a 10 year period increase to 26%,
illustrating BLC's inherent financial viability.
6.4        Re-evaluation of Project Economic Rate of Return (ERR). A re-evaluation
of the project's economic rate of return (ERR), resulted in a small decrease in ERR, from 42%,
estimated in the SAR, to 39% based on project implementation results. The effects of subsidized
log sales does not enter into the ERR calculation as all production is assumed to be sold at auction
(border) sales price (see Part III, Table 3 for further details).
4 During the project (1989-93) BLC contributed, on average, Nu 21.1 million annually (maximum of 38.4
million in 1990) to RGOB in the form of royalties, dividends and corporate taxes. BLC has also bome exchange rate
fluctuations on foreign exchange costs, totalling 12 million, and repaid subsidiary loans from RGOB including 12%
interest, totalling Nu 17 million.



9
6.5       Additional Project Benefits. BLC's finanical rate of did not meet SAR
expectations, it should be noted that BLC contributed a large portion of its earnings to Bhutan's
treasury. Between 1988 and 1993 these contributions included:
*    Royalty on Timber Removed by BLC    - Nu 56.66 million
*    Dividends to RGOB as shareholder   - Nu 37.10 million
*    Corporate Income Taxes on profits   - Nu 11.87 million
*    Principle Repayment on Subsidiary Loan - Nu 34.49 million
*    Interest Payments on Subsidiary Loan - Nu 17.11 million
*    Exchange Fluctuation Payment on Loan - Nu 11.98 million
Total Contribution of BLC to RGOB   - Nu 169.21 million
6.6        The project also produced many benefits which elude quantification.
*    Improved access in the project areas due to roads constructed by the project benefit FD
as resource management agency as well as rural settlements in the project areas.
•    Forest Protection. Presence of project activities acted as a deterrent to unapproved
extraction of forest products.
*    Reforestation of beetle-killed forests by the project reduced erosion and enhancing
seasonal distribution of water supplies.
•    Environmental Benefit Elimination of manual rolling of logs reduced erosion and
degradation of soil and water resource.
*    Additional supplies of fuelwood and poles from project areas reduced pressure on
areas available as sources of these products.
•    Human resources development Employment and training benefits continue to accrue
in operation and maintenance of road and logging equipment, forest inventory, forest
management planning and harvest, transport and marketing of forest products.
*    Institutional Strengthening. The project resulted in strengthening of the FD's
capability to plan and execute forest plantation projects. However, as previously
mentioned, further training in growth and yield surveys as well as planning and
management of forest plantations on a commercial basis are required.
7.        Sustainability of Future Operations
7.1       Bhutan's forestry sector institutions have demonstrated their ability to control forest
insect infestations, salvage and market timber in an efficient manner and rehabilitate affected forest
areas. They have further shown an emerging capability in preparing and implementing forest
management plans. These observations indicate that forest sector development will follow a
positive trend for the forseeable future, although its need for technical and financial assistance may
continue.
7.2       However, commercial exploitation of forest resources may face problems and BLC
may fail to continue as the major state entity charged with forest production and development.
Some of the items affecting the sustainability of BLC's future operations are discussed below.



10
7.3       BLC Profitability. In 1993, BLC experienced its first loss since it was formed in
1978. Financial projections indicate continuing losses if steps are not taken to improve BLC's
profitability, which is dependent on the following:
(a)  Sufficient annual volumes must be harvested to keep equipment operating at capacity.
At present BLC's breakeven annual production is estimated to be about 50,000 m3.
(b)  Construction of road to a standard where long-term maintenance costs are minimized.
BLC should also receive some credit for its primary roads, many of which provide
access to rural communities and other government and private resource users.
(c)  BLC equipment must be maintained by ensuring that BLC retains adequate reserves
for spare parts, transportation and field allowances for its staff. Purchasing
procedures must be modified to expedite supply of spare parts. Costs of foregone
production far outweigh minor losses due to possible misuse of funds.
(d)  BLC should receive a credit from RGOB equal to the subsidy provided to rural and
urban consumers to which its products are sold.
7.4       BLC Autonomy.  Although BLC's charter states that it should function as a semi-
autonomous body within RGOB guidelines, it is clear that BLC's operations are constrained by
RGOB's restrictive wood pricing policy as well as excessive control over operational procedures
of state corporations. BLC should be given a clear mandate to handle its own affairs, including:
(a) setting sales prices for its products at levels covering operating costs, a reserve for equipment
replacement and a modest profit; and (b) more autonomy in decisions regarding staff renumeration
and promotion and in payment of competitive rates to contractors who carry out a large portion of
its work.
7.5       Continuity of BLC Management Skills. RGOB should ensure continuity of
management skills, either through extension of tenure of the incumbent managing director, and/or
recruitment of a well-qualified deputy as understudy. Given the role BLC plays, selection of such
a candidate should include candidates with forestry backgrounds as well as those with commercial
and business management experience. Strong, experienced management will be required to ensure
a smooth expansion of BLC operations to Eastern Bhutan where BLC will provide road
construction, logging, reforestation and timber marketing services under the Third Forestry
Development project (IDA Credit 2533-BHU).
7.6       Status and Sustainability of Pest Control Programs. Continuation and
sustainability of the bark beetle control programs established under the project is dependent on
adequate support and training. BLC has adopted an aggressive campaign of debarking and
disposing of host material capable of producing bark beetles. However, continued removals of
local building materials, firewood, prayer flags, etc. by territorial divisional forest officers and
local communities have not been debarking and disposing of logging wastes. This maintains insect
populations at unacceptably high levels. There is a general lack of systematic survey of the land
base for forest health concerns, as well as a systematic monitoring of insect population. As a
result, only extensive infestations are noticed and there is little opportunity to deal with small
infestations before they develop into major (epidemic) proportions. Enforcement of regulations
and pest surveillance will ensure sustainability of this component during the post-project period.
Under the agreed operational plan, FD would maintain standards for sanitary logging developed
under the project. Also, an environmental monitoring capability is being developed in the FD
which should include monitoring of insect population.
7.7        Forest Management Planning.  With completion of forest inventory and
management plans in western Bhutan in 1993, it appears that annual net recoverable log production
from this region, will continue to be less than BLC's estimated financial breakeven level of 40,000
to 50,000 m3 per year. Unless production levels can be increased or productivity improved,



I1
continued poor financial performance is expected to continue, at least until management plans and
road access are completed for the remaining forest management units in Western Bhutan.
8.        Bank Performance
8.1 Activities funded by the IDA Credit have made a positive contribution to forest sector
development through physical works and institutional and human resources development. IDA
provided a total total of 310 staff weeks in preparation, appraisal and supervision of this project,
over the six-year period of the project (1988-93). Preparation and appraisal accounted for 190
staff-weeks (61%) providing a sound framework and guidelines for project implementation. A
further 80 staff weeks (27%) were provided in 10 supervision missions - an average of two
missions annually. These operational inputs were provided with a high degree of staff continuity.
A review of project implementation utilized an additional 20 staff weeks.
9.        Borrower Performance
9.1       The Borrower's performance in carrying out its obligations resulted in project targets
for road construction, forest nurseries and reforestation, and engagement of technical assistance,
being met or exceeded. This demonstrated RGOB's capacity to undertake challenging projects
involving new technologies,under difficult field conditions. In particular the Borrower showed
ability to react positively to adverse factors which threatened the project's ability to achieve its
objectives. Adoption by the implementing agency, of group selection silvicultural trials, at a time
when BLC's existence was threatened due to a lack of available operating areas (due to delays in
management plan preparation), maintained BLC production at reduced levels and permitted BLC
and saw-mill operations which they supply to survive. The decision to salvage degraded material
from logged sites and to utilize it at Bhutan Board Product Ltd., illustrated Bhutan's desire to
maximize utilization of its resources. Early delays in submitting audited accounting statements
were overcome by developing more efficient accounting systems and training in their use.
10.1      Performance by Co-Financiers and Others
10.1      Swiss Development Cooperation (SDC), as project cofinanciers, participated in
project preparation, appraisal and supervision. SDC's experience in the Integrated Forestry
Development Project (IFDP) in central Bhutan proved invaluable in designing and implementing
the Second Forestry Development Project. During the project, technical interchanges between
staff of the two projects facilitated exchange of experience and technical data. As a result, the
experience of Bhutanese foresters was broadened by exposure to alternative forest management
systems.
10.2      UNDP/FAO  and Cooperating RGOB  Agencies.  UNDP/FAO provided
additional technical assistance consultancies to FD which supported project activities by training
Bhutanese project staff. Under FAO's Technical Cooperation Program (TCP) consultants were
engaged in the fields of forest entomology, forest nursery practice, forest inventory, mapping and
forest management planning.
1 1       Project Relationship
11.1      IDA's relationship with RGOB and its implementating agencies and UNDP/FAO and
was generally good and provided the basis for cooperation on subsequent projects. During the
project, unavailability of forest management plans limited BLC's post-salvage logging operations.
An IDA proposal to expedite the process by contracting out the work, was rejected in favor of
continuing with FAO's consulting services. BLC eventually funded additional consultants to
complete essential management plans.



12
12.       Lessons Learned
12.1      Lessons Learned from project implementation experience include:
(a)  To avoid delays in project implementation, arrangements should be made to utilize
credit funds for short-term contract hire of essential equipment, while awaiting
purchase and shipment of permanent project equipment.
(b)  Projects involving bilateral co-financing should ensure that timing of involvement of
the parties is clearly defined during project preparation and noQtafter negotiations.
This can avoid delays.
(c)  Project preparation should seek clear definition of Government policies regarding
natural resources use and pricing in order to avoid misunderstandings during
implementation. RGOB's conservative forest resource utilization policies and
intervention in forest product marketing, prevented BLC from achieving the full
autonomy and financial independence originally envisioned in its charter.
13.       Project Documentation and Data
13.1      The Development Credit Agreement, project covenants and subsequent amendments
were appropriate for achieving project objectives. The SAR provided an adequate framework and
guidelines for project implementation. BLC prepared the required progress reports in advance of
IDA missions, permitting missions time for field visits, discussions with stake holders and further
analysis of the data.



13
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BHUTAN
SECOND FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1900-BHU)
PART 2. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Prepared by: Mr. Tara Giri, Managing Director,
Bhutan Logging Corporation
Thimphu, Kingdom of Bhutan
June 1994
PROJECT STATUS
1.    An amount of SDR 0.8 million (USDl.060 million) was approved on April 19, 1988. The
credit was declared effective on October 4, 1988 and the project is scheduled to close for
disbursement on December 31, 1993. The SDC has originally allocated an amount of Swfr
8000,000 (USD5.00 million) to finance the technical assistance, training and purchase of
equipment.
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
2.    The objectives of the project are to strengthen the managerial and technical capacity of
Bhutan Logging Corporation and the Department of Forestry to:
(a)   control the epidemic pest outbreak in coniferous forest areas by undertaking
a program of road building, salvage logging and reforestation;
(b)   coordinate management planning, pest management, harvesting and reforest-
tation;
(c)   produce and market wood; and
(d)   institute effective financial control.
The project covers Paro, Haa and Thimphu districts in Western Bhutan and it is a six year project.
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
3.    The project has carefully harvested trees affected by bark beetle in the districts of Paro, Haa
and Thimphu. BLC as the harvesting and utilisation wing of the Royal government has been
strengthened considerably with modern equipment as well as self-sustaining workshops.
Counterparts are trained in logging, forest road construction, operation and maintenance of
equipment, pest management and control, and marketing of timber. There has been considerable
improvement in the organizational skills of the field staff and their approach to planning and control
of BLC's work. The administration and management of BLC as a RGOB corporation has
improved significantly.



14
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BHUTAN
SECOND FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1900-BHU)
PART 3. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1. Related Loans and Credits
Year of
Loan/Credit              Purpose                Approval  Status            Comments
First Forestry    To strengthen managerial and tech-  1987  Completed Measurable physical targets
Development   nical capacity of BLC and FD in the          in 9/92    were met or exceeded. Deve-
Project        fields of forest pest management,                     lopment of skills in logging
(Cr. 1460-BHU) forest management planning, refo-                     and plantation development
restation, harvesting and marketing                   were also met. During 1989/
of timber products, and financial                     92, quality of plantation
control. To demonstrate that effi-                    declined due to poor main-
ciently managed mechanized logging                    tenance. This, coupled with
undertaken by an efficient parastatal                 inappropriate species mix
body could ensure long term, sus-                     contributed to pest attack and
tainable wood supply.                                 climber infestation. Recently,
pest attack has subsided and
climbers have been controlled
by weeding.
GEF-Funded    To support bio-diversity conservation  1992  Ongoing   The project is progressing well
Trust Fund    in Bhutan                                              and has so far achieved all
for Environment-                                                     monitorable indicators for
al Conservation                                                      conserving RGOB's rich
biodiversity in three years, less
than the anticipated timeframe.
Third Forestry   Support for an integrated program  1993   Ongoing   Overall project implementation
Development   of ilmproved utilization, protection                   is satisfactory, despite initial
Project        and multiple use forest management.                   startup delays, and is consis-
(Cr. 2533-BHU) BLC responsible for logging,                          tent with the project's deve-
marketing, roads, depots and refo-                    lopment objectives. There are
resting logged areas. Additional                      issues and problems but most
cable cranes and technical to be                      of them have been identified
provided to expand BLC's opera-                       and remedial measures and
tions to Eastern Bhutan.                              actions are being taken.



15
Table 2. Project Timetable
Project Cycle                  Date Planned                 Actual Date
Identification (IEPs)                        1985                       Nov. 85
Preparation                                  1986                    Jan.-April 1986
Appraisal                                 May 1987                     Mar. 1988
Negotiations                               Jan. 1988                Jan. 19-22, 1988
Board Presentation                        May 1987                   April 19, 1988
Credit Signing                            June 1987                   May 9, 1988
Credit Effectiveness                     Aug. 4, 1988                 Oct. 4, 1988
Mid-Term Review                           Dec. 1990                    Dec. 1990
Closing Date                             Dec. 31, 1993               Dec. 31, 1993
Final Disbursement Date                  April 14 1994               April 30, 1994
Project Completion Mission                June 1994                    June 1994



16
Table 3. Credit Disbursements
(Cumulative)
There were three sources of funding for this project. US$2.5 million were transferred
from the First Forestry Development Project (Credit 1460-BHU, closed on September 30, 1992)
to assist in start up activities of the Second Forestry Development Project (Credit 1900-BHU).
The Second Forestry Development Project (Credit 1900-BHU) was financed jointly by an SDR
0.8 million credit (US$1.06 million equivalent) and a Swiss Franc (SwF) 8 million contribution
from the Swiss Development Cooperation (SDC) (No. 14-01660). Final disbursement on the
Second Forestry Development Project was made on April 14, 1994 and the undisbursed balance
cancelled. Summaries of disbursements from the two IDA credits and the SDC contribution are
summarized below:
Total
IDA Fiscal Years         88/89    89/90    90/91    91/92    92/93    93/94  Cumulative
A. Credit 1460-BHU (US$ m)
Appraisal Estimate           0.3       1.3      2.3       2.5      2.5       2.5         2.5
Actual                         0      0.39     0.56      0.59     1.02      1.03        1.03
Actual as % of Appraisal
Estimate                    0%       30%      24%       24%      41%       41%        41%
B. Credit 1900-BHU (US$ m)
Appraisal Estimate           0.2       0.4      0.6       0.8        1      1.06        1.06
Actual                         0      0.17     0.21      0.31     0.72      0.78       0.78
Actual as % of Appraisal
Estimate                    0%       43%      35%       39%      72%       74%        74%
C. SDC Grant 14-01660 (SwF m)
Appraisal Estimate           0.6       2.5      3.9       5.6      6.7         8           8
Actual                         0       2.2      3.6       4.5      4.8       5.6         5.6
Actual as % of Appraisal
Estimate                    0%       88%      92%       80%      72%       70%         70%



17
Table 4. Project Implementation
Key Indicators of Project Implementation and Operation
SAR       Actual    Actual as %
Program                     Unit       Target    Achieved  of Target  Comments
Forest Nurseries             number             3          4      133%
Seedlings Produced          millions     not stated        2
Roads:
Primary                    kilometers         15        69      460%
Secondary                  kilometers         5         23      460%
Total                                       20         92      460%
Logging                      hectares       2,640      1,800       68%
cubic meters  600,000    211,000      35%
Forest Regenerated:          hectares
Natural Regeneration                        480        800
Direct Seeding                               70     5 to 10
Plantations                                1,350       940
Total                                    1,900      1,750       92%
Technical Assistance:        man-months
Pest Management:
Rangeland Specialist 1/                      6         0
Entomologist 1/                             10          I
Silviculturist                              24        24
Forest Harvesting:
Logging Engineer                            24        42
Logging Supervisor (3)                      72        68
Road Supervisor                             24         24
Workshop Supervisor                          0         24
Nursery Specialist 2/                       12          0
Sawmilling:
Sawmilling Expert 3/                        24          5
Sawyer                                      12          0
Saw Doctor                                  12          0
Project Management Consultant 2/             24         24
Unspecified Others:
Financial Advisor                            6         13
Management Planner                           0         21
Airphoto Interpreter                         0          6
Log Loader Trainer                           0          2
Total Technical Assistance                250        254      102%



18
Training: 5/
Road/Logging Component:   number
Equipment Operators 4/                     46            Trained on
Tradesmen                                  23             the job
Loggers                                    72
Total                                   141
Workshop Component:                                       Trained on
Mechanics                man months        64             the job
Marketing/Sawmilling 6/   no. of study      12
tours
Note:
Log Production              m3         1988-93                 187,000
Sawntimber Production       m3         1988-93       12,000    24,000 (log equiv.)
Total Log production                                         211,000 (plus/minus)
Footnotes:
1/ Specialists in Rangeland management and Entomology who were in Bhutan working on other projects
were made available to assess grazing and forest pest issues.
2/ Forest nursery and forest inventory and management planning specialists were posted to FD by FAO
under cooperative agreements.
3/ Sawmill expert did not complete his assignment. This impacted negatively on recruitment of saw doctor
and sawyer training programs which he was to have organized.
4/ Some equipment training was provided by equipment suppliers under their equipment purchase contracts,
e.g. log loader training.
5/ No records were kept on numbers of people trained in individual categories. Advertisements to fill
workshop and sawmill training positions met with little response.
6/ Study tours proved difficult to organize and therefore were not held.



19
Table 5. Project Cost and Financing
(US$ million)
A. Project Cost
SAR                   Actual as %
Estimate      Actual of SAR Estimate
I. Support to Forest Department
Pest Control and Forest Management        8,202.40     1,290.00           16%
II. Support to Bhutan Logging
Corporation (BLC)
Logging                                 200,777.10   215,346.00          107%
Road Construction                        56,649.80    10,157.00           18%
Workshops                                16,830.10    16,356.00           97%
Nursery Development 1/                    6,397.20         0.00            0%
Reforestation                            12,454.70     7,783.00           62%
BLC Marketing Support                    25,045.90    17,130.00           68%
BLC Management Support                   14,530.60    90,946.00          626%
Total Base Cost                        340,887.80
Physical Consingency                   6,615.70
Price Contingency                     43,679.00
Total Project Cost                      391,182.50   359,008.00           92%
B. Project Financing
Actual as % of
Planned       Actual        Planned
Source:
Credit 1900-BHU                               1.06         0.78           74%
Credit 1460-BHU                               2.50         1.03           41%
SDC Contribution                              5.00         3.34           67%
RGOB                                          0.11         0.10           91%
BLC 2/                                       22.62        16.20           72%
Total                                      31.29        21.45           69%
Footnotes:
1/ Disbursements under this component are shown under the Reforestation component.
2/ BLC's contribution was financed out of the Corporation's Income (see BLC Profit & Loss
account "With Project" scenario.



20
Table 6. Project Results
SAR Estimate             PCR Estimate
Net                      Net
Volume      Revenue      Volume       Revenue
(M3)       (Nu/M3)       (M3)       (Nu/M3)
A. Direct Benefits
From Timber Volume
and Sales Revenue
Logs                                600,000         1,200     187,000        2,370
Sawn Timber                         200,000          700       12,000        1,200
B. Financial and Economic Impact        SAR Estimate              PCR Estimate
Internal Rate of Return (IRR)               55%                        2%
(with subsidies unidentified,
i.e. reducing BLC's profits)
Internal Rate of Return (IRR)       not identified in SAR             26%
(with subsidies identified,
and credit to BLC)
Economic Rate of Return (ERR)               42%                       39%



21
C. Studies
Title              Purpose                     Status             Impact
Logging Waste    To determine waste, decay     To be done by FAO  Difficult to relate
and breakage factors for      but was not done    inventory data to
forest inventory data                            net log out-turn
Marketing        To study technical properties  to be done by sawmill Full potential of
and potential uses for Bhutan  consultant but was  timber value not
timber                        not done           realized
Forest Engineering To prepare a manual of pro-  Manual completed by Manual of proce-
Procedures       cedures for BLC field staff   Engineering consult- dures not in use by
ant in 1992        field staff
Reforestation    System for measuring          Completed by BLC   Established criteria
Surveys          restocking levels to plan     Silviculture and   for decisions on
nursery and plantation prog-  Engineering consult- reforestation
rams                          ants in 1992
Silviculture     Study systems for managing    Completed by BLC   Revolutionized
Bhutan's forests and prepare  Silviculture and   forest management
field manual for marking      Engineering consult- in Bhutan; group
crews                         ants in 1992       selection adopted
Forest Management To develop method for        Gidacom Plan done  Management plan
Planning         preparing forest management   by FAO team in 1990, preparation method
plans                         93; Chamgang and   standardized and
Zonglela Plans     clearly documented
prepared by BLC
consultants in 1992
Pest Control     To define the magnitude of    9-month FAO study  Magnitude of prob-
the bark beetle attack and    at a cost of       lem and control
develop control mechanisms    US$106,000;        methods defined
Forest Entomology
studies on bark
beetles by BLC con-
sultant; both the
above studies were
completed in Nov.
1989



22
Table 7. Status of Covenants
Development
Credit
Agreement
Section                  Description                             Compliance
2.02 (c)     Open and maintain in dollars a special     In compliance
account in the Bank of Bhutan
3.01 (a) (i-iii)  Declares its commitment to the project  In compliance
objectives
3.01 (b) (i-iii) Relend proceeds of the Credit to BLC under    In compliance; executed subsidiary
and (c)      a subsidiary loan agreement approved by    loan agreement with BLC vide No. 116/
the Bank                                   MF/PD/88/4590 dated Dec. 20, 1988.
3.02         Procurement of goods, works and consult-   In compliance
ants' services required for the project and
financed out of credit proceeds and Swiss
contribution to be governed by provisions
of Schedule to the Project Agreement
3.03         Obligations set forth in General Conditions  In compliance
related to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and
reports, maintenance and land acquisition,
in respect of Parts B through H shall be
carried out by BLC pursuant to Section 2.03
of the Project Agreement
3.04         The Borrower, BLC, the Association and     In compliance. Mid-term review
SDC to carry out a mid-term review by      carried out in November 1990.
3 1 -Dec-90
3.05 (a-b)   For the purposes of effective coordination  In compliance
of all projects in the forestry sector, the
Borrower shall organize a joint review
of forestry projects among donors, BLC
and FD; and hold an annual workshop
3.06 (a-b)   Furnish semi-annual progress report and    In compliance
mid-term project review report



23
3.07          Instruct BLC regarding cutting area priorities    Not done, major problems encountered.
for the following year
3.08 (a-b)    Appointment of one additional ranger and    One Forest Entomologist and rangers
two additional foresters to assist with     hired.
pest management and research program, and
four additional foresters to carry out markings
of trees in priority areas for cutting
3.09          Carry out a pre-harvest inventory; a waste  BLC undertook pre-harvest inventory;
and defect study; and furnish to the Bank   waste study not done.
3.10          Employ consultants satisfactory to the Bank  In compliance
4.01 (a-b)    (a) Maintain records and accounts in accord-    In compliance
ance with sound accounting practices; (b) have
records and accounts audited each fiscal
year by independent auditors acceptable to
the Bank; furnish to the Bank certified copies
of audit as well other information concerning
records, accounts and audit
4.01 (c)      For withdrawals on the basis of statement of  In compliance
expenditures, maintain records as in (a)
above, retain records until at least one year
after receipt by Bank of audit for last fiscal
year; enable Bank representatives to examine
such records; and ensure such records and
accounts are included in the annual audit
referred to in (b) above)



24
Table 8. Use of Resources
A. Staff Inputs (in Staffweeks)                                       Actual
Utilized
Through Appraisal                                                       190
Appraisal through Board                                                 5
Board through Effectiveness                                             17
Supervision                                                             80
Project Completion                                                      18
Total Staffweeks                                                       310
B. Missions
Performance Rating b/
Implem- Develop-
Month/   No. of Days in     a/    mentation   ment   Types of
Stage of Project Cycle  Year   Persons Field Specialization Status  Objectives Problems c/
Preparation (by FAO/CP)    Dec-85   4      28  E,F,R/L
Preappraisal          \Iay-June-86   6     28  E,F,S,En,I
Preappraisal follow-up    Feb-Mar-87   1    5   E
Appraisal                 May-87   6       28  E,F,S,En,I,P
Post Appraisal            Nov-87   6       22  E,F,S,En,I
Supervision                Jun-88   1      16  AgE             1         I      none
Supervision                 Jul-89   2     20  F,AgE           2        2         F
Supervision                Mar-90   2      12  F,AgE           2        2         F
Supervision               Nov-90   5       30  F,I,L,AgE       2        2        F,I
Supervision                Jun-91    1     14  F               2        2        F,I
Supervision               Nov-91   4       16  F,P             2        2        F,I
Supervision                Dec-92   3      14  F,P             2        2         I
Supervision               Mar-93   1       10  I               2        2         I
Supervision                Jul-93   2      12  F,I             2        2         I
Supervision               Nov-93   4       13  F, AgE          2        2         I
Project Completion         Jun-94   4      19  F,En,AgE
a/ Specializations: E=Economis, F=Forestry, En-Entomology, I=Institutions, P=Procurement
S=Sociology, Ag=Agriculture, L=Legal.
b/ Performance Ratings: I =Problem Free or Minor Problems, 2=Moderate Problems, 3=Major Problems.
c/ Problem Types: F=Financial, M=Management, I=Institutional,



APP00JDX I. RE-EVALUATION OF ECNONOMC AND FINANCIAL OLATES OF REnJRN2
TABLE I. SECOND FOREIIRY DEVELXIPMENT PROJECT
omEnic Rft.of leo(ERR)
1928-2007
BENEPTIS                                                        QiItio NipIltt.e)
Csje.yw-'              4988       1989       1990       1991       1992       1993       19914      1995       1996      1997       1992       1999       2000       2001       2002       2003       200-4      2005       2006       2007
PpectdYcs->                          2          3          4          5          0          7          a          9         10        II1        12         IS3        14         1 5        16         1 7        18         19         20
VoIc, of Woo Sold (000 C.KM )
a)Lop.wfthprojecoo(I)                      0600       26.00      12.00     41.80      47 00      40 20      40.00      40.00      4000O      45.00      50 00      50 00      50.00      52 00      52 00     52.00      52.00      32.00      52.00      52.00
Lo-W -  tet0Projet'(2)                         0.00      21.00      26 00      20.00      160   000        16     .00I&O   16.00      16.00      16.00      16 00      16.00     I46.00      10 00     10 00      16.00      16 00      16.00      16.00      16.00
Isormo-atul RoSod                              0.00       5 00       6.00      21.80      31.00      24 29      24.00      24.00      24 00      29.00     34 00      54 00      34.00      36.00      36.00      36.00      36.00      36 00      36.00      36 00
b)ksonemit- Soeoedlol(5)                         0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00      0 00       0.00       0 00       0 00       0.00       0.00       0 00       0.00       0.00       0 00       0.00       000       0.00       0.00        0 00
Avn80 Dpet Pfice No/tCl..H (4)
Lo1p                   4800       4800       4600       4000      4800       4800       SIlO       3420       5730       6030       6550       6150       6980       7530       7700       8080       8490       8910       9300       982
hieciwood              49-40      4940       4940       4940      4940       4040       5200       3380       5000       6210       6520       6840       7190       7540       7920       8320      8730        9110      9230       10110
loceoen Reoao (NU oolli-)
Lop                               24 00     2660o    104.64      140980     11659      1 22.64    130 09     15752      174.87     215.22     252 99     257.32     263 88    217720     200.88     305.64     320 76     556.96     353.52
Ss,eeooo                         0.00       0 00       0.00       0 00       0 00       000        0.00       0.00       0.00       0 00       0 00       0.00       0 00      0 00       0.00       0.00       0 00       6.00       0.00
TOTAL B0ENEITS             N. tdiiteSo          0.00        24        28.8    104.64       148 8    116 592    122.64     136 08     13752      4 74.67    213 22      232.9    23 7.32     263008      2772      290.88    303.64     3201~6    356.96       353 52
COSTS (SCF = 0.90)
Iooas(5)                                  14 52       55 3      20.04      55 05     36 25      47 29          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0         0          0          0          0          0          0
Rqdpoecoots  (6)                                 000O       0 00       0.00      0 00       000O       0.00      36.51      32536      2445       13535      2616       55.91      32.37      3914       2507       17.05      2287        4935      42.73      1193
Kecoot Coa(7).(8).(9)                            0 00      26 94      33.06     44550      14480      41.01      53536      60 26      44.49      69.16      74416      74 16      74.16      74 16      74.46      14 16      74 16      74 16     74.46       74416
TOTAL COST                 NUt,Oilim           14 52      00.24      54.00      7753      04 II      08.50      89 67      92 62      980.04     02 71     10052      110.07     40655      111530     39923       91 21      0703       95 66     04.94       86.09
NETraNTEFnS (N.tdio,oo)                        -14452     -56.24     -25 20      27 34      67.69     2829       52 97      57 46      48.58      9246      114090     422.03     130709    130 58      477.57     499067     292 64    227 10     230 05      267 43                    U
ERR (I0)                 3924%ERofonot)heoA   oICeiu  tiot"pje)
NPV@l 5%                  256000   Mill,ooNgift___                                                      __                                                                         __                                  __      -__
(I) Lop.prodiccol yproj.Ectlio-.3096.f Ottotalpo.d.ot-i.e o1990.75% 0,991  W]dI O%ot 1992 aid tedi
(2)Nocjoiothosdwodee eoieettelt o cwlIoig dcetoShoo dottge . 5490og  ot oryym. Loggh*y..ng moatplkwceipti-othorote..
(3) Ioo-eleoood cad btol lim  Projec (otoldio reVe) Ajdpod bY f-sigsi.W 1aidorltsio factr of I 0 .3400 e9 0octirej
(6) Rqdpooset costs fro  1994. so estotod fwr dpoet to odtaio loS teod,iuio aid rod.(iqooioosd hil  tcd to Post prjec opatti.d piNt)
(7) Post pojec erort cost hosed -n mitol up lo 4093, tern U,.a seppyi=t (ee, tor., roysly) med modifid fecI.. loalforgp c-ccioofsctor m  for oSuoe
(8) hi~ mot pro~jet t-e  woa coil oied Up to 1995 On projectedw motcoltgiieol-uog opctd  flIsmi ilieoslt
(9) hi tedsm projec  --i  oiemtcot hosed co SAX  stossc for 1988 ai printd for folloteg y- hbsd or ulisoedlpodiietio lecl for ethoot projec tne
(I0O)ER.R so SAR -e 42%



APPENDIX I RE-EVALUATION OF ECONOMIC AND FINANCLAL RATES OF RETURN
TABLE 2: BHUTAN LOGGING CORPORATION
Financial Rate of Return With Subsidies on Local Timber Sales Unidentified
19881998
(Million Nvgulrun)
Calendar Year--->              ----->              1988          1989         1990          1991          1992         1993          1994         1995          1996          1997         1998
Project Year-->                 --->                  1             2            3             4             5            6             7            8             9            10           II
With Project Outflows
BLClnvestmnents    (1)                                          40.50          8.70         3.40          4.20         11.60         0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
TA Costs (not expensed) (2)                                      6.00          7.70         6.60          3.80          2.60         0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
Equipment Replacements (3)                                       0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00         34.63         31.15        23.75         13.29        25.65
Total - Outflo                                                  46.50         16 40        10.00          8.00         14.20         0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
Whit Project Lnflows
Net Profit After Tax (4).(5)                                     3.40          6.70        13.30          9.00         -7.70        -7.70         -7.70        -7.70         -7.70         -7.70
Deprecstion      (4)                                            12.10         11.50         9.60          7. 80        8.10          7.50          7.50         7.50          7.50          7.50
Interest on Loaos    (4)                                         4.20          4.50         3.40          2.20         3.80          0.00          0.00         0 00          0.00         0.00
Sub Total - Inlows                                              19.70        22.70         26.30         19.00         4.20         -0.20         -0.20        -0.20         -0.20         -0.20
Without Project Inflows
Nd Profit After Tax (6)                                          2.90          2.90         2.90          2.90          2.90         2.90          2.90         2.90          2 90          2.90
Depreciation     (7)                                             2.68          2.68         2.68          2.68         0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
Interest on Loans   (8)                                          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
~~~~~~~-    -- -    -------_------------ -------------- ---------------- -------   -- ------- -------- ----- - -- ------- ----- ------- ----- ---- - - ----- -- --- -- ------ - ----- -  O7
Sub Total - Inflows                                              5.58          5.58         5.58          5.58          2.90         2.90          2.90         2.90          2.90          2 90
INCREMENTALFLOWSFROMOPERATIONS                                  14.12         17.12        20.72         13.42          1.30        -3.10         -3.10        -3.10         -3.10         -3.10
Residual Value of Equipment                                                                                                                                                                50.00
Net flows frin BLC Operations                                  -32.38          0 72        10.72          5.42       -12.90         -3. 10        -3.10        -3.10         -3.10        46.90
IRR (9)                  2.06%  IRR of (incremental) inlows ('with' minus 'without project)
NPV                 -13.11   Milion Ngultrimn
Notes:       (1) Annual increase in fixed asset from BLC financial statements
(2) TA Cosb offsel against Grant-In-Aid - portion of TA costs not already 'expensed" in BLC financial statements.
(3) From PCR mission estimates - replacemont were not inchided in SAR financial analysis
therefore, for consistency, they were abo exchlded m the PCR financial re-evaluation.
(4) Profits, Depreciation and Interest taken from BLC financial statements. Post-project depreciation
estimate is based on depreciation of remaing undepreciated a-ets phls modest annual replacements.
Interest added back to be consistent with the SAR financial analysis (IRR) calculation.
(5) Although PCR mission projected BLCs post-project looses to increase, it is assumed that BLC wil take the
necesay steps reduce costs and/or mcrease revanues and as a result kses will not exceed 1993 levels.
(6) Based on BLC profit levels in the 3 pre-project years (assumed to reprewnt 'without project' case.
(7) Fromu Staff Appraisal Report financial analysis *without' project case.
(8) No interest - in 'without' project case it is assumed BLC remains debt free.
(9) In the SAR, BLOs IRE is estimated at 55%. If the subsidy to local tinber sales is identified and credited to BLC,
the IRE recaklcuated m based on data avilable to the Project Completion mission, is 26.07%. (see Table 2)



APPENDIX I. RE-EVALUATION OF ECONOMIC AND FiNANCIAL RATES OF RETURN
TABLE 3: BHiUTAN LOGGING CORPORATION
Financial Rate of Retmn, - Subidies on Local Timber Sale. Identified & Credited to BLC.
1988-1998
(Million Ngulbtnn)
Calendar Year --                            ->              1988         1989         1990          1991         1992          1993         1994          1995         1996         1997          1998
Project Ye r         ------   ---  ->                          1            2            3             4            5             6            7            8             9           1 0           1 1
Wrth Project Outflows
BLC Investment. (1)                                                     40.50          8.70         3 40         4.20         11.60         0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
TA Cot. Offset Agtin Grant-in-Aid (2)                                    6 00          7.70         6.60          3.80         2 60         0 00          0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
Equipment Replacement (3)                                                0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00          000         34.63         31.15        23.75         13.29        25.65
Total - Outflows                                                        46.50         16.40        10.00          8.00        14.20         0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
With Project hIflows
Net Profit After Tax (4) (5)                                             3.40          6.70        13.30          9 00        -7 70        -7.70         -7.70        -7.70         -7 70        -7.70
Depreciation (4)                                                        12.10         11 50         960           7.80         8.10         7.50          750          7.50          7.50         750
Interest on Loan. (4)                                                    4 20          4.50         3.40         2.20          3 80         0.00          0.00         0.00          000          0.00
Subsidy on LoqaI RuraVUrban Saies (6)                                   40.00         41 00        47.30        65.80         28.60        28.60         28.60        28.60         28.60        28.60
Sob Total - Inflows                                                     59.70         63.70        73 60        84.80         32 80        28.40         28.40        28.40         28.40        28.40
Without Project Inflow.
Net Pmfit After Tax (7)                                                  2.90          290          2.90          2.90         2.90          2.90         290          2.90          2.90         2.90
Depreciaton (8)                                                          2.68          2.68         2.68          2.68         0 00         0 00          0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
Interest on Loans (9)                                                    0.00          0.00         0.00         0 00          0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
Subsidy on Local Rural/Urban Sales (iS)                                 48.19         37.07        29.66         29.66        29 66         27 80        27.80        27.80         27.80        27 80
Sub Total - Inflows                                                     53.77         42 65        35.24         35.24        32.56         30 70        30 70        30.70         30.70        30 70
iNCREMENTAL FLOWS FROM OPERATIONS                                        5.93         21.05        38.36        49 56          0.24         -2.30        -2 30         -2 30        -2.30        -2.30
Re-dual Valee of Eqaipment                                                                                                                                                                       50.00
Net flows fiom BLC Operbton.                                            -40.57         4.65        28.36         41.56       -13.96         -2.30        -2.30        -2.30         -2.30        4770
IRR (I1)                  26.07%  IR  of (riremental) inflows ("with' minn "without' project)
NPFV                     21.85  Mllion Ngultrum
Notew:                (I) Anural mcrease in fixed mets from BLC financial stament.
(2) TA Coat, offset sgimnt Grant-In-Aid
(3) From PCR minio estonates - replacements wre not included in SAR financial analsis
therefore, for conicy, they were also exchnded m the PCR finanial revastion.
(4) Profit., Deprecidation ad Intkre takn frm BLC financial statement.. Post-project deprecistion
eaante ia bhed on depeciuon of remainmg undepreciated metb plu modia amual replacement..
Interest added back to be conistent with the SAR financild analysi (IRA) calculation.
(5) Alihough PCR mion projected BLC` postproject lose to increase, it is ams ed tat BLC will take the
necesary step reduct cosb and/or mcrsue revenues nd a. a rast losses wi not exceed 1993 level.
(6)Fromrrepotprred byBLCtoiattethemagnitadeof uhbidolocal lestoRural/Urbantmberconaun.
(7) Bsed on BLC Profit level in 3 yeas prior to project. (repreentative of 'without project' case.
(8) Taken fiom StaffApprasal Report firncid analys 'withoutr project cae.
(9) No interest - in "without" project cae it is asumed BLC remain debt free.
(10) Estimtat of Subsidies 'without project' m bsed on difference between prices recaived by BLC at auctiom sales
amd stautory aies to local rural/orbtn cronsumrem (asstaued at 50% of total timber volame 'without project").
(11) lfthe eabid,v to loc ibmbernaleis not ideAtfied nsd credited to BLC then IR, recalculad by the
PCR minion is 2.06%. The SAR estimate of BLCe IRA ws 55%.



28
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT                     APPENDIX 2
BHUTAN
SECOND FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1900-BHU)
Aide Memoire of the Project Completion Mission
June 5 - 24, 1994
Introduction
1.    An IDA Project Completion mission visited Bhutan from June 5 to 24, 1994, to undertake
a comprehensive review of implementation experience related to the above referenced project,
which was completed December 31, 1994. Mission team members included: Mr. Jay Blakeney.
ASTEN, Forestry Specialist and Team Leader; Ms. Ai-Chin Wee, Senior Agricultural Economist
(SAINE); Mr. John Rithaler, Forest Engineer; and Dr. Daniel R. Miller, forest entomologist. Mr.
Peter Staeli, representing Swiss Development Cooperation (SDC), project co-financiers, also
provided insights and opinions. The mission expresses its appreciation to the Bhutan Logging
Corporation (BLC), the Forestry Department (FD) and other agencies of the Royal Government of
Bhutan (RGOB) for their cooperation and assistance during the mission's visit in Bhutan. The
findings and recommendations expressed in this Aide Memoire are preliminary and subject to
confirmation by IDA management.
Implementation Completion Report
2.        On return to headquarters, Mr. Blakeney, will assemble the inputs of the mission
members and prepare the report. The Borrower (RGOB) contributes to the report by preparing its
own final report on the project, together with a summary of it. The mission urges RGOB to
complete its assessment of Borrower Performance in preparing, implementing and operating the
project and forward it to IDA, c/o Mr.J.Blakeney at Fax No. 1-(202) 522 1664, by July 15, 1994.
Project Concept and Objectives
3.        The project objectives were clear and pragmatic. The project helped to organize a
systematic timber production under strict guidance of forest management plans, and to maintain
pest control measures to help ensure the health of Bhutan's forest resources, the second most
important contribution to the nations's revenues. Recognizing also, the need to maintain efficient
production operations, the project assisted RGOB to set up an semi-autonomous Corporation that
did not depend on budgetary allocations to undertake its work, that could transact business, and
undertake revenue generation and proper cost-accounting of its operations. The systems instituted
under the project were complex, relative to earlier rudimentary systems of harvesting and
accounting. However, the project helped to modernize the operations and establish these functions
on sound management and control procedures which will guide future growth and development,
and pave the way for RGOB's intention to selectively privatize BLC's operations.
Project Timing
4.        The project was responsive to RGOB's changing circumstances and priorities. From
1979, RGOB banned logging by commercial operators, which were thought to be over-exploiting
the forest resource, and entrusted logging to the Forest Department's Logging Division - which
was later to develop into ELC. RGOB's Fifth and Sixth Five Year Plans (1981/82 - 1991/92)
viewed the forests as a natural resource which needed to be conserved and managed, and



29
viewed the forests as a natural resource which needed to be conserved and managed, and
recognized the need for selective access road construction and phased timber extraction, together
with a systematic reforestation to restore the exploited forests. The project took up these concerns
in 1988 and helped to establish the institutional capacity (through the Department of Forests and
Bhutan Logging Corporation) to undertake these functions.
Project Compolnents and Achievements
5 .       In general the project has achieved its major objectives of strengthening the managerial
and technical capacity of BLC and FD in the fields of: forest pest management, forest management
planning, road planning and construction, forest harvesting, reforestation, marketing of timber
products and financial control. The project demonstrated that efficiently managed mechanized
logging, undertaken by a parastatal body exclusively dedicated to forest harvesting and timber
disposal, can ensure wood supply to existing and planned users while at the same time avoiding
the considerable environmental damage associated with previous, adhoc timber removals using
manual methods. Specifically the project:
(a) addressed the immediate need to arrest forest degradation due to a Bark Beetle epidemic in
Western Bhutan, which had arisen due to adhoc, uncontrolled logging which generated high
concentrations of forest debris providing ideal breeding grounds for a Bark Beetle
population explosion. The capability to mount pest surveillance and control programs were
widely instituted in the project area. These measures arrested the epidemic within three
years.
(b) salvaged of pest-attacked timber in a timely manner, ensured its value contributed to the
national economy rather than being lost due to further deterioration.
(c) introduced mechanized timber extraction systems based on low density road networks
built to specifications which would control erosion, and the use of low-impact, overhead
cable way logging systems in place of the previous destructive, manual systems in which
logs were rolled down steep mountainsides, resulting in killing residual trees and leading to
future erosion problems.
(d) strengthened FD's capacity to make sound management plans to guide road construction,
harvesting and regeneration and required BLC to protect, regenerate and replant logged-over
areas.
(e) established workshop facilities to train technicians to maintain logging and road
equipment in working order.
(f) clarified functions of FD as a resource regulatory agency and BLC, as a financially
autonomous entity entrusted with and specialized in extraction and marketing timber from
public lands.
(g) strengthened BLC capacity to handle the efficient and timely transport and marketing of
timber products at auction yards, thus avoiding the pre-project delays of up to two years
which resulted in considerable loss of value to product deterioration.
(h) strengthened BLC capacity in the field of cost accounting and preparation of financial
statements.



30
Project Outcomes
6.   The project succeeded in achieving its major objectives of strengthening the managerial and
technical capacity of BLC and FD in the fields of: forest pest management, forest management
planning, road planning, construction and maintenance, forest harvesting, reforestation, marketing
of timber products and financial control. The project has demonstrated that efficiently managed
mechanized logging, undertaken by a parastatal body exclusively dedicated to forest harvesting and
timber disposal, can ensure wood supply to existing and planned users, while ensuring a minimum
of environmental damage.
7.   The project resolved environmental problems caused by a bark beetle epidemic, over three
thousand hectares of coniferous forest. The epidemic was triggered by a combination of drought,
which further weakened already overmature forest, and unsanitary, ad-hoc timber removals in
settled areas of Western Bhutan. The project controlled the epidemic by removal of infested trees,
minimizing the spread of infestations and facilitating timber recovery before excessive loss of
value. Ongoing controls included surveillance and debarking and removal or burning of slash
material to eliminate favorable breeding sites and prevent further increase in beetle population
levels.
8.   Introduction of mechanized logging, utilizing low-impact, overhead cableways, was very
timely. It not only reduced dependence on scarce, imported labour, but also ended the traditional
practice of manually rolling logs down steep hillsides, damaging or killing residual trees and
leading to future erosion problems.
9.   The project was successful in differentiating and strengthening the institutional capacity of
FD and BLC in their separate, but complementary roles, and also developing efficient procedures
for forest and pest management, reforestation, marketing, national revenue generation and financial
control. The pest epidemic has been substantially brought under control, although infestation has
again been noted in non-BLC operations where territorial and local harvesting have not been
diligent in debarking and disposing of logging wastes. Strict instructions and pest surveillance
should continue in the post-project period.
10. In five years, BLC has developed remarkably from its former status as the Logging Division
of the Forest Department, to a semi-autonomous Corporation which is well-managed, financially
accountable, efficient in its operations, and an important revenue source. Over the five-year project
period (1989-93) BLC has contributed, on average, Nu 21.1 million annually (maximum of 38.4
million in 1990) to RGOB in the form of royalties, dividends and corporate taxes. During the
project period 1989-93, BLC has also borne exchange rate fluctuations on foreign exchange costs,
totalling 12 million, and repaid the subsidiary loan from RGOB including 12% interestl, totalling
Nu 17 million.
11.  National timber production is far below estimated annual sustainable harvest of 1 million
cu.m./year. BLC has an operating capacity (42,000 cu.m./year), but due to the limited number of
forest management plans which have been completed, current production, in the three western
districts (the project area), is limited to about 25,000 cu.m./year. Further evidence of the under-
utilization of BLC's capacity can be found in the low machine operating hours on most project
equipment. The mission recommends FD give priority to completion of more management plans
quickly, to that BLC's wood harvesting and supply operations remain viable.
1 BLC commenced Loan repayment, with interest,in 1989 without using the grace period allowed under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement



31
12. Low production volumes and a necessarily capital intensive production system (given local
labour shortages) has contributed to a higher than expected unit production cost. Besides high
operating costs, BLC's revenues have been squeezed by several factors:
(a) About 50% of BLC's production is sold to local rural (20%) and urban (30%) consumers
at RGOB-determined subsidized prices which average, respectively 13% and 30% of the
equivalent auction (free market) price. For 1990-92, this subsidy totalled Nu 155 million.
This could be accounted for in a separate budget allocation entitled: "social welfare subsidy",
instead it is borne directly by BLC as "revenues forgone", negatively affecting BLC's
financial performance.
(b) BLC continues to maintain forest roads which are now effectively public access roads.
The annual cost of such road maintenance is about Nu 2 million and should legitimately be
borne out of general revenues of RGOB.
(c) Since February 1993, royalty rates doubled (relative to 1986/92 rates), for all categories
of wood products.
(d) Since the project commenced BLC's annual contribution to national revenue, in the form
of royalties, corporate income taxes and dividends has averaged Nu.2 1.1 million. BLC
currently maintains a reserve of about Nu.20 million. This is required for capital
replacements (estimated at Nu.90 million over the 3 year post-project period, and operating
costs (estimated at Nu.55-70 million at present operating capacity of 40-45,000 cu.m./year).
However, BLC has just been notified by the Revenue Department that it owes Nu.20 rnillion
in back taxes from 1989-92. The effect of this requirement will be to wipe out the operating
capital of BLC, and immobilize an efficient and potentially profitable production operation.
(e) While IDA funds are provided to RGOB at < I % interest, payable over 50 years, with a
10 year grace period, BLC repays its subsidiary loan to ROOB at 12% interest, over a 9 year
repayment period with only 2 years grace period. BLC recently contracted with FD to
undertake logging operations in Eastern Bhutan under the IDA assisted Forestry III project.
Although BLC will be provided with additional equipment for this purpose, it will have to
repay the cost of the equipment in 2 years.
Implementation Experience
13.  Technical Assistance Following initial delays in project effectiveness due to ongoing
discussion of terms and conditions of IDA and SDC project participation, problems with expiration
of letters of credit and slow customs clearance procedures at Calcutta port, the project proceeded,
more or less as planned, with 255 man-months of TA utilized. Additional training was provided
by equipment suppliers as part of their procurement contracts. The positions of Forest Engineer
and Logging supervisor were extended beyond the periods envisioned in the SAR, reflecting a
need for more assistance in the planning and supervision of mechanized logging operations.
14. Equipment Procurement A large quantity road and logging equipment was purchased by
international competitive bidding (ICB) in mid-1989 and arrived at the project site in late 1989 or
early 1990. With the exception of the Poclain Backhoe Excavator and rock crushers, most
equipment functioned well and met project specificiations.
15.  The Poclain loader failed to perform to expectations as the equipment supplier did not
provide an experienced operator to train BLC personnel. The machine suffered numerous mishaps
due to the inexperience of BLC operator. These mishaps led to long idle periods while awaiting
parts and repairs. At the time of the mission the machine is still not operating, awaiting spare
parts. BLC management would like to dispose of this machinge and purchase a similar model



32
made by Caterpillar, for which parts are more readily available. This fact was recognized at the
time of procurement, but due to ICB requirements, the Poclain excavator was selected. The rock
crushers also failed to meet expectations. The specifications for the original tender were changed
by BLC from those prepared by the project's consultants, to those which met specifications of rock
crushers being purcahsed by the Roads Department. As a result the equipment proved unsuitable
and rock crushers of Roads Department and BLC are seldom used.
16. Log Salvage Program Annual log production, during the initial years of the project (1989-
1990) when salvage of beetle killed timber reached its peak, averaged 66,000 cu.m. resulting in
annual sales revenues of 90 million Nultrum. Considerable financial and economic benefit accrued
to Bhutan from the timely salvage and marketing of this timber, much of which would have been
lost due to deterioration if it's salvage had been limited to manual methods, utilizing a diminishing
labour supply, due to RGOB's ban on importation of foreign workers.
17. Post-Salvage Log Production In 1990 the FD declared a moratorium on logging in forests
for which forest management plans had not been prepared. Delays in completion of forest
inventory and management plans for the project, which were to have were to have been undertaken
with the assistance of Forest Inventory, Data Processing and Management Planning specialists,
provided under UNDP/FAO project BHU/85/016, resulted in BLC operations being limited to
salvage of beetle killed timber. Group selection harvesting trials provided BLC with a limited
number of harvesting sites in live, healthy forests. However, the number of areas approved were
insufficient to utilize the full capacity of BLC's equipment. Timber production from project
equipment, some of which has been deployed in other divisions, declined to an annual average of
43,500 cu.m. in 1992/93, with sales revenues of Nu 76 million.
18. Status of Forest Management Planning With completion of forest inventory and
management plans for 4 Forest Management Units (FMUs) in western Bhutan in 1993, it is clear
that annual net recoverable timber harvests will be 25,000 cu.m. - at least until remaining FMUs in
the Western Districts (Haa West FMU, FMU above Chuzom, FMUs near Thimphu) have been
inventoried, management plans prepared and road access constructed. The mission estimates that
BLC's annual production capacity at 42,000 to 46,000 cu.m.2
19.  BLC Profitability Declining sales volume has adversely affected BLC's profitability.
Increased costs of operating at lower levels could not be passed on to consumers due to RGOB
policy of fixing prices on about 75% of BLCs production at below costs and below the market
values. Net profits before taxes, averaged Nu 12 mnillion annually during the log salvage period
(1989-91). These dropped to a loss of Nu 7 million in 1993. Unless measures are taken to
accelerate forest inventory and management planning to make more area (and timber volume)
available for harvesting and/or to redistribute BLC's equipment and manpower resources to these
areas, BLC will remain unprofitable.
Operational Issues
20. Road Conditions Although drainage and right-of-ways are being constructed and
maintained satisfactorily, road surface conditions continue to be substandard. This not only limits
timber production rates, but also results in inflationary pressure on contract trucking rates, as
2 Based on 13 cable cranes at an average annual production of 2,000 m3 each; 2 tower yarders at 5,000 m3 each;
and 3 skidders at 2,000 m3 each. In 1996, this will increase to 46,000 m3 with 2 more cable cranes scheduled for purchase
under Forestry IHI.
SAR estimates of 3,000 to 4,000 m3 per annum per Cable Crane, were based on higher yields per ha from salvage
logging.



33
trucking contractors seek to cover the high costs of equipment maintenance attributable to the poor
roads. The lack of suitable road surface material makes it impossible utilize BLC's road graders.
The mission recommends that BLC continue to seek sources of crushed or pit run surfacing
material to improve the running surfaces of its roads.
21.  Forest Pests The assessment by the mission's forest entomologist is that there no bark
beetle damage in standing trees. However, there is incidence of bark beetle infestation in felled
trees, particularly trees felled under fuel wood operations and adhoc timber removals by local
residents for home construction. These removals, which leave large accumulations of logging
waste, risk increase in beele populations and a repeat of the 1980's epidemic. It is not sufficient
for BLC to comply with regulations regarding debarking of logs and disposal of logging waste, if
these regulations are not being followed by others.
22.  Additional forest pests identified by the entomologist during his visit include dwarf mistletoe
- causing considerable loss in pine timber value and aphid infestation in forest nursery stock which
is under stress after being held too long in nursery beds. Local cases of plantation mortality and
die-back were examined and found to be attributable to drought rather than pests.
The entomologist's report is annexed to the ICR.
23. Nurseries and Regeneration of Logged Areas The need for nursery raised planting stock has
been reduced due to successful natural regeneration of the logged forest. Plantation stocking
surveys indicate a 90% survival rate, attributable, in part, to micro-site protection of seedlings from
livestock. There are large stocks of seedlings (especially fir) in the nurseries which are not
required for BLC's reforestation program. Some of this stock has been kept in the nurseries far
too long and the trees, which have been raised in small planting pots which are adequate only for
one growing season are now several years old and are stressed due to confined root systems. This
stress has led to aphid attack which is not only killing the nursery seedlings but is also building up
a potentially dangerous population of aphids which could attack mature forest trees. The mission
recommended that seedlings excess to BLC requirements be disposed of immediately by donation
to urban plantings or burning.
24.  Silviculture In response to rather disappointing results in natural regeneration using the
previous single tree selection felling system, the project silviculturist introduced the concept of
group selection felling on a trial basis. The results of this system under which about one quarter to
one third of the standing volume is removed in groups measuring one-quarter to one third hectare
in size. Natural regeneration on these openings, which approximate natural openings in the forest
caused by wind, fire or insect damage, has been so successful that this system is being widely
adopted throughout the country as the silvicultural system of choice. There have been some initial
problems in achieving sufficient volumes from group selection fellings to warrent setting up of
cable crane lines. The FD and BLC plan to overcome this problem by selecting individual
mature/overmature trees along the cable ways between group openings to augment the volume
harvested.
25. Workshops Although there has been considerable improvement in workshop operations in
recent years, there is still ample opportunity to improve operating techniques. The mission was
concerned with poorly stored equipment at Paro workshops; lack of timely tire and wire rope
replacement on skidders; and broken glass on the backhoe. Some equipment has been repaired in a
relatively "makeshift" fashion and future failures will almost certainly be incurred. A program of
equipment replacement should be prepared and followed, as indicated in the attached operational
plan.



34
Issues Related to BLC's Sustainablity
26. BLC's Role as an Autonomous Corporation Although its charter states that it should
function as an autonomous body, it is clear that BLC is still governed to a large extent by RGOB
officials and procedures. BLC's board of directors is exclusively made up of government
officials. Evidence of BLC's lack of independence in decision making can be seen in its inability
to set sales prices for its products at a level which cover its operating costs, plus a reserve for
equipment replacement, and a modest element of profit on its investment. Another example of a
lack of independence is in renumeration and promotion of staff. BLC must follow government
policy, which has resulted in loss of staff, due to an inability to pay competitive salaries. Training
efforts have also been set back and valuable trained manpower lost when experienced BLC staff
are transferred out of BLC service. The current lack of flexibility in rules results in BLC DFOs
being unable to pay competitive rates to contractors. This results in-sufficient labour to undertake,
road construction and logging operations. In selecting future staff, BLC should be committed to
engaging (and keeping) a high quality and committed staff, through provision of competitive
benefits, training and regular advancement. Only in this way can it avoid the trend, evident
throughout the project, which saw a 50% turnover in high quality staff, through transfers and
resignations.
27. During the project there was considerable progress toward broader representation on BLC's
Board of Directors. However, there is still an opportunity to make the Board more representative
of stake holders in the forestry sector. Possible changes to the board include representation from
timber processors and merchants who process logs and distribute sawn timber originating from
BLC operations, as well as from Ministry of Trade and Industry which governs their activities. At
appraisal, it was envisaged that the chairman would appoint technical advisors from outside PD
and BLC who would be invited to visit the project activities periodically, and to offer suggestions
for improving BLC operations. This has not year happened.
28. BLC's Corporate Mandate Conflicts with Social Welfare Role In addition to being expected
to provide considerable financial resources to RGOB's treasury, through royalties, dividends and
taxes, BLC is also expected to provide a number of "social benefits". Examples include: providing
free road access to rural communities and other resource users. (Territorial DFO's, Mining
Operators, firewood gatherers, etc.) It is also expected to provide large volumes of timber to rural
and urban users at prices well below either BLC's cost or true market value.
29.  The mission observed that these additional "social benefits" which BLC is required to
provide in addition to its primary role in harvesting and marketing of commercial timber, are
proving to be too heavy a burden and are leading to a loss of BLC's financial viability. This is
particularly true in light of the fact that timber volumes available have been reduced, leaving little
volume for auction sales at higher (market) prices. Local purchasers also get priority to select
prime timber and the "picked over" timber is sold at auction. Hence the price premium for better
quality timber is not captured through BLC's auction sales. It is these export sales that provided
sufficient surplus profits to enable BLC to subsidize timber supplies to rural and urban users in
past years, when production rates were higher.
30. Recent demands by the Revenue and Customs Department of the Finance Ministry for
payment of Nu 20 million in back-taxes, related to Exchange Fluctuation and Depreciation
expenses, have further aggravated BLC's financial performance. If met, these demands would
wipe out BLC's remaining reserves and leave it with insufficient working capital to continue
operations. Alternatively BLC would have to sell off much of their equipment to meet these
demands, thus returning the corporation to the "pre-project" state of depending on environmentally
damaging, and socially unacceptable use of imported labour and manual logging systems.



35
31. The mission is concerned that the factors highlighted above may jeopardize BLC's
sustainability in the post-project period and therefore urges RGOB to conduct a review of BLC's
role and mandates and clarifies BLC's role in light of the seemingly incompatible demands being
placed on the corporation.
32.  Suggested solutions include:
(a) RGOB subsidies to BLC road construction, particularly in new FMUs where long access
roads are required to reach harvestable timber and where there are other road users are
involved;
(b) allow BLC to operate at sufficient timber production volume to have surplus to sell at
auction and make enough surplus profit to be able to subsidize costs incurred in selling
wood at below cost to rural and urban users; and,
(c) Reexamination of Ministry of Finance request for BLC to pay Nu 20 million in back
taxes, despite the fact that BLC's financial statements for the period in question have been
audited and certified by Royal Audit Authority.
Looking to the Future
33.  Clarification of marketing. pricing and subsidy policies. It is recommended that these issues
be carefully examined and decisions to be taken soon. RGOB could decide for instance, that:
(a) all BLC sales be conducted through auction, open to all Bhutanese buyers (on a preferred basis)
to realize true market prices for products.
(b) all residue wood, not sold through local auctions, would be sent for auction in Phuntsholing or
Geylephug to outside buyers.
(c) the ban on export of logs would continue, thus requiring at least initial processing to take place
in Bhutan.
(d) price subsidies on wood for rural and urban populations be given as a budget allocation,
possibly through social service sector, as a welfare subsidy (the annual amount can be determined
using BLC's supply figure. These subsidies should not continue to reduce revenues to BLC. In
this way subsidies would be explicitly recognized, market prices would not be distorted, and
Bhutan's wood buyers would still get preference, but would be made to saw wood competitively
in order to sell to outside buyers of sawnwood.
34.  Need to Replace Equipment Some of the equipment BLC is operating has exceeded its
economic life and needs to be replaced, otherwise production capacity will gradually decrease and
maintenance costs will mount. A proposed conservative replacement schedule, based on the low
predicted operating capacity, will be included in the ICR. Immediately required is the replacement
of five Nester Cable Cranes, one bulldozer and three air compressors.
35.  Need to Train FD and BLC Operating Staff Techical assistance in Forest Inventory Forest
Management Planning were provided to FD under UNDP/FAO programs and by the SDC under
Forestry II. Technical Assistance in Operational Forest Management Planning is currently being
provided by the Netherlands. Likewise, Forestry III provides BLC with additional cable cranes
and some technical assistance in road and logging planning for its expanded operations in Bhutan's
Eastern divisions. At present, there are no plans for continuing technical assistance to existing
BLC operations in Western Bhutan. The mission concludes that there is there is an ongoing need
to strengthen the capacity of BLC's DFOs in planning and executing forest harvesting and
marketing, as well as the deployment, operation and maintenance of mechanized road and logging
equipment. The mission recommends that RGOB explore the possibility of obtaining technical



36
assistance through a bilateral technical cooperation agency (Germany, Austria, Canada, etc.) with
experienced field personnel who could be deployed to assist/train BLC's divisional DFO's in
carrying out their responsibilities.
36. Need to Ensure Continuity of BLC Management Skills
BLC's present managing director capably guided BLC through the project implementation period.
(as he did the first IDA assisted Forestry Development Project Cr. 1460-BHU). The mission
recommends that RGOB ensures that there will be continuity of management skills, either through
extension of tenure of the incumbent managing director, and/or recruitment of a well-qualified
deputy as understudy. These decisions should be taken soon to ensure continuity. Given the role
that BLC plays, it is recommended that in selecting such a candidate, RGOB consider both
candidates with a strong forestry background as well as those with strong commercial and business
management experience.
eRge   Prepared by: Implementation Review Mission
J.Blakeney, Forestry Specialist (ASTEN);
Ai-Chin Wee, Senior Agricultural Economist (SAlNE);
J.Rithaller, Independent Forestry Consultant;
Dr. R. Miller, Consulting Entomologist, Phero Tech



37                          APPENDIX 3
BHUTAN
SECOND FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IDA Credit 1900-BHU
OPERATIONAL PLAN FOR POST PROJECT PERIOD (1994-1997)
BHUTAN FOREST SERVICES DIVISION
1. Operational Plans for Forest Management Units (FMUs) - complete and commence implementation of
Operational Plans for the 7 FMUs for which Management Plans have been completed, at an average annual rate
of 2 operational plans per year for the next 3 years.
2. Forest Inventory and Management Planning - completion of these aspects for the remaining 7 FMU for
which management plans have not been completed at the rate of FMUs per year for the next 3 years.
3. Pest Surveys and Control FD will ensure that its territorial officers will continue a program of sanitary
logging including: prompt debarking and disposal of logging wastes through burning.
BHUTAN LOGGING CORPORATION
1. Procurement - Two new cable cranes are to be purchased under the Third Forestry Development Project
For BLC's harvesting operations in Eastern Bhutan. In addition to this equipment, the mission will prepare
-stimates of replacement equipment to be procured during the operational plan period. These will be provided
:o BLC on completion of the ICR.
Z. Equipment Retirement And Sale - A large number of equipment items have already been retired from
;ervice and sold at auction, resulting in approximately $170,000 in revenue to BLC. Additional items planned
:or retirement and sale include the Poclain Excavator and three rock crushers.
3. Staff Training and Technical Assistance - During the operation plan period BLC in cooperation with
2GOB will investigate the possibility of obtaining technical assistance from bilateral donor to strengthen the
,apabilities of BLC's DFOs in BLC operations in Western Bhutan.
I. Road Construction - During the Plan Period BLC will need to develop forest road to service approximately
16,000 cu.m. of timber which BLC has the capacity to harvest. This is estimated to be approximately 7 km.
)f road annually, consisting of: Main Access Road - 2 km and Spur Road - 5 km.
i. Forest Harvesting - in the three western divisions BLC will harvest and market 25,000 cu.m. of logs
Lnnually. This will be augmented by an additional 17,000 cu.m. of logs from BLC operations in other
livisions during 1994 and 1995, and an additional 4,000 cu.m. from 1996 onward when the two additional
,able cranes financed under Forestry Im arrive.
. Forest Nursery and Plantation - stocking surveys conducted 3 years following harvesting, will continue to
ndicate area requiring planting. Based on recent experience, BLC will require a forest nursery capacity of
Lpproximately 40,000 to 50,000 seedlings/year in order to plant the 40 to 50 hectares per year which will
equire planting during the plan period.
'. Pest Surveys and Control BLC will continue a program of periodic survey for pest out-breaks and its
)resent sanitary logging program of prompt debarking and disposal of logging wastes through burning.



38
Table 1                                    APPENDI  3
EcuiDment Reolacement Schedule
1994-2008
1994  1995  1996  1997  1996  1999   2000 2001  2002  2003  2004  2005 2006 2007  2006
USIipNIT       No.                       millon Hu.
Nester Winch       6   11.16 11.18 11.18                                                                    11.16
sator .inch       ,9                           10.86 10.88  10.86 10.86
DMD Bulldoser      1                                               3.72
DOD Bulldoser      1   3.72                                                          3.72
Pennt y. Loaer    a                                           3.4  3.4  3.4
Aa'ek-L.land       a   0.86  0.88  1.72  1.72                            0.06  0.86  1.72  1.72
Tipper Truck       2                                                     0.64  0.64
4S4 Truck          1                                                                 0.52
Ford traotor       3                           0.28  0.28    0.20                          0.2B 0.25 0.20
632 fLo.der        3                                                      1.8   1.8   1.8
92S5 Bucket LoZa   1                                  1.0
125S Droooor       2                                          2.1  2.1
1-500 Tower lard   2                                               4.42  4.42
A-L Truck.         2                           0.64                                                         0.54
Clark  Skidder     2                                                     2.05  2.05
Cat I1I Skidder    1                                               2.05
Vibro..x Comwat   2                                  0.00    0.08
Air Comressors    3   1.26                                   0.42  0.42  0.42                    0.42  0.42  0.42
PoeLain iocavato    1                                                                 2.9
511 Backbo.        1                             1.5
Nian Double Ca   5                         0.4  0.8  0.a                              0.4  0.8  0.8
li_.m   Sinale Ce   2               0.37 0.37  0.37                            0.37  0.37
Nisme  patrol      1                                               0.42                                     0.42
werutt             2             3                              3                             3
A4505 Grader       I
Geatner Winane          5.43  5.43
miec.                    5.4  5.4      5    5    5    5         5    5    5       5    5    5    5    5         5
Road Construotlon        6.8   5.3  5.5  5.8      8    8        a     B    6      8    8    8    a    6        8
YERLY TOTAL            34.63 31.15 23.75 13.29 25.65 25.22   31.74 38.39 24.59 16.72 22.43  18.8  12.5  11.7 23.14



39
Table 2             APPrNDIX 3
BLC Staf f inc
No.  Position                  No. of Staff
1    Managing Director               1
2    DFO                             4
3    ADF                             1
4    Forest Ranger                   13
5    F.R. Trainee                    2
a    Forester                        28
7    Forest Guard                    71I
8    Aast. Admin. Officer            1
9    Stenographer                    1
10   U.D.C.                          a
11   L.D.C. I                        11
12   L.D.C. II                       7
13   C.A.O.                          1
14   DV. C.A.O.                      1
15   FinAnce Officer                 2
18   Asat. Acots. Officer            3
17   Dr. Chief Acot.                 2
18   Sr. Acot.                       4
19   Assiat. Acot.                   4
20   Aect. Clark                     4
21   Sr. Computer Op.                1
22   Store Officer                   1
23   Foreman                         5
24   Moch. Engineer                  1
25   JCTS                            1
26   D/man                           1
27   Mechanic                        7
28   Electrician                     2
29   M.O.                            44
30   Store I/C                       1
31   Driver                          17
32   Welder                          1
33   Peon                            2
Total                                254
Temporary Staff                       49
Grand Total                          303
The yarding and loading is on contract.



40                             APPENDIX 4
BHUTAN
Second Forestry Development Project
Cr.1900-BHU
Bark Beetle Management Program in Bhutan
Prepared by
Daniel R. Miller, PhD, RPBio
Forest Entomologist
24 January 1996
Phero Tech Inc.
7572 Progress Way
Delta, B.C. V4G IE9
Canada
SUMMARY
The bark beetle management program, established by the World Bank and the Bhutan Logging
Corporation (BLC), appears to be an effective and sustainable program against the Himalayan bark
beetle, Ips stebbingi (Strohmeyer). Sanitation/salvage logging, coupled with debarking and full
utilization of harvested pines and spruces, has mitigated the impacts of past infestations. Removal
of infested trees has minimized the spread of infestations and facilitated recovery of timber values
before excessive degrade. Debarking and reduction in slash material removed favourable breeding
sites and prevented further increases in population levels. However, serious risks from the
Himalayan bark beetle will arise again due to a lack of similar practices by independent house
builders and firewood cutters. At present, BLC has the expertise and infrastructure to deal with
infestations as they arise. However, such management practices will result in added expenses to
BLC and loss of high-value non-timber stands. A comprehensive land-use management plan
would greatly aid in minimising liabilities from forest pests.
INTRODUCTION
Infestations of bark beetles in western Bhutan have occurred continually between 1982 and 1990.
The primary species attacking blue pine, Pinus wallichiana, and spruce, Picea spinulosa, was the
Himalayan bark beetle, Ips stebbingi (Strohmeyer)l. By 1985, infestations of bark beetles covered
over three thousand hectares, with an estimated timber volume loss of over 2 million cubic
metres2.
Control programs began in 1985, with developments occurring over the next four years through
efforts of the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) and the World Bank.  Several
entomologists were brought in to Bhutan as consultants.   These included Prof. H.
1 Recently, the foremost taxonomist and systematicist of bark beetles in the world, Dr. S.L. Wood, Brigham
Young University, has reviewed the type specimens of 1. stebbingi and 1. schmutzenhoferi. He recognizes L.
schmutzenhoferi as a synonym for . stebbingi.
2 Schmutzenhofer, H. 1985. Consultancy in forest entomology in Bhutan. Technical Advisory Services for
Forestry Development, Food and Agriculture Organization. FO: BHU/83/022. Field document 8.



41
Schmutzenhofer, Prof. H. Eidmann and Dr. J. Regnander. Prof. H. Schmutzenhofer has had the
longest continual role in developing a pest management program against the Himalayan bark beetle,
with his last visit in 1992. Through his efforts and support from the World Bank, a program was
developed that continues to be practiced by the Bhutan Logging Corporation (BLC).
During epidemics, the program has three phases. Beetles have two generations per year, with
flights starting in April and ending in October. During the winter months, beetles overwinter under
the bark in standing trees3. Phase one consists of the identification of such trees by forestry staff.
Infested trees are felled and debarked. The bark is destroyed since many of the beetles may have
completed their development, especially by March. The purpose of this tactic is direct population
reduction. Such methods generally fail to kill all beetles. Efficacies of 60-80% are common
among other species of bark beetles. However at high population levels, this still leaves a
substantial number of insects.
The second phase is therefore a reduction of breeding material for the residual population. Ips
species generally prefer recently-downed trees, due to reductions in defenses by the trees. Attack
success and brood survivorship in standing trees are generally lower than in downed material. All
trees felled by BLC are quickly debarked to prevent beetles from attacking and developing during
the summer months. The need for debarking is urgent since generation times are less than two
months, with at least two generations per year. If logs were not debarked quickly after felling then
beetles could attack and emerge by mid to late summer and attack standing trees.
The third phase is provision of an alternate host, rather than standing trees in order to contain the
infestations and protect adjacent stands. Trap logs are set in easily-accessible areas. Debarking
occurs after they are fully attacked. The bark is left to dry, with the innermost surface exposed to
the sun. Most of the progeny at this time are larval and highly susceptible to desiccation. An
alternative method is the use of pheromone-baited traps. This reduces the need to use trees and
does result in high trap catches. Catches of up to 93,000 beetles per trap have been recorded in
Bhutan over a summer4. However, the appeal is low among BLC staff due to high incidence of
attacks on trees adjacent to baited traps.
During non-epidemic years the program is simple ... reduction of host material that could initiate a
bark beetle epidemic. The past epidemics occurred as a consequence of excessive slash material
left by house builders and drought conditions in overmature stands. BLC debarks all pines and
spruces, as a general practice, in order to prevent an opportunity for beetles to develop. In
addition, BLC maximizes the use of all trees by removing all logs (not just squared timbers) and
utilizing smaller diameter tops. In contrast, house builders have traditionally left slabs from the use
of pit saws as well as tops of large-diameter trees. These are ideal breeding grounds for beetles.
REVIEW METHODOLOGY
Assessment of the program was determined by a review of previous reports, discussions with
BLC personnel and site visits to Thimphu, Paro and Haa forest districts during the period of 6-11
June 1994. John Rithaler (World Bank) and personnel from BLC were always present during site
visits. Stands treated with sanitation/salvage logging in the past due to infestations of the
Himalayan bark beetle were the principal areas of concerns. We also visited current logging
3 Schmutzenhofer, H. 1988. Mass outbreaks of Ips bark beetles in Bhutan and the revision of the genus Ips de
Geer for the Himalayan region, pp 345-355. In T.L. Payne and H. Saarenmaa (eds.). Integrated control of scolytid bark
beetles. Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University Press, Blacksburg VA.
4 Schmutzenhofer, H. 1989. Draft report on forest entomology. Bhutan, World Bank, Forestry II - BHU-1900.



42
operations employing group selection cuts with a cable logging system. In all cases, I looked for
evidence of recently attacked trees as well as other forest health problems such as dwarf mistletoes.
Regeneration in harvested areas and seedling stock in nurseries were examined for impacts from
forest pests.
TIMBER HARVESTING AREAS
There are no epidemics or infestations of bark beetles in western Bhutan at present. I was unable
to find any trees recently killed by the Himalayan bark beetle at any of the sites. During the past
bark beetle epidemic, BLC staff identified and removed all dead or dying trees. Trees with brood
were debarked to kill offspring. Due to a lack of infestations, all activity by BLC has been geared
to normal production systems using group selection harvesting. There has been very little beetle
chasing of late. In fact, the only beetles that I was able to find were in trees felled by home
builders and firewood cutters.
The current state of the forests in western Bhutan can be attributed to the bark beetle management
plan established by the World Bank. The major benefits of the program were most likely the
prevention of the spread of infestations to adjacent susceptible stands and the recovery of timber
values before degrade losses occurred. Beetles were contained in infested stands by baited traps
and trap logs. Adjacent stands were susceptible to beetles. In addition, the slash created by house
builders would have fuelled the infestations in a fashion similar to high fuel loads and fire.
Sanitation/salvage logging further aided in maximizing recoverable wood volume before degrade
losses occurred.
Additional benefits to resource values within stands are probably not very significant. It is
possible that tree mortality was reduced in infested stands. It is also possible that infestations
collapsed earlier than if no program had been implemented. However, the magnitude of these
possible benefits were probably not very great. Infestations of Ips bark beetles do not generally
last very long. Mortality within the stands was already quite high. In my opinion, the opportunity
to gain benefits from either of these parameters was never very large.
Continuation and sustainability of the bark beetle program is dependent on adequate support and
training. Levels of both are currently good for BLC staff. However, I recognize two areas of
concern. First, the incentive to continue debarking pines and spruce may decline without
infestations occurring in other areas. All pines and spruces were debarked at all sites operated by
BLC. Visits to sorting areas and mills revealed that the inventory of pine and spruce had been
similarly debarked during previous harvest operations. It appears that BLC has adopted an
aggressive campaign of debarking all hosts capable of producing bark beetles. Infestations arising
from the actions of house builders may serve to keep the bark beetle management program active
and viable.
Second, there is a general lack of systematic survey of the land base for forest health concerns. It
is inevitable that future infestations will have to be quite large again before they are noticed. There
is no opportunity at present to deal with small spot or single-tree infestations before they develop
into a major problem.
NURSERIES
The mission visited two nurseries established by the World Bank. One was located near Thimphu
while the second was in the Haa valley. One observation was clear for both sites. Management
had failed to maintain an equitable distribution of stock by age. There was an abundance of old
stock (4-6 years old), especially at the Haa nursery. There was little if any recruitment on line to
replace the stock. The nurserymen have not prepared new seedlings, while disposing of old stock.
The reason was simple. Natural regeneration reduced the need for seedlings. Funding levels were



43
insufficient to plant existing seedlings in alternate areas, not covered by the project.
It is counter to human nature to destroy healthy seedlings. However, the liability of not removing
old stock was evident at the Haa nursery. There was at least 300,000 seedlings of fir, aged 4-6
years. Almost all the stock was infested with an adelgid aphid, resulting in reduced growth and
vigour. These seedlings should have been culled as soon as they reached 4 years and opportunities
for planting were minimal. An abundance of old stock, constrained by containers, inevitably
results in a breeding ground for forest pests.
The mission recommended that the stock of fir (4-6 years) be piled and burnt as soon as possible.
If some stock is required for the current year then these should be identified and retained for
planting. Pesticide for aphid control should be applied by back-pack sprayer only after planting to
minimize exposure to planters.
PLANTATIONS
Most plantations were found to be healthy and diverse in species composition. There was no
evidence of any major forest pest as discerned by walk throughs and discussions with BLC staff.
The only exceptions were plantations of pine near Chumjon and the confluence (see attached
letter). This area is dry and mesic, with insufficient precipitation for survival of blue pine.
Mortality and top kill has occurred ever since the plantation was installed in 1988, with repeated
mortality of subsequent plantings in 1989 and 1993. The reason is moisture stress from drought
conditions. These trees were planted off site.
However, it is likely that problems will arise in the future due to dwarf mistletoe. Blue pine was a
common seedling, often from natural regeneration. Many of the residual trees have obvious signs
of mistletoe infection, evidenced by multiple brooms in the branches of mature trees. The
sanitation/salvage operation did not apparently identify mistletoe infection as a reason for removal.
This is a serious shortfall. Timber production in these areas will suffer, although these areas may
satisfy non-timber requirements. A land management plan would clearly identify appropriate levels
of sanitation, given timber or non-timber requirements.
CONCERNS FOR THE FUTURE
There are three major concerns for forest health problems in the future. The foremost one is related
to the activities of home builders. These activities, coupled with drought conditions, precipitated
past epidemics. House builders do not appear to have changed their practices, often leaving logs
and slash material in which beetles can breed. These materials are left for long periods of time,
enough that beetles can complete their development. Drought conditions will occur again in the
future. It is only a matter of time until the next infestations plague Bhutan.
The project as funded by the World Bank has provided a means to minimize the extent of these
problems. The BLC can be used to conduct sanitation/salvage operations. The downside is that
normal operations and rotations are impacted. Infestations often occur in areas not necessarily
scheduled for logging.
The second liability is the lack of a systematic survey system. Infestations have to become quite
large before they are noticed from highly-travelled areas, unless a knowledgeable person is actually
working in the area. The opportunity to deal with small problems is very limited. Treatments have
to be aimed at larger problems with an associated lower rate of efficacy.
The third liability concerns another forest health problem ... dwarf mistletoe. It is obvious to all
that dwarf mistletoe is prevalent in all stands of blue pine. Infection of regeneration generally
occurs within 7-10 years and is correlated with distance from infected trees. Greater distances



44
between regeneration and infected trees would reduce the risk of infection. Cuts should be larger
in size to promote this aspect. The consequence is reduced volume growth, and possible increases
in mortality. However, it is important to note that mistletoe is a timber problem, not a forest
problem. Non-timber values are rarely impacted by mistletoe.
CONCLUSIONS
All management actions require a clear identification of the relative worth of resources for all areas
to be managed. Pests that impact timber values do not necessarily impact on riparian or wildlife
values. Tolerances for disturbances are lower for areas with high visual quality than those seldom
seen by travellers.
A comprehensive, land-use plan would permit managers to make informed decisions. Discussions
with stakeholders would establish thresholds for various forest values. Impacts upon communities
downstream of forest operations would be considered. Forest managers would be able to present
the tradeoffs and, in consultation with representative stakeholders, plan for future developments
and actions. Pest management in the future would be more proactive with a clearer understanding
of consequences.



IBRD 19P6
a H U T A N
HAA AND PARO BLOCKS                                                                                                    PRFOJECT AREAS
0             ~        ~         ~~~~5 IDDute
PROJECT COWSONENES      0  TOWNS
SILOMElIIS                                           PerO                                    PROJECT AREAS           A   PASSES -ND ELEVAT-ONS
A  PROPOSED WORRSOOP 7 S70RE  RIDER
BRIDGES
CHAMGANG BLOCK                                        Thi.pho
_,__  __  .   \   L 6                             ID      =    -- 10  ~-~  ~ 9                              _
\  \   <   Ch.'.,LP                                                                                          BLO PARO  BLOCKCK
L. P-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~APV
A                                                            CHAMGANG~~~~~~~~~~Th oolen.
A BLOCK~~~~~~~~~ATA AILR~
CAd T51660hA            Ton..~~~~~~CO ...
,<_   1'-    5    t/  11              i                                    <                 ,,  '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_X)    i  I~~~~~~~~S)L E&
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- \hph                                               r                                 \.                           - ~
; j}~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ?610 m sX .__ \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IU Y18






IBRD I19860
PHYSICAL RELIEF                                                                                              ID 196
(meters)                                                                     B H U T A N
MA A_so BHUTAN FORESTRY 11 PROJECT
300~s_300 0                                                          PROJECT LOCATIONS
PROJECT LOCAnDONS  A    ELEVATION POINTS IN METERS
ROADS *           -±    AIRPORT
-    PAVED ROADS*  NATIONAL CAPITAL
- UNPAVED ROADS     0  DISTRICT CAPITALS
ROADS UNDER CONSTRUCTION 0OTHER TOWNS
_______                  KULA   *.      _        ROADS UNDER IMPROVEMENT    0    SELECTED VILLAGES
_____________________________________________________  RANGE'                 ROADS  PROPOSEDGR  UNDRRADSPROPOSED-UDDISTRICTI BOUNDARIESE
.  _  _ :   ~     7554  FIFTH PLAN     _,_  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
G     A     S     A*ROAD INFORMATION A5 OF 1983.
G Laya   A   \S    A-
\  I                    \\  0 OLunono
-28   _   r   X   k   X   J   X/   r   )   a   )  /  .?-     Z8-
LHARIGs                                            K
7 3   14   N.                           J                                             / T   H   A -  
*        p-'gPUNA      *    BX X                 U MTHAINGIXPJKI
/PSEA R O           1 J        ,. /  WANGDIPHODRANG .*                               L unt!i
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IE R                                        5  I  5  07
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Y amgs
HJ89-Ton 3 VO                                                               9! tso
Monga        Tshigang               .
uzom ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5t anglung
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Gimdu\h      I}-    J                               GALEA G  NA5PmGusl
5 A M   C H   I     1-7        Dago~~~~~~~~959192
Sb  11  Ckukha'-..-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JUY1R









IMAGING
Report No:        15656
Type: PCR?



