Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 1900 BHU
(Second Forestry Development Project)
between
KINGDOM OF BHUTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated May 9, 1988
CREDIT NUMBER 1900 BHU
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 9, 1988, between KINGDOM OF BHUTAN (the Borrower)  and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has  requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Borrower intends to receive from the Government of the Swiss   
Confederation (Switzerland) a non-reimbursable contribution in an amount  equivalent 
to SDR 3,700,000 (Swiss Contribution) to assist in financing the Project on the terms 
and conditions set forth in an agreement (the Swiss Contribution Agreement) to be 
entered into between the Borrower and Switzerland;
(C)
Part A of the Project will be carried out by the Borrower through its 
Forest Department (FD);
(D)
Part B through H of the Project will be carried out by Bhutan Logging 
Corporation (BLC) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such  assistance, the 
Borrower will make available to BLC the proceeds of the  Credit as provided in this 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions  set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association 
Page  2
and BLC;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms  defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have  the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association and BLC 
of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and  such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(b)
"Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and BLC pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as  the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (c) of 
this Agreement;
(d)
"Project Area" means the area comprising the Dzongkhags (districts) of 
Thimphu, Paro and Haa; and
(e)
"Project Coordinator" means the Managing Director of BLC.
 
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms  and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement,  an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to eight hundred thousand Special  Drawing Rights (SDR 
800,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit and the Swiss Contribution may be 
withdrawn from the Credit Account and the Swiss Contribution Account,  respectively, 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this  Agreement, as such Schedule 
may be amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower, the Association 
and Switzerland for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and Swiss Contribution.
(b)
Except as the Association and Switzerland shall otherwise agree, the  
allocation and withdrawal of the Swiss Contribution shall be governed by the  
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions.
(c)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special account in the Bank of Bhutan on terms and  conditions satisfactory 
to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out  of, the Special Account shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of  Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1993 or such later  date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount 
of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time. The commitment  charge shall accrue 
from a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agreement to the 
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit 
Account or shall be cancelled.
Page  3
(b)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind  imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency  specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
April 1 and October 1 commencing October 1, 1998 and ending  April 1, 2028. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on April 1, 2008 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider the  Borrower creditworthy 
for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof 
by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of 
the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of 
installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the 
amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise 
such modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of 
such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the 
Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time 
to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall  not 
change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph  (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition  has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Development 
Credit Agreement shall: (i) carry out Part A of the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering 
and forestry practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services, and other resources required for the Project; (ii) carry out Part A of the 
Project in accordance with an Operational Action Plan satisfactory to the Association;  
and (iii) cause BLC to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project 
Agreement all the obligations of BLC therein set forth, shall take and cause to be 
taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other 
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable BLC to perform such  obligations, and 
shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with 
such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to BLC under a 
subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and BLC, under terms 
and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association  and which shall 
include, inter alia, the following:
(i)
the Borrower shall charge BLC an annual interest rate of 12%;
 
(ii)
repayment period shall be within 9 years inclusive of a grace 
Page  4
period of 2 years; and
(iii)
BLC shall bear the foreign exchange risk.
 
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association and Switzerland shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Swiss  Contribution shall be 
governed by the provisions of the Schedule to the  Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the  General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans  and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition,   respectively) in respect of Parts B 
through H of the Project shall be carried out by BLC pursuant to Section 2.03 of the 
Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. In order to evaluate the achievement of Project objectives, the 
Borrower, BLC, the Association and Switzerland shall, by December 31, 1990,  carry out 
a mid-term review of the implementation of the Project.
Section 3.05. For the purposes of effective coordination of all projects in the 
forestry sector, the Borrower shall:
(a)
organize, at least once a year, a joint review of said projects among 
donors, BLC and FD under the chairmanship of the Planning Commission of the Borrower; 
and
(b)
hold an annual workshop, timed with the joint review mentioned in  the 
preceding paragraph, to be attended by the managers of the various forestry projects 
and to be chaired by the Ministry of Agriculture of the Borrower.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall cause the Project Coordinator to prepare  and 
furnish to the Association with the following reports:
(a)
semiannual Project progress report not later than March 31 and September 
30 of each year of Project implementation; and
(b)
a mid-term Project review report to be furnished not later than September 
30, 1990.
Section 3.07. By November 30 of each year, the Borrower shall instruct  BLC 
regarding the cutting area priorities for the following year.
Section 3.08. In order to assist in carrying out Part A of the Project, the 
Borrower shall appoint to its FD by April 30, 1988:
(a)
one additional ranger and two additional foresters to assist in carrying 
out the pest management and research program; and
(b)
four additional foresters to carry out markings of trees in the priority 
areas for cutting by BLC.
Section 3.09. By December 31, 1988, or such other date agreed with the 
Association, the Borrower shall carry out: (a) a pre-harvest inventory; (b) a waste 
and defect study; and (c) furnish the findings of (a) and (b) to the Association for 
its review and comments.
Section 3.10. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part A of the 
Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and 
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the  Association. Such 
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures 
satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" 
published by the Bank in August 1981.
ARTICLE IV
Page  5
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting  practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Part A of  the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out Part A of the 
Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section and those for the Special Account for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditures, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
BLC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that BLC will be able to perform its obligations under the Project 
Agreement.
(c)
BLC Charter of 1984 as heretofore amended shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the 
ability of BLC to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of BLC or for the suspension of its 
Page  6
operations.
(e)
The Swiss Contribution Agreement shall have failed to become effective by 
June 30, 1988, or such later date as the Association may agree; provided, however, 
that the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to 
the satisfaction of the Association that adequate funds for the Project are available 
to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
(f)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the right of the 
Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the Swiss Contribution made 
to the Borrower for the financing of the Project shall have been 
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant 
to the terms of the agreement providing therefor;
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that:
(A)
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is 
not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of 
its obligations under such agreement; and
(B)
adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower 
from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with 
the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b)
the events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions  to 
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of  Section 
12.01 (b) of the General Conditions, namely, that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has 
been executed on behalf of the Borrower and BLC.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section  12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in  the 
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by BLC, 
and is legally binding upon BLC in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by the Borrower and BLC and is legally binding upon the Borrower and BLC in accordance 
with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Deputy Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Page  7
Ministry of Finance
Tashichhodzong
Thimphu, Kingdom of Bhutan
Cable address: 
Telex:
 
Ministry of Finance 
890-201
Thimphu, Bhutan
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
 
INDEVAS 440098 
(ITT)
Washington, D.C. 
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their  respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of  the day and year first 
above written.
KINGDOM OF BHUTAN
By /s/ Dasho Jigme Thinley
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Attila Karaosmanoglu
Regional Vice President
Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit and
the Swiss Contribution
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit and the Swiss Contribution, the allocation of the amounts of 
the Credit and the Swiss Contribution to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                      Amount       Amount of
                      of the       the Swiss
                      Credit     Contribution
                     Allocated     Allocated        % of
                    (Expressed    (Expressed      Expendi-
                      in SDR        in SDR        tures to
Category            Equivalent)   Equivalent)    be Financed
(1)  Vehicles,                                   100% of foreign
     equip-                                      expenditures,
     ment and                                    100% of local
     materials:                                  expenditures
                                                 (ex-factory
                                                 cost) and 85%
                                                 of local ex-
                                                 penditures for
Page  8
                                                 items procured
                                                 locally
     (a) Vehicles      460,000
         and mate-
         rials
     (b) Equipment                 1,320,000
(2)  Road con-         200,000                   15%
     struc-
     tion
(3)  Incremental                     810,000     5%
     operating
     costs
(4)  Technical                       920,000     100% of foreign
     assist-                                     expenditures
     ance and
     training
(5)  Unallo-           140,000       650,000
     cated
         TOTAL         800,000     3,700,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "incremental operating costs" means BLC's additional costs 
incurred after the date of this Agreement for the purposes of carrying out the  
investment and operation activities under the Project.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this  
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of $100,000, may be made from the Credit on account of payments made for 
expenditures before that date but after June 30, 1987.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to strengthen the managerial and technical 
capacity of BLC and FD.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Pest and Forest Management
 
Pest surveillance and implementation  of an active trapping, control and 
extension program in the pest-affected areas.
Part B:
Logging
 
Treatment of about 2,640 ha of mixed coniferous forest under a program of 
salvage logging, to remove economically salvageable dead trees within the context of a 
proper silvicultural management plan.
Part C:
Road Construction
 
Building permanent access roads as part of a long-term harvesting and management 
plan, and spur roads in areas selected for salvage logging.
Page  9
Part D:
Workshop Facilities
 
Provision of: (i) a modern workshop at Paro to repair forestry equipment; and 
(ii) training to upgrade the skills of the mechanics and supervisors.
Part E:
Nursery Development
 
Establishment of at least one permanent nursery at a central location of the 
Project Area.
Part F:
Reforestation
 
Regeneration of native tree species in clear cut areas with provision for fire 
control facilities and control of stock grazing.
Part G:
Marketing Support
 
Development of a more active marketing strategy for timber products through the 
provision of sheds, equipment and technical assistance and training.
Part H:
Technical Assistance
 
Strengthening of management skills of BLC through the provision of technical 
assistance, including the setting up of a commercial accounting system.
*    *    *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1993.
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) (a) and (2) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the  eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to  $90,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special  Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out of the Special 
Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the 
provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a)
On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower for a deposit or 
deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit  Account and 
deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests for replenishment 
of the Special Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify. On the 
basis of such requests, the Association shall withdraw from  the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish the 
Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such 
deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for such deposit furnished 
Page  10
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account for which the 
Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of this  Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, 
such and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably request, showing that such 
payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.
(a)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, no 
further deposit into the Special Account shall be made by the Association when  either 
of the following situations first arises:
(i)
the Association shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii)
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the 
eligible Categories minus the amount of any outstanding special 
commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall 
be equal to the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.
(b)
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining  
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining
on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account (i) was made for any expenditure or in any amount  not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Association deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further deposit by the 
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has made such 
deposit or refund.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further  payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the Credit Account.
