Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 1900 BHU
(Second Forestry Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
BHUTAN LOGGING CORPORATION
Dated May 9, 1988
CREDIT NUMBER 1900 BHU
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 9, 1988 between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT  ASSOCIATION (the 
Association) and BHUTAN LOGGING CORPORATION (BLC).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith  between 
Kingdom of Bhutan (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to 
make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies  equivalent to eight 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 800,000), on the terms and conditions set 
forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that BLC agrees to 
undertake such obligations toward the  Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
the Borrower intends to receive from the Government of the Swiss   
Confederation (Switzerland) a non-reimbursable contribution in an amount  equivalent 
to SDR 3,700,000 (Swiss Contribution) to assist in financing the Project on the terms 
and conditions set forth in an agreement (the Swiss Contribution Agreement) to be 
entered into between the Borrower and Switzerland;
(C)
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and BLC, proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement 
will be made available to BLC on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS BLC, in consideration of the Association's entering into the  
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement  and in the 
General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) BLC declares its commitment to the objectives of the  Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and,  to this end, 
shall carry out Parts B through H of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and 
in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and forestry 
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this  Section 
and except as the Association and BLC shall otherwise agree, BLC shall  carry out 
Parts B through H of the Project in accordance with: (i) an Operational Action Plan, 
satisfactory to the Association, as such plan may be reviewed on an annual basis and 
revised, as necessary, by agreement between the Association and BLC; and (ii) sound 
environmental protection measures including those set forth in the Operational Action 
Plan.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association and Switzerland shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Swiss  Contribution shall be 
governed by the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. BLC shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to  insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and  reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and Parts B through H 
of the Project.
Section 2.04. BLC shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, BLC shall not  take 
or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning 
or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) BLC shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the  performance of 
its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and 
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
BLC shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which  
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by BLC of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of BLC
Section 3.01. BLC shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in  
accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering and forestry  practices 
under the supervision of qualified and experienced management  assisted by competent 
staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. BLC shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance  with sound engineering, 
financial and forestry practices.
Section 3.03. BLC shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make 
other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and 
in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Page  3
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) BLC shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in 
accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b)
BLC shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so 
audited, and (B) the report of  such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, BLC shall not 
incur any debt, if after the incurrence of such debt the ratio of  debt to equity 
shall be greater than 1 to 1.
(b)
For purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of BLC maturing by its 
terms more than one year after the date on which it is originally 
incurred.
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms of payment, on the date, and to the 
extent, the amount of such debt has become outstanding pursuant to 
such contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee 
agreement, on the date the agreement providing for such guarantee 
has been entered into but only to the extent that the guaranteed 
debt is outstanding.
(iii)
The term "equity" means the sum of the total unimpaired paid-up 
capital, retained earnings and reserves of BLC not allocated to 
cover specific liabilities.
(iv)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency 
is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of 
servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis 
of exchange acceptable to the Association.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
BLC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in accordance with its terms; or
Page  4
(ii)
the date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
 
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the  
Association shall promptly notify BLC of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by  this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or  at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the  party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
For BLC:
Bhutan Logging Corporation
Thimphu, Kingdom of Bhutan
Cable address:
Telex:
 
BHUFOREST
8901220
 
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of BLC, or by BLC 
on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit  Agreement, may be taken or 
executed by the Chairman of BLC or such other  person or persons as the Chairman of 
BLC shall designate in writing, and BLC shall furnish to the Association sufficient 
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such 
person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts,  each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their  respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of  the day and year first 
above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Attila Karaosmanoglu
Regional Vice President
Asia
Page  5
BHUTAN LOGGING CORPORATION
By /s/ Dasho Jigme Thinley
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
Except as provided in Parts C and D hereof, goods and works shall be  procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth 
in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under  IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, goods manufactured in Bhutan may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
Vehicles, equipment and materials estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
less per contract and the equivalent of $1,650,000 in the aggregate  may be procured 
on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in  accordance with 
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
Part D:
Procurement Without Contracting
 
Road construction works may be carried out through force account.
Part E:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said 
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first 
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the  Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of  the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to the 
Development Credit Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall not  
apply to contracts on account of which the Association has authorized withdrawals from 
the Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditure.  Such contracts shall be 
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (a) (ii) of  the Development Credit 
Agreement.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II:
Employment of Consultants
 
Page  6
In order to assist BLC in carrying out Parts B through H of the Project, BLC 
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and  conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such  consultants shall be 
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association 
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and 
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
