FILE COPY
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
RePort No. 264a-KO
KOREA
APPRAISAL OF A
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
December 13, 1973
Transportation Division
Asia Projects Department
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS*
Currency Unit        =         Won (W)
US$1                           W W400
Wi                   =         US$0.0025
Wl million                     US$2,500
*The exchange rate is floating, but the rate used
in this report is indicated above.
WEIGHTS AND NEASURES
Metric System
Metric                                    British/US Equivalent
1 meter (m)                    =          3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)       2       =          0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km ) 2                0.386 square miles (sq mi)
1 kilogram (kg)                =          2.205 pounds (lbs)
1 metric ton (m ton)                     (0.98 long ton (lg ton)
(1.1 US short ton (sh:ton)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
adt            -    average daily traffic
BPR            -    Bureau of Public Roads
EPB            -    Economic Planning Board
ER             -    Economic Return
G]NP           -    Gross National Product
KHC            -    Korea Highway Corporation
KNR            -    Korean National Railroad
HOC            -    Ministry of Construction
MOF            -    Ministry of Finance
MOHA           -    Ministry of Home Affairs
MOT            -    Ministry of Transportation
NHCO            -    National Highway Construction Office
PCB            -    Provincial Construction Bureau
RCB            -    Regional Construction Bureau
TCMC           -    Transport Coordination Ministers' Conference
TPO            -    Transport Planning Office
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



KOREA
APPRAISAL OF SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMIARY AND CONCLUSIONS ... .................. .. ........ .    i-ii
I.  INTRODUCTION ...... .        ...............                1
II.  THE TRANSPORT SECTOR . .................. ........... . .   2
A.   Economic Setting ..... .... .... ...................  2
B.  Transport Modes .................................      2
C.  Transport Planning and Coordination ....    ...        4
III. HIGHWAYS                      ......   4
A. The Network                        ..4
B.  Highway Traffic      ..........                        5
C. Highway Administration        .        .                7
D.  Highway Planning and Financing                         8
E.  Highway Design and Construction            . .9
F.  Highway Maintenance........                           10
IV. THE PROJECT ........ 12
A.   Description           .       .......I.....    12
B.  Cost Estimates and Foreign Exchange Component ...   - 14
C.  Execution ......      ..............................  17
D.   Financing .....    ..................................    18
E.  Disbursements.                 . ...... ......        18
V.  ECONOMIC EVALUATION .................................      18
A.  General ....................................................    18
B.  Highway Construction .......  .......................    19
C.  Highway Paving ..................................    22
D.  Highway Maintenance Program .....................    23
VI.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMHENDATION ................    24
This report has been prepared by Messrs. A. F. Ballereau (Economist) and
P. R. Morris (Engineer).



-2-
AiNEXES
A.   Description of Project Highways to be Constructed
B.   Description of Project Highways to be Paved
TABIES
1.   Domestic Freight and Passenger Traffic Data, 1967 and 1971
2.   Public Transport Investment Plans, 1967/71 and 1972/76
3.   Public Roads Network, 1971
4.   Registered Motor Vehicles, 1962-72
5.   Korean Motor Vehicle Production, 1962-72
6.   Motor Vehicle Fuel Consumption, 1962-72
7.   Highway Authorities and Agencies
8.   Expenditures on Roads, 1962-66 and 1967-71
9.   Highway User Charges, 1967-72
10.   Design Standards for Two-Lane National Highways (Rural)
11.   MOC Field Organization for Maintenance of National Highways:
Implementation Schedule
12.   MOC Field Organization for Maintenance of National Highways:
Maintenance Equipment for Remaining 8 Provinces
13.   MOC Field Organization for Maintenance of National Highways:
Estimated Capital and Recurrent Costs, 1972-81
14.   Estimated Cost of Project
15.   Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
16.   Estimated Traffic Growth on Project Roads
17.   Traffic Volumes on Project Roads
18.   Estimated Average Vehicle Operating Costs and Savings on
Project Roads
19.   Estimated Vehicle Operating Cost Savings for the Highway
Maintenance Program
20.   Estimated Costs and Benefits Streams for Highway Construction
21.   Estimated Costs and Benefits Streams for Highway Paving
22.   Highway Maintenance Program:  Economic Evaluation
23.   Economic Returns and Sensitivity Analysis
CRABTS
1.  Ministry of Construction Organization
2.   Bureau of Public Roads Organization
MAP
National Highway Network



0REA
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUMKARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        In line wLth the long-term high growth rate of the economy, demand
for transport in Korea is increasing rapidl1y. Althoughl the growth rate in
GlP has fallen from nearly a 12% average between 1965 and 1971 to about 7%
in 1972, as a resulc of the Government's stabilization progra, it is ex-
pected to rise to about 8.6% p.a. for the remainder of the Trird DeveLopment
Plan to 1976. Signs of recovery appeared in industrial producrion and
investment toward the end of 1972 and some acceleration of economic expansion
has occurred in 1973.  Demand for all domestic transport has gswon at a rate
of nearly 18% between 1965 and 1971. Although its growth rate was temporarily
checked in 1972, it is expected to continue to grow at a rate substantially
faster than the economy as a whole. Further, highways are taking a steadily
increasing proportion, including virtually the entire increase in passenger
traffic.
ii.       Fol.owing the recommendations of the Bank-financed Land Transport
Survey in 1967, the Government has devoted an increasing proportion of invest-
ment to transport, especially for highways. Between 1965 and 1971 the share
of investment in transport has grown from 20% to 24% of capital formation and
the proportion invested in highways has increased from 33% to about 46%
of all public investment in transport. To improve planning and coordination
of transport, including adequate examination of proposals for investment,
the Government set up an inter-ministerial Transport Coordination Ministers
Conference (TCMC) and a Transport Planning Office (TPO) in the Ministry of
Transport (MOT). The staff is being trained and the planning body is
expected to become gradually more effective. Its tasks include the review
of current Government policies in regard to regulation of transport under-
takings, including the somewhat restrictive licensing policies for road
transport; the review is being undertaken in collaboration with the Economic
Planning Board (EPB) and with other interested ministries.
iii.      The present public roads network in Korea is generally fairly ade-
quate in density, but its condition is inadequate to carry the rapidly in-
creasing traffic, particularly on the national highway system. To cope with
this situation, the Government's is doubling the highway investment ia the
third Five-Year Plan 1972-76 with a target, for national highways, of
1,O00 km of new construction, including paving, and 4,000 I= of improvement
and paving of existing highways; and, for provincial roads, of improvement
and paving of about 3,500 km.  Although these targets may be optimistic, it
is expected that the national highway system will be practically completely
paved by about 1981.
iv.       Of even greater priority than road improvement is the reorganiza-
tion and improvement of road maintenance. A new maintenance organization,
under the Ministry of Construction (MOC), is being set up to maintain national
highways and will carry out a program to brirg their maintenance up to a
satisfactory level. A start has already been made in a pilot province under



- ii -
the First Highway Project, and the effort will now be extended to the remain-
ing eight provinces. The provincial works organizations, which now maintain
tae national highways, will then be able to concentrate on the provincial
-- ds.
v.        From 1962 onward, the Bank has financed investments in the trans-
port sector with loans, credits and a grant, totalling US$254.7 million;
including four railway projects totalling US$120 million; a Bank grant of
US$200,000 in 1965 for the Transport Survey and a credit of US$3.5 million
in 1968 for studies of highways and transport coordination, refinanced
tirough Loan 769-KO; a First Highway Project for US$54.5 million in 1971;
and a port project for US$80 million in 1973.
viL       The Second Highway Project will include construction of 130 km of
national higiiways, paving of a further 634 km of national highways, feasi-
bility studies for future improvement and paving of a further 1,000 km of
roads, to be followed by detailed engineering if found justified; and the
establishment of a national highway maintenance organization in the MOC,
iicluding procurement of highway maintenance and workshop equipment. The
project was prepared through studies and engineering carried out under
Credit S4-KO and Loan 769-KO.
vii.      The construction and paving works, and the procurement of equip-
ment, will all be carried out by contract on the basis of international
competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement.
The domestic contracting industry is well developed and efficient and won
all the civil works contracts in the First Highway Project; it is expected
to win the bulk of such work in the Second Project. For equipment, the
normal preference of 15%, or the amount of the customs duty if lower, will
be given to domestic manufacturers. The consulting services to be financed
will be carried out by experienced foreign firms, assisted by domestic
consultants. The estimated total cost of the project is US$94.0 million.
The loan of US$47 million will finance the foreign cost totalling US$38.7
million and about US$8.3 million of local cost.
viii.     The construction and paving elements of the project are aimed
at lowering vehicle operating costs by improving national highways which
have gravel surfaces and are inadequate to cope with increasing traffic.
The new improved roads will also serve isolated agricultural and fishing
production areas by easing access to consumption markets. The maintenance
equipment to be procured under the project will contribute to the setting up
of a country wide highway maintenance organization and prevent deterioration
of new paved roads and improve the riding conditions of the other national
highways. The provision for feasibility and detailed engineering studies
will help to prepare a possible third highway project.
ix.       The project constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan, of
US$47 million equivalent, representing about 50% of the total project cost,
to the Republic of Korea for a term of 25 years including a seven-year period
o. grace.



KOREA
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the Republic of Korea has asked the Bank to
help finance a Second highway Project consisting of:  (a) canstruction of
130 km of national highways from Saemal to Gangreung and Gangreung to Mukho,
including supervision by consultants; (b) paving of 634 km of national
highways, Donong-Hoengseong, Jumunjin-Yangyang, WeonJ u-Maepo, Jupo-layeong,
Gongju-Gimje, Cheongju-Sangju, Jeomchon-Yeongdeog, Gwangju-Goheung and
Yeongsanpo-Ganjin, including supervision by consultants; (c) feasibility
studies by consultants for improvement and paving of a further 1,000 km of
roads, and detailed engineering of those roads found to be justified; (d) es-
tablishment of a national highway maintenance organization, including
procurement (to be financed under the loan) of highway maintenance equip-
ment, spare parts, and workshop tools and machinery.
1.02      The Bank Group's previous assistance in financing the transport
sector has involved four railway projects: Credits 25-KO for US$14 million
in 1962, and 110-KO for US$11 million in 1967; Loan 669-K0/Credit 183-KO for
US$55 million in 1970; and Loan 823-K0 for US$40 million in 1972. In addi-
tion the Bank Group has financed surveys and studies and one highway and one
port project: a Bank grant of US$200,000 in 1965 for the Korea Transportation
Survey; Credit S4-KO for US$3.5 million in 1968 for studies of highways and
transport coordination which was refinanced through the First Highway Proj-
ect, Loan 769-KO for US$54.5 million in 1971; and a port project, Loan 945-K0
for US$80 million in 1973. Performance on these projects has generally
been satisfactory. For the First Highway Project, construction is on
schedule and within the cost estimates, feasibility studies satisfactorily
completed and detailed engineering started, the highway maintenance study
carried out and the proposed MOC organization to maintain the national
highway system successfully established in a pilot province. The Government
has taken measures to improve transport planning and coordination, including
training of staff.
1.03      The project has been prepared on the basis of priorities
established by the Korea Transportation Survey. This survey recommended
increased investment in transport, with greater emphasis on highways.
Feasibility and highway maintenance studies, and detailed engineering, were
carried out under Credit S4-K0 and Loan 769-K0.
1.04      This report is based or. information provided by the Government
and consultants, and on the findings of the March 1973 appraisal mission,
composed of Messrs. P.R. Morris (Engineer) and A.F. Ballereau 'Economist).
Preparation of the project was delayed by the need for additional informa-
tion which was brought to the Bank by a Government mission in July 1973,
and by consultants in July/August 1973.



-2-
II. TEE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Economic Setting
2.01      Korea has a population of about 32 million which is growing at
2.6% p.a.  The Korea economy has been expanding rapidly in recent years,
c_efly through a very high growth rate in industrial production and ex-
po::.s.  Trae GNP grew at an average of 7% between 1962-64 and 11.7% between
1965-71. Iave6tment increased from 11% of the GNP in 1960 to 25% in 1971,
while the share of exports in the GNP increased from 4% to 25%.  Per
capita GEP was about US$280 in 1972.
2.02      Since 1970 there has been a slowdown in the rate of expansion of
the economy as a result of the Government's stabilization program to
reduce inflation through curbing the expansion of domestic credit, and to
reduce drastically the large trade deficit. These policies, together with
deteriorating world trading conditions, led to a fall in the growth rate
o. QeP from 16% in 1969 to 10% in 1970, 9% in 1971 and a little over 7%
in 1972. The Government's program aims to stabilize the growth at about
8.6% p.a. for the remainder of the Third Development Plan period 1972-76.
The expansion of the economy reduced unemployment in urban areas from
7.4% in 1964 to about 4.5% in 1970. Indications are that, with the Govern-
ment's stabilization program, unemployment has increased to between 6%
and 7% in 1972; however, this is expected to drop with the export-led
revival in the economy. Signs of recovery have appeared toward the end of
1972 and during 1973 both in industrial production and investment.
B. Transport Modes
General
2.03      Demand for transport has grown even faster than the economy.
The share of transport in the GNP has increased from about 3.9% in 1965
to 5.5% in 1971; during that time the value added due to transport has
grown at an average of 17.7% p.a. compared with 9.9% p.a. for the GNP.
At the same time, the share of investment in transport has grown from
20% to 24% of total capital formation.
2.04      During the Second Five-Year Development Plan 1967-71, domestic
passenger traffic (in pass-km) in all modes increased by an average of
11% p.a., while freight traffic (ton-km) increased at about 19% p.a. The
enaire increase in passenger traffic went to highways. Passenger traffic
on highways doubled, but on the railway decreased by about 8%. This resulted
in a significant loss of railway revenues since passenger traffic is
charged a higher proportion of overhead costs than is freight traffic.
Small amounts of passenger traffic are carried by aviation and coastal
shipping. Of the increase in freight traffic, about 46% went to coastal
shipping, 33% to highways, and 21% to railways; over the period freight traffic



-3-
increased 6 times on highways, 4.5 times on coastal shipping and by 27%
on railways. In 1971, the share of passenger traffic carried by highways was
71% and by railways 27%; the share of freight traffic was 21% by highways,
50% by railways and 29% by coastal shipping (Table 1).
2.05      To correct transport bottlenecks which occurred during the First
Five-Year Plan period, 1962-66, the allocation for investment in transport
under the Second Plan, 1967-71, was increased from about 17% to about 27%
of the total Government capital expenditure. To keep pace with the demand
for transport, the Government is doubling the investment under the Third
Plan, 1972-76, to Won 492 billion (US$1,250 million), which is also about
26% of total Government capital expenditure (Table 2). The allocation
between the modes is in a similar proportion as in the Second Plan period
and is considered reasonable; about 46% for highways, 36% for railways
(including the Seoul subway), 16% for ports, maritime transport and storage,
and 2% for airports.
Highways
2.06      With the rapid growth of road transport, the present highway
system is inadequate. Only 33% of national highways and 9% of other roads
are paved. A continued high level of investment will be required in
highways. Details are given in Chapter III.
Railways
2.07      The Government's Korean National Railroad (KNR) has 3,085 route-km,
all standard gauge, of which 528 km are double track. Electrification of
350 km of industrial lines (carrying chiefly mineral traffic) is in progress
and scheduled for completion in 1974. Also in progress and scheduled for
completion in 1974 are the electrification of a further 108 km of suburban
lines and the construction of a subway for mass transit in the Seoul area.
2.08      Of the rail freight traffic, over 80% consists of bulk commodi-
ties: 40% coal, 17% cement, 10% petroleum products, 6% ore, 6% grain and
5% fertilizer. The railway is expected to retain, or increase, its share
of this traffic in line with its increased capacity resulting from electri-
fication and improvements in rolling stock. Continued competition from
other modes is expected for the remaining 18% of general freight traffic
and for passenger traffic; however, the railway is expected to retain a
significant amount of such traffic. The railway's finances are expected to
be improved through increasing efficiency of operations, partly resulting
from Bank financed railway projects and through tariff adjustments.
Ports and Shipping
2.09      Freight traffic through the ports has increased from about
7.5 million tons in 1962 to 51 million tons in 1971. This sharp increase
has occurred both in foreign trade and coastal shipping. To meet the
resulting port capacity problems, the port facilities are being expanded,
chiefly at Busan, Incheon, and Mukho, with the help of loans from the Asian
Development Bank and the Bank.  In addition, a new port is being constructed



-4-
at Pohang for the steel mill. Korea's share of the merchant shipping in
foreign trade tonnage has averaged only 20-25% of the total tonnage of
foreign trade, slightly decreasing in recent years; efforts are being made
to increase this proportion. The expansion in coastal shipping is largely
due to the development of industry at Pohang, Ulsan, Masan and other
coastal sites.
Aviation
2.10      Domestic passenger traffic carried by air is growing rapidly,
but still amounts to only about 1% of the total.  Domestic air freight
traffic is negligible. Domestic routes are served by the privately-owned
Korean Airlines, which also provides a proportion of international flights.
There are two international airports: Seoul, which is presently being
expanded, and Busan.
C. Transport Planning and Coordination
2.11      To improve transport planning, the Government set up, in 1970,
a Transport Planning Office (TPO) in the Ministry of Transportation (MOT).
To control the work of this office, the Government also set up a Transport
Coordination Ministers' Conference (TCM4C), consisting of the eight Ministers
most concerned with transport matters, and a Transport Coordination Working
Group, a civil service committee with members from the same Ministries.
An action program to improve the working of these bodies was included in
the Loan Agreement for the Fourth Railway Project (Loan 863-KO); this in-
cluded undertakings to have the TPO collect data on all transport modes, to
have all major investment proposals relating to transport appraised by the
TPO before decisions are made, to strengthen the staff of TPO, and to have
quarterly reports sent to the Bank.  During negotiations for the First
Port Project in April 1973, confirmation was obtained that the program
would be implemented satisfactorily. However, progress in strengthening
staff has been slow. In September 1973, the first two staff members were
sent overseas for training, as transport economists. In the meantime the
Economic Planning Board (EPB) is reviewing the functions and work program
of TPO with a view to implementing the provisions of the agreement for
Loan 863-KO. The possible need for revisions in the work program and in the
implementation schedule was discussed during negotiations and the Government
will submit to the Bank within three months a status report on TPO with a
view to discussing appropriate action to be taken by mid 1974.
III. HIGHWAYS
A. The Network
3.01      The public road network totalling about 40,600 km consists of
about 8,800 km of national highways, 10,800 km of provincial highways, and



-5-
21,000 km of city and county roads (Table 3). The national highways in-
clude about 640 km of grade separated toll expressways, of which about
510 km are four-lane divided and 140 km two-lane. The average road
density is 0.4 km of road/kmi of land area, and 1.2 km of road/1,000 in-
habitants. These compare with ratios of 0.1 km of road/km2 and 1.3 km of
road/1,000 inhabitants in Thailand; and 0.2 km of road/km2 and 1.7 km of
road/1,000 inhabitants in the Philippines.
3.02      The road density is generally sufficient to serve transport
needs, particularly as around 70% of the total land area is mountainous.
However, the condition of most of the road network is inadequate. Only
33% of the national highways are paved, and 2% of the provincial highways
(compared with 85% and 35% in Thailand respectively). Further, the unpaved
roads are in a poor state. Average driving speeds are usually only in the
range of 25-35 kph because the roads are badly aligned, narrow, and have
poor drainage and rough gravel surfacing, and a few are unsurfaced. There
is thus an urgent need to improve the highway network, particularly: (i)
major reconstruction and realignment of a few major trunk routes; (ii) the
paving of virtually all remaining national highways, and those provincial
highways with high traffic volumes; (iii) improvement of the condition of
gravelled and unsurfaced roads, chiefly through improved maintenance; and
(iv) instituting an adequate system of maintaining paved highways.
B. Highway Traffic
3.03      Between 1962 and 1972, the motor vehicle fleet grew from about
31,000 to 155,000, an average increase of 18% p.a. (Table 4). However,
during the last six years, the growth rate has fluctuated widely. Between
1967 and 1971, it accelerated to an average of 24%, whereas in 1971 it
fell to about 12% and in 1972 to 7%. Furthermore, most of the increase in
1972 was in two-wheeled vehicles and, if these were excluded, the growth
rate would have been only 3%. The vehicle fleet is still small; it is only
1 vehicle per 206 inhabitants, compared with 1 per 50 inhabitants in
Thailand, and 1 per 63 in the Philippines.
3.04      In line with the Government's policy of developing a domestic
motor vehicle manufacturing industry, local production increased from
about 2,000 in 1962 to 30,000 in 1970 (Table 5). This growth was fostered
by restrictive import licensing and high customs duties on foreign assembled
vehicles. As a result, nearly all motor vehicles are locally assembled,
and with an increasing proportion of locally manufactured parts. The
Government hopes also to build up an export trade in vehicles, and an aim
is to produce 500,000 vehicles p.a. by 1980. There are three established
manufacturing/assembly plants, with joint participation by Korean firms
with General Motors, Ford, and Fiat. The combined capacity is about
80,000-90,000 vehicles p.a., with single shift working. Present production
is thus only about 30% of capacity. The local content is about 50% for
cars and trucks, and about 80% for buses. However, the largest manufacturer
is constructing a factory to produce engines and, when these are used, the



-6-
local content for cars will be over 50%; in addition, the firm aims to
export half of the intended production of 50,000 engines p.a. However,
production of vehicles, which had been rising rapidly to 30,000 in 1970,
fell to 23,000 in 1971 and less than 19,000 in 1972 with the slowdown in
overall economic growth (para 2.02). Some recovery, to about 25,000, is
expected in 1973.
3.05      Passenger traffic on highways (pass-km) accounts for about 70%
of the total for all modes. The growth rate for highway passenger traffic
1967-71 averaged about 18% p.a. and accounted for the entire increase in
passenger traffic for all modes.  Highways are expected to continue to
take all the increase in inter-city ,traffic, but the growth of urban
passenger traffic is expected to be shared with the railway, particularly
the new subway and electrified suburban lines in the Seoul area. Freight
traffic on highways (ton-km) represents about 20% of such traffic on all
modes. However, the growth of road freight 1967-71 averaged 49% p.a., which
was more than double the average (19%) for all freight traffic. The share
of freight traffic by road is expected to continue to increase, but at a
reducing rate, in the long term. However, since 1971, there has been a
sharp fall in the growth of road traffic. This is indicated by a growth
in 1972 of only 3% in registered vehicles (para 3.03), and 7Z in fuel
consumption (gasoline and diesel, Table 6).
3.0,6 -    The Government attributes the recent fall in growth of road
vehicles and traffic mainly to the economic stabilization policy and the
consequent reduction in the growth rate of GNP from 15% in 1969 to 7% in
1972. However, restrictive licensing of commercial vehicles is also believed
to have significantly affected growth. Such restrictions include: (a)
issuing licenses only to enterprises having a minimum of 20 vehicles in
cities or 10 vehicles in country districts; (b) imposing quotas on total
numbers of vehicles in each province; (c) limiting the use of vehicles
to specific areas or routes; and (d) regulation of rates for freight, as
well as passenger traffic. In addition, the cost of vehicles is high as
a result of the Government's policy of prohibiting the import of all
assembled vehicles (except a small number, in special categories) and
requirements that an increasing proportion of domestically manufactured
components be used in locally assembled vehicles. The resulting high unit
costs, with small production volumes, may have limited potential demand
for vehicles.
3.07      The Government recently reviewed its policies concerning the
regulation of road transport and in a Policy Statement dated October 5, 1973
has indicated an intention to relax present restrictions. On this basis,
and taking account of an expected increase in the growth rate of GNP to
9% p.a. from 1974, the Government has forecast that the annual growth in
numbers of registered vehicles will increase from 3% in 1972 to around 18%
p.a. from 1974 through 1981. However, even with the expected removal of
restrictions, the Government's projections of the growth of the vehicle fleet
may be rather optimistic. Slightly lower growth rates have therefore been
assumed in the economic analyses of the proposed project. Agreement was
reached with the Government during negotiations on policy changes in licensing



and regulation of the use of road vehicles to be introduced not later than
June 30, 1975 that would be consistent with the assumed increases in the
vehicle fleet.
3.08      Traffic counts on the national highways have been made since 1965
by the Ministry of Construction (MOC), assisted by the provincial authori-
ties. They are carried out twice a year, their reliability has been im-
proved, and use ls now made of them in planning of highway improvements.
During negotiations it was confirmed that the counting has been extended in
1973 to the provincial highway system, and that the counting, and recording
and analysis of traffic data will be continued.
3.09      Current regulations on vehicle weights and dimensions were
reviewed by BCEOM as part of the maintenance study carried out under the
First Highway Project. This shoved that the existing legal limits are
reasonable, including a 10-ton single axle load, but that they should be
extended to cover semi-trailers and trailer combinations. A 3.5-ton limit
is proposed for all vehicles, and a 16-ton limit for tandem axles. During
negotiations, agreement was reached that the Government will amend thle
regulations, in agreement with the Bank, by December 31, 1975.
C. Highway Administration
3.10      The MOC (see Chart 1) is responsible, through its Bureau of Public
Roads (BPR) (see Chart 2) for the planning, design, construction, maintenance
and administration of national highways. Local roads, which include provin-
cial, special city (Seoul and Busan), city and county roads, are the
responsibility of the local authorities, under the Ministry of Home Affairs
(MOHA) (Table 7). However, the MOC has a general responsibility to the
Government for the formulation of policy in relation to these local roads.
3.11      The present organizations for planning, designing and constructing
highways, with the assistance of consultants and contractors on major works,
are satisfactory, the main organizational weakness being in highway
maintenance. Historically, responsibility for maintaining all highways
rested with the provinces and their local authorities. In January 1971,
the MOC was given responsibility for maintaining national highways but,
as the MOC did not have a field organization to carry out the work, it
continued to be performed by the provinces with grant assistance. This
imposes a burden which the provincial authorities are not able to cope
with adequately, in addition to maintaining their local roads; over half
their resources are presently devoted to the national higaways. To improve
the situation, the Government is setting up a new MOC field organization.
3.12      The Korea Highway Corporation (MGC) was set up by the Government
in February 1969 to construct, operate aad maintain toll highways. It is
semi-autonomous, with its own Board of Directors, budget and accounts, but
is subject to the general direction of the Minister of Construction. The



KHC presently operates 640 in of toll expressways (Seoul-Busan, Seoul-
Incheon, Suwon-Weonju-Saemal, and Daejon-Jeonju).  It supervised construc-
tion of the last two, but so far has not financed any construction, al-
Tbh 7 ts Articles of Association permit this.
3.13      The BPR is the headquarters organization within the MOC dealing
w>h tne planning, administration, construction and maintenance of national
;;- 'nways.  Das-ign and construction of national highways are normally
^a-riea out by the five Regional Construction Bureaus (RCBs), which also
carry out coastruction for other Bureaus of the MOC (on ports, water re-
sources, housing, etc.). The design of major highway projects, particularly
those Ainanced by international agencies, is carried out with the assistance
of consultants, working directly under the BPR; the supervision of their
construction is usually carried out by the National Highway Construction
Office (NhCO) of the MOC, working under the technical direction of the BPR.
3. 4      The provinces through Provincial Construction Bureaus (PCBs) are
esponsible for the construction, maintenance, and administration of the
=rr fincial highway system. The local authorities, that is counties and
cities, are responsible for local roads. Two Special Cities, Seoul and
Busan (City Construction Sections), are responsible for all roads within
their areas.
D. Highway Planning and Financing
3.15      Planning of the national system is the responsibility of the MOC
and is carried out by its BPR, which has a Planning Division. The Division
carries out traffic surveys and maintains an inventory of national highways.
The data for the inventory, hitherto provided by the provinces, have not
always been reliable, but this will be remedied when the new MOC field
organization has been established over the whole country and takes over
data collection. A revised and satisfactory inventory has already been
prepared by the new MOC maintenance organization set up in a pilot province.
The BPR drafts the Five-Year Development Programs and Annual Budgets for
development. These drafts are reviewed by the MOC and revised in consulta-
tion with the Economic Planning Board (EPB) and Ministry of Finance (MOP)
and finally incorporated into the National Five-Year Economic Development
Plans and Annual Budgets. In reviewing the drafts, the aim is to make the
programs consistent with the national development and financial targets
established by the EPB and the MOF. The BPR is also responsible for
giving technical advice on al1 highway matters to the Government, including
the MOLA and the provinces; it reviews proposals originating from these
bodies for road improvements and grants for maintenance. Planning of
provincial roada is the responsibility of the provinces, and city and
county roads are planned by the local authorities concerned.
3.16      The Government plans to spend a total of Won 227 billion
(US$566 million) on highways under the Third Five-Year Economic Development
Plan (1972-76). Of this, about Won 165 billion is for national highways



- 9 -
and Won 62 billiin for provincial and local roads. On national highways,
the target is 1,000 km of new construction, or major reconstruction includ-
ing realignments, and about 4,000 km of paving, including only minor
improvements. For provincial roads, the target is to pave and improve
a total of about 3,500 km. However, these targets may prove optimistic
since unit costs are tending to exceed those used in the plan; also the
time required to prepare and execute projects may have been underestimated.
Nevertheless, the total allocation of Won 227 billion is likely to be
substantially spent, compared with Won 123 billion in the Second Five-Year
Development Plan (1967-71) (Table 2), an increase of about 85% at current
Won prices. These targets are reasonable in relation to: (a) the present
condition of the national and local road networks, on which little improve-
ment has been carried out in the past (see para 3.02); (b) the current
level of traffic on national highways, with over 7,000 km already carrying
over 500 adt (see para 3.05); and (c) the probable increase in traffic to
meet transport demand (para 3.07).
3.17      Over the last five years, expenditures on roads (Table 8) have
been lower than revenue from road user charges (Table 9). Budgetary
provision for each year is based on the estimated road user charges.
These exclude import duties, but include: (a) 75% of the gasoline and
diesel tax and 100% of the transport tax levied on public passenger
traffic on roads (these items accrue to the Government highway budget);
and (b) the vehicle tax, vehicle acquisition tax and registration fees
(which accrue to the highway budgets of the provinces, cities and counties).
Total taxation on motor vehicles is rather high for a developing country.
In particular, the taxes on vehicle acquisition and ownership are high
and the Government is considering gradually reducing such taxes but
increasing taxes on vehicle use, particularly increasing the tax on diesel
fuel which is presently low.
E. Highway Design and Construction
3.18      The responsibilities for highway design and construction of
various classes of roads are shown in Table 7. The BPR is responsible for
design and supervision of construction of national highways, and for
establishing standards for other Government-financed roadworks and for
reviewing proposals submitted by provinces and local authorities. In the
case of major construction projects, consultants are usually employed for
design and to assist with supervision; the supervision of such works is
usually delegated to the NUICO, particularly when financed by international
agencies. Other works on national highways are designed and supervised
by the five RCBs of the MOC, sometimes with the assistance of consultants,
and under the general direction of the BPR. The KHC is responsible for
design (under the technical direction of the BPR) of toll expressways' it
also supervises their construction. The BPR has prepared design standards
for national highways (Table 10). They are divided into two parts, one
for new construction, or major reconstruction with substantial realignment,
while the alternative stand rd have been devised for paving of existing



- 10 -
highways with minimum realignment and improvement. Both sets of standards
are reasonable for their purposes.
3.19      Virtually all construction is carried out by contracts which are
awarded after competitive bidding. This has provided a large and increasing
volume of work and forms the basis for the Government's policy of promoting
the growth of the domestic contracting industry. Further assistance in
the initial stages was provided through Government loans on favorable
terms to contracting firms for the purchase of equipment. There is now
a well established and efficient domestic contracting industry, with
about 750 firms, including several large ones which undertake works over-
seas as well as in Korea. The largest 10 firms were engaged on contracts
in 1971 ranging from US$4 million to US$30 million. Foreign contractors
have had little success, because of price competition, in obtaining civil
engineering work in Korea, though a number of firms have expressed interest
in bidding. Some minor construction is undertaken by force account by the
RCBs. PCBs, and City and County Construction Sections. The army is
responsible for roadworks in the northern border area.
3.20      The choice of construction methods is left to the contractors,
subject to complying with performance specifications. The Government does
not impose any conditions or incentives on the use of equipment or labor.
Tiie smaller local authorities, particularly counties, tend to use a greater
proportion of labor on their force account works because they have only
a very limited amount of equipment and much of the work is of a nature which
can be fairly easily adapted to hand methods. For example, many small access
roads are being constructed and improved through local community effort.
F. Highway Maintenance
3.21      Althouglh there has been some improvement in recent years, the
maintenance of highways is still unsatisfactory. Financial allocations
by the Government for maintaining national highways have barely increased
in real terms and are insufficient. The maintenance agencies (Table 7)
have inadequate staff, equipment and finances to maintain the national,
provincial and local road systems. Except for the expressways, the
existing paved roads are not being promptly repaired, and their surfaces
renewed periodically on a systematic basis as required to prevent their
further deterioration and eventual collapse. The majority of the roads,
which are gravel-surfaced, are extremely rough, often corrugated, incor-
rectly shaped to provide adequate drainage, and much erosion from flooding
has not been repaired. Further, many sections of gravel-surfaced national
roads are carrying traffic volumes beyond their capacity. The road
system, including the national highways, is therefore in poor condition
and road transport costs are unnecessarily high. The Government is aware
that an extensive paving program is required and has had consultants
BCEOM (France) assist in preparing one, as part of the Highway Maintenance
Study which the firm has been carrying out under the First Highway Project,
Loan 769-KO. The present project was formulated to include a large paving
item.



-11 -
3.22      To provide a satisfactory system of road maintenance, the Govern-
ment is setting up a new field organization, within the MOC, to maintain
national highways. The provincial and local authorities will then be
relieved of all work on national highways, which presently absorbs over
60% of their entire financial and other resources devoted to roads; they
will thus have the capacity to raise the maintenance of provincial and
local roads to a satisfactory level. To this end, the HOC has already
established its new maintenance organization in a pilot province, with
equipment financed under the First Highway Project, Loan 769-KO. Construc-
tion of maintenance facilities for the two field sections (districts) in
this province was completed in August 1972 and the sections began to operate
from September 1, 1972, initially with rented equipment and working in
collaboration with the provincial authority. All the equipment has now
arrived, and the field sections are fully operational. First indications
of their performance are encouraging. Technical assistance has been provided
by BCEOM as part of the Highway Maintenance Study.
3.23      The report by BCEOM on the Highway Maintenance Study includes
proposals for extending the MOC field organization to the remaining
eight provinces. These proposals, which have been accepted by the
Government, entail setting up a further 17 field sections (districts),
making a total of 19, to cover the entire.national highway network. Each
will have a depot, with an office and a workshop, and will be provided
with highway maintenance equipment appropriate to the roads for which it
is responsible. Arrangements are being made to obtain the staff required,
partly by transfers from other parts of the MOC, and partly by recruitment,
and for their training through courses to be conducted by the Ministry's
Training Center, and by attacbment, in rotation, to the two field sections
operating in the pilot province. BCEOM will continue to provide technical
assistance, as an extension of the maintenance study, for setting up the
nation-wide MOC highway maintenance field organization. A schedule for
completing the installation of the MOC's field organization was prepared by
the consultants and discussed with the MOC by the appraisal mission. During
negotiations, at the request of the Government a modified schedule was agreed
to allow an additional year to complete the installation (Table 11).
3.24      The BCEOM Highway Maintenance Study report included a plan for
setting up the MOC's field organization, including the depots, offices, workshops
and other installations, and lists of highway maintenance equipment, and
workshop equipment needed, with cost estimates (Table 12). Further, the
Study included an assessment of the work to be carried out, with cost estimates,
for a program of highway maintenance for the years 1975 through 1981, and
estimates were prepared of the capital costs and the recurrent costs to carry
it out (Table 13). During loan negotiations, assurances were obtained from
the Government that it will: (a) set up the 14OC's nation-wide field organi-
zation for maintaining .dighways in accordance with the agreed implementation
schedule, including providing all the staff, installations, equipment,
and capital financing required; (b) carry out the program of highway main-
tenance of the national highway system recommended by BCEOM, including pro-
viding the recurrent financing required; (c) thereafter cause the rational
highway system to be ade.quately maintained in accordance with sound engineering



- 12 -
and highway practices, and provide promptly as needed the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for such maintenance, including
repairing and renewing, as necessary, the highway maintenance and workshop
equipment.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Description
4.01      The Project consists of:
(a) construction, chiefly on new alignments, including
paving, of about 130 km of two national highways,
and supervision by consultants;
(b) paving and improvement, chiefly on present align-
ments, of nine national highways totalling about
634 km, and supervision by consultants;
(c) feasibility studies by consultants of about 1,000 km
of national and provincial roads, to be followed by
detailed engineering if found justified; and
(d) procurement of highway maintenance and workshop
equipment for the extension of a new national
highway maintenance organization from a pilot
province to the remainder of the country.
(a) Construction
4.02      Two sections of national highways, described in Annex A, will
be constructed, chiefly on new alignments, with two-lane pavements: (a)
Saemal-Gangreung (97 km); and (b) Gangreung-Mukho (33 km).  Feasibility
studies of these two highways were carried out in 1969-71 by the con-
sulting firms, Ammann and Whitney/Trans Asia (US) and Ingeroute (France),
ut-:er Credit S4-KO. Ingeroute carried out the detailed engineering in
1972-73, financed under the First Highway Project. Both highway sections
pass through difficult mountainous terrain and have poor alignments,
with steep gradients, so that travel speed averages only 25-30 km/h even
in dry weather.  The new alignments are designed for a normal minitmum
speed of 50 km/h in the mountainous areas, but will have a few substand-
ard sections in particularly difficult parts of the terrain. The hilly
sections will have a design speed of 70 km/h and rolling sections
100 km/h (Table 10).



- 13 -
(b) Paving
4.03      Nine sections of national highways described in Annex B will be
paved to two-lane width, mainly on their present alignments, but with
improvement of curves and widening of the roadway and shoulders. The
road level will be raised and ditches constructed to improve drainage,
and existing bridges widened or reconstructed, or new ones constructed,
where necessary:  (a) Donong-Hoengseong (71 I=); (b) Sumunjin-Yangyang
(30 km); (c) WeonJu-Maepo (52 km); (d) Jupo-Hayeong (26 1a); (e) Gongju-
Gimje (77 ka); (f) Cheongju-Sangju (102 km); (g) Jeomchon-TYeongdeog
(132 km); (h) Gwangju-Goheung (102 km); and (i) Yeongsanpo-Gangjin (42 km).
4.04      Four of the roads to be paved were selected on the basis of
feasibility studies carried out under Credit S4-KO and under the First
Highway Project. The remaining highways were selected on the basis of
a paving program (which forms part of the Third Five-Year Plan 1972-76)
prepared by the Government with the assistance of the consulting firm
BCEOM (France) provided in the course of their study of Highway Maintenance,
also financed under the First Highway Project. BCEOM carried out the
economic part of the studies and also directed the engineering of the
roads undertakta by three Korean consultants:  (a) Korea Engineering
Consultants Corporation; (b) Yooshin Engineering Corporation; and (c) Dongil
Consulting Engineering Company.  The detailed engineering of all nine roads
was carried out under the direction of BCEOM, with the assistance of the
three Korean consultants.
(c) Supervision of Construction and Paving
4.05      The Government intends to have supervision of construction of
the Saemal-Gangreung and Gangreung-Mukho Highways (para 4.02) carried out
jointly by the Korea Highway Corporation (KHC) and Ingeroute, the design
consultants. The Government intends to have supervision of paving of the
nine highways (para 4.03) carried out jointly by the National Highway
Construction Office (NECO) of the MOC and BCEOM, the design consultants.
Both KHC (para 3.12) and NHCO (para 3.13) have sufficient staff to provide
the field supervisory teams. However, their performance so far indicates
that both organizations lack technical competence, experience and independence,
to supervise the work satisfactorily unaided. The Government has drafted,
and agreed with the Bank, terms of references for employing the design con-
sultants for supervision. The Government confirmed during negotiations that
the consultants will be employed on conditions satisfactory to the Bank,
and that no contract will be awarded for construction or paving until the
supervision consultants have been appointed.
(d) Feasibility Studies and Detailed Engineering
4.06      The project includes feasibility studies by consultants, to be
followed by detailed engineering if found justified, of about 1,0O0 'kn of
roads. The roads have yet to be selected, but they are expected to be
mainly national highways scheduled for construction or paving to be



- 14 -
commenced late in the Five-Year Development Plan 1972-76; however, some
high priority provincial roads may be included. Agreement was reached
during loan negotiations that the selection of highways for the feasibility
studies and of sections for subsequent detailed engineering will be made
in agreement with the Bank, and that the Government will not carry out any
works other than maintenance or minor improvements on the highways without
first consulting the Bank.
(e) Procurement of Highway Maintenance Equipment
4.07      The Project includes the procurement of highway maintenance and
workshop equipment (Table 12) to assist the Government in extending the
MOC field maintenance organization from the pilot province to the remaining
eight provinces (paras 3.23 and 3.24).
B. Cost Estimates and Foreign Exchange Component
4.08      The cost of the project, including contingencies, is estimated
at US$94.0 million. The foreign exchange component is estimated at
US$38.7 million, or 41X.   Estimated costs are shown in Table 14, and are
summarized on the next page. The estimated average costs per km (including
contingency allowances) are: (a) for construction $270,000; (b) for
paving $71,000; (c) for supervision by consultants $5,200; and (d) for
feasibility studies and detailed engineering by consultants, for improve-
ment and paving $1,500.



- 15 -
Foreign
Won (million)          US$ (million)      Exchange
Project Element         Local Foreign  Total  Local Foreign Total  Component
I. Construction
of two Highways  7,590  4,090  11,680   19.0  10.2   29.2          35
II. Paving of nine
Highways          9,620  5,180  14,800   24.0  13.0   37.0         35
Subtotal I & II    17,2'O  9,270  26,480   43.0  23.2   66.2          35
III. Consulting
Services:
(a) Supervision
I & II         720    720   1,440    1.8   1.8    3.6          50
(b) Feasibility
Studies &
Detailed
Engineering    280    280      560    0.7   0.7    1.4         50
Subtotal III         1,000  1,000   2,000    2.5   2.5    5.0         50
IV. Maintenance
Equipment           /1   3,000   3,000    /1    7.5    7.5        100
V. Contingency
Allowances:
/2
(a) Physical-    1,820  1,330   3,150    4.6   3.3    7.9
(b) Price/3       2,060    920   2,980    5.2   2.2    7.4
Subtotal V           3,880  2,250   6,130    9.8   5.5   15.3
TOTAL PROJECT COST    22,090 15,520  37,610   55.3  38.7   94.0           41
/1   Small amount for local handling, assembly and transport of imported
equipment; also possibly a small amount for local manufacture/assembly,
if domestic suppliers submit successful bids for part of the equip-
ment. The total local cost is unlikely to exceed about 15% of the
foreign cost of equipment and will probably be under 10%.
/2   10% on all items.
/3   12% on local and 10% on foreign cost of construction and paving.



- 6 -
4.09      Cost estimates for const-ruction of the Saemul-Gangreung and
Gangreung-Mukho highways have been prepared by Ingeroute on the basis of
detailed bills of quantities prepared after completing detailed engineering,
and of unit prices for similar work obtained from competitive bidding in
late 1971 on t.; 'irst Highway Project, adjusted to cover increases in
costs to late 1973, when bids are scheduled to be received. The cost
estimates for paving the nine highways 4ncluded in the project have been
prepared by BC03M on the basis of quantities calculated after completing
detailed engireering, and unit prices obta-Zned from interaational competi-
tive bidding 03 the Fvirst Highway Project, adjusted for price increases
estimated co carly 1974, when bids are expected to be received; also taking
into account more recent prices obtained by the Government through competi-
tive bidding on similar work.
4.10      The cost estimates for consulting services for supervision of
cor.struction and paving and for feasibility studies and detailed engineer-
ing of further highways are based on previous contracts with consultants
f-or similar work. The foreign exchange costs are relatively low because of
the large proportion of Koreans employed on the work.  The cost estimates
foa procurement of highway maintenance and workshop equipment are based on
the Maintenance Study carried out by BCEOM under the First Highway Project.
The prices have been adjusted to the levels expected in late 1974, when
contracts are to be awarded.
4.11      Contingency allowances of about 22% for construction and 10% for
consulting services and procurement of maintenance equipment are considered
reasonable. The contingency for construction and paving allows 10% for
possible increases in quantities of work, and 12% for increases in local
prices (about 8% annually) and 10% in foreign prices (about 7.5% annually)
from the expected time of receiving bids to the completion of construction
and paving. The 10% physical contingency allowance for consulting services
is for possible increases in the man-months required. The 10% physical
contingency allowance for maintenance equipment allows for additional items
of equipment and spare parts which may be found necessary; allowance for
increases in prices are not required, since the bids will be on a fixed
price basis. The cost estimates and contingency allowances were reviewed
and agreed with the Government during loan negotiations and are considered
reasonable.
4.12      The consultants Ingeroute and BCEOM estimate that the foreign
exchange component of the higway construction and paving works is between
43% and 46% if carried out by foreign contractors; between 31% and 33% if
carried out by local contractors. Under the First Highway Project, three
foreign firms were prequalified, but all contracts were won by local firms.
For this project also, three foreign firms have been prequalified, as well
as 25 local firms. It is likely that most of the contracts will be won by
local contractors; assuming this proportion to be 80%, the effective foreign
exchange component would be about 35%, and the foreign exchange component of
the project has been calculated on this basis. The foreign exchange com-
ponent of consulting services is estimated at 50% for supervision, studies
and detailed engineering. The foreign exchange component of highway main-
tenance and workshop equipment has been assessed at 100% of c.i.f. cost of



- 17 -
imported equipment, though a small proportion of the equipment may be manu-
factured or assembled locally.
C. Execution
4.13      The MOC will be responsible for carrying out the project, through
its BPR. Consultants will assist in supervising the construction and paving
of highways, and in carrying out feasibility studies and detailed engineer-
ing. Consultants, financed under the First Highway Project, will continue
to provide technical assistance in setting up and initially operating the
MOC Organization for maintaining national highways, including the procure-
ment of highway maintenance equipment. During negotiations, agreement
was reached with the Government that it will employ consultants, acceptable
to the Bank, for these purposes on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank; also on the terms of the proposed contract between MOC and KHC for
supervision of construction, to ensure that they are compatible with preserving
the responsibilities of the consultants.
4.14      Highway construction and paving will be carried out through con-
tracts awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding by pre-
qualified firms, in accordance with the Bank Groups "Guidelines for Pro-
curement". Highway maintenance and workshop equipment will be procured
through contracts awarded after international competitive bidding, also in
accordance with the "Guidelines for Procurement"; foreign bids will be
evaluated on the c.i.f. (port of entry) cost, and local bids on the
ex-factory cost allowing a margin of preference to domestic manufacturers
equal to 15% of the c.i.f. cost or the customs duty for each item, whichever
is lower. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Government
will follow these procedures for procurement; also that the Government will
not place restrictions on the importing of equipment, either by contractors
for carrying out the civil works or on procurement of the highway maintenance
and workshop equipment.
4.15      Contractors are left to choose their own construction methods,
including the optimum use of equipment and labor, subject to the work com-
plying with the specifications. The construction and paving contracts are
expected to be awarded during the first quarter of 1974 and to take about
2 years. The feasibility studies are expected to be started in early 1974
and detailed engineering carried out in 1975. Bids for highway maintenance
and workshop equipment will be invited in mid-1974, and deliveries completed
by end of 1975. The works are expected to be completed in the second half
of 1976 and, allowing for settlement of final payments, and completing dis-
bursements, the closing date for the loan will be December 31, 1977.  During
negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government on the timing of
project execution and or, arrangements for reporting progress.
4.16      The ecological effects of the highway construction and paving works
were not specifically included in the studies carried out, but no sigaificant



- 18 -
problems are expected. Soils are not generally of the kinds especially
subject to erosion, and adequate drainage and grassing of earthwork slopes
will be provided. The paving of the highways will eliminate present serious
discomfort, particularly in villages and towns, caused by dust in dry weather
uring rainy weather.  Acquisition of the right-of-way will cause
minimal disturbance; the new construction passes mainly through thinly
populated hilly terrain, and the alignments have been chosen to avoid, as
far as pract4cable, buildings and rice paddies or other intensively culti-
vated land, while the alignment of the highways to be paved largely follows
the existing roads, thus minimizing the additional right-of-way. Confirma-
tion was obtained during negotiations that acquisition of the right-of-
way on each highway section will be completed before a contract for
construction or paving is awarded.
D. Financing
4.i7      The proposed loan of US$47 million will finance about 50% of the
est-mated total project cost of US$94.0 million (Table 14).  The remaining
cost will be financed by the Government, which is expected to provide the
funds promptly, as it has under the First Highway Project. The Government
confirmed, during negotiations, that it will make timely provision for
funds to carry out the project.
E. Disbursements
4.18      Disbursements from the Loan Account will be made on the basis of:
(i) 45% of the total cost of construction and paving; (ii) 100% of the
foreign exchange cost of the consulting services; (iii) 100% of the c.i.f.
cost of imported highway maintenance and workshop equipment, or of the
ex-factory price, excluding identifiable taxes and duties, of locally
manufactured equipment, or 75% of the total cost of imported and locally
purchased equipment. On this basis, and on the schedule for executing
the project (para 4.15), a Schedule of Estimated Disbursements (Table 15)
has been prepared.
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. General
5.01      The Second Highway Project will continue the Bank assistance
to Korea in its efforts to improve and modernize the road transport system.
The benefits accruing from the project are essentially a reduction of un-
necessary high costs of moving goods and people and an easier access to
some isolated areas with hign economic development potential.  The project



- 19 -
will also help to cope with the present and planned growth of the transport
demand of this fast growing, export-oriented economy, and particularly with
the demand for road transport which registered in recent years the highest
increase of all modes for freight and passengers, in spite of a severe but
apparently temporary slowdown since 1971 (paras 3.03 to 3.07).
5.02      The highway construction (130 km) and paving (634 km) elements of
the project will contribute to the achievement of the Government's targets
for the construction of 1,000 km national highways and the paving o4
another 4,000 km during the Third Five-Year Development Plan (1972-76).
In addition, the project will support the extension of the new highway
maintenance organization to the entire national road network. The objectives
are to prevent the deterioration of newly improved highways and to upgrade
the riding conditions of the others, resulting in savings in vehicle opera-
ting costs. The project includes also a provision for the financing, of
further feasibility and detailed engineering studies for the paving of
about 1,000 km of road in preparation for a possible third project.
5.03      This project supports the Government's present strategy in the
1972-76 Plan of giving priority to the paving of existing gravel roads,
which still account for two-thirds of the national network, rather than
concentrating chiefly on the construction of new high-standard highways as
in the past. Feasibility studies of roads have shown that for most sections,
at the present time, the optimum first stage of improvement is to pave the
road largely on the present alignment, with only minimum improvements of
sharp curves, etc., and widening and improvements of drainage. The lower
cost of such work permits the paving of two to three times the length of
road which could be newly constructed. However, there are some sections
where factors, including the traffic volumes, inadequacy of present align-
ments, possibility of substantial shortening of the routes, etc., justify
immediate construction on new alignments. The present approach of minimiz-
ing and phasing investments, increases the feasibility of road projects and
enables the highway system to meet a much larger total transport demand at
lower cost; it follows the recommendations of the consultants and of the
Bank. It contrasts with past policy during the Second Plan, 1967-71, when
priorities were decided on non-economic considerations, particularly in
constructing the Seoul-Busan to 4-lane grade-separated standards which were
unnecessarily high for many sections and which absorbed a large proportion
of the total finances devoted to highways. The new emphasis on highway
maintenance also represents a major advance in policy, since the present
organization is inefficient and resources devoted to maintenance inadequate,
resulting in the present poor state of the road system.
B. Highway Construction
5.04      The construction of the Saemal-Gangreung (97 km) and Gangreung-
Mukho (33 km) highways will complete the cross-country axis, linking the
Seoul area to the north-east province. The coastal region is an enclave
oriented to the sea and is isolated from the rest of the country by a



- 20 -
prominent north-south mountain range. Although Seoul is only 230 km away,
it takes more than 8 hours by road or 12 hours by train to reach Gangreung,
the regional capital (80,000 inh.). This isolation has been an obstacle
Thre development of local resources which include fisheries, forestry,
aepos,ts including important coal mines (Mukho), cement plants
(Sameheok) and a very promising tourism industry based mainly on sea-side
resorts, but also on hiking and skiing in the mountains. The hinterland
has a low density of population but the coastal area from Sokcho to Sam-
cheok has an important urban population of over 350,000 in a number of cities
and villages including Yangyang, Jumunjin and Mukho. However, the growth of
the population of the province from 1966 to 1971 was only 0.5% per year
compared to an average of 1.9% for the whole country and 6.5% for the Seoul
metropolitan area. The province contributed significantly to the migration
to big cities since it is unable, because of its isolation, to provide
_ufficient employment locally in spite of its important resources.
7.05      The economic analysis was carried out by Ingeroute (France), in
X r'easibility study completed in 1971, financed under Credit S4-KO, and
was wn-dated in the detailed engineering study. Present traffic volumes
of the two roads for construction are described in Annex A. Ingeroute's
estimated traffic assignments, growths and forecast volumes (Tables 16 and
17) are based orn a detailed traffic origin and destination survey conducted
in 1969 and on further counts performed in July and August 1972. The
assignments take into account the traffic expected to divert to the new
road from existing roads and from other transport modes. The traffic
forecasts include estimated normal and generated growth.
5.06      About 80% of the traffic on the existing gravel roads would divert
to the new facilities. In addition, traffic diversions to the Saemal-
Gangreung Highway are expected from the northern highway between Hongcheon
and Sokcho, from the railroad between Seoul and the east coast and from
the airlines between Seoul and Samcheok, Gangreung and Sokcho. Diversion
from the two latter modes would occur also to the Gangreung-Mukho Highway.
However, the diverted traffic from the railway and airlines would each account
for less than 5% of the expected traffic volume of the new roads, and con-
sist mainly of passenger traffic. The railway line between Seoul and
Gangreung has a competitive disadvantage, as mountainous ranges force the
line on a long detour to the south via Yeongju, adding up to 4 hours in
travel time compared to the existing highway. Under the Fourth Railway
Project a small additional railway link in Jangseong will shorten the line
by 50 km and the line is being electrified between Seoul and a junction
just south of Mukho. Nevertheless, the compezitive position of the railway
wili worsen when the new highway Saemal-Gangreung is completed, as road
travel time will be reduced by half.  The consultants have estimated that
about 35% of railroad passengers between Seoul and Gangreung will then
divert to the new road, and 80% of those on the section between Gangreung
and Mukho. The expected drop of passenger traffic and the absence of
freight handled on this latter marginal line section of 30 km, which is
not being electrified, should lead the KNR to consider its closure unless
some coal deposits irn the area prove to be exploitable economically. The
KNR is following a policy of closing marginal lines.



- 21 -
5.07      The proper function of the Seoul-Mukho line is to handle heavy
bulk loads, such as coal, cement and timber. The increase in capacity of
this line, being financed with Bank assistance, will reduce the present
transport shortage which required priority to be given in winter to
transporting coal, forcing cement and other heavy loads to rely on road
transport, in addition to general freight. It is therefore expected in
the near future, that a better complementary use will be achieved of
transport modes in the eastern region; the railway line would specialize
in bulk commodities and leave the roads to carry passenger traffic and
non-bulk cargoes such as fish products requiring quick oel4ivery and special
care including door to door service. Airline routes are likely to suffer
more seriously from road competition as it is expected that 60% of the air
passengers on Seoul-Gangreung and 30% of those on Seoul-Sokcho, and on
Seoul-Samcheok would divert to the new highways. The monopoly of air routes
for fast transport in the area is therefore expected to be strongly chal-
lenged by the new roads providing much lower transport costs, and narrowing
the air advantage for travel time.
5.08      The normal traffic growth rates were estimated on projections of
the local population, vehicle fleet, and per capita income and adjusted to
take into account the recent slow-down in the rate of increase of registered
vehicles and of vehicle manufacture, and of gasoline consumption (Tables 4,
5 and 6) but assuming that vehicle licensing regulations will be relaxed
(para 3.07). The expected rates of generated traffic induced during the first
two years after opening of the new facilities are very high (45 to 25% p.a.)
and are based on the large traffic increase previously observed after the
opening of the first section of this highway, Suwon-Saemal, at the end of
1971. However, they are deemed reasonable in view of the important time and
distance reductions of the project roads (22 km for Saemal-Gangreung and 8
km for Gangreung-Mukho). The generated traffic rates take into account the
transportation share of development benefits resulting from the improved
connection between the northeastern province and the Seoul area, in particular
the promotion of the fishing and tourism industries, which were not assessed
separately.
5.09      The average vehicle operating costs for each road are given in
Table 18 and were assessed for typical vehicles, taking into account road
standards and traffic density. The savings in passengers time was quanti-
fied separately with hourly time values of 75 Won per private car passenger
and 30 Won per bus passenger. Benefits of the proposed construction of
the Saemal-Gangreung and Gangreung-Mukho Highways were determined as the
difference in road user and maintenance costs with and without the project
and are shown in detail in Table 20. Economic returns (ERs) for each road,
calculated over an assumed 20 years service-life of the investments, are
28% and 25% respectively. The sensitivity of the ERs was tested by varying
construction cost by +15% and benefits by -r25%. Under the pessimistic
assumption of an increase in construction cost concurrent with a decrease
in benefits, the ERs are 21% and 15% respectively (Table 23). Exclusion
of passenger time saving would reduce the above returns by about two per-
centage points. Thus, the highway construction element of the project is
amply justiffed. The traffic forecasts and economic evaluation have



- 22 -
been based on the assumption that no tolls will be levied, and the Government
confirmed that tolls will not be levied on any section of the highways to be
constructed or paved without the concurrence of the Bank.
C. Highway Paving
5. O      The nine roads to be paved under the project are located in dif-
ferent provinces, five are in the eastern central part of the country, all
oriented east-west, except the Jumunjin-Yangyang road which runs south-north,
as do the three other roads located in the south-western region. All nine
roads are national highways but serve largely regional interests as they
link towns and villages to major arteries. Their improvement will assist
the development of densely populated, but presently rather isolated, regions.
The areas served depend essentially on agriculture, particularly on rice,
bar.ey, cabbage and other vegetables, plus, in the Andong area, fruit and
.ODacco.  The present gravel roads were selected among a priority list
established from traffic counts by the Ministry of Construction. They are
ty.icacl for a paving program with traffic volumes ranging between 100 and
800 adt, and require little or no realignment within the service-life of
the roads, to satisfy their multi-purpose transport function. In addition,
but not part of the project, the Government intends to pave by December 31,
1975, the section Hoengseong-Saemal (14 km) which links the two project
highways Donong-Hoengseong and Saemal-Gangreung. This was confirmed
during negotiations.
5.11      The economic evaluation of the paving program was carried out by
BCEOM (France); traffic surveys were sub-contracted to three Korean firms
(para 4.04). Traffic volumes and estimated growth are shown in Tables 16
and 17, and details of traffic characteristics for each road are given in
Annex B. Traffic forecasts are based on past and expected growth of the
GNP as defined in the Third Five-Year Economic Development Plan, on fore-
casts of population increase and on past traffic growth for each studied
road, but assuming the relaxation of vehicle licensing restrictions (para 3.07).
No diversion of traffic from other roads is assumed since the Development Plan
objectives are to pave the larger part of the national highway network by
1976. The high growth rates selected up to 1976 for normal traffic include
implicitly the generated traffic induced by the reduction of vehicle operating
costs. Only the Weonju-Maepo road and part of the Gongju-Gimje road offer
competition with the railroad, but even on these sections possible diversions
of rail traffic are deemed negligible.
5.12      The assessed benefits result from savings in vehicle operating
costs due to the improved conditions on the newly paved highways compared
with the existing rough graveled roads, and from reduction in road main-
tenance costs. The average vehicle operating costs, with and without passenger
time savings, are shown in Table 18 and take into account highway standards,
terrain condition and vehicle speed. The transport costs per km will be
reduced by about 15% for private cars and 30% for taxis, buses and trucks.



- 23 -
As the roads will follow closely their existing alignments, neg i &ole
benefit is obtained from distance reduction, but savings occur from reduced
travel time due to increased speed of vehicles. Hourly time values of
passengers are identical with those used in analysis of the highways to be
constructed (para 5.09). In addition to reduced travel coscs benefiting the
road users, part of which may be passed on to urban consumers and to farmers
in the areas served, the new pavements would bring other non-quantified
benefits such as quicker and improved services, reduction of Sihe nuisance
and accidents caused by heavy dust resulting from increasLag trffc on the
existing gravel surfaces.
5.13      The estimated streams of costs and benefits over z.ce &ss.-amea
16 years service-life of the investnents and economic returnns LEMa) for each
road are shown in detail in Table 21. ERs range between 23% and 49% with
passenger time savings included, and 22% and 45% without.  The sensitivity
of the ERs was tested under the same assumption as for the hi.ghway construc-
tion (para 5.09) and the pessimistic assumption gives ERs ranging between
16% and 35% (Table 23). These returns are satisfactory to justify the paving
element of the project.
D. Highway Maintenance Program
5.14      The recommended program for improving the standard of maintenance
covers about 8,150 km of graveled and paved national highways (paras 3.21
to 3.24). It includes the investments in equipment, workshops and depots
(Table 12) and the increase in maintenance budgets (Table 13) which are
expected to yield considerable savings in vehicle operating costs. These
savings would accrue gradually while the program is being implemented by:
(i) preventing further increase in vehicle operating costs; and (ii) gradually
improving road conditions and reducing vehicle operating costs. Only the
latter element was included in the quantification of the program's benefits
in the economic analysis carried out also by BCEOM.
5.15      The vehicle operating cost savings expected per vehicle in the
fourth year of operation (when the program is fully effective) and thereafter
are shown in Table 19; they range from 2% to 6% on paved roads and from
5% to 15% on gravel roads. These unit savings correspond to Bank experience
elsewhere for similar projects.  The average traffic growth rate assumed is
10% p.a. Based on most probable estimates of maintenance costs, including
a sizeable increase in recurrent costs, and benefits from vehicle operating
cost savings on gravel and paved roads, the -aaintenance pzogram over the
seven years service-life assumed, would yield an economic return of 53%.
The detailed costs and benefits streams are shown in Table 22, A sensitivity
test of a pessimistic situation with a cost increase of 10% and a reduction
in benefits of 20% would reduce the ER to 21%. Alternatively, an cpzimistic
assumption with 10% lower cost and 20% higher benefits would increase the ER
to 85% (Table 23).



- 24 -
5.16      Even on very conservative assumptions, the maintenance program
would yield satisfactory returns; this indicates that additional road main-
tenance, at a low cost per km, is a highly rewarding investment deserving
highest priority in the highway development program. Furthermore, without
_ Xnpe -programs considerable resources would be required in a few
years to rehabilitate the network.  The saving of these resources was not
taken into account in the benefits of the proposed program but would make
the maintenance program even more attractive.
V:c. AGRE:M-MENTS REACI-TED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1o      During loan negotiations the Government gave assurances on a
:bmber of points, the more important ones being that the Government will:
(a) amend, by Ju.ne 30, 2975, the regulations governing licensing of motor
vehicles to eliminate requirements as to the minimum numbers of taxis, trucks
d buses to be owned or operated by a firm or individual to qualify for a
commercial license, and to remove restrictions (other than normal
regL-ations relating to safety and traffic control) on the use of the
national highway network by trucks and buses (para 3.07); (b) set up by
January 1, 1976 the MOC field organization for maintaining the national
highway system in the remaining eight provinces (para 3.23) and carry out
the agreed program of highway maintenance for the period 1975-81 (para 3.24);
and (c) not levy tolls on the highways to be constructed or paved as part
of the project without the concurrence of the Bank (para 5.09).
6.02      The project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$47 million (represent-
ing about 50% of total cost) for a period of 25 years, including a 7 year
period of grace.
December 13, 1973



ANNEX A
Page I
KOREA
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Description of Project Highways to be Constructed
A. Saemal-Gangreung (97 km)
1.        Between Seoul and Suwon there is a four-lane divided toll highway
29 km), completed in 1969, and between Suwon and Saemal, (the start of the
project road), a two-lane paved toll highway (104 ki), completed in late
1971. From Saemal to Gangreung, the existing highway crosses a mountainous
area. The alignment follows the river valleys and is poor, especially
on two very mountainous sections where gradients reach 11%, with many very
sharp curves. The road is surfaced with river gravel, containing many
large stones, which corrugates and ruts badly. Average travel speed in dry
weather is about 30 km/h, but is even less in wet weather, or when the road
is icy. Drainage is poor.
2.        The new two-lane highway will be constructed on a new alignment
to design standards for new construction (Table 10, Part A), roughly parallel
to the existing road, but with substantial deviations from it, particularly
through the very mountainous areas. It will be 22 km shorter than the present
road. The new highway will have a 7.20 m wide asphaltic concrete pavement
and 1.75 m wide shoulders, surfaced with gravel. The terrain is about 20%
rolling, 45% hilly and 35% mountainous. In the mountainous areas, particularly
to reduce the maximum gradient to 8%, two tunnels will be constructed, 150 m
and 570 m long. The work will include 23 new bridges, the longest being
276 m.
3.        Present traffic varies between 370 and 450 average daily traffic
(adt) on most of the distance except for the last 10 km near Gangreung,
where traffic increases to 880 (adt). The traffic composition is about 45 to
55% for passenger cars, 15% for buses and 30 to 40% for trucks. Some military
vehicles, less than 3%, use the road mainly near the Weonju and Gangreung
areas. The average annual growth rate of the traffic from 1969 to 1972 was
44% for cars, 11% for buses and 27% for trucks. These unusually high growth
rates, particularly for cars, may be explained by the opening in 1971 of the
new two lane expressway linking Saemal to Suwon, since the bulk of the growth
took place in 1971-72, indicating a large generation of traffic would occur
during the first two years of operation of the new Saemal-Gangreurg Highway
(Table 16). The normal traffic growth assumed of 12% for cars, 9% for buses
and 11.5% for trucks may appear conservative when compared to earlier trends
but reflect the slow-down of road transport since 1971 for all the country.
(paras 3.04 and 3.05).



ANNEX A
Page 2
B.  Gangreung-!ukho (33 km)
4.        The existing highway from Gangreung to Mukho (46 km) is paved for
,t.w hotn from Gangreung.  The project highway starts from that
point and extends to Mukho. A two-lane paved highway is under construction
between Mukho and Samcheok (18 km), financed from the budget.  It is
sc.neduled for completion in 1974.  The remairder of the existing highway
(z; 4m) between GangreLng and Mukho is unpaved, and has a bad alignment,
pazCiculazrly 'l.inere it traverses mountainous areas for about half its length,
wiLa grad-ients reaching 10%, and many sharp curves.  The surface of river
gravel contains many large stones and corrugates badly; average travel
speed is about 25 km/h in dry weather, and even less in wet weather. Drainage
is ?oor, and sections on the steeply sloping sea coast are subject to serious
la.dslides and erosion.
The new highway (33 km) will be constructed on a more direct
-gnient, to design standards for new construction (Table 10, Part A), and
wi X he 8.0 Im shorter than the existing road. It will have 7.20 m wide
as i.altic concrete two-lane pavement, with 1.75 m wide gravel-surfaced
shoulders. The terrain is 75% hilly and 25% mountainous. To achieve the
improved alignment, gradients will be reduced to a maximum of 8%, and two tunnels
400 m and 450 m long will be constructed in the mountainous areas. The work
will include 11 new bridges, the longest being 186 m.
6.        Present traffic volume is about 600 adt with a composition of 55%
passenger cars, 15% buses and 30% trucks. The average annual growths between
1969 and 1972 were respectively 27%, 12% and 19%. The normal traffic growth
rates assumed for the project life are the same as for the Saemal-Gangreung
highway but generated traffic rates (Table 16) are somewhat lower since
only part of the benefits from the expected induced traffic would be attributed
to this road; the other part would accrue to the Gangreumg-Sokcho road.



A-N11 i2
Page
KOREA
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Description of Project Highways to be Paved
A. Donong-Hoengseong (71 km)
1.        There is an existing two-lane paved highway from Seo-ul to Dosong.
From there, a further 21 km is presently being paved.  Thie remaining 71 km
of unpaved highway to hoengseong is to be improved and paved under the
project. In addition, the Government intends to pave, from other .inancial
sources, the 14 km section from Heongseong to Saemal by )he end of 1975;
assurances should be obtained, during negotiations, that the Government will
have the paving of this section completed by December 31, 1975.
2.        The existing road is unpaved and narrow (6 to 7 m wide, including
shoulders). The terrain is about 35% flat, 50% rolling and 15% mountainous.
Gradients are generally low, except for a few short sections of about 7%
to 9% in the mountainous area. Average travel speed in dry weather is about
40 km/h.
3.        The improvements to be financed will consist chiefly of reconstructing
and widening the existing road, but will also include the improvement of a
number of sharp curves and a few short sections of realignment. The standard
will be as shown for Paving Type 2 (Table 10, Part B), that is with a 6.70 m
wide asphalt concrete pavement and 1.15 m wide gravel shoulders.  Existing
bridges will be retained except for two, which are narrow and in poor condition,
and which will be reconstructed.
4.        Present traffic volumes vary between 410 and 190 adt, gradually
decreasing from Donong to Heongseong. The traffic composition is about 10%
private cars, 5% taxis, 35% buses, 30% trucks and 20% military vehicles.
Forecast traffic growth rates are shown in Tables 16 and 17. The influence
of the Seoul metropolitan area extends to Yangpyeong where some light
industries and services are located. Agriculture, mainly production of
rice and cabbages, is rather poor due to unfavorable terrain and soil.
B. Jumunjin-Yangyang (30 km)
5.        The road between Gangreung and Sokcho (72 km) is already paved for
the two end sections GFngreung-JumurJin (21 km) arl Yangyang-Sokcho (21 km).
The center section Jumunjin-Yangyan& (30 km) will oe improved under the



ANNEX B
Page 2
project. The existing roadc is unpaved, varies in width from 7 to 10 m including
shoulders, and the gravel surface is rough and corrugates under the present
volume of traffic; average travel speed is about 40 km/h.
F.Eom Jumunjir. to Yangyang the road will be reconstructed mainly
on its present alignment, which is generally fair to good, but some curves
will be improved.  Most of the existing bridges are adequate and will be
ri ;a-ned, but one wilL be widened and one reconstructed.  The improved road
*-'._a 3o pav-ng standards, with Type 2 cross section (Table 10,
S2ar_'L    W~"C e_alt concrete pavement and gravel surfaced shoulders.
tInre tn a_ a.Jouz 35% rolling and 65% flat.
7.        Present traffic volumes range between 300 and 500 adt, with about
15% private cars, 15% taxis, 25% buses, 30% trucks and 15% military vehicles.
2otecast traffic growth rates are shown in Tables 16 and 17.  The densely
;ODulated area lives chiefly on fishing and agriculture from a narrow
eitivated strip along the coastline but tourism is also increasing. Pasture
being developed in the hills of the hinterland.
C. Weonju-Maepo (52 km)
8.        The present road has a paved surface 6.70 m wide (which is in poor
condition) for 3 km at the Weonju end, and for a further 9 km (in good
condition) from Jupo to Jecheon. The remaining 49 km of the present road
between Weonju, Jecheon and Maepo is unpaved with a width, including shoulders,
of 7 m in the flat sections and 5-1/2 - 6 m in the mountainous sections. The
terrain is about 60% flat, 30% rolling and 10% mountainous. The horizontal
alignment and gradients are reasonable for the terrain. In the mountainous
area, the maximum gradient is 5 to 7%, nd some curves need to be improved.
Travel speed is 35 to 40 km/h in the flat to rolling terrain and 25 to 30 km/h
in the mountainous area.
9.        The unpaved total length of 49 km between Weonju-Jupo and Jecheon-
Maepo will be reconstructed to Paving Type 2 standards (Table 10, Part B),
involving improvement of some substandard curves. The road will receive an
asphalt concrete pavement and gravel shoulders. Three narrow bridges are to
be widened; three bridges are to be reconstructed and one new one constructed,
with spans between 10 and 25 m. The work will also include the repair and
strengthening, where required, of the 3 km of existing paved road new Weonju.
10.       The present traffic varies between 350 and 600 adt; the highest
volumes are near Weonju, the main city at the foothills of- an important
north-south mountainous range which extends to the east coast. The traffic
composition is about 20% for private cars, 10% taxis, 20% buses and 45%
trucks; military vehicles are only 5%, although Weonju is a military garrison
which occupies a large part of its population (80,000 inhabitants). Agri-
cu.ture is important irh the Jupo area out becomes marginal near Maepo and
Danyang where important cement plants are located.



Page 3
D. Jupo-Hayeong (26 km)
11.       The road crosses two mountainous areas separated by a 5 km wide
plain. The terrain is about 25% flat, 15% rolling and 60% mountainous.
The present road is unpaved with a width, including shoulders, of about
7 m in the valleys and 5-1/2 m in the mountainous sections. The gravel
surface contains many large stones and is rough. Maximum gradients are
between 5 and 7%. Average travel speed is about 40 km/h in flat sections
and 25 km/h in the mountainous sections.
12.       The road will be improved to Paving Type 2 (Table 10, Part B)
(6.80 m wide asphalt concrete pavement with 1.15 m wide gravel shoulders) for
8 km of flat/rolling terrain and Type 1 (6.00 m wide asphalt concrete pavement
and 0.65 m wide gravel shoulders) for 17 km of mountainous terrain. Taree nar-
row bridges are to be widened and one new bridge constructed.
13.       Present traffic volumes vary little from 250 to 300 adt at the out-
skirts of Hayeong; the traffic composition is 5% private cars, 10% taxis,
25% buses and 60% trucks. The main purpose of this short road link is to
connect the rich agriculture area along the South Han river new Hayeong to the
population centers in the mountainous central range where mineral deposits
such as coal are exploited near the towns of Jecheon and Jangseong.
E. Gongju-Gimje (77 km)
14.       The road is almost entirely in flat terrain.  It is low and poorly
drained, and unpaved except for a section of about 9 km in Iri which is not
included in the project. The remaining 77 km has a gravel surface which is
rough and corrugates in dry weather, and is muddy when wet. The paved length
is already constructed to Paving Type 2 standards (Table 10), and is in good
condition. The unpaved length is narrow, with a total width of 6 to 7 m,
including shoulders, and has many narrow bridges. Travel speeds in dry
weather are about 50 km/h in the northern part of the road and about 40 km/h
in the south, but speeds are considerably reduced during wet weather.
15.       The unpaved sections totalling 77 km will be improved to Paving
Type 2 standards (Table 10, Part B) with an asphalt concrete pavement and
gravel shoulders. Seventeen bridges will be widened, three reconstructed,
and two new bridges built; their spans vary from 6 m to 30 m.
16.       The present traffic varies between 260 and 630 adt and builds up
mainly near the towns of Nonsan and Iri. The traffic composition is about
10% private cars, 35% taxis, 25% buses and 30% trucks. This area is very
densely populated, with numerous large villages. The population lives on
a prosperous irrigated agriculture, based on rice and barley, cabbage and
other vegetables, poultry and pigs. Iri, with 95,000 inhabitants, is the
local capital.



ANNEX B
Page 4
F.  Cheongju-Sangju (102 km)
17,       The present road is unpaved.  Between Cheongju and Boeun (50 km)
_ ;.-zrain is rolling. The alignment is fairly good, but the road is only
7.5 m wide including shoulders, and has a rough gravel surface. Bridges
are generally narrow. Average travel speed is about 45 km/h. From Boeun
,o Sangju (52 ki), the road crosses first a flat area, then two mountainous
areas separated by a valley, and finally another valley. About 50% is
wountainous and 50% flat. In the flat areas, the road is low lying and
poorly drained, with a number of fords which are impassible during rainy
weather. Maximum gradients in the mountainous areas are between 5 and 7%.
The width of road is 6-7 m including shoulders.
,8.       The road will be reconstructed to Paving standards (Table 10,
Part b), Type 3 (7.00 m wide asphalt concrete pavement, with. 1.50 m wide
gravel shoulders) for 10 km at the Cheongju end, and Type 2 (6.70 m wide
asphalt concrete pavement with 1.15 m wide gravel shoulders) for the remain-
ira 40 km to Boeun. Between Boeun and Sangju (52 km), the road will be
reconstructed to Type 1 cross-section (6.00 m wide pavement and 0.65 m wide
gravel shoulders) for a length of 46 km, and Type 2 for the remaining 6 km
to Sangju. The entire 52 km between Boeun and Sangju will have a double
bituminous surface treatment which is adequate for the traffic level ex-
pected for about 10 years. A total of twelve bridges will be wtdened, one
reconstructed and six new ones built, with spans between 22 m and 132 m.
19.       The present traffic ranges between 120 and 860 adt and gradually
decreases from Cheongju to Sangju. East of Boeun the traffic is only about
150 adt, but is sufficient to justify the cheaper pavement proposed for
this section. Two relatively prosperous agricultural areas, one near
Cheongju, the regional capital (150,000 inhabitants), and the other between
Boeun and Sangju, support a moderately dense population. Near Boeun the
Mount Songni and its temple attract a number of tourists the year around in
a growing resort, which is an asset for the region.
G. Jeomchon-Yeongdeog (132 km)
20.       The present road is unpaved, except for a length of 7 km through
Andong which is not included in the project. Between Jeomchon and Andong
(56 km), the road is about 6 m wide, including shoulders, and crosses flat
and rolling terrain. Average travel speed is about 35 km/h. Between
Andong and ';eongdeog (76 km) the road is between 5 and 6 m wide including
shoulders and crosses rolling and mountainous terrain, following river
valleys and through mountain passes where gradients reach between 6 and 7%.
Average speed in this section is about 30 km/h. Over the entire road, the
terrain is about 25% flat, 65% rolling and 10% mountainous. Many bridges
are narrow and have inadequate strength and hydraulic capacity.



Page 5
21.       The road will be reconstructed, mainly following the existing
alignment but with some improvement of curves. Between Jeomchon and Andong
it will be built to Paving Type 2 standards (Table 10, Part B) with an
asphalt concrete pavement and gravel shoulders. Between Andong and Yeongdeog,
where traffic is lower, standards will be reduced to Type 1 cross section,
with pavement of double bituminous surface treatment and gravel shoulders.
A total of 21 bridges will be widened, seven reconstructed and seven new
ones built.
22.       Present traffic volumes vary between 130 and 410 adt, and are
particularly light from Jinbo to Yeongdeog. The traffic composition is
about 10% private cars, 35% taxes, 25% buses and 30% trucks. The popula-
tion is concentrated near Jeomchon and Andong, the local capital (71,000
inhabitants). Agriculture is diversified and includes rice, barley,
vegetables, grape, apple and pears, and tobacco near Jinbo. Yeongdeog,
isolated on the coast, is mainly a fishing harbor for dried fish and
crabs, and there are forests in the hinterland.
H. Gwangju-Goheung (102 km)
23.       The existing road is unpaved except for short stretches totalling
6 km in Beologyo and villages near Gwangju, which are in poor condition and
have narrow shoulders. The first 11 km from Gwanju, through a thickly
populated area, crosses rolling terrain and the alignment is good. For
the next 49 km toward Beolgyo the road follows a series of river valleys,
with mountainous stretches; it has been widened recently and passes through
several villages. From Beolgyo to Goheung the terrain is mostly gently
rolling. The road is generally 5 to 6 m wide except for sections recently
widened, which are about 9 m wide. On the entire road the terrain is
about 50% flat, 40% rolling and 10% mountainous. Maximum gradients reach
between 5% and 7% in mountainous area. Bridges are generally narrow and
in poor structural condition, except in the few recently improved sections.
Travel speed is between 35 and 40 km/h.
24.       The road will be reconstructed, mainly on the existing alignment,
but with improvement of curves, and a few short sections of new alignaent.
The first 11 km from Gwanju, where traffic is heaviest, will be constructed
to Paving Type 3 (Table 10, Part B) with an asphalt concrete pavement and
gravel shoulders. The remainder of the road to Goheung will be coastructed
to Type 2 standards, with an asphalt concrete pavement and gravel shoulders,
except for a 15 km section through a mountainous area between Owangju and
Beolgyo, which will be reconstructed to Type 1 standards with an as-phalt
concrete pavement and gravel shoulders. A total of thirteen bridges will
be widened and two reconstructed. On the short sections (6 km) already
paved, the surfacing will be repaired, shoulders widened, and drains
improved.
25.       The present traffic ranges from 220 to 880 adt and gradually
decreases from Gwangju to mid-way toward Beolgyo and then increases to



ANNEX B
Page 6
Goheung. The traffic composition is about 10% private cars, 25% taxis,
30% buses and 35% trucks. The regional capita' of Gwangju with over 500,000
inhabitants, extends its influcence not much beyond Hwansun, where a hilly
1 w0ooded area begins.  Population is dense in the Gwangju and Goheung
.*6o s and lives on agriculture and light industries, chiefly textiles.
I.  Yeongsanpo-Gangjin (42 km)
26.       The present highway from Gwangju is paved through Naju to
Yeongsanpo, the start of the project road. From there to Gangjin the
road is unpaved, except for short lengths in villages, totalling 2 km
which are in bad condition. The road has recently been widened to 10 m
Detween Yeongsanpo and Seongjeon (33 km).  From Seongjeon to Gangjin (9 km),
it is about 7 m wide. The terrain is 80% flat and 20% rolling, and the
al-gnment is fair to good, but bridges are generally narrow and in poor
con-dition. Average travel speed is about 50 km/h.
27.       The works to be financed under the project consist of paving
the 33 km between Yeongsanpo and Seongjeon to Paving Type 3 cross-section
(Table 10, Part B) with an asphalt concrete pavement and gravel shoulders.
Between Seongjeon and Gangjin (9 km) the road will be reconstructed and
paved to Type 2 standards. A total of ten bridges will be widened, three
reconstructed and one new one built. The paved section (total 2 km) through
villages will be repaired, shoulders will be widened, and new drains
constructed.
28.       The present traffic ranges from 450 to 730 adt and decreases
gradually toward the south. The traffic composition is about 15% private.
cars, 20% taxis, 35% buses and 30% trucks. The area served by the road
has a moderately dense population living, in many villages, from agriculture
based on rice, corn and vegetables which has some development potential
through improved cultivation methods as recently demonstrated experimentally
in the Mokpo area.



TABLE 1
KOREA
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Domestic Freight and Passen er Traffic Data, 1967 and 1971
1967                      1971                      i967-71
Ton-Km         -Ton-Km.                          L Average Anual
Freight              (millUon        k%)         ion)   (  o 3                 Increase (%)
Highway                 660          8.3         3,302          20.9              49.4
Railroad              6,178         78.h         7,841         49.6                6.1
Coastal Shipping      1,043        13.3          4,653         29.5               45.2
Total           7,881        100.0        15796         100.0               1
Pass-Km                   Pass-Km
Passenger                1on                    (mil1on          (o
Highiay              11,699         54.3        22,917          71.1              17.7
Railroad              9,557         44.4         8,750          27.1              -2.1
Coastal 5i.pping        223          1.0           256          0.8                3.4
Aviation                 62          0.3           314           1.0              50.2
Total          21.541       100.0         32 237        100.0               10.6
Source:  Statistics Yearbook of Transportation, 1972, Ministry of Transportation
July, 1973



TABLE 2
KOREA
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Public Transport Investments During Second and Third
Aive-Year Lcnic Development Plan, 1267/71, 1972/76
(billion Won)
Central and Local Governments
Transport Mode                              Second Plank'                Third Planr
Highways                                    123.4                       227.1
Railroad                                     85.8                       lo5.6
Ports and Maritime Transport                 30.2                        603
Airports                                      4.0                        11.2
Storage                                       1.3                        15.1
Seoul Subway                                  -                          72.3
Sub-total                            24I.7                        191.6
Total Government Capital Expenditure           904.3                     1.864.8
Transport as proportion of total                27%                          26%
g,/ At current prices for 1967-71
2/ At 1970 prices
Source: Ministry of Construction
July, 1973



TABLE 3
KOREI
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Public Roads Network, 1971
(km)
Total
Category and Type                    Leth       Paved        Graveled       Unsurfaced
National Highways
Exnpressways2/                     641      641   100      -       -        -
Other national highways
(primary and secondary)        8W1146    2-302    28    5,818   72        26
Sub-total                8733                    5,BIW-            2
Local Roads
Provincial highways             10,774       254     2  10,064  94        456       4
Special city roads               5,662    1,934    34    3,669   66        59
City and county roads           15 412      68      L   12 130          2,624      17
Sub-total               31' 4d      54                                     10
Total                  140635    5,789    14   31,681   78   3,165          8
Road Density in 1971:
2               014
Km/1000 inhabitants  1.2
2/ 130 Km are 2 lane non-divided expressways
Source: Ministry of Construction
July, 1973



TAMER 4
KCIREA
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Registered Motor VehiCles, 1962-72
Year          Carsl/        Trucks          Buses2          Others-'        Total
1962          8,733         13,093           6,747           2,241          30,814
1963          9,569         13,929           8,132           2,598          34,228
1964         11,409         14,951           8,617           2,836          37,813
1965         13,001         16,015           9,316           3,179          41,511
1966         17,502         19,432          10,888           2,338          50,160
1967         23,235         22,955          11,499           3,008          60,697
1968         33,112         31,582          12,786           3,471          80,951
1969         50,299         40,134          14,237           3,999         108,669
1970         60,677         48,901          15,831           3,962         129,371
1971         67,582         53,405          17,411           5,939         144,337
1972         70,250         55,292          17,550           11,770        154,862
% Average Annual Growth
1962-71      25.5           16.9            11.1             11.4          18.1
1967-71      30.5           23.5            10.9             18.8          24.2
1970-71      11.4            9.2            10.0             49.9          11.6
1971-72       3.9            3.5             0.8             98.2           7.3
% Changing Composition
1962         28.3           42.5            21.8              7.4          100
1967         38.4           37.8            18.9              4.9          100
1971         46.8           37.0            12.1              4.1          100
1 Vlehicle per 206 population (1971),  compared to 1 per 50 in Thailand and
1 per 63 in the Philippines.
L/ Includes taxis.
g/ includes microbuses.
S/ Public service, motorcycles, and special vehicles.
Sources: Ministry of Transportation and Mission Estimates, July 1973.



TABLE 5
KOWA
SECOND HIGHWA.Y PROJECT
Korean Motor Vehicle Production, 1962-72
Year             Cars           Buses            Trucks2             Total
1962              991             42                884              1,917
1963            1.,430           233                143              1,806
1964              179            405                108                692
1965              166          1,251                965              2,382
1966            3,398          1,482                559              5,439
1967            5,033            941              1,512              7,,486
1968           11,421          1,632              5,212             18,265
1969           10,727          1,884              9,626             31,237
1970           13,636          3,690             13,032             30,358
1971           12,h28          3,063              7,511             23,002
1972            9,525          2,581              6,k542            18,648
% Average Annual Growth
1962-71           32.5            62.0              26.8             31.2
1967-71           25.0            34.2              49.1             32.5
1971-72          -23.4           -15.8             -13.0            -18.9
/ Includes three-wheel vehicles
Sources Ministry of Comerce and Industry
July, 1973



-TABE -6
KOREA
SECOND HIGIWAY PRiJECT
Motor Vehicle Fuel Consumption, L962-721'
(1000 kiloliters)
Year                          Gasoline                    Diesel
1962                            108                         225
1963                             97                         358
1964                            102                         386
1965                            223                         507
1966                            336                         558
1967                            481                         765
1968                            573                       1,251
1969                            748                       1,507
1970                            865                       1,775
1971                            992                       2,099
1972                            976                       2,338
% Average Annual Growth
1962-71                         27.8                        28.3
1967-71                         19.8                        28.5
1971-72                         -1.7                        11.4
2/ Gasoline consumption is totally for vehicles, but diesel consimption
includes 20-30% of other consumption.
Source: Ministry of Commerce and Industry
July, 1973



TABLE 7
KOREA
SECOND HIGHI4AY PROJECT
Highway Authorities and Agencies
Expressways       National                 Provinci4l       City/County
(tolls)          Highways                 Hig wrays'L         Roads
Planning           MOC                MOC                      8 Provincial      City/County
Construction     Construction
Bureaus (PCB)    Sections (CCS),
assisted by PCB
Construction
Design and       Korea Highway      MDC, through its:        PCB               CCS
supervision      Corporation(KHC)  5 Regional Construc-
tion Bureaus (RCB),
when financed domes-
tically; and
National Htway Constr.
Office (NHOO), when
financed with foreign
loans
/2
Financing        MOC/KHC -          MOC                      Provinces with   City/County
MOHA grants;     with Provih-
also occasion-   cial grants
al MOO grants
for special
projects
Maintenance
Executing au-                       thro4gh    from
thority/agency                      1975`_      1976
Paved          KHC                PCB        MOC           PCB               PCB
Unpaved         -                 CCS                     C0S                CCS
Financing        KHC                MOC and    MOC           Provinces with   City/County
Provinces               MOHA grants       with Provin-
cial grants
/1  The Special Cities of Seoul and Busan (City Construction Bureaus) have functions
similar to Provincial Governments.
/2  KHC wias created in January 1969, but has not so far financed any construction.
/3  MOC became responsible for maintenance in one ("pilot") province in September 1972;
it is scheduled to take over maintenance in remaining 8 provinces by January 1976.
Source: Ministry of Construction, November 1973



TABLE 8
KOREA
SECOND HIGSFAY PROJECT
1/
Expenditures on Roads, 1962/66 and 1967/71
(million Won)
Total                                                     Total
First Plan                                                Second Plan
1962/66     1967     1968     1969      1970     1971    1967/71
Goverrnment ErcNerditures on .
National Highways
Administration               74        12        64       244      307      319       946
Construction             3,811     1,853    13,316   29,192   25,049   19,612   89,022
Maintenance Z               123       165       240   _282         300     _461    1.448
Sub-total           4,078     2,030    13,620   29,718   25,656   20,392   91,416
Expenditures on
Provincial and County
Roads;/
Constructio               2,174    1,434      2,843    6,063    7,026    8,920   26,286
iaintenanced                 851    -729      1,004       864    1226    1,914    5
Sub-total            3,025    2,163      3,847    6,927    8,252   10,834   32.023
Total                7,103    4,193    17,467   36,645   33,908   31226  123,432
1/ At current prices.
2/  Does not include funds contributed by provinces for the maintenance of national highways.
3/  Seoul City excepted.
L/ Includes Government grants.
/ Maintenance includes expenditure on national highways estimated up to 70% of the total
but does not include the value of voluntary labor provided for all high-ways.
Sources:  Ministry of Construction, Ministry of Home Affairs and BCEDM
July, 1973



TABLE 9
KOREA
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Highway User Charges, 1967-72
(million Won)
Revenue                1967        1968        1969        1970         1971        19721/
National taxes
Fuel taxesW          4,048       9,680      12,791      16,959       29,083      38,071
Gasoline tax      (2,687)     (6,796)     (9,365)    (12,185)    (21,185)    (27,290)
Diesel tax        (1,361)     (2,884)     (3,426)      (4,774)     (7,898)    (10,781)
Transportation tax   4,025       5,581       8,387      12,238       141,641     16,000
Cmnmodity tax          669       1,075       2158        5.060        4,465       3,535
Sub-total        8,742      16,336      23,336      344,257      48.,189     57,606
Local taxes
Vehicle tax (incl.
surcharge)         1,500       2,188       3,869       5,605        6,393       7,191
Lioense fee and
acquisition tax        250         58          881       1,165        1799        1.661
Sub-total        1,750       3,072       4,750       6,770        8,192       8,852
Tolls                    -             6        _45         1987       3.498       4.ooo
Total           128581                               43.Ol8                  701 78
1/ Estimnted
g/ Total revenues, not only proportion eanaarked for highways
Sources: Ministry of Construction, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Hone Affairs and BCEDM
July, 1973



TABLE 10
KOREA
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Design Standards for Two-Lane National Highways (Rural)
A. Construction (including paving, mainly on new alignment)
Terrain
Geometric Design Standards                        Unit      Flat     Rolling    Hilly      Mountainou'L/
Design speed                                      km/h      120      100          70       50
Finimum  radius of curvature                      m         630      390         180       80
Maximum gradient                                  %           4        5           6.5      8
Roadway Features (all areas)             Unit
Width of pavement                         m       7.20
Width of shoulders                        m       3.00-1.75 2/
Width of right-of-way                     m       30 minizmum-
Structural Design Features (all areas)
Axle-load (pavement)                      lbs     18,000v/
Bridge loading                             -      DB-18, equivalent to AASHO H20-S16
Bridge widths (for new0ridges)
(over 60-100 m long)-                   m       10.70
Vertical clearance (over roads)           m        4.50
B. Paving (mainly on existing alignment, with limited improvement)
Terrain
Flat to
Geometric Design Standards                        Unit     Rolling          HillY        Mountainous!/
Design speed                                      km/h       70              55            40
Minimum radius of curvature:
Desirable                                       m         250             150            80
Minimum                                         m         150               80           50
Maximum gradient                                  %           6                7            8
Traffic Levels ADT
(iinmediately after completion of paving)
<200          200-500    >500
Roadway Features (all areas)                      Unit        Type I      Type 2        TYpe 3
Width of pavement                                 m           6.00        6.70          7.00
Width of shoulders                                m           0.65        1.15          1.50
Width of right-of-way i                           M          25          25            25
Structural Design Features (all areas)    Unit
Axle-load (pavement)                       lbs    18,0002/
Bridge loading                  6'          -     DB-18, equivalent to AASHO H20-S16
Bridge widths (for new bridges)-'
Rural areas                              m      8.50
Jrban areas                              m     10.00
Vertical clearance (over roads)            X      4.50
1/ Design speeds and widths may be reduced and gradients increased on sections with exceptionally difficult
terrain, as appropriate to each case.
Right-of-way width increased to 42 m where designed to accomodate ultimate construction of 4-lane
divided highway.
3/  Pavement designed for the projected number of repetitions of "equivalent 18,000 lb axle-loads".
D/ Depending on traffic volumes.
Right-of-way width reduced to 20 m where necessary to minimize demolition of property in urban areas.
abcisting bridges retained uanless significantly substandard in strength, size, or alignment.
Sources: Ministry of Construction, Ingeroute and BCEOM, July, 1973.



TABLE 11
KOxkA
SECONDI HIGHIAY PROJECT
MOC Field Organization for Maintenance of National Highways
Implementation Schedule
Implementation
Action                                                                      Date
1. Arrange for extension of services of consultants to
continue to provide technical assistance for setting
up the MOC field organization for highway maintenance.                 March 30, 1974
2.  Publish Ministerial Decree authorizing the setting
up of 17 MOC Field Sections (Districts), and 30 Sub-
Sections (for remaining 8 Provinces) 1/                                June 30, 1974
3.  Invite international bids for maintenance and work-
shop equipment for 2 above.                                            July 31, 1974
4. Prepare, with assistance of consultants in 1 above,
a detailed program and time schedule for implementing
the establishment of the MDC field organization.                       September 30, 1974
5. Evaluate international bids for maintenance and
workshop equipment, and award contracts for supply                     December 31, 1974
6.  Complete construction of Offices and vtrkshops for
the Field Sections and Sub-Sections in 2 above                         September 30, 1975
7. Complete transfer, recruitment and training of
staff for Field Sections and Sub-Sections; complete
delivery of maintenance and workshop equipment,
provide funds, and take over maintenance of national
highways in the remaining 8 Provinces.                                 January 1, 1976
17 MOC Maintenance Organization for national highways (2 Field Sections, and 2
Field Sub-Sections) in the "pilot" province of Gyeonggi Do was set up and
became operational September 1, 1972.
Source: Ministry of Construction, November 1973



TABLE 12
KOREA
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
MOC Field Organization for Maintenance of National Highways:
Maintenance Equipment for bmaining 8 Provinces
Estimated Cost
Description                         Number      (US$ tOQo)
Motor Grader                          21          706
Wheel Loader                          21          504
Dump Truck 4 x 4, 8t                 36           432
Dump Truck 4 x 2, 6t                 65           455
Dump Truck 4 x 2, 4t                 65           325
Portable Asphalt Plant                9            86
Asphalt Distributor                    4           82
Portable Air Compressor               28          235
Rock and Concrete Breaker            25            12
Snow Blade                           46           166
Line Marker                           24           29
Station  1hgon (Jeep) 4 x 4          61           256
Pick-up Truck                        42           176
Car, sedan                            17           51
Emergency Repair Truck                1            15
Tire Roller                            6          130
Wheel Roller with Ripper               6          144
Vibrating Rolle r                    16            68
Tandem Roller                         23          270
Portable Asphalt Sprayer             15            36
Chipping Spreader                     8            12
Water Tank                             8           96
Bulldozer                            19           912
Tractor and Trailer                   4            86
Traffic Counter                      19            23
Fork Lift Truck                       5            40
Crane 25t                             4           180
St'eet Sweeper                        3            45
Guard Rail Cleaner                    3            51
BeaM Tifter                            2           29
Wreck Truck                            4           82
Snow Remover                          4            46
Sub-total Maintenance Equipment               5,780
Workshop Tools & Machinery
(17 Workshops; 7 large, 10 small)               420
Spare Parts                                       600
Sub-total                                     6.8oo
+ 10% Contingency allowance for
additional equipment                          700
TOTAL                                         7,500



TABLE 13
KOAEA
SECON3D HIGHWAY PROJEOT
MOC Field Organization for Maintenance of National Highways:
Estimated Capital and .Yecurrent Costs, 1972-81
(million Won)
Pilot
Province
1972  1973  1974  1975  1976  1977  1978  1979  1980  1981
Capital Costs
Mechanical equipment                           1/    1/
and tools                      40   300   500 2,500   -     -      -     -     -     -
Offices, stores, work-
shops, etc.                   50   -      200   780   -     -     -      -     -     -
Sub-total                   90   300   700 3,280   -      -      -     -     -     -
Recurrent Costs
Staff                            20    40   100   350   490   490   490   490   490   490
Maintenance of roads2/           -    260   400   800 5,050 5,220 5,380 5,440 5,710 5,970
Equipment renewal               -    -               -  150   300   450   600   goo 1,000
Sub-total                     20   300   500 1.150 5,690 6,010 6.320 6.530 7.100 7.460
Total                        110   600 1,200 43  5690 6,010 6,320 6            7,100 7,460
17  Total of Won 3,000 million, equivalent to US$7,500,000
2/ Includes labor, materials, fuels and equipment operation
Sources: Ministry of Construction and BCOOM, November 1973



TABLE 14
KOREA
SECOND HICHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Cost of Project
Foreign
Won(million)                US$(million)                Exchange
Item                                 Length        Local   Foreign   Total        Local   Foreign   Total         Component
(km)
A.  Highway Construction
1.  Saemal-Cangreung               97          5,210      2,810   0,020        13.1      7.0      20.1
2.  Cangreung-Mukho                33          2,380        1,280   3,660       5.9      3.2       9.1
Sub-total A                 130          7,590      4,090  11,680       19.0    10.2        29.2           35
B. Highway Paving
1.  Donong-Hoengseong              71          1,150        610   1,760         2.9      1.5       4.4
2.  Jumunjin-Yangyang              30            440        230      670        1.1      0.6       1.7
3.  Weonju-Maepo                    52           830        450   1,280         2.1      1.1       3.2
4.  Jupo-Hayeong                    26            420       230      650        1.0      0.6        1.6
5.  Gongju-Gimje                   77          1,350        730   2,080         3.4      1.8       5.2
6.  Cheongju-Sangju               102          1,390        750   2,140         3.4      1.9       5.3
7.  Jeomchon-Yeongdeog            132          1,920      1,030   2,950         4.8      2.6       7.4
8.  Gwangju-Goheung               102          1 480        800   2,280         3.7      2.0        5.7
9.  Yeongsanpo-Gangjin             42             640       350      990        1.6      0.9       2.5
Sub-total B                 634          9,620      5,180  14,800       24,0    13.0        37.0           35
C. Consulting Services
Supervision of A&B                           720         720   1,440        1.8      1.8        3.6           50
2. Feasibility studies
for improvement/paving
of about 1000 km of roads,
to be followed by detailed
engineering, if found
justified                                     280        280     560        0.7      0.7        1.4           50
Sub-total C                              1,000      1Q000   2,000         2.5     2.5        5.0            50
D.  Highway Maintenance
Equipment                                          1/      3,000   3,000           1/    7.5        7.5          100
E.  Contingency Allowances
1.  Physical   2/                               1,820      1,330   3,150        4.6      3.3        7.9
2.  Price       3/                              2,060        920   2,980        5.2      2.2        7.4
Sub-total E                              3,880      2,250   6,130         9.8     5.5       15.3
Total Project Cost                      2 22,090    15,520  37,610       55.3    38.7         =            41
1/  Small amount for local handling, assembly and transport of imported equipment; also possibly a small amount
for local manufacture/assembly, if domestic suppliers submit successful bids for part of the equipment.
2/  10% on all items.
3/  12% on local and 10% on foreign cost of construction and paving.
Sources: Ministry of Construction and Consultants' Estimates, November 1973.



TABLE 1-5
KO.?EA
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year                                         Cumulative Disbursements
and Qlaarter                                              at End of Quarter
(tJS$ '000)
1973/74
March 31, 1974                                                   300
June 30, 1974                                                  2,100
1974/75
September 30, 1974                                             5,000
December 31, 1974                                              9,100
March 31, 1975                                                15,800
June 30, 1975                                                 24,200
1975/76
September 30, 1975                                            31,000
December 31, 1975                                             36,100
March 31, 1976                                                39,500
June 30, 1976                                                 42,000
1976/77
September 30, 1976                                            43,800
December 31, 1976                                             45,000
March 31, 1977                                                145,900
June 30, 1977                                                 46,600
1977/78
September 30, 1977                                            46,900
December 31, 1977                                             47,000
Source:  Covernment/Bank Estimates, November 1973



TABLE 16
KOREA
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Traffic Growth on Project Rodds
(% p.a.)
Highway Construction                     Highway Paving
Generated Traffic
Normal      Saemal-       Gangreung-
Growth     Gangreung         Mukho            Normal Growth
1972-1995   1976   1977   1976    1977    1972-1976    1976-1991
Cars                12         35     45      25       35        17              9
Buses                9         25     40      10       15        12              9
Trucks              11,5       20     30      10       15         13             9
Mi,itary Vehicles   0           0      0       0        0         0              0
1/ For highway paving, the growth rate for cars only
differs in two cases: Donong-Hoengsong (23%) and
Jeomchon-Yeongdeog (20%)
Sources:  Consultants'Estimates
August, 1973



l;OREA
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Traffic Volumes on Project Roads
Road                                   Average Annual Daily Traffic                                                              Average Estimated Traffic
Length                            1972                                          Forecast 1/                                              Growth (*a P.a.
Km                Range          Weighted Average            1976                 19"                1995 2/                1972-76                 1976-95  2/
A.  Highway Construction
1.  Saemal-Gangreung                      97              370-880                  413                  710                2,610                6,910                  14.2                      12.0
2.  Gangreung-Mukho                       33              600-630                  619                  875                3,200                8,560                  14.7                      12.0
B. Highway Paving
1.  Donong-Hoengseong                     71              190-410                   265                 430                  970                1,480                  12.9                       8.6
2. Jumunjin-Yangyang                      30              300-500                   370                 636                1,430                2,180                  14.5                       8.5
3. Weonju-Maepo                           52              350-600                   400                  718               1,670                2,560                  15.7                       8.9
4.  Jupo-Hayeong                          26               250-300                  270                  492               1,165                1,790                   16.2                      9.0
5.  Gongju-Gimje                          77               260-630                  370                 633                1,490                2,300                   14.4                      9.0
6.  Cheongju-Saagju                      102               120-860                  354                  586               1,390                2,130                   13.4                      9.0
7.  Jeomchon-Yeongdeog                   132               130-410                  321                  560               1,320                2,020                   14.9                      9.0
8.  Gwangju-Goheung                      102               220-880                  328                  581               1,370                2,110                   15.4                      9.0
9.  Yeongsanpo-Gangjin                    42               450-730                  620                1,125               2,650                4,070                   16.0                      9.0
1/ Traffic forecasts for the two highways to be constructed include, in addition to generated traffic, the traffic
diverted froma the existing highways and from railways and airlines; the volume diverted from the last two modes
represenit less than 5% each of the total traffic of the new highways.
2/  For the hIghways to be paved, the forecast figures apply up to 1991 and not eo 1995, the life of thie part of the
project being 16 years instead of 20.
Sources:  Consultants' and Mission Estimates
August, 1973



KOREA
SECOND HIGOWAY PROIECT
Esti,ated Average Vehicle Operatng Coats .   So cig5s onProject Roads
(Won per kn, excluding ta-
Private C-rs                              Taxies _-__________ _
txisting  Improved  Savings   %         Existing  Improved  Savings  %           Existing  Ivproved  Savings             Einsting  Improved  Saving,  %
Road       Road    per Km.              Road       Road   per RU.                Road       Road    per KR.              Road       Road    per Km.
I!xludiax Passsnasrs  Tim
A. Righway C-nstrmction
1. Saemal-Gsagreung              41.0      26.0       15.0   37           MAU       VA        M4                117.0      63.0       54.0    46         113.0      57.0       56.0    49
2. Gangre.n&-94.kho              40.0       25.0      15.0   37           14        NA        NA      -         116.0      61.0       55.0    47         112.0      56.0      56.0    50
B. High'y P-aing
1. Donong-noengoeong             32.8       27.7       5.1   15           39.7      25.7      14.0   35         106.4      70.0       36.4    34          92.0      64.1       27.9    30
2. Jusunjin-Yangyaag             31.8      26.8        5.0   16           39.4      24.8      14.6   37          97.8      63,8       34.0    35          85.2      58.4       26.8    31
3. Weonju-Naepo                  32.8       27.7       5.1   15           39.7      25.7      14.0    35         106.4      70.0      36.4    34          92.0      64.1       27.9    90
4. J.p.-Vay7.oaz                  34.3      28.7       6.3   18           40.9      26.7      14.2   35          119.9      80.0      39.9    33         103.5      73.6       29.9    29
5. Gongj.-Gi.je                   31.0      26.0       5.0   16           39.0      24.0      15.0   38           91.0      59.0      32.0    35          80.0      54.0       26.0    32
6. Cbeongj.-Sangj.                31.8      26.8       5.0   16           39.4      24.8      14.6   37           97.8      63.8      34.0    35          85.2       58.4      26,8    31
7. Jeoxchon-Yeongdeog             32.8      27.7       5.1   15           39.7      25.7      14.0   35          106.4      70.0      36.4    34          92.0      64.1       27.9    30
8. Gwangju-Cob.e.nS               32.3      27.7       5.1   15           39.7      25.7       14.0   35         106.4      70.0      36.4    34          92.0      64.1       27.9    30
9. Yenganpo-Gangjin               31.8      26.8       5.0   16           39.4      24.8      14.6   37           97.8      63.8      36 0     35         85.2       58.4      26.8    31
IncludinR Passsngers' Tin
A. Highway Construction
1. S-,al-G ngrang                46.0       29.0      17.0   37           N4        MA        M4      -          143.0      77.0      66.0    46          NA        NA
2. G,ngreung-Hukho                45.0      28.0      17.0   37          K3         MA        Rh      -          142.0      75.0      67.0    47 .                 MSA          _
B.  igheray Paving
1. Do.ong-Hoengaeong              37.6      31.5       6.1   16           43.8      28.5       15.3   35         129.0      85.9      43.1    33          NA         M A,
2. Jusunjin-YanSyasg              36.2      30.2       6.0    20          42.8      27.2      15.6   36          118.4      7t.;      40.4    34          MA         M A                _
3. Weonju-Mispo                   37.6      31.5       6.1   16           43.8       28.5      15.3   35         129.0      85.9      43.1    30           U4        M4 A               _
4. Jupo-fayeoog                   39.6      32.0       7.6   20           45.3       39.0      15.3   34         146.7      99.4      47.3    32           ML        P A                _
5. Gongju-Giaje                   35.0      29.0       6.0   21           42.0       26.0      16.0   38         110.0      72.0      38.0    35           a         NA         _       _
6. Cheongju-Sangju                36.2      30.2       6.0   20           42.8       27.2      15.6   36         118.4      7.8.0     40.4    34           14        MA         _
7. J.otnhon-Raongdsos             37.6      31.5       6.1    16          43.8       28.5      13.3   35         129.0      85.9      43.1    33          VA         NA         - M
8. GwangJo-Coheung                37.6      31.5       6.1    16          43.8       28.5      15.3   35         129.0      85.9      43.1    33           N4        3-
9. Yeongsanpo-Gangjin             36.2      30.2       6.0    20          42.8       27.2      15.6   36         118.4      78.0       40,4    34          NK        Ak
Sources: Consultants' and oistion's Iatites
j/  PA . Not Applicabl
A,suSut, 1973



TABLE 19
KOREA
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Highway Maintenance Program
Estimated Vehicle Operating Cost and Savings
(Won per km, e$cluding taxes)
Paved Roads                             Gravel Roads
Present iTmproved           Savings  %    Present       Improved      Savings  %
Maintenance  Maintenance                   Maintenance  Maintenance
Private Cars      28.3         27.7       0.6      2       32.3          30.7          1.6    5
Taxies            26.5         25.7        0.7     3       39.7          36.9          2.8    7
Buses             74.5         70.0       4.5      6      106.4          90.5         15.9   15
Trucks            68.2         64.1        4.1     6       92.0          78.2         13.8   15
Sources: Consultants' and Mission's Estimates
August, 1973






KOREA                                                     TABLE 20
Page i
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Costs and Benefits Streams
(million Won)
Highway Construction
1. Saemal-Gangreung
Costs                                                                Benefits
Construction,        Maintenance                                              Operating
Right of          Gravel        Paved                 Total                  Cost Savings                      Net Benefits
Year            Way and            Existing      New                   Cost                Without       With              Without          With
Supervision       Road         Road                                       Time          Time              Time             Time
(1)               (2)         (3)             (4)-(1)+(3)-(2)             (5)          (6)           (7)=(5)-(4)    (8)-(6)-'4)
1973              832.00                                               832.00                                              -832.00          -832.00
1974            4,160.00                                             4,160.00                                            -4,160.00        -4,160.00
1975            3,328.00                                             3,328.00                                            -3,328.00        -3,328.00
1976                                  45.37        25.64               -19.73              1,513.75      1,648.48         1,533.48         1,668 21
1977                                  45.37        25.64               -19.73              1,852.60      2,017.48         1,872.33         2,037 21
1978                                  45.37        26.31               -19.06              2,055.00      2,237.89         2,074.06         2,246.95
1979                                  45.37        26.31               -19.06              2,279.58      2,482.47         2,298.64         2,501 55
1980                                  45.37        26.31               -19.06              2,528.89      2,753.97         2,547.95          2,773.03
1981                                  45.37        26.31               -19.06              2,806.02      3,055.75         2,825.08          3,074.81
1982                                  57.50        26.31               -31.19              3,113.83      3,390.96         3,145.02         3,422.15
1983                                  57.50        26.31               -31.19              3,455.79      3,763.35         3,486.98         3,794.54
1984                                  57.50        29.51               -27.99              3,835.60      4,176.97         3,863.59          4,204.69
1985                                  57.50       434.72               377.22              4,257.69      4,636.62         3,880.47         4,259.40
1986                                  57.50        29.51               -27.99              4,726.80      4,997.49         4,754.79          5,025.48
1987                                  57.50        29.51               -27.99              5,248.23      5,715.31         3,554.80          5,743.30
1988                                  57.50        29.51               -27.99              5,827.68      6,346.35         5,855.67          6,374.34
1989                                  71.25        32.95               -38.30              6,471.84      7,047.84         6,510.14          7,086,14
1990                                  71.25        32.95               -38.30              7,188.00      7,827.73          7,226.30         7,866.03
1991                                  71.25        32.95               -38.30               7,984.15     8,694.75         8,022.45          8,733.05
1992                                  71.25        32.95               -38.30              8,869.39      9,658.77         8,907.69          9,697.07
1993                                  71.25       438.16               366.91               9,853.72    10,730.70          9,486.81        10,363.79
1994                                  71.25        32.95               -38.30              10,812.75    11,775.09         10,851.05        11,813.39
1995                                  71.25      -256.48              -327.73              11,785.89    12,834.84         12,113.62        13,162.57
IRR-26.25        IRR'27.90
Sources: Consultants' and Mission's Estimates
Auggst, 1973



KOREA                                                   TABLE 20
Page 2
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Costs and Benefits Streams
(mil.ion Won)
Highway Construction
2. Gangreung-Mukho
Costs                                                              Benefits
Construction,       Maintenance                                            Operating
Right of        GEravel       Paved                 Total                 Cost Savings                    Net Benefits
Year            Way and          Existing      New                  Cast                Without      With             Without          With
Supervision      Road         Road                                     Time          Time             Time             Time
(1)              (2)         (3)            (4)=(i)+(3)-(2)            (5)          (6)          (7)=(5)-(4)   (8)-(6)-(4)
1973              379.00                                            379.00                                            -379.00          -379.00
1974            1,895.00                                          1,895.00                                          -1,895.00        -1,895.00
1975            1,516.00                                          1,516.00                                          -1,516.00        -1,516.00
1976                                13.79       5.24                 -8.55               572.18        620.25          580.73           628.80
1977                                13.79       5.45                 -8.34               679.81        736.92          688.15           745.26
1978                                17.48       5.45                -12.03               755.04        818.46          767.07           830.49
1979                                17.48       5.45                -12.03               838.77        909.23          850.80           921.26
1980                                17.48       5.45                -12.03               931.85      1,010.13          943.88         1,022.16
1981                                17.48       5.45                -12.03             1,035.63      1,122.62        1,047.66         1,134.65
1982                                17.48       5.45                -12.03             1,151.08      1,247.77        1,163.11         1,259.80
1983                                17.48       5.45                -12.03             1,279.44      1,386.92        1,291.47         1,398.95
1984                                17.48       5.45                -12.03             1,422.21      1,541.67        1,434.24.        1,553.70
1985                                21.66     129.97                108.31            i1,581.04      1,713.85        1,562.73         1,605.54
1986                                21.66       5.65                -16.01             1,757.72      1,905.37        1,773.73         1,921.38
1987                                21.66       5.65                -16.01             1,954.45      2,118.63        1,970.46         2,134.64
1988                                21.66       5.65                -16.01             2,173.28      2,355.83        2,189.29         2,371.84
1989                                21.66       5.65                -16.01             2,416.67      2,619.67        2,432.68         2,635.68
1990                                21.66       5.65                -16.01             2,687.66      2,913.43        2,703.67         2,929.44
1991                                21.66       5.65                -16.01             2,989.27      3,240.36        3,005.28        3,256.37
1992                                21.66       5.65                -16.01             3,324.91      3,604.21        3,340.92         3,620.22
1993                                21.66     129.97                108.31             3,698.45     4,009.13         3,590.14         3,900.82
1994                                21.66       5.65                -16.01             4,114.68     4,460.32         4,130.69        4,476.33
1995                                21.66     -83.15               -104.81             4,567.29     4,950.97         4,672.10        5,055.78
IRR-23.45       IRR-24.70
Sources: Consultants' and Misaion's Estimates
August, 1973



K(OREA                                                 TABLE  21
SECOND HIG&MY PROJECT                                           Page 1
Estimated Costs and Benefits Streams
(million Won)
Highway Paving
1. Donong-HoengBeonS
Costs                                                              Benefits
S  Construction,    Maintenance                                             Operating
Right of         Gravel       Paved                 Total                   Cost Savings                  Net Benefits
Year           Way and          Existing     New                    Cost               Without          With          Without         With
Supervision      Road         Road                                      Time             TAime        Time             Time
(1)             (2)          (3)            (4)-(1)+(3)-(2)            (5)             (6)       8-(5)-(4)       7-(6)-(4)
1974            863.19                                           .863.19                                             -863.19       -863.19
1975             863.19                                           863.19                 69.49         77.48          -793.70      -785.71
1976                               21.20      12.22                 -8.98               310.16        345.83           319.14       354.81
1977                               21.20      12.22                 -8.98               335.55        374.14           344.53       383.12
1978                               22.12      12.30                 -9.82               363.23        405.0C           373.05       414.82
1979                               22.12      12.30                 -9.82               393.39        438.63           403.21       448.45
1980                               22.12      12.30                 -9.82               426.28        475.30           436.10       485.12
1981                               24.04      12.44                -11.60               462.12        515.26           473.72       526.86
1982                               27.13      12.69                -14.44               501.18        558.82           515.62       573.26
1983                               27.41      12.72                -14.69               543.77        606.30           558.46       620.99
1984                               27.41      12.72                -14.69               590.18        658.05           604.87       672.74
1985                               27,41     297.26                269.85               640.78        714.47           370.93       444.62
1986                               27.41      12.72                -14.69               695.92        775.95           710.61       790.64
1987                               28.45      12.80                -15.65               756.03        842.97           771.68       858.62
1988                               28.45      12.80                -15.65               821.55        916.03           837.20       931.68
1989                               31.09      12.97                -18.12               892.97        995.66           911.09     1,013.78
1990                               34.57      13.22                -21.35               970.82      1,082.46           992.17     1,103.81
1991                               34.57    -100.60               -135.17             1,055.66      1,177.06         1,190.83     1,312.23
IRR-23.05    1RR-25.22
Sources: Consultants' and Mission's Estimates
August, 1973



KOREA                                                   TABLE 21
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT                                          Page 2
Estimated Costs and Benefits Streams
(million Won)
Highway Paving
2. Jumunjin-Yangyang
Costs                                                               Benefits
Construction,      HMaintenance                                               Operating
Right of         Gravel        Paved                 Total                   Cost Savings                    Net Benefits
Year            Way and           Existing     New                   Cost                Without       With               Without         With
Supervision      Road          Road                                      Time         Time               Time            Time
(1)              (2)          (3)           (4)-(1)+(3)-(2)              (5)         (6)            (7)-(5)-(4)  (8)-(6)-(4)
1974             332.16                                              332. ;6                                              -332.16      -332.16
1975             332.16                                              332.16                 33.94       36.86             -298.22      -295.30
1976                                 10.95       5.34                 -5.61                151.99      165.06              157.60        171.67
1977                                 10.95       5.34                 -5.61                164.37      178.51              169.98        184.12
1978                                 10.95       5.34                 -5.61                177.88      193.18              183.49        198.79
1979                                 10.95       5.34                 -5.61                192.60      209.16              198.21        214.77
1980                                 10.95       5.34                 -5.61                208.64      225.58              214.25        232.19
1981                                 10.95       5.34                 -5.61                226.13      245.58              213.74        251.19
1982                                 13.87       5.55                 -8.32                245.19      266.28              253.51        274.60
1983                                 13.87       5.55                 -8.32                265.97      288.84              274.29       297.16
1984                                 13.87       5.55                 -8.32-               288.62      313.44              296.94       321.76
1985                                 13.87     126.79                112.92                313.31      340.25              200.39        227.33
1986                                 13.87       5.55                 -8.32                340.22      369.48              348.54        377.80
1987                                 13.87       5.55                 -8.32                369.54      401.32              377.86        409.64
1988                                 13.87       5.55                 -8.32                401.52      436.05              409.84       444.37
1989                                 13.87       5.55                 -8.32                436.36      473.89              444.68       482.21
1990                                 17.19       5.76               --11.43                474.34      515.13              485.77       526.56
1991                                 17.19     -42.74                -59.93                515.74      560.09              575.67       620.02
IRM-28.25    IRR-30.22
Sources:  Consultants' and Mission's Estimates
August, 1973



KOREA                                                    TABLE 21
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT                                           Page 3
Estimated Costs and Benefits Streams
(million Won)
Highway Paving
3. Weonju-Maepo
96                                                     Costs                                                               Benefits
Construction,       Maintenance                                               Operating
Right of         Gravel        Paved                 Total                   Cost Savings                    Net Benefits
Year            Way and           Existing      New                   Cost                Without      With                Without      With
Supervision      Road          Road                                      Time          Time               Timne        Time
1974               653.53                                            653,53                                                -653.53    -653.53
1975               653.53                                            653.53                  7i.49         76.78           -582.04    -576.75
1976                                 18.70        9.12                -9.58                 320.79        344.53            330.37     354.11
1977                                 18.70        9.12                -9.58                 348.72        374.53            358.30      384.11
1978                                 18.70        9.12                -9.58                 379.16        407.22            388.74     416.80
1979                                 18.70        9.12                -9.58                 412.34        442.85            421.92     452.43
1980                                 23.70        9.48               -14.22                 448.51        481.70            462.73     495.92
1981                                 23.70        9.48               -14.22                 487.92        524.03            502.14      538.25
1982                                 23.70        9.48               -14.22                 530.90        570.19            545.12      584.41
1983                                 23.70        9.48               -14.22                 577.74        620.49            591.96      634.71
1984                                 23.70        9.48               -14.22                 628.78        675.31            643.00      689.53
1985                                 23.70      216.59               192.89                 684.43        735.08            491.54      542.19
1986                                 23.70        9.48               -14.22                 745.09        800.23            759.31     814.45
1987                                 23.70        9.48               -14.22                 811.20        871.23            825.42     885.45
1988                                 23.70        9.48               -14.22                 883.27        948.63            897.49      962.85
1989                                 29.37        9.84               -19.53                 961.82      1,032.99            981.35   1,052.52
1990                                 29.37        9.84               -19.53               1,047.44      1,124.95          1,066.97   1,144.48
1991                                 29.37      -73.00              -102.37               1,140.76      1,225.18          1,243.13   1,327.55
IRR.30,27  IRR.32.02
Sources: Consultants' and Mission's Estimates
August, 1973



KOREA                                                  TABLE 22
Page 4
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Costs and Benefits Streams
(million Won)
Highway Paving
.-ayeong
Costs                                                           Benefits
Construction,       Maintenance                                           Operating
Right of         Gravel       Paved                Total                 Cost Savings                    Net Benefits
Year           Way and           Existing     New                  Cost               Without      With              Without      With
Supervision     Road          Road                                    Time         Time              Time         Time
1974              321.01                                           321.01                                            -321.01    -321.01
1975              321.01                                           321.01                33.33      35.76            -287.68    -285.25
1976                               7.33        4.50                 -2.83               150.47     161.45             153.30     164.28
* '7                               9.60        4.68                 -4.92               164.02     175.99             168.94     180.91
9.60        4.68                -4.92               178.78     191.83             183.70     196.75
9.60       4.68                 -4.92               194.87     209.10             199.79     214.02
1980                               9.60        4.68                 -4.92               212.41     227.92             217.33     232.84
1981                               9.60        4.68                 -4.92               231.53     248.43             236.45     253.35
1982                               9.60        4.68                 -4.92               252.36     270.78             257.28     275.70
1983                               9.60        4.68                 -4.92               275.07     295.15             279.99     300.07
1984                               9.60        4.68                 -4.92               299.83     321.72             304.75     326.64
1985                              12.16      100.09                87.93                326.82     350.68             238.89     262.75
1986                              12.16        4.87                 -7.29               356.23     332.23             363.52     389.52
1987                              12.16        4.87                 -7.29               348.28     416.62             395.57     423.91
1988                               12.16       4.87                 -7.29               423.23     454.13             430.52     461.42
1989                               12.16       4.87                  7.29               461.32     495.00             468.61     502.29
1990                               12.16       4.87                 -7D29               502.84     539.55             510.13     546.84
1991                              12.16      -33.22                -45.38               548.10     588.11             593.48     633.49
IRR-29.27  IBR-30.94
Sources: Consultants' and Mission's Estimates
August, 1973



-ORRA                                                   TABLE 21
Page 5
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Costs and Benefits Streams
(million Won)
Highway Paving
5. Gongju-Gimje
Costs                                                              Benefits
Construction,       Maintenance                                             Operating
Right of         Gravel        Paved                Total                  Cost SavinRs                     Net Benefits.
Way and          Existing      New                   Cost               Without       With               Without      With
-                          Supervision      Road          Road                                     Time          Time               Time         Time
1974            1,102.54                                          1,102.54                                            -1,102.54   -1,102.54
1975            1,102.55                                          1,102.54                  78.74         85.98       -1,023.80   -1,016.56
1976                                 25.61       13.37              -12.24                 357.76        390.67          370.00       402.91
1977                                 26.38       13.43              -12.95                 389.84        425.71          402.79       438.66
1978                                 28.56       13.61              -14.95                 424.79        463.87          439.74       478.82
1979                                 28.56        13.61             -14.95                 42.90         505.49          477.85       520.44
1980                                 28.56        13.61             -14.95                 504.43        550.84          519.38       565.79
1981                                 28.56        13.61             -14.95                 549.70        600.27          564.65       615.22
1982                                 32.76        13.91             -18.85                 599.06        654.17          617.91       673.02
1983             *                   32.76       13.91              -18.85                 652.84        712.90          671.69       731.75
1984                                 32.76        13.91             -18.85                 711.47        776.93           730.32      795.78
1985                                 33.63      379.62              345.99                 775.38        846.71          429.39       500.72
1986                                 36.08        14.14             -21.94                 845.04        922.78          866.98       944.72
1987                                 36.08       14.14              -21.94                 920.97      1,005.70          942.91    1,027.64
1988                                 36.08        14.14             -21.94               1,003.73      1,096.07         1,025.67    1,118.01
1989                                 36.08        14.14             -21.94               1,093.94      1,194.58         1,115.88    1,216.52
1990                                 40.85        14.45             -26.40               1,192.27      1,301.96         1,218.67    1,328.36
1991                                 40.85     -131.79             -172.64               1,299.45      1,419.00         1,472,09    1,591.64
IRR-21.62   IRR-23.28
Sources: Consultants' and Mission's Estimates
August, 1973



KOREA                                                    TABLE 21
Page 6
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Costs and Benefits Streams
(miillion Won)
Highwavy Paving
6. Cheongju-Sangju
Costs                                                              Benefits
Construction,       Maintenance                                              Operating
Right of         Gravel        Paved                 Total                   Cost Savings                  Net Benefits
Year            Way and           Existing      New                   Cost                Without       With            Without          With
Supervision      Road          Road                                      Time          Time            Time             Time
1974              1,079.31                                         1,079.31                                            -1,079.31    -1,079.31
1975              1,079.31                                         1,079.31                 116.23       128.90          -963.08       -950.41
i076                                 30.74        17.45              -13.29                 524.51       581.68           537.80        594.97
;977                                30.74        17.45              -13.29                 571.61       633.92           584.90        647.21
30.74       17.45              -13.29                 622.95       690.85           636.24        704.14
1979                                 30.74        17.45              -13.29                 678.91       752.91           692.20        766.20
1980                                 35.67       205.47              169.80                 739.92       820.57           570,12       650.77
1981                                 39.06        18.17              -20.89                 806.40       894.30           827,29       915.19
1982                                 39.06        18.17              -20.89                 878.87       974.67           899.76       995.56
1983                                 39.06        18.17              -20.89                 957.87    1,062.28            978.76     1,083.17
1984                                 39.06        61.09               22.03               1,043.97    1,157.76          1,021.96     1,135.73
1985                                 39.06       180.20              141.14               1,137.82    1,261.84            996.68     1,120.70
1986                                 39.06        18.17              -20.89               1,240.12    1,375.29          1,261.01      1,396.18
1987                                 42.96        18.48              -24.48               1,351.62    1,498.95          1,376.10     1,523.43
1988                                 47.39        18.77             -29.22                1,473.16    1,633.73         1,502.38      1,662.95
1989                                 47.99        18.77              -29.22               1,605.64    1,780.65          1,634.86     1,809.87
1990                                 47.99       206.79              158.80               1,750.05    1,940.81          1,591.25     1,782.01
1991                                 47.99      -220.73             -268.72               1,907.45    2,115.36         2,176.17      2,384.08
IRR-29.71    IRR-32.25
Sources:  Consultants' and Missions's Estimates
August, 1973



KOREA                                                 TABLE  21
Page 7
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Costs and Benefits Streams
(million Won)
Highway Paving
7. Jeomchon-Yeongdeog
Costs                                                            Benefits
Construction,       Maintenance                                            Operating
Right of         Gravel       Paved                Total                  Cost Savings                   Net Benefits
Year            Way and          Existing     New                   Cost               Without      With               Without        With
Supervision      Road         Road                                     Time         Time              Time           Time
1974              1,532.74                                       1,532.74                                             -1,532.74   -1,532.74
1975              1,532.74                                      1,532.74                 134.2i       146.21          -1,398.53   -1,386.05
1976                                43.12       22.94              -20.18                610.62       667.41             630.80      687.59
1977                                43.12       22.94              -20.18                664.50       726.30             684.68      746.48
1978                                43.12       22.94              -20.18                723.22       790.48             743.40      810.66
1979                                45.18       23.17              -22.01                787.23       060.44             809.24      882.45
1980                                50.62      141.22               90.63                857.00       936.70             766.40      846.10
1981                                50.62       23.56              -27.06                933.04     1,019.81             960.10    1,046.87
1982                                50.62       23.56              -27.06              1,015.94     1,110.42           1,043.00    1,137.48
1983                                54.83       23.87              -30.9$              1,106.29     1,209.17           1,137.25    1,240.13
1984                                54.83       23.87              -30.96              1,204.78     1,316.82           1,235.74    1,347.78
1985                                57.65      435.56              377.89              1,312.12     1,434.15             934.23    1,056.26
1986                                57.65       24.10              -33.55              1,429.13     1,562.04           1,462.68    1,595.59
1987                                57.65       24.10              -33.55              1,556.68     1,701.45           1,590.23    1,735.00
1988                                63.81       24.49              -39.82              1,695.70     1,853.40           1,735.52    1,893.22
1989                                63.81       24.49              -39,82              1,847.23     2,019.02           1,887.05    2,058.84
1990                                63.81      142.15               78.34              2,012.39     2,199.54           1,934.05    2,121.20
1991                                63.81     -245.98             -309.79              2,192.43     2,396.33           2,502.22    2,706.12
IRR-25.46     IRR-27.34
Sources: Consultants' and Mission's Estimates
August, 1973



KOREA                                               TABLE 21
SECOND HIGNWAY PROJECT
Estisted Costs and Benefits Streams
(million Won)
Highway PaVins
S. Gwamgju-cohuang
Costs                                                       Bnft
constr,,ction,           Cost                                         Operating
Right of        O si1tave                       Total                Cost Savin1s                 Net Benefits
Year           Way and         Existin5    New                 Cost              Without      ith             Without      With
Supervision     Roa         Road RTime                                        Tm               Ti           Tim
1974            1,178.56                                    1,176.56                                        -1,178.56   -1,178.56
1975            1,178.57                                    1,178.57               111.14      121.81       -1,067.42  -1,056.75
1976                             32.56       17.63            -14.93               502.S4      551.11          517.77     566.04
1977                             35.44       17.87            -17.57               547.77      600.36          563.34     617.93
1978                             35.44      1V.7              -17.57               596.73      654.02          614.30     671.59
1979                             35.44       17.87            -17.57               650,10      712.S1          667.67     730.08
1980                             36.67       17.94            -18.73               706.28      776.27          727.01     795.00
1961                             36.67       17.94            -18.73               771.69      845.77          790.42     864.50
1982                             36.99       17.97            -19.02               840.81      921.53          859.83     940.55
1983                             40.69       18.24            -22.45               916.15    1,004.10          938.60    1,026.55
1984                             41.66       6S.30             23.64               998.27    1,094.10          974.63    1,070.46
1985                              490       176.7             331.77             1,087.78    1,192.21          756.01     860.44
1986                             4.96        1U.M            -26.32              1,185.35    1,299.14       1,211.67    1,325.46
1987                             44.90       WS             -26.32              1,291.70    1,415,70        1,318.02    1,442.02
1988                             44.90       U5.51            -26.32             1,407.62    1,542.75        1,433.94    1,569.07
1989                             44.90       18.56            -26.32             1,533.97    1,681.23        1,560.29    1,707.35
199O                             4.55        18.71            -27.88             1,671.69    1,832.17        1,6S9.57    1,660.05
1991                             50.78    -130.8 .0181.1                         1,621.61    1,S96.70        2,002.99    2.177.88
311-27. 15  13-29.17
Sources: Consultants' ad Easiom's ltltastun
August, 1973



KOREA                                                     TABLE 21
Page 9
SECOND HIGHWAY pROJECT
Estimated Costs and Benefits Streams
.million Won)
Highway Paving
9. Yeongsanpo-Gangjin
Costs                                                               Benefits
Construction,        Maintenance                                              Operating
Right of         Gravel        Paved                  Total                  Cost Savings                    Net Benefits
Year            Way and           Existing      New                    Cost                Without      With               Without          With
*                         Supervision       Road          Road                                      Time          Time              Time              Time
1974               483.54                                              483.54                                              -483.54        -483.54
1975              483.55                                               483.54                87.88         97.20           -395.66        -386.34
1976                                  19.28       7.71                 -11.57               397.27        439.38            408.84         450.95
1977                                  19.28       7.71                 -11.57               432.66        478.52            444.23         490.09
1978                                  19.28        7.71                -11.57               471.25        521.20            482.82         532.77
1979                                  19.28        7.71                -11.57               513.31        567.72            524.88         579.29
1980                                  19.28        7.71                -11.57               559.15        618.42            570.72         629.99
1981                                  19.28        7.71                -11.57               609.12        673.69            620.69         685.26
1982                                  19.28       7.71                 -11.57               663.57        733.91            675.14         745.48
1983                                  23.89       8.01                 -15.88               722.94        799.57            738.82         815.45
1984                                  23.89       8.01                 -15.88               787.65        871.14            803.53         887.02
1985                                  23.89     184.03                 160.14               858.18        949.15            698.04         789.01
1986                                  23.89       8.01                 -15.88               935.07      1,034.19            950.95       1,050.07
1987                                  23.89       8.01                 -15.88             1,018.86      1,126.86          1,034.74       1,142.74
1988                                  23.89        8.01                -15.88             1,110.20      1,227.88          1,126.08       1,243.76
1989                                  23.89        8.01                -15.88             1,209.76      1,337.99          1,225.64       1,353.87
1990                                  23.89        8.01                -15.88             1,318.29      1,458.03          1,334.17       1,473.91
1991                                  23.89     -62.40                 -86.29             1,436.58      1,588.86          1,522.87       1,675.15
IRR=45.48    IRR-49. 14
Sources: Consultants' and Mission's Estimates
August, 1973



KOREA                                              TABLE  22
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Highway Maintenance Program: Economic Evaluation, 1974-81
(million Won)
Costs                                         Benefits
Vehicle Operating
Year             Capital           Increase         Total                        Cost  Savings                     Net Benefits
Expenditares      in Recurrent      Increase              Paved      Gravel    Total
Expenditures      in Costs              Roads      Roads
(1)                (2)          (3)-(1)+(2)              (5)        (6)      (7)                (8)-(7)-(4)
1974               3,980               -              3,980                  -          -        -                    -3,980
1975                  50              4,380          4,430                 1,313      1,732     3,045                 -1,385
1976                 150             4,540           4,690                 3,086      3,120     6,206                  1,516
1977                 300             4,710           5,010                 5,414     4,021      9,435                  4,425
1978                450              4,870           5,320                 8,444     4,139    12,543                   7,223
1979                 600             4,930           5,530                 9,869     3,145    13,014                   7,484
1980                900              5,200           6,100                11,531        509    12,110                  6,040
1981              1,000              5,460           6,460                12,812       -       12,812                  6,352
IRR- 53.04
Sources:  Consultants' and Mission's Estimates
Aagust, 1973



TABLE 23
SEGO:D HIGHWVAY PIOJECT
Fconomic ieturns and Sensitivity Analysis
(%)
Passenger Time
Best        High 2       Low 2        Saving  Excluded
Estimate    Estimate    Estimate    frm Benefits
A. Highway Construction
1.  Saemal Gangreung           28          34           21             26
2. Gangreung Mukho             25          32           19             23
B.o Highway Paving
1.  Donong-Hoengseong          25          34           17             23
2.  Jumunjin-Yangyang          30          41           21             28
3.  Weonju-Maepo               32           43          23             30
4. Jupo-Hayeong                31           41          22             29
5.  Gongju-Gimje               23          32           16             22
6.  Cheongju-Sangju            32           44          23             30
7.  Jeomchon-Yeongdeog         27          37           19             25
8.  3wangju-Goheung            29           39          21             27
9.  Yeongsanpo-Gangjin         49           66          35             45
C. Highway Yiaintenance Program
National doads Network         53           85          21
(8150 Km)
1/  Assumes costs 15p lower and benefits 25% higher than in the best estimate,
excepted for the maintenance program where figures are reduced to 19% and 20,
respectively.
2/  Assumes costs 15% higher and benefits 25% lower than in the best estimate,
excepted for the maintenance program where figures are reduced to 10% and 20%
respectively.
Sources: Mission's Estimates
August, 1973






KOREA: SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
MINISTRY OF CONSTRUCTION ORGANIZATION
MINISTRY OF CONSTRUCTION (MOC)
MINISTER
VICE MINISTER
-                                                                              CONTROLLER OF|
PLANNING AND
COORDINATION
-       -.a 
HIHKOREA          HOUSINGBUREAU OF                    BUREAU OF         BUREAU OF         BUE  OF            BUREAU OF
HIGHWAY     j 3 |CHOUSRNG   N       NATIONAL          HOUSING AND       PUBLIC
CORPORATION              IO         PHYSICAL          AND CITY           ROADS            I TRIAL            WATER
KCOROR          IPLANNING                             PLANNING             (B PR)         LOCATION           RESOURCES
a                 .S
L--        -  -     L-----------
I IWATER                                                NATIONAL          NATIONALBUEUO
KOREA            RESOURCES   I                         BUREAU OF       HIGHWAY           CONSTRUCTION       BUREA OF            TRAINING
DREDGING         DEVELOPMENTj                          FINANCE         OFFICTION         RESEARCH           PO PT                CENTER
CORPORATIO   DEVELVEPMPNTN
L~.....J      L. COPORTIO                                           OFFICE (NHCO)     INSTITUTEDELOMN
REGIONAL
CONSTRUCTION
BUREAUS (5)
(RCBs)
SOURCE: Ministry of Construction
July 1973                                                                                                             World Bank-7761






KOREA: SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
BUREAU OF PUBLIC ROADS ORGANIZATION
BUREAU OF PUBLIC ROADS (BPR)
DIRECTOR
NATIONAL                                        PLANNING
HIGHWAY                                         DIVISION
CONSTRUCTION                                     DEPUTY
OFFICE (NHCO)                                    DIRECTOR
| ADMINISTRATION               FINANCE                                 | CONSTRUCTION                     MAINTENANCE
DIVISION                       DIVISION                                   DIVISION                        DIVISION
i.iimimi*uu**u*i*******hm**************hhi*um*****uuuumimiuiuii***iuu*******iuuiII
REGIONAL CONSTRUCTION BUREAUS (5)
DIRECTOR (RCBs)
a   ,   ,   .   NATIONAL   ,  RIVERS AND                         DESIGN
GDIEVNlsIRoN  ,   N    PORTS   |               ~~~~~~HIGHWAY                   WATERWAYS '                        AN
DIVISION          DIVISIN                         DIVISION                   .DIVISION                              TESTING
NATIONAL HIGHWAY           r 2 Established Sept. 1972
17 Additional to be
FIELD SECTIONS (19)             establishedb by Jan. 1975
SOURCE: Ministry of construction                                     (NHMFS)
July 1973                                                                                                                               World Bank-7762






IBRD  10588
JULY    1973
CHINA. I        _                             NORTH              KOREA                           J
CHINA                       < N 4                                                   -,
0~~~~~~~p                                                              EujeoJL_O 
anplm  ceJvaemalf so sGcepran>e b) mr <g J \\ I R .-iJ Too                                                            Sacheo       kE
i                                    <,_<nAg50-<Zmbt,, lljill h
, )
.g  b,                  -    EL       -   CE                -'      .                                S.a-hko
S-k'~~~~~  ~~. eh..,-.--
Rbongaun                f           C:2aoog2c/    E\     V                 be    > ,           /
I7 IJev  5000:  Jyoho5hg
m..flp.~~~~~~YangOfp
I       L
QX   ~         ~        ~ ~ NAINATINL HGWY PV
NATIONAL KIOnIWAYSIUNPAVED)
PROJECT H-IGHWAYS
I~~~~~ -..... ..FA51BILITY STUDY AND ENO!NEERINGJTSCHNICAL ASSISTANCE CR 54-KEO
II                                           \Y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tIRST PROJECT LOAN 769-lEO
0 209    409    61              p      e,o                     lo                                   -----   CONSTRUCTION AND IMPROVEMENT FIRST PROJECT LOAN 769-KO
N.j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
KILOMETERS                                                                            _    _ CONSTRUCTION AND IMPROVEMENT'ICNDPOJC
Ja                                                           PAVIN5                        )
NATIONA   H                                NETWOtRAILWAYS
EXAIRPORTSINTERNATIONAL)
I     PROVINCIAL CAPITALS
- - - -- -- -INTERNATIONAL H OUNDARIES



