Page  1
1
Project Information Document (PID)         
29103
Project Name 
Fiscal Consolidation and Competitive Growth  
Adjustment Loan (FCGL) II 
 
Region  
 
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office 
 
Sector 
 
Economic Policy Sector Group 
 
Project ID 
 
PE-P083856-LEN-BB 
 
Borrower (s) 
 
Government of Ecuador 
 
Implementing Agency  
Eco. Mauricio Pozo 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
 
Address: Ave. Amazona 3535, Atahualpa 
 
Quito, Ecuador 
 
Phone: 593-2-2269252 
 
Fax: 593-2-268-623 
 
Web: MEF.gov.ec 
 
Environment Category 
Not rated 
 
Date PID 
 
April 5, 2004 
 
Project appraisal date  
May 13, 2004 
 
Project Board Date 
 
June 15, 2004 
 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
Ecuador is at a crossroads.  Its stability and economic recovery are promising, but 
its fiscal and external positions remain vulnerable.  These vulnerabilities are due to its 
rigid response to real or financial external shocks
—typical of dollarized economies with 
only fiscal policy as an instrument—in a context of highly volatile and oil-dependent 
fiscal revenues, expansionary spending policies, and heavy debt burden.  Through this 
operation, the country expects to work hard in strengthening conditions for sustained 
dollarization, including a solid fiscal position, a sustainable public debt, a diversified 
export structure to accommodate trade shocks and the benefits of an incoming Free trade 
Agreement with the U.S., a sufficient level of international reserves to accommodate 
capital outflows, and flexible factor markets—particularly labor and capital—to preserve 
the competitiveness of the nontradable goods sector, and a climate to attract investment.   
2.  Objectives 
Page  2
2
This adjustment operation continues to provide Bank support to the Government 
of Ecuador’s (GOE’s) Multiyear Program of reforms initiated by the first, single-tranche, 
Fiscal Consolidation and Competitive Growth Loan (FCCGL-I).  The medium-term 
objectives of the FCCGL-II are to continue correcting  building a sustainable fiscal 
position, reduce the country’s high debt levels, upgrade its creditworthiness, improve its 
competitiveness, and achieve high growth for poverty reduction.  The continuity to a 
second stage is well justified by significant progress achieved in the implementation of 
benchmarks and further actions agreed with the Bank in the comprehensive matrix of 
policy reforms of the first operation.   
3.  Rationale for Bank’s Involvement: 
The proposed operation is the second stage of a Fiscal Consolidation and 
Competitive Growth Program.  It builds upon the progress achieved from the previous 
FCCGL approved by the Board in May 2003.  Such operation responded to the 
Government’s Program for Economic Restructuring and Human Development (PERHD) 
aimed at solving immediate liquidity problems, deepening fiscal solvency, and 
strengthening fiscal institutions; and supporting structural reforms—by introducing 
flexibility in goods and services markets and increasing the productivity of the factors of 
production, all
 
essential conditions for sustaining dollarization in the medium term.  In 
parallel to an ongoing Programmatic operation aimed at strengthening human 
development and social policies, and to an incoming Institutional Reform Loan aimed at 
reducing corruption, modernizing Customs and improving civil service, the FCCGL will 
provide critical support to the country’s fiscal and structural reform programs.  
The proposed FCCGL-II of US$100 million has been prepared in the context of 
strong international support and in close collaboration with the IMF.  It has benefited 
from an active engagement across institutional boundaries within the Ecuadorian 
government and at the local level.  The proposed adjustment operation has been designed 
in parallel to and in close collaboration with the supervision of the SBA.  The 13-month 
SBA for SDR151 million was approved on 21 March 2003 with the goal of fiscally 
stabilizing the economy and generating high-quality growth with key structural reforms 
under a framework that is consistent with dollarization.  The SBA ends on 20 April 2004, 
and there are good prospects that it could be followed by another SBA to be signed by 
mid-year. 
4.  Description: 
The FCCGL-II preserves two pillars: (a) fiscal consolidation with social 
expenditure protection, and (b) faster growth with improved competitiveness.  Specific 
objectives of the loan are to (a) improve tax policy and administration; (b) reverse 
expansionary spending and improve budget transparency; (c) regain control of the public 
payroll; (d) improve public debt management and promote a simple, transparent, and 
rules-based approach to FEIREP management; (e) support trade reform; (f) promote 
competitive pricing and regulatory policies; and (g) increase labor flexibility.  These 
objectives are complemented by a parallel Programmatic operation in the social sectors 
and another parallel Institutional Reform Loan in the areas of Customs, civil service and 
procurement reform. 
5.  Financing: 
Page  3
3
IBRD: US$100.0 million 
Total Project Cost: US$100.0 million 
Page  4
4
6.  Implementation: 
Ecuador has improved its record in implementing adjustment operations with the 
Bank.  However, a single tranche approach to adjustment lending is preserved for this 
operation. It bases Bank support on prior actions the Government has already taken, 
rather than on conditions of future actions.  This provides an opportunity for the 
Government to continue building a track record by demonstrating its commitment to 
reforms, and for the Bank to provide financial support aligned to the strength and pace of 
the Government’s reform.  Implementation of the Multiyear Government’s Program 
would be monitored through frequent missions (every two months) and continuous 
supervision through videoconference technology facilities of the information system of 
the country office.  Although supervision has mainly focused on fulfillment of policy 
results and benchmarks, the presence of policy reversals and the implementation of other 
anticipated actions have continually been assessed.  Moreover, ad hoc comments to draft 
bills, and in situ reviews have been supported by technical assistance and advisory 
services carried out during supervision missions, previously requested by officials. 
Immediately following disbursement of the second loan, the GOE would initiate work on 
the actions contained in the third phase of its program.  A detailed schedule of these 
activities and budget would be prepared with the Bank’s support at that time.  Financing 
of these activities may be sought through the Institutional Reform Loan under preparation  
or, if possible, through PHRD grants to specific activities, especially in the area of budget 
transparency. 
7.  Sustainability: 
The objectives of the GOE’s Program are reflected around FCCGL-II two main 
goals: First, achieving fiscal consolidation through (a) a sound budget framework; (b) 
enhancing revenue management; (c) improving expenditure management with austerity, 
transparency, and accountability, and tight control of the wage bill; and (d) prudent debt 
management; and second, promoting faster growth with competitiveness based on (a) 
competition and trade reform policies; (b) solid pricing and regulatory policies to attract 
investment in key basic infrastructure sectors; and (c) increasing labor market flexibility.  
The actions supported in the first stage were initial steps for laying the institutional 
foundations of deeper reforms that would be needed over the next several years if 
Ecuador is to realize its development potential.  Given the weakness of the legal and 
institutional framework in place after years of political conflict and poor governance, and 
the short time span after the arrival of the new authorities, the FCCGL-I necessarily 
emphasized process measures: it focused primarily on strategy and policy formulation; 
the preparation of key laws, regulations, and actions; and the initiation of institutional 
reforms and needed price adjustments, rather than concrete outcomes.  FCCGL-II, 
instead, emphasizes on results. 
8.  Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector: 
This single-tranche approach incorporates lessons learned from previous 
adjustment operations, from FCGGL-I ICR, and from the Operation Evaluation 
Department’s 1999 Country Assistance Evaluation.   
Page  5
5
9.  Environmental Aspects (Including any Public Consultation): 
This Program does not trigger OD 8.60 on Environmental Assessment since it is 
structural adjustment loan.  Therefore, an environmental rating is not required. 
10.  List of Factual Technical Documents: 
Loan Documents for Fiscal Consolidation and Competitive Growth Adjustment 
Loan (FCGL I) (project identification number PE-P082739-LEN-BB and 25786-
EC) 
Implementation Completion Report for Fiscal Consolidation and Competitive 
Growth Adjustment Loan (FCGL I) (project identification number P082739 and 
report number 27477) 
Documents associated with the Ecuador Development Policy Review (EW-
P078861-ESW-BB) 
 
11.  Contact Point 
 
Task Manager:  
José R. López-Cálix 
The World Bank 
LCSPE 
1850 I Street, NW, MSN I 4406 
Washington, DC 20433 
Mail Stop I4-406 
Phone: (202) 458-1906 
Fax: (202) 
522-3133 
 
12.  For Information on Other Project Related Documents Contact: 
 
The InfoShop 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, DC 20433 
Phone: (202) 
458-5454 
Fax: (202) 
522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
Note: This is information on an evolving project.  Certain components and 
implementation may be modify in the final project 
 
