Page  1
1
REVISED Project Information Document (PID)         
31580
Project Name 
Fiscal Consolidation and Competitive Growth  
Adjustment Loan (FCGL) II 
 
Region  
 
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office 
 
Sector 
 
Economic Policy Sector Group 
 
Project ID 
 
PE-P083856-LEN-BB 
 
Borrower (s) 
 
Government of Ecuador 
 
Implementing Agency  
Eco. Mauricio Yepez 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
 
Address: Ave. Amazona 3535, Atahualpa 
 
Quito, Ecuador 
 
Phone: 593-2-2268598 
 
Fax: 593-2-2270348 
 
Web: MEF.gov.ec 
 
Environment Category 
Not rated 
 
Date PID 
 
February 7, 2005 
 
Project appraisal date  
February 9-10, 2005 
 
Project Board Date 
 
March 10, 2005 
 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
Ecuador is at a crossroads.  Its stability and economic recovery are promising, but its 
fiscal and external positions remain vulnerable.  These vulnerabilities are due to its rigid 
response to real or financial external shocks
—typical of dollarized economies with only fiscal 
policy as an instrument—in a context of highly volatile and oil-dependent fiscal revenues, 
expansionary spending policies, and heavy debt burden.  Through this operation, the country 
expects to work hard in strengthening conditions for sustained dollarization, including a solid 
fiscal position, a sustainable public debt, a diversified export structure to accommodate trade 
shocks and the benefits of an incoming Free trade Agreement with the U.S., a sufficient level of 
international reserves to accommodate capital outflows, and flexible factor markets—particularly 
labor and capital—to preserve the competitiveness of the nontradable goods sector, and a climate 
to attract investment.   
2.  Objectives 
Page  2
2
This adjustment operation continues to provide Bank support to the Government of 
Ecuador’s (GOE’s) Multiyear Program of reforms initiated by the first, single-tranche, Fiscal 
Consolidation and Competitive Growth Loan (FCCGL-I).  The medium-term objectives of the 
FCCGL-II are to continue correcting and building a sustainable fiscal position, to reduce the 
country’s moderately high debt levels, to upgrade its creditworthiness, to improve its 
competitiveness, and to achieve high growth for poverty reduction.  The continuity to a second 
stage is well justified by significant progress achieved in the implementation of benchmarks 
agreed with the Bank under the first operation and further actions added in the comprehensive 
multiyear matrix of policy reforms.   
3.  Rationale for Bank’s Involvement: 
The proposed operation is the second stage of a Fiscal Consolidation and Competitive 
Growth Program.  It builds upon the progress achieved from the previous FCCGL approved by 
the Board in May 2003.  Such operation responded to the Government’s Program for Economic 
Restructuring and Human Development (PERHD) aimed at solving immediate liquidity 
problems, deepening fiscal solvency, and strengthening fiscal institutions; and supporting 
structural reforms—by introducing flexibility in goods and services markets and increasing the 
productivity of the factors of production, all
 
essential conditions for sustaining dollarization in 
the medium term.  In parallel to an ongoing Programmatic operation aimed at strengthening 
human development and social policies, and to an on-going Institutional Reform Loan aimed at 
reducing corruption, modernizing Customs and improving civil service, the FCCGL will provide 
critical support to the country’s fiscal and structural reform programs.  
The proposed FCCGL-II of US$100 million has been prepared in the context of strong 
international support and in close collaboration with the IMF.  It has benefited from an active 
engagement across institutional boundaries within the Ecuadorian government and at the local 
level.  Following several months of lengthy negotiations on the type and contents of Fund 
support, the Government and the IMF were able to reach an agreement on a 2005 
macroeconomic program designed by the Authorities and to be monitored by an Intensified 
Surveillance Mechanism (ISM).  The macroeconomic program includes quarterly quantitative 
targets.  The Fund transmitted to the Bank an Assessment Letter for such a Program on 29 
December 2004.  The Letter confirms the goal of the Government’s Program of fiscally 
stabilizing the economy, while supporting high-quality growth with key structural reforms under 
multilateral support, a policy framework that is consistent with dollarization. 
4.  Description: 
The FCCGL-II preserves two pillars of structural reform: (a) fiscal consolidation with 
debt sustainability, and (b) higher economic growth with improved competitiveness and 
enhanced markets flexibility.  Specific objectives of the loan are to: (a) support a non-
discretional fiscal policy and improve tax administration; (b) reverse expansionary spending and 
improve budget transparency; (c) regain control of the public payroll; (d) improve public debt 
management and promote a simple and transparent management of the oil revenue fund FEIREP; 
(e) support trade reform; (f) promote competitive pricing and regulatory policies; and (g) 
increase labor flexibility.  These objectives are complemented by a parallel Programmatic 
operation in the social sectors and another parallel Institutional Reform Loan in the areas of 
customs, civil service and procurement reform. 
Page  3
3
5.  Financing: 
IBRD: US$100.0 million 
Total Project Cost: US$100.0 million 
6.  Implementation: 
Ecuador has improved its record in implementing adjustment operations with the Bank.  
However, a single tranche approach to adjustment lending is preserved for this operation. It bases 
Bank support on prior actions the Government has already taken, rather than on conditions of 
future actions.  This provides an opportunity for the Government to continue building a track 
record by demonstrating its commitment to reforms, and for the Bank to provide financial 
support aligned to the strength and p
ace of the Government’s reform.  Implementation of the 
Multiyear Government’s Program would be monitored through frequent missions (every two 
months) and continuous supervision through videoconference technology facilities of the 
information system of the country office.  Although supervision has mainly focused on 
fulfillment of policy results and benchmarks, the presence of policy reversals and the 
implementation of other anticipated actions have continually been assessed.  Moreover, ad hoc 
comments to draft bills, and in situ reviews have been supported by technical assistance and 
advisory services carried out during supervision missions, previously requested by officials. 
Immediately following disbursement of the second loan, the GOE would initiate work on the 
actions contained in the third phase of its program.  A detailed schedule of these activities and 
budget would be prepared with the Bank’s support at that time.  Financing of these activities may 
be sought through the Institutional Reform Loan under preparation  or, if possible, through 
PHRD grants to specific activities, especially in the area of budget transparency. 
7.  Sustainability: 
The objectives of the GOE’s Program are reflected in FCCGL-I’s two main pillars, now 
preserved under FCCGL-II.  The first is achieving fiscal consolidation through (a) a rules-based 
fiscal policy; (b) improved tax administration; (b) austere expenditure management with 
transparency and accountability, including tight control of the wage bill; and (d) prudent, rule-
based, and transparent debt management.  The second is promoting faster growth with 
competitiveness based on (a) trade reform policies, (b) solid pricing and regulatory policies to 
attract investment in key basic infrastructure sectors, and (c) increased labor market flexibility.  
The actions supported in the first stage were initial steps for laying the institutional foundations 
of deeper reforms that would be needed over the next several years if Ecuador is to realize its 
development potential.  Given the weakness of the legal and institutional framework in place 
after years of political conflict and poor governance, the FCCGL-I necessarily emphasized 
process measures: it focused primarily on strategy and policy formulation; the preparation of key 
laws, regulations, and actions; and the initiation of institutional reforms and needed price 
adjustments, rather than concrete outcomes.  FCCGL-II builds upon these measures, consolidates 
those processes and law approvals, while shifting the focus of the program toward obtaining 
initial and important results on the ground.  It is expected that a third operation will fully 
materialize loan expected outcomes.  
8.  Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector: 
This single-tranche approach incorporates lessons learned from previous adjustment 
operations, from FCGGL-I ICR, and from the Operation Evaluation Department’s 1999 Country 
Assistance Evaluation.   
Page  4
4
9.  Environmental Aspects (Including any Public Consultation): 
This Program does not trigger OD 8.60 on Environmental Assessment since it is 
structural adjustment loan.  Therefore, an environmental rating is not required. 
10.  List of Factual Technical Documents: 
Loan Documents for Fiscal Consolidation and Competitive Growth Adjustment Loan 
(FCGL I) (project identification number PE-P082739-LEN-BB and 25786-EC) 
Implementation Completion Report for Fiscal Consolidation and Competitive Growth 
Adjustment Loan (FCGL I) (project identification number P082739 and report number 
27477) 
Documents associated with the Ecuador Development Policy Review (EW-P078861-
ESW-BB) 
 
11.  Contact Point 
 
Task Manager:  
José R. López-Cálix 
The World Bank 
MSNED 
600 19th Street, NW, MSN H 10-1000 
Washington, DC 20433 
Mail Stop H 10-1000 
Phone: (202) 458-1906 
Fax: (202) 
522-2510 
 
12.  For Information on Other Project Related Documents Contact: 
 
The InfoShop 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, DC 20433 
Phone: (202) 
458-5454 
Fax: (202) 
522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
Note: This is information on an evolving project.  Certain components and implementation may 
be modify in the final project  
 
