Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16650
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
THIRD BOMBAY WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
(Loan 2769/Credit 1750-IN)
June 9, 1997
Agriculture and Water Operations Division
Country Department II
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Rupees (RS.)
At appraisal (1986) US$1 = Rs.13.0
Completion Year 1996 US$1 = Rs.34.50
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
mm           =     millimeter (1 millimeter = 0.039 inches)
m            =     meter (1 meter = 3.28 feet)
km           =     kilometer (1 kilometer = 0.62 miles)
1                  liter (0.22 Imperial gallons or 0.264 US gallons)
lcd          =     liters per capita per day
Ml           =     million liters or 1,000 cubic meters
Mld          =     million liters per day (0.220 million Imperial gallons
per day or 0.264 million US gallons per day)
mgd          =     million Imperial gallons per day (1 mgd = 4,545 m3/day)
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
1 April to 31 March
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AMCP         Additional Municipal Commissioner (Projects)
BSDP         Bombay Sewage Disposal Project (Ln/Cr 3923/2763-fN)
BWSSP I-III Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Projects (I, II and III)
ERR          Economic Rate of Return
FAO/CP       Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations/World Bank
Cooperative Program
FY           Fiscal Year
Gol          Government of India
GoM          Government of Maharashtra
HE           Hydraulic Engineer of WSSD
IBRD         International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
IDA          International Development Association
MCGB         Municipal Corporation of Greater Bombay
MMRDA        Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority
OMS          Operational Manual Statement
PPAR         Project Performance Audit Report
PPCC         Project Planning and Control Cell of WSSD
PWD          Public Works Department of Government of Maharashtra
SAR          Staff Appraisal Report
WSS          Water Supply and Sanitation/Sewerage
WSSD         Water Supply and Sewerage Department of MCGB
Vice President         Mieko Nishimizu
Director               Robert S. Drysdale
Division Chief          Shawki Barghouti
Staff Member           Shyamal Sarkar



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
THIRD BOMBAY WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
(Loan 2769-IN & Credit 1750-IN)
Table of Contents
PREFACE   ..........................................................i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ..........................................................                                                                        ii
PART  I:  PROJECT    IMPLEMENTATION  ASSESSMENT ..........................................................1
A. Project Objectives  ..........................................................1l
B.  Achievement of Objectives                        ...........................................................2
C.  Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project ...................................2
D. Project Sustainability  ...........................................................6
E. Bank Performance ...........................................................7
F. Borrower Performance ...........................................................8
G.  Assessment of Outcome ..........................................................                                                   10
H.  Future Operation ...........................................................11
I.  Key Lessons Learned ..........................................................1  I
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table  1:    Summary of Assessments .....................................................                                              13
Table 2:    Related Bank Loans/Credits .....................................................                                           15
Table 3:    Project Timetable .....................................................                                                    17
Table 4:    Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated  and Actual ......................... 17
Table 5:    Key Indicators for Project Implementation .....................................................  18
Table 6:    Key  Indicators for Project Operation   .                               .................................................... 19
Table 7:    Studies Included  in Project  .....................................................                                        20
Table 8A: Project Costs                    ..................................................... 22
Table 8B: Project Financing .....................................................                                                      22
Table 9:   Economic Costs and Benefits .....................................................                                           23
Table  10:  Status of Legal Covenants .....................................................                                            24
Table  11:  Compliance with  Operational Manual Statements  ............................................. 28
Table  12:  Bank Resources:  Staff Inputs  .....................................................                                        28
Table  13: Bank Resources:  Missions .....................................................                                             29
APPENDICES
A.  Mission's Aide-Memoire .....................................................                                                       30
B.  Borrower's Evaluation .....................................................                                                        54
Maps IBRD 18974R and 28833
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






-l-
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
THIRD BOMBAY WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
(Loan 2769-IN & Credit 1750-IN)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Thrd Bombay Water Supply and
Sewerage Project in India, for which Loan 2769-IN in the amount of US$40.0 million and Credit
1750-IN in the amount of SDR105.5 million (US$145.0 million equivalent) was approved on
December 16, 1986 and became effective on January 29, 1988.
An increase in the disbursement percentages was introduced by the Bank from September 1,
1990, following the Middle East crisis, and was continued to the Credit closing. On April 9, 1996 the
project was restructured to permit financing of some additional works and some uncompleted works of
the previous Second Bomnbay Water Supply and Sewerage Project (Cr. 842-IN) which was closed on
March31, 1988.
The Loan was filly canceled in three steps: US$10.0 million each in June 1993 and on
October 6, 1994, and US$20.0 million on June 26, 1995. The Credit was closed on June 30, 1996
after two extensions of one year each. Final disbursement took place on November 22, 1996, at which
time the balance of SDR1 5.1 million (US$21.6 million equivalent) was canceled.
The ICR was prepared by Mr. Shyamal Sarkar of the Bank's New Delhi Office with assistance
from the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program and reviewed by Mr. Shawki Barghouti, Chief,
Agriculture and Water Operations Division, Country Department 2, South Asia Region, and Mrs.
Kazuko Uchimura, Project Adviser, Country Department 2, South Asia Region.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision/completion mission
from July 9-24, 1996. It is based on materials in the project file. The Borrower and implementing
agency contributed to preparation of the ICR by: providing data and views, which are reflected in the
mission's Aide-Memoire at Appendix A, preparing an evaluation of the project's initial preparation and
execution at Appendix B; and commenting on the draft ICR.






-11-
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
THIRD BOMBAY WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
(Loan 2769-IN & Credit 1750-IN)
Evaluation Summary
Project Objectives
1.    The objectives of the project were to expand the water supply and sewerage facilities for the
city of Bombay and further strengthen the Water Supply and Sewerage Department's (WSSD)
implementation capacity and its financial and operational performance. These objectives were to be
achieved by: (a) continuing and expanding on the efforts of previous projects in improving sector
efficiency through improvements in project management, procurement, billing and collections, and leak
detection and repair in the WSSD; (b) expanding water supply and sanitation facilities for the urban
poor; (c) increasing the supply of water to the Municipal Corporation of Greater Bombay (MCGB)
area by 455 million liters per day (Mld) to help reduce Bombay's deficit; (d) expanding Bombay's
sewerage system in the isolated developed areas; and (e) evaluating operational experience and
developing appropriate design criteria and technical options for future investments in sewage treatment.
2.    The appraised project included: (a) the construction of 52 km of trunk mains with diameters up
to 3000 mm, 49 km of distribution mains up to 1800 mm diameter, 9 km of transmission tunnels, and
intemal cement mortar lining of 76 km of pipeline; (b) the provision of leak detection equipment,
control equipment and system instrumentation and about 32,000 water meters; (c) construction of a
455 Mld water treatment plant, four service reservoirs and pumping stations; (d) construction of about
54 km of sewers and the building and installation of sewage pumping equipment; (e) provision of water
supply and sanitation for the urban poor in slums; and (f) training, consultancies and vehicles.
3.    While project objectives were clear and important for the development of water supply and
sewerage in Bombay, it would have been appropriate to have specified, as an overall perfomiance
objective, the achievement of an uninterrupted water supply during the project period. If, during
execution, attention had been given to such a performance objective, higher priority might have been
given to rehabilitation and strengthening of the water distribution system, control of leakage and waste,
and metering, billing and collection. All of these measures would have assisted with water
conservation.
4.    The Government of India (Gol) and the Govemment of Maharashtra (GoM) made a request to
the Bank in October 1992 to finance left over works from the second Bombay Water Supply and
Sewerage Project (BWSSP-II) and high priority remedial works of the Bombay sewerage system from
the 'savings"from the Loan/Credit. 'Savings"had arisen due largely to variation in the foreign
exchange rates arising from the Rupee depreciation and also due to low disbursements over the initial
three years due to delays in award of contracts. The restructuring proposal was approved, and the
legal agreements were amended in April 1996.



-iii-
Implementation Experience and Results
5.    Project implementation started slowly. This was despite of completion of the major part of the
designs and contractor prequalification for major critical works prior to negotiations in April 1986.
MCGB-WSSD took about three years from effectiveness to award the contracts
6.    Project management in WSSD was not adequately organized until March 1991, when an
Additional Municipal Commissioner was put in charge of the project. Even then, the existing rigid
procedures did not change by much and only marginal improvements resulted and progress continued
to be slow.
7.    Important parts of the project were unfinished. The water treatment plant and the transmission
pipeline works were nearing completion by closing, but the sewerage works were lagging.
Improvement in procurement, leak detection and repairs, billing and collection did not receive adequate
attention from MCGB. The envisaged poverty alleviation for the urban poor was only partly achieved,
(and was financed apart from this project). GoM studies concluded that the development of Middle
Vaitarna would provide the least cost development for the next water source (390 Mld) for Bombay,
and would complete the logical development of the Vaitarna basin, and the Bank supported this idea
and agreed to finance some additional studies. However, at the time of closing, the studies remained
incomplete.
8.    The estimated total cost of the restructured project was Rs.6,953.5 million (76% more than
appraisal estimate) and the expenditure at Credit closing was Rs.3,994.8 million. A comparison of
estimates and expenditure is given below:
Rs. million        US$ million
SAR Estimates                          3,956.5  100%      304.3  100%
Estimated Completion Cost of Restructured   6,953.5  176%  219.1   72%
Project (Jan-96)
Estimated Expenditure at Closing (Jul-96)    3,994.8  101%  145.3   48%
The US$/Rupee exchange rate varied from Rs. 13.00/US$ at appraisal to Rs.34.50/US$ at closing,
which contributed to 'tavings."
9.    As a result of slow progress, the Loan amount of US$40.0 million was canceled in its entirety
during execution of the project. SDR90.4 million (US$127.07 million equivalent) of the Credit amount
was utilized, which amounts to only 68.7% of the total Loan/Credit amount. The Credit was closed on
June 30, 1996 after two extensions of closing date by one year each (total of two years).
Key Factors That Affected Achievement of the Major Objectives
10.   A number of factors contributed to the slow progress. These include: (a) the excessive time for
approval of the Gol prior to entering into contracts involving payments in foreign exchange (this
procedure was discontinued in 1995); (b) inadequate project management, linked to limited financial



-iv-
delegations for the Municipal Commissioner; (c) the lack of resettlement plan for project affected
persons; (d) slow preparation of engineering and bidding documents by WSSD; (e) the cumbersome
intemal procedures for contract evaluation and arriving at award decisions; (f) the slow performance of
contractors; (g) the non-cooperative role of Indian Railways that prevented the completion of two
sections of the large diameter transmission mains over the railways; and (h) the difficulties faced by
MCGB in obtaining support and cooperation from the GoM agencies such as the Traffic Police (road
excavation), the Public Works Department of GoM (PWD) (pipe laying along important roads), and
Forest Department (Forest clearance).
Bank Performance
11.   The Bank performance was deficient during preparation and supervision. The staffiweeks
utilized between identification and negotiations were only about 50% of the amount normally expected
for a complex and diverse project of this kind. The Bank's Operational Manual Statement (OMS)
2.33 on Social Issues Associated with Involuntary Resettlement in Bank Financed Projects was
not addressed at the time of preparation. This resulted in failure to identify and plan for the
adverse impacts associated with land acquisition/resettlement. The implementation problems
(organization, management, procurement) experienced by the previous project due to inadequate
institutional capacity were not addressed at preparation and appraisal of this project although they were
well known.
12.   Supervision was conducted without a plan. The Bank supervision missions devoted a great
deal of attention to activities related to the uncompleted works of the BWSSP-IL and as a result spent
less time on the BWSSP-fII. The Bank should have deployed more staff resources for this major
effort; only 12 supervision missions were undertaken during the 8.5 years implementation period.
MCGB commitment for water and sanitation works of smaller nature for the urban poor diminished
considerably over time, yet the Bank failed to identify or reverse this trend. Procurement procedures
were also inadequate as these did not provide for force account and direct contracting for small works
which were appropriate to the circumstances on the ground. Although the Bank very promptly
processed in October 1992 an 'in principle" approval of the project restructuring request, the
restructuring was delayed, and was only finalized in April 1996.
Borrower Performance
13.   The poor overall result indicates that there were important deficiencies in Borrower
performance. Internal coordination among the WSSD's various divisions during implementation and
detailed forward planning did not receive adequate attention. The monitoring indicators agreed at
negotiations for reporting on a quarterly basis were not followed. Critical works remained unfinished,
and some were not even started. MCGB was not committed to the use of technical assistance for
institutional strengthening . Technical assistance was used mostly for the engineering and
environmental studies for the proposed Middle Vaitarna project, and engineering preparation and
studies for the BSDP, and consultant supervision of complex engineering works.
14.   Procurement by WSSD was very slow due to generally slow preparation of engineering and
bidding documents and the cumbersome procurement decision making procedures of MCGB. The



complex procedure of making decisions involving agreement and clearance of every technical action by
the accounting and legal staff proved to be the bane of efficient project implementation. Procurement
procedures were improved and streanmlined and the bidding documents were improved after 1992. The
impacts were visible in varying degrees in the various WSSD divisions due to lack of understanding of
the difference between the mandatory requirements of the Bank and the recommendations made for
reasons of good practice, and their inadequate internal coordination. MCGB had little clout with
agencies such as the Indian Railways, PWD, Forest Department, and the Traffic Police, and no support
was forthcoming from the GoM to remove bottlenecks.
15.   There was compliance with the financial covenant that required MCGB to contribute 40% of
capital costs. Audit reports were submitted within the stipulated six months of the end of fiscal year
consistently, and counterpart funding was never a problem.
Project Outcome
16.   The project objectives were not achieved by closing. Slow progress and inadequate attention
to important components resulted in the project remaining unfinished, even with two extensions of
twelve months each. As a result, the project is rated 'hnsatisfactory." The unfinished works for water
supply and sewerage are being completed by WSSD using internal funds and a loan from Mumbai
Metropolitan Regional Development Authority (MBD1RDA). Most of the unfinished works are
expected to be commissioned by end-June 1997, when the corresponding benefits of the project will
begin to be realized.
17.   The Economic Rate of Return (ERR) was calculated for water supply and sanitation to be
9.5% which compares with the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) estimate of 12.3% (Table 9). The
difference reflects lower than anticipated benefits, and delays in their realization.
Most Important Findings of the Project Implementation Experience
18.   The project would have achieved all its development objectives by the extended closing date,
and possibly well before, had the institutional weaknesses been addressed at preparation and appraisal
by installing a good project management and sound procurement administration in WSSD. Greater
supervision effort by the Bank in the early stages of implementation could have identified and found
solutions to these weaknesses.
Future Operation and Sustainability
19.   All the water and sewerage works of BWSSP-III will be integrated into Bombay's water and
sewerage systems. Sustainability is likely. MCGB's technical capacity for water supply operations,
especially in production and bulk transmission, is satisfactory. MCGB's technical capacity in sewerage
is expected to improve through the various actions being taken under the on-going BSDP. Generally,
the track record of MCGB in financial performance has been good. Water and sewerage tariffs were
revised four times between negotiations and closing. It is likely, therefore, that adequate O&M funds
will be forthcoming.



-vi-
Lessons for Future Projects
20.   Many of the lessons from this project have already been accepted and incorporated into current
Bank practices. Lessons already taken on board include the need to: prepare plans ahead of
implementation for involuntary resettlement and procurement; obtain convincing evidence of the
existence of Borrower ownership; use standard bidding documents; and, have agreed monitoring
reports submitted to the Bank quarterly. Below are additional lessons for future projects.
21.   Long delays may occur if adequate attention is not given during preparation to the coordination
of works and other tasks with other public sector agencies.
22.   The agreed Training Plan may be attached to the Minutes of Negotiations.
23.   In order to allow sufficient time to enable the signing of contracts to occur, the evaluation of
bids should be completed within the first half of the prescribed bid validity period.
24.   Identification of all important studies and preparation of consultant recruitment documents
should be completed by appraisal and the recruitment of consultants should be completed as per the
procurement schedule agreed at negotiations. Consultant recruitment for key studies should be
completed before loan effectiveness.
25.   By effectiveness there should be in place a fully functional management team, and management
plan, which shall be maintained throughout the project implementation period by the Borrower. Any
change in the composition of the management team during project implementation should be made
only in consultation with the Bank. Project conditionality should include a minimum of three-year
posting for senior staff and key staff unless otherwise agreed with the Bank. The management plan
should include, inter alia: details of organization and staffing; information management; lines of
authority and delegations; and job descriptions for team members.
26.   Prequalification of contractors/suppliers before negotiations is not an adequate assurance that
award of the contracts will follow immediately after Loan/Credit effectiveness. The bidding documents
for a substantial part of the project (works to be carried out in the first two years of implementation
period, and those works which are on critical path), should be finalized before appraisal. Loan/Credit
effectiveness should be conditional upon contract awards for works on the critical path.
27.   Sufficient delegation of financial powers to the Municipal Commissioner and senior technical
staff should be put in place to implement works without their actions being routinely subjected to
approval by legal and accounting staff, and these delegations covenanted.






-1-
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
THIRD BOMBAY WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
(Loan 2769-IN & Credit 1750-IN)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
1.    The Third Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project (BWSSP III), which was implemented
between 1988 and 1996, is the third successive project financed by the Bank for the improvement of water
supply and sewerage facilities for the city of Bombay. The First Project (BWSSP I), implemented during
1974 to 1981, included the construction of works to treat all the water for supply to Bombay, and each of
the follow-on projects augmented the supply by 455 Mld, abstracting water from the Bhatsai river. Most
of the water supply components in the first two projects were completed successfully although with
significant delays. Most of the sewerage facilities included in these projects were incomplete at closing.
The Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR) for BWSSP I rated the outcome satisfactory but BWSSP
II (Second Project) was rated unsatisfactory. There had been an earlier Maharashtra Water Supply and
Sanitation Project (1979-85) which had water supply and sanitation components for areas adjoining
Bombay.
2.    The objectives of the project, as stated in the Development Credit Agreement, were to expand the
water supply and sewerage facilities for the city of Bombay and further strengthen the Water Supply and
Sewerage Department's (WS SD's) implementation capacity and its financial and operational performance.
These objectives were to be achieved by: (a) continuing and expanding on the efforts of previous projects
in improving sector efficiency through improvements in project management, procurement, billing and
collections, and leak detection and repair in the WSSD; (b) expanding water supply and sanitation facilities
for the urban poor; (c) increasing the supply of water to the Municipal Corporation of Greater Bombay
(MCGB)l area by 455 Mld to help reduce Bombay's deficit; (d) expanding Bombays sewerage system in
the isolated developed areas; and (e) evaluating operational experience and developing appropriate design
criteria and technical options for future investments in sewage treatment.
3.    As a follow-on from the two previous projects, BWSSP III formed part of a continuing program
to improve project implementation and operational performance of the MCGB, and to expand the water
1 Bombay is now known as Mumnbai. In this report both names have been used. BMC has been used to refer to Bombay
Municipal Corporation, as it was known at appraisal, Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai (MCGM), as it is known now
and, also to Municipal Corporation of Greater Bombay (MCGB), as it is mentioned in legal agreements.



-2-
supply and sewerage facilities for the city of Bombay2, to keep pace with increasing demand from
population growth and expansion of industrial and commercial activities.
4.     While project objectives were clear and important for the development of water supply and
sewerage in Bombay, it would have been appropriate to have specified, as an overall performance
objective, the achievement of an uninterrupted water supply during the project period. If, during
execution, attention had been given to such a performance objective, higher priority might have been given
to rehabilitation and strengthening of the water distribution system, control of leakage and waste, and
metering, billing and collection. All of these measure would have assisted with water conservation.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
5.     Implementation effort was largely concentrated in building the facilities for increasing water supply
and expansion of sewerage conveyance. However, due to slow progress, many works were unfinished at
closing. Improving sector efficiency through actions on procurement, leak detection and repairs, billing
and collection did not receive adequate attention from MCGB. The envisaged poverty alleviation for the
urban poor was only partly achieved (and was financed apart from the project). Accordingly, project
objectives were not fully achieved at closing.
6.     A financial performance covenant requiring MCGB to make 40% contribution to investments,
after meeting the operation and maintenance costs and the higher of the debt service and the depreciation,
was consistently met by MCGB.
7.     Of the unfinished works, the water treatment plant and the transmission pipeline were nearing
completion at Credit closing, but the sewerage works were lagging. The completion of these investments
is being financed by MCGB from their internal sources and by borrowing from the Mumbai Metropolitan
Region Development Authority (MMIRDA)3 and they will, eventually, realize benefits.
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
8.     The Loan of US$40.0 million and the Credit of SDR105.5 million (US$145.0 million equivalent)
were approved in December 1986 and became effective in January 1988. The project implementation
started slowly. The slow start was despite completion of the major part of the designs and contractor pre-
qualification for major critical works prior to negotiations in April 1986. MCGB-WSSD took about three
years from effectiveness to award those contracts. Delay was due to slow preparation of bidding
documents and cumbersome procurement decision making procedures of MCGB and the unreasonably
2 The Operations Evaluation Department of the World Bank in its Report No. 15849: Impact Evaluation Report-Water Supply
and Wastewater Services in Bombay (June 28, 1996) evaluated the impact of the three successive investments in water supply and
wastewater. The impact evaluation concluded that (a) significant increases in gross water availability have allowed strong
economic growth to continue in Bombay, but they did not translate into improved service levels because of rapid population growth
and lack of system rehabilitation; (b) the intermittent nature of the service affect the low income population the most and increase
health risks through water recontamination; (c) sanitation objectives were largely unmet; (d) institutional development was positive
in that the WSSD is a moderately well run organization and its finances are sound; and (e) construction is often beset with delays
and maintenance and rehabilitation are clearly not priorities.
3 MMRDA has set up a revolving fund from the proceeds of its income from sale of developed land for infrastructure
development in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region and the local bodies are entitled to borrow under Government of Maharashtra
guarantee.



-3-
long time taken for technical and foreign payment clearance from the Gol (this was discontinued in 1995).
The project management in WSSD was not adequately organized until March 1991, when an Additional
Municipal Commissioner was given the responsibility of coordination and management of the project.
However, thereafter the rigid procedures did not change by much and only marginal improvements
occurred.
9.    The Gol and GoM made a request to the Bank in October 1992 to finance left over works from
the BWSSP-II and high priority remedial works of the Bombay sewerage system from the 'tavings"from
the Loan/Credit. The Bank agreed to the use of savings for the above works and restructure the project
as long as the works could be completed within the implementation period of the core elements of
BWSSP-III. 'Savings"had arisen due to variation in the foreign exchange rates arising from the Rupee
depreciation, and also low disbursements over the initial three years due to delays in award of contracts.
The restructuring proposal was approved, and the legal agreements were amended in April 1996. The
closing date was extended twice for a total period of two years, and the Credit closed on June 30, 1996.
Implementation Record
10.   Improving Sector Efficiency. Improvements in sector performance through improvement in
procurement, billing and collections, and leak detection and repairs did not occur. A staff training
program to increase job-skills and to improve operational and management efficiency, which was agreed
at negotiations, was not implemented.
11.   Expanding Water Supply and Sanitation Facilities for the Urban Poor. Only five small
reservoirs with pumping stations and about 18 km of pipelines were constructed to provide water supply
to slum areas on high ground. MCGB has provided, apart from this project, a large number of water
connections to the slums during the project implementation period. Sanitation facilities have not been
financed by this project, but have been provided under: the Bank assisted Bombay Urban Development
Project (Cr. 1544-IN), which closed on September 30, 1994; Gol/GoMIs slum improvement program;
and, since 1991, GoMs slum redevelopment scheme. The agreed Bank procurement procedures for this
project were considered by WSSD to be inappropriate for carrying out such small works.
12.   Increasing the Supply of Water by 455 Mld. Most of the treatment and transmission works
were unfinished but nearing completion at closing. It was expected that by June 1997 the additional 455
Mid of treated water would be available. However, due to lack of progress in the construction of trunk
distribution mains and reservoirs, the benefit to the city would not be realized fully even then. Instead,
benefits will be available to the water deficient areas of eastern and westerns parts of the metropolis.
13.   The critical works relating to the distribution and storage reservoirs that remained incomplete are:
(a) reservoirs at Malabar ill (estimated completion in December 1998) and Worli Hill (September 1999),
where work has not begun due to delay in obtaining access to site; (b) a tunnel between E. Moses Road
and Ruparel College, the contract for which had to be rebid (completion planned for January 2000); and
(c) pumping station and reservoir at Raoli, which were delayed by decisions on reservoir capacity and
pump duty as well as unavailability of access to site which are expected to be completed by July 1998.
14.   Expanding the Sewerage System in the Isolated Developed Areas. Progress on the sewerage
works was slow. Although the pumping station at Versova was completed and the one at A.S. Marg
Powai was nearing completion, none of the sewerage works included in the project was operating by the



-4-
time of Credit closing. A substantial part of the conveyance works will be completed by June 1997. At
about the same time all the four (Bhandup, Ghatkopar, Malad and Versova) waste water treatment
facilities4 of the BWSSP-Il which were included in the restructured project would be completed and
commissioned. These will offer substantial opportunities to expand the number of sewer connections and
would enable discharge of 685 Mld screened and degritted sewage, of which 140 Mld will be treated at
the aerated lagoon at Versova, into coastal waters.
15.   Evaluation of operational experience etc. of sewage treatment. The evaluation of operational
perfornance to develop appropriate design criteria and technical options for future investment in sewage
treatment was not completed. The lagoon construction which was to provide the basis for this evaluation
was delayed and is now expected to be commissioned in June 1997.
16.   The total cost of the restructured project was estimated to be Rs.6,953.5 million (76% more than
appraisal estimate) and the estimated expenditure at Credit closing was Rs.3,994.8 million. A comparison
of estimates and expenditure is given below:
Rs. million         US$ million
SAR Estimates                           3,956.5  1000/o      304.3  1000/o
Estimated Completion Cost of Restructured   6,953.5  176%    219.1   72%
Project (Jan-96)
Estimated Expenditure at Closing (Jul-96)    3,994.8  101%   145.3   48%
The US$/Rupee exchange rate varied from Rs.13.00/US$ at appraisal to Rs.34.50/US$ at closing.
17.   The Economic Rate of Return (ERR) was calculated for water supply and sanitation (Table 9).
When the same methodology as that used for the SAR was applied but with actual or updated data, the
ERR was calculated to be 9.5%. This compares with the SAR estimate of 12.3%. The difference reflects
lower than anticipated benefits, and delays in their realization.
Major Factors Affecting the Project not Generally Subject to Government Control
18.   General shortage of diesel during and immediately after the Middle East crisis in 1990 affected
transportation of materials to work sites for a period of over two months.
19.   Civil disturbances and the riots in the city in December 1992 and series of bomb blasts in early
1993 caused considerable dislocation in implementation for a period of over four months.
20.   There was poor contractor performance despite procedures established for qualifying contractors.
There are only a few works, notably Pise-Panjrapur Main (W-6) and Staff quarters (W-18B), which have
been completed without requiring extension of contract duration.
4 The waste water treatment facility (WWTF) included only physical unit operations like screening and degritting of sewage.



-5-
Factors Generally Subject to Government Control
21.   Excessive delays occurred in approval by the Gol prior to entering into contracts involving foreign
exchange payments (this was discontinued in 1995), for example: contracts for Pumping Plant at
Panjrapur (W-3M); Treatment Plant at Panjrapur (W-5); Tunnel between Futka Tank and Sewree (W-19);
and Tunnel between E. Moses Road and Ruparel (W-20).
22.   Additionally, MCGB confronted major difficulties in obtaining support and cooperation from the
Railways (railway crossings of transmission pipeline and also sewerage conveyance), and GoM agencies
(Traffic Police [road excavation], Public Works Department [PWD - pipe laying along important roads],
Forest Department [Forest clearance]). These problems considerably delayed the completion of the
transmission pipeline.
Factors Generally Subject to Inplementing Agency Control
23.   Inadequate Project Management. The project management in WSSD was not adequately
organized initially to implement a complex and extensive project of this kind including major pumping and
treatment facilities, conveyance works and tunnels, laying of sewers in busy congested areas, and creating
water and sanitation facilities for urban poor. Only marginal improvements were made after March 1991.
The limited financial delegations for the Municipal Commnissioner, which required that any decisions that
involved a financial transaction valued above about US$9,000 had to be referred to the Standing
Commnittee of the Municipal Corporation, was an impediment for quick decision making.
24.   Lack of Resettlement Action Plan. There was failure to address the issues associated with land
acquisition/resettlement and plan effective measures for resettlement of affected families in respect of
construction of: (a) a length about 175 m of the transmission line alignment at Majiwade junction (W-9)
which was occupied by slum houses of temporary construction; (b) inlets/outlets of reservoirs at Raoli and
Worli (W- 17 and W- 1 8A) which were occupied by slums; (c) a reservoir at Worli (W- 18) due to
reluctance of MCGB tenants to move to an alternate equivalent accommodation nearby; (d) a reservoir at
Malabar Hill (W-1 5) due mainly to the reluctance by a privately owned primary school to move to
adjoining land provided by MCGB, and also due to slow action from a sub-post-office and a small office
of PWD to move to adjoining land.
25.   Generally Slow Preparation of Engineering Documents and Bid Documents. For example:
(a) the construction of Raoli pumping station and reservoir (W-12& 17) was delayed by a decision on
reservoir capacity and pump duty; and (b) bids were not invited by MCGB for Instrumentation and
Telemetry (W-3 5E) during the project implementation period as the engineering preparation and bidding
documents were completed only close to the Credit closing date.
26.   Slow Procurement Performance. It took MCGB over three years from effectiveness to
complete the procurement process and sign the contracts for the works for which contractor
prequalification was completed before negotiations in April 1986 and the bidding documents were
prepared in mid-1987. The procedures for arriving at decisions pertaining to technical matters that
involved the accountants and legal officials of MCGB, and finally the AMCP - a process that took many
months well beyond the bid validity period, before the issue was placed before the Standing Committee of
MCGB -- were excessively cumbersome. For example, the contracts were signed for: Pump Station at
Panjrapur (W-1) on March 15, 1991; Panjrapur Treatment Plant (W-5) on October 30, 1992; Pise-



-6-
Panjrapur Main (W-6) on June 27, 1991; Majiwade MGL/EEH junction Main (W-9) on January 16, 1991;
Tunnels between Futka Tank and Sewree (W-19) and between E. Moses Road and Ruparel (W-20) on
October 1, 1990.
27.   Inadequate Priority Attached to the Implementation of the Sewerage Component. Weak
organizational arrangements and inexperienced and untrained staff in the sewerage division affected
performance. This was exacerbated by the frequent turnover in the post of the Chief Engineer. However,
MCGB streamlined the organizational arrangements in mid-1995 to enable speedier execution of left-over
BWSSP-II works which were included in the restructured project, and this proved effective.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
28.   MCGB's technical capacity for water supply operations, especially in production and bulk
transmission, is satisfactory. MCGB's technical capacity in operation and maintenance is expected to
improve in sewerage through the various actions being taken under the on-going Bombay Sewage
Disposal Project (BSDP - Ln/Cr 3923/2763-IN)5. Generally the track record of MCGB in financial
performance has been good and they consistently complied with the financial performance covenants. At
present, WSSD generates sufficient revenue to meet the costs of operating and maintaining the system and
finances 35%6 of investments after meeting the debt service/depreciation. The WSSD financial
performance has been covenanted in the BSDP. Accordingly, it is expected that sufficient resources will
be available for O&M:, and the operations are expected to be orderly and sustained.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
29.   Identification. In broad terms the identification was satisfactory. The project concept was
determined by the conclusions of previous studies for staged development of water sources and a gradual
improvement of sewerage. Support to WSSD was appropriate to build on the previous experience and to
expand water supply distribution and sanitation facilities for the urban poor. This was consistent with the
Government's development strategy of raising service levels and Bank's sector objectives of extending
water and sanitation services to a majority of the population, and to assist in improving in efficiency and
sector operations and distribution of services. However, higher priority should have been given at the
identification stage, and subsequently, to rehabilitation and strengthening of the existing water distribution
system, control of leakage and waste, metering, billing and collection, which would have helped with the
achievement of an uninterrupted water supply.
30.   Preparation. There were three preparation missions in February 1984, June 1984 and October
1984 (Table 13). Between identification and negotiations 57.2 staffweeks (Table 12) had been utilized
against a typical 120 staffweeks for a project of this type. Serious implementation problems (organization,
management and procurement) faced by the previous projects due to inadequate institutional capacity
5 Bombay Sewage Disposal Project (BSDP - Ln/Cr 3923/2763-IN) which became effective on March 22, 1996 has the following
objectives:
(a) strengthening the capacity of MCGB's WSSD in all aspects of the management of the provision of sewerage services;
(b) sustaining the financial viability of the provision of water supply and sewerage services in Greater Mumbai through
direct charges to beneficiaries at appropriate levels; and
(c) improving the health and environmental conditions in Greater Mumbai including slum dwellers.
6 The covenanted capital cost contribution from MCGB was reduced from 40% in respect of BWSSP m to 35% in BSDP.



-7-
were not addressed. No experts in organization/management and procurement participated in the
preparation missions. Bank failed to identify the problems which would arise with land
acquisition/resettlement. There was weak borrower ownership of the institutional development aspects
and low levels of commitment for the provision of water supply and sanitation for the urban poor. The
suggested prequalification of contractors for major contracts before inviting priced bids as a measure to
avoid delays in award of contract promptly after effectiveness did not prove effective. The Bank
preparation performance is rated as 'deficient'.
31.   Appraisal. Appraisal took place in February 1985, about one and a half years after identification.
Board presentation took another one year and ten months. The appraisal was thorough in assessing the
financial and engineering aspects of major investment items concerning water supply capacity
augmentation but lagged in assessing the institutional capacity (organization, management and
procurement) and institution development. Relocation and resettlement was not formally considered and
plans to address the resettlement issues were not prepared. The appraisal also inadequately dealt with the
approach towards preparation of the next tranche of investment for further improvement of water supply.
Overall, the Bank's performance at appraisal is rated as 'deficient'.
32.   Supervision. During the 8.5 year implementation (including two 12 month extensions), a total of
146.5 staffweeks (Table 12) was utilized to supervise the project. 12 supervision missions (two missions
in each of FY89 and FY90, three missions in FY92; and one mission in each of the remaining five years)
were undertaken and about 45 staffweeks were utilized in the field (Table 13). Although supervision was
close to the Bank average of 150-160 staffweeks for a project of this nature, the missions used a
substantial part of their time in discussing and reporting the uncompleted works of the BWSSP-II. This
left only about 100 staffweeks (estimate only) for supervision of BWSSP-III of which about 25 staffweeks
were in the field. This was certainly inadequate to supervise a project of such complexity and diverse
nature.
33.   Supervision was conducted without any plan. The number of missions undertaken was too few
for effective supervision. WSSD's commitment to the technical assistance part of the project and the
water and sanitation works of smaller nature for the urban poor, diminished as the time elapsed, which the
missions were unable to address. Although the Bank very promptly processed in October 1992 an 'in
principle" approval of the project restructuring request, the restructuring was delayed, and was only
finalized in April 1996.
34.   The procurement performance could have been substantially improved with mission inputs from a
procurement specialist, providing clarification to WSSD questions and addressing their concems and
explaining the Bank requirements. This would have been an alternative to the protracted written
exchanges, as was realized much later, but a procurement specialist participated only in the supervision
mission undertaken in February/March 1993.
35.   The Bank failed to respond to WSSD's lack of action to implement the leak detection and waste
prevention component of the project, which may be considered to be critical in the development of the
satisfactory and efficient water supply for Bombay. The Bank's performance in supervision is rated as
'deficient'.



-8-
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
36.   The major engineering part of the project was well prepared. Consultants were appointed, designs
substantially completed by appraisal and pre-qualification of contractors for major contracts also
completed before negotiations. However, only implementation of the physical works for increasing water
supply and expansion of sewerage conveyance were taken up by MCGB.
37.   The institutional development and training aspects of the project were not given sufficient
attention by MCGB as they mostly concentrated on the large expenditure items. This focus may have
been in order to avoid repetition of the unsatisfactory experience in implementation of sewerage works in
the Second Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project (Cr. 842-IN) 7 . Technical assistance was mainly
used for: the engineering and environmental studies concerning the proposed Middle Vaitama water
supply project; engineering preparation studies for the BSDP; and consultant supervision of complex
engineering works. Due to MCGB's slow processing of the recruitment of a consultant to study the
critical aspects of metering and charging policies, the recruitment could not be completed before Credit
closing.
38.   Procurement perfornance by WSSD was very slow due to generally slow preparation of
engineering and bidding documents and the cumbersome procurement decision making procedures of
MCGB. The complex procedure of making decisions by involving agreement and clearance of every
technical action by the accounting and legal staff proved to be the bane of efficient project implementation.
Only a few contracts were completed at closing. The quality of construction was generally satisfactory.
Completion took much longer than provided in the contracts due to WSSD's weak contract
administration, inappropriate bidding conditions, and contractors' poor performance. Procurement
procedures were considerably streamlined lately in the later stages and the bidding documents were
changed after 1992 by inclusion of improved conditions of contract. The Gol amended in 1995 the
procedures requiring clearance before award of contracts involving foreign exchange payments and thus
removed a bottleneck. However, the impacts of these changes were visible in varying degrees in the
various WSSD divisions due to lack of understanding of the difference between the mandatory
requirements of the Bank and the recommendations made for reasons of good practice, and their
inadequate internal coordination. MCGM had little clout with agencies such as the Indian Railways,
PWD, Forest Department and the Traffic Police, and no support was forthcoming from the GoM to help
remove these bottlenecks.
39.   The project successfully introduced to India an innovative technique for in-situ mortar lining of
distribution pipelines. The project also introduced the concept of trenchless sewer construction which the
WSSD will continue to use, where appropriate.
40.   The need for improved coordination and detailed forward project planning did not receive
adequate attention at the beginning of implementation. Project management required a monitoring system
providing for an early warning of delays, measures to overcome the possible impending delays, and an
indication whether the scope of the project was being implemented as agreed. Reports and analysis
7 The Second Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project (Cr. 842-IN) was effective on June 12, 1979 and closed on March 31,
1988. The Project Performance Audit Report (World Bank Report No. 9265, December 31, 1990) for the BWSSP-II noted that the
water supply components met their objectives, and while there were modest achievements with regard to sewerage, in essence this
component was a failure. The outcome was rated unsatisfactory, sustainability uncertain, and institutional development moderate.



-9-
prepared by the Project Planning and Coordination Cell (PPCC) under the direction of an experienced
consultant was discontinued in 1989 without making any effective altemative arrangements. This created
a project management vacuum until an Additional Municipal Commissioner was given the responsibility of
coordination and management of the project in March 1991. With the earlier experience of two similar
projects, many of the problems encountered were foreseeable and could have been avoided or mitigated
by adequate advance planning and coordination.
41.    The indicators to be reported on quarterly basis were agreed at negotiations. However, no
progress reports were prepared. Apart from the requirement to report to the Bank, the systematic
gathering and periodic reporting of key project information was essential for effective project management
by MCGB-WSSD.
42.    MCGB created a separate unit in early 1995 headed by a Deputy Chief Engineer, which has
proved effective, for completion of the left-over BWSSP-II mechanical and electrical works. These works
will be commissioned in stages by June 1997 enabling preliminary treatment of 545 Mld sewage, and
preliminary and biological treatment to an additional 140 Mld sewage before discharge to coastal waters.
43.    Failure by GoM to fully comply with the on-lending covenant (over Rs. 600 million remained
withheld at Credit closing) fortunately did not affect the project implementation due to MCGB's sound
financial position and their ability to finance the gap from their own resources. Storm Water Drainage was
temporarily transferred to WSSD in 1991 without prior consultation with the Bank. However, the Bank
was informed soon after and did not object as at that time the financial perfomiance of WSSD was
adequate to cover the extra costs without putting at risk compliance with the cost recovery. Effective
April 1, 1997, the Storm Water Drainage has been withdrawn from the WSSD functions.
44.    The financial performance of WSSD was generally satisfactory despite no improvement in the
efficiency' of collection of charges for water supply, and increase in customer accounts receivable9.
MCGB-WSSD were revised had complied with all the financial covenants (Table 10). Water and
sewerage tariffs were revised in April 1987, April 1993, April 1994 and April 1996. MCGB consistently
provided audited financial statements relating to the water and sewerage operations within the stipulated
six months from the end of fiscal year.
45.    Thus, the Borrower performance on implementation was mixed, but has been rated as 'deficient'
overall.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
46.    The project objectives were not achieved by closing. Slow progress and inadequate attention to
important components resulted in the project remaining unfinished, even with two extensions of twelve
months each. As a result, the project is rated 'tinsatisfactory." The unfinished works for water supply and
8 Collection efficiency remained unchanged at 78% in 1994-95, compared with 1985-86. The SAR envisaged that billings and
especially collections performance would be improved under the project, specifically by the employment of consultants to assist in
developing better computerized programs and procedures. No consultant was appointed and there has been no discernible
improvement in performance.
9 Customer accounts receivable increased from Rs 630 million in 1985-86 to Rs 2408 in 1994-95. Some 46% of customer
receivables are three or more years old; some unpaid bills date back to the mid-i 960's.



-10-
sewerage are being completed by WSSD using internal funds and a loan from Mumbai Metropolitan
Regional Development Authority (MMRDA). Most of the unfinished works are expected to be
commissioned by end-June 1997, when the corresponding benefits of the project will begin to be realized.
47.    The intention of the project to reduce water shortage from 36% to 18% of demand will not be
achieved even when production goes fully on stream. Demand has risen in the intervening three- year
period between the scheduled completion date and the likely commissioning date of the water treatment
plant and the transmission system. A shortfall of about 26% is estimated. Further, although the quality of
treated water is expected to meet acceptable standards when it enters the distribution system, there is a
risk of contamination before it reaches consumers because of internittent supply and the poor condition of
distribution pipelines especially in the city area, which the project did not adequately address.
H. FUTURE OPERATION
48.   All the water and sewerage works will be integrated into Bombay's systems. Sustainability is
likely. MCGB has the capacity to operate the treatment plant and the various pumping plants installed for
water supply systems, but has limited number of skilled personnel to operate and maintain the facilities
being built for sewerage and sewage treatment 10. However, with careful planning, MCGB would be in a
position to redeploy skilled personnel from the existing centers to the newly built facilities such as the
sewage pumping plants, waste water treatment facilities " and the aerated lagoon. The operational
capacity in respect of sewerage and sewage treatment is expected to improve under the on-going BSDP
through various actions being taken up to upgrade skills and preparation of routines, procedures, and
manuals. Financial performance has been exceptionally good in the past and this is likely to continue, so
finance for O&M is not likely to present problems.
49.   It is appropriate that operational indicators are generated for the WSSD as a whole, including both
physical, financial and institutional indicators. Indicators have been agreed with the Bank for the BSDP
and are being prepared by MCGB and reported every quarter beginning from the December 1996
quarterly report.
L. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
50.   Many of the lessons from this project have already been accepted and incorporated into current
Bank practices. Lessons already taken on board include the need to: prepare plans ahead of
implementation for involuntary resettlement and procurement; obtain convincing evidence of the existence
of Borrower ownership; use standard bidding documents; and, have agreed monitoring reports submitted
to the Bank quarterly. Below are additional lessons for future projects.
51.   Long delays may occur if adequate attention is not given during preparation to the coordination of
works and other tasks with other public sector agencies.
10 The aerated lagoon being built at Versova will be completed and commissioned in June 1997. The skills required to operate
and maintain such sewage treatment plant are regarded as modest and such skills for operation of mechanical and electrical
equipment could be developed quickly through the hands-on training of qualified personnel during the pre-commissioning trial
operation.
11 MCGB is operating one WWTF at Colaba and has proven skills in operation of WWTF. The four new WWTFs are at
Ghatkopar, Bhandup, Versova and Malad and these will be commissioned in stages by June 1997.



-11-
52.   The agreed Training Plan may be attached to the Minutes of Negotiations.
53.   In order to allow sufficient time to enable the signing of contracts to occur, the evaluation of bids
should be completed within the first half of the prescfibed bid validity period.
54.   Identification of all important studies and preparation of consultant recruitment documents should
be completed by appraisal and the recruitment of consultants should be completed as per the procurement
schedule agreed at negotiations. Consultant recruitment for key studies should be completed before loan
effectiveness.
55.   By effectiveness there should be in place a fully functional management team, and management
plan, which shall be maintained throughout the project implementation period by the Borrower. Any
change in the composition of the management team during project implementation should be made only in
consultation with the Bank. Project conditionality should include a minimum of three-year posting for
senior staff and key staff unless otherwise agreed with the Bank. The management plan should include,
inter alia: details of organization and staffing; information management; lines of authority and delegations;
and job descriptions for team members.
56.   Prequalification of contractors/suppliers before negotiations is not an adequate assurance that
award of the contracts will follow immediately after Loan/Credit effectiveness. The bidding documents
for a substantial part of the project (works to be carried out in the first two years of implementation
period, and those works which are on critical path), should be finalized before appraisal. Loan/Credit
effectiveness should be conditional upon contract awards for works on the critical path.
57.   Sufficient delegation of financial powers to the Municipal Commissioner and senior technical staff
should be put in place to implement works without their actions being routinely subjected to approval by
legal and accounting staff, and these delegations covenanted.



-12-
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
Not
A. Achievement of objectives   Substantial   Partial   Negligible   Applicable
Macro policies               LI         :]          EI         EC
Sector policies             FE         FI          EC         LI
Financial objectives         LI         EI lI                  LI
Institutional development   LI          LI         LI          FI
Physical objectives          LI        [E11        LI          L
Poverty reduction           LI          LI         [7]         F
Gender issues               LI           L 7                   LI
Other social objectives     L           LI         LI           ITE
Environmental objectives     LI         L          LI          FT
Public sector management     K]         K]         El          LI
Private sector development    LI        CI         LI          E]
Other (specify)             L-I         L          LI          L
B. Project sustainability       Likely     Unlikely  Uncertain
m.LI  El



-13-
Higbiy
C. Bank performance         satisfactory  Satisfactory Deficient
Identification                        FT]         LII
Preparation assistance     LE                     [7]
Appraisal                  [I          CI         FT]
Supervision                LI         FE            ]
Highy
D. Borrower performance       satisfactory  Satisfactory Deficient
Preparation                LI          7          FI
Implementation              aI         Cl         L
Covenant compliance        LI          El         LI
Operation (if applicable)  EI         D           LI
IEghlv                                  Highly
E. Assessment of outcome   satisfactory  Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory  unsatisfactory
O   OI  [7   OI



-14-
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit title                        Purpose                        Year of     Status
Approval
Preceding operations
Second Bombay Water      To construct 455 Mld filteration plant and other allied  1979    Closed 31
Supply & Sewerage        works, construction of balancing reservoir and large         March
Project (Cr. 842-IN)     diameter transmission pipelines; improvement of              1988.
distribution system and renovation of transmission           PPAR
mains, reservoirs, pumping stations, etc.; and               December
improvement of sewage collection and conveyance              1990
system in 5 zones; renovation of sewage treatment plant.
Punjab Water Supply and   To improve water supply and sewerage in eight towns;  1979    Closed.
Sewerage Project (Cr. 848-  and train staff and supply of specialized equipment       PCR isued
IN)                                                                                   9/16/87.
Maharashtra Water        To construct 200 Mld water treatment plant and allied  1979    Closed.
Supply and Sewerage      works, rehabilitate existing water treatment plant,          PPAR
Project (Cr. 899-IN)     construct reservoirs, transmission mains and improve         issued
distribution system in five towns and villages; expand       4/13/88.
sewage treatment capacity and extend sewage collection
system.
Rajasthan Water Supply    To provide water supply to problem villages and     1980    Closed.
and Sewerage Project (Cr.  improve and extend water supply to four major cities; to   ICR issued
1046-IN)                 extend sewerage system in three major cities; and            9/27/89.
strengthen operation and maintenance
Gujarat Water Supply and   To bring water to rural communities where water is  1983    Closed.
Sanitation Project (Cr.  scarce or unsafe for human consumption; to                   ICR issued
1280-IN)                 improve/extend water supply and sewerage services in         9/24/93.
selected urban centers; to extend and upgrade sewage
collection and disposal systems in densely populated
areas in major municipalities; to provide low-cost
sanitation in medium-size towns; and to strengthen the
institutional framework of the sector through improved
financial management, accounting, billing and
collection practices, and introduction of cost recovery
targets and establishment of training facilities.
Tamil Nadu Water Supply  To improve water supply in larger urban areas and to  1984    Closed.
and Sanitation Project (Cr.  provide water supply to certain smaller towns and rural  ICR issued
1454-In & SF-12-IN)      areas; to provide low-cost sanitation to selected urban      3/28/96.
communities and to strengthen institutional, managerial,
and financial practices.
Kerala Water Supply and   To strengthen institutions including financial      1986    Closed.
Sanitation Project (Cr.  management; provide water supply to rural areas and          ICR issued
1622-IN)                 upgrade and extend water distribution in one urban area;     6/30/95.
provide LCS in 10 urban and selected rural areas.



-15-
Loan/Credit title                       Purpose                       Year of     Status
Approval
Following Operations
Madras Water Supply and   To augment water supply sources by 102 Mld and    1987    Closed.
Sanitation Project ((Ln.    improvement of water supply distribution system; and to  ICR issued
2846-IN/Cr. 1822-IN)    improve sewerage system and strengthen institution.         3/11/97.
Hyderabad Water Supply   To provide additional 135 Mld water to Hyderabad; and  1990    Ongoing
and Sanitation project (Cr.  to rehabilitate and strengthen the existing water system
2115-IN)                and sewerage system; and to provide low-cost sanitation
units to serve low-income people; and to strengthen
institution.
Maharashtra Rural Water   To raise the standard of living in rural areas through  1991    Ongoing
Supply and Environmental  improved health and productivity, by expanding access
Sanitation Project (Cr.    to potable water systems and environmental sanitation
2234-IN)                facilities. To develop replicable models for coordinating
water, enviromnental sanitation and health
communications program and strengthen the
institutional capacity.
Karnataka Rural Water   To raise the standard of living in rural areas through  1993    Ongoing
Supply and Environmental  improved health and productivity, by expanding access
Sanitation Project (Cr.  to potable water systems and environmental sanitation
2483-IN)                facilities. To develop replicable models for coordinating
water, environmental sanitation and health
communications program and strengthen the local
institutional capacity.
Second Madras Water     Provide source works, transmission and treatment    1995    Ongoing
Supply project (Ln. 3907-  facilities for new water supply to city; continue program
IN)                     of water distribution and conservation improvements,
technical assistance.
Bombay Sewage Disposal   Construct 2 marine outfall sewers, and sewage pumping  1996    Ongoing
Project (Ln/Cr 3923/2763-  and treatment facilities; rehabilitation and improvements
IN)                     to sewerage facilities and systems; low-cost sanitation in
slums.
Uttar Pradesh Rural Water  Support to policy reforms in State Government;   1996    Ongoing
Supply and Environmental  construct water supply and environmental sanitation
Sanitation Project (Ln.  schemes in rural areas; undertake studies and awareness
4056-IN)                campaigns.
Note: Table 2 shows up to 10 years of preceding operations. Year of approval is Bank fiscal year.



-16-
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project process                       Date planned          Date actual
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                           Jul-83
Preparation: pre-appraisal                                           Jan/Feb-84
Appraisal                                      Nov/Dec-84; Feb-85    Feb-85
Negotiations                                   Sep-85                22 to 30-Apr-86
Board presentation                             Jan-86                16-Dec-86
Signing                                                              12-May-87
Effectiveness                                  10-Aug-87; 10-Nov-87;  29-Jan-88
14-Jan-88
Project completion                             31 -Dec-93            Dec-96 a/
Loan closing                                   30-Jun-94             30-Jun-96
a/ The main water supply works were expected to be complete by end December 1996. Some water supply works and
sewerage works are programmed to be completed by January 2000.
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
FY87  FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92  FY93  FY94  FY95  FY96  FY97
Appraisal estimate
Total:         2.0  23.50    52.4    88.1   125.9  161.0  181.2  185.0  185.0  185.0  185.0
Actual
Credit:          0   10.71   19.17   19.34   31.80  50.89  67.46  81.98  91.64 112.62  127.07
Loan:            0      0       0       0       0      0      0      0      0      0       0
Total:          0   10.71   19.17   19.34   31.80  50.89  67.46  81.98  91.64 112.62  127.07
Actual as % of estimate     0     46      37      22      25     32    37      44      50    61      69
Effectiveness date    : 29-Jan-88
Date of final disbursement : 22-Nov-96
Note: Loan of U$40 million was fully canceled in three steps: US$10 million each in June 1993 and October, 1994 and
U$20 million in June, 1995.



-17-
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key implementation indicators in SAR              SAR Estimate a/  Actual or ICR estimate
Average daily production of treated water       Mld      2820 (1991)      2474 (1995/96)
Metered consumption: domestic                   Mld      1471    b/        1406 (1995/96)
Metered consumption: commercial                 Mld      )                  179 (1995/96)
) 785    b/
Metered consumption: industrial                 Mid      )                  145 (1995/96)
Total metered consumption                       Mld      2256    bl        1730 (1995/96)
Estimated unmetered consumption                 Mid      n.a.               249 (1995/96)
Total estimated consumption                     Mld      2256 (1991)       1979 (1995/96)
Number of water connections                     Nos.    177,820 (1986)    240,187 (1995-96)
Number of operating standpipes                  Nos.      52,959 (1986)     76,655 (1995-96)
New meters installed                            Nos.    n.a.                62,959
Number of sewer connections                     Nos.    242,815 (1986)    265,000
Length of water mains laid for the urban poor   Km       n.a.                  18.0
Number of ground water tanks constructed for urban  Nos.    n.a.                5
poor
Number of tubewells                             Nos.    n.a.                  224
Major leaks repaired                            Nos.    n.a.              n.a.
Number of seats in sanitation facilities        Nos.      30,400 (1986)     38,444
WSSD employees at HQ                            Nos.    n.a.                 2,371
WSSD operational employees                      Nos.    n.a.                22,170
Average cost/m3 of water delivered              Rs/m3    0.84 (1992/93)    3.0 (1996/97)
Average revenue/m3 of water delivered           Rs./m3   1.08 (1992/93)    3.5 (1994/95)
Quick current ratio                                      11.0 (1995)      3.03 (1995)
Average age of customer receivable              Months   3.0 (1995)       7.0 (1995)
Collection efficiency                           %        85 (1995)        78 (1995)
Debt:equity ratio                                        0.29 (1995)      0.27 (1995)
Debt service ratio                                       4.2 (1995)        11.8 (1995)
Working ratio                                            0.40 (1995)      0.54 (1995)
Population served by private connections        Million   n.a.              4.65
Population served by public standpipes          Million   n.a.              5.75
Total population of served area                 Million  n.a.              10.40
a/ The year to which estimate applies is shown in parenthesis; b/ Unmetered consumption included with metered
consumption; n.a. = not available
Indicators were not defined in the SAR separately for project implementation and project operation. SAR Annex 6
contained Monitoring Indicators which were to be monitored on quarterly basis during and after the execution of the project
to measure the achievement of the technical, financial and administrative goals set for the project. The above are the key
implementation indicators.



-18-
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Key operating indicators in SAR                 SAR Estimate a/  Actual or ICR estimate
Average daily production of treated water        Mid      2820 (1991)      2474 (1995/96)
Metered consumption: domestic                    Mld      1471    b/        1406 (1995/96)
Metered consumption: commercial                  Mld      )                  179 (1995/96)
) 785    b/
Metered consumption: industrial                  Mld      )                  145 (1995/96)
Total metered consumption                        Mld      2256    b/        1730 (1995/96)
Estimated unmetered consumption                  Mld      n.a.              249 (1995/96)
Total estimated consumption                      Mld      2256 (1991)       1979 (1995/96)
Number of water connections                      Nos.     177,820 (1986)    240,187 (1995-96)
Number of operating standpipes                  Nos.       52,959 (1986)    76,655 (1995-96)
New meters installed                             Nos.    n.a.               62,959
Number of sewer connections                      Nos.    242,815 (1986)    265,000
Number of tubewells                              Nos.    n.a.                  224
Number of seats in sanitation facilities         Nos.      30,400 (1986)     38,444
WSSD employees at HQ                             Nos.    n.a.                 2,371
WSSD operational employees                       Nos.    n.a.                22,170
Average cost/m3 of water delivered               Rs./m3   0.84 (1992/93)   3.0 (1996/97)
Average revenue/m3 of water delivered            Rs./m3   1.08 (1992/93)   3.5 (1994/95)
Quick current ratio                                       11.0 (1995)      3.03 (1995)
Average age of customer receivable               Months   3.0 (1995)       7.0 (1995)
Collection efficiency                            %        85 (1995)        78 (1995)
Debt:equity ratio                                         0.29 (1995)      0.27 (1995)
Debt service ratio                                        4.2 (1995)        11.8 (1995)
Working ratio                                             0.40 (1995)      0.54 (1995)
Population served by private connections         Million   n.a.             4.65
Population served by public standpipes           Million   n.a.             5.75
Total population of served area                 Million   n.a.             10.40
a/ The year to which estimate applies is shown in parenthesis; b/ Urumetered consumption included with metered
consumption; n.a. = not available
Indicators were not defined in the SAR separately for project implementation and project operation. SAR Annex 6
contained Monitoring Indicators which were to be monitored on quarterly basis during and after the execution of the project
to measure the achievement of the technical, financial and administrative goals set for the project. The above are the key
operating indicators.



-19-
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
2.  Performanceofaerated     EvalPurpose as defined at.
l Study                    appraisal/redefined       Status                Impact of study
1.  Improved leak detection   Train and show latest    In progress.          None so far.
l technology.              technology. Redefined forl
l                    ~~~~~~~~reduction of contaniinationl
l                    ~~~~~~~in C Ward.l
2.  Performance of aerated    Evaluate performance &   Not done.             None.l
lagoon.                 appropriateness for future
investment.
3.  Filter washwater recycling Reduce treated water deficit. Not done.       None.
4.  Metering, billing and    To make commercial        Start expected in     None.
tariff systems.         operations efficient,     early 1997.
5.  Financial modeling.      Forecast needs for funds.    Completed.         Forecasts are made in
December each year and
tariff adjustments are
worked out.
6.  Upgrading audit          Strengthen Municipal      Completed.            Audit reports are
capability.             auditing.                                        produced on time.
7.  Materials management    Rationalize stores and     Completed.            Number of stores
materials management.                           reduced and inventory
carrying costs are
reduced.
8.  Materials Management -  To make stores management In progress.           None so far.
Computerization of stores efficient
9.  Tansa dam strengthening  Review spillway capacity    Prelininary reports    .None so far.
design review           and earthquake resistance.   presented
recommending
modification of spillway
and adding buttresses.
10. Upgrade sewerage O&M   Upgrade O&M and reduce   In progress. To be       None so far.
services                cost. Train staff. Monitor    completed under BSDP.
performance.
11. Condition assessment of  Assess condition of sewers to In progress. To be  None so far
sewers                  plan rehabilitation.      completed under BSDP.
12. Topographical survey of  Update network map.        In progress. To be    None so far.
manholes & sewer lines   Computerize manhole data.  completed under BSDP.
Eliminate storm water drain
connections to sewers.



-20-
Purpose as defined at
Study                   appraisal/redefined       Status                Impact of study
13. Site Investigation for  Progress preparation of   Complete.             Detailed design could |
Middle Vaitarn dam      Bombay IV project.                              proceed once seismic |
criteria agreed.l
14. EIA of proposed Middle   Progress preparation of  Complete.             Further work needed to
Vaitarna dam            Bombay IV project.                              meet Bank
requirements.
15. EIA of Middle Vaitarna   Progress preparation of  In progress.          Will permit progressing
conveyance, treatment,    Bombay IV project.                            of Mid-Vaitama project.
storage and distribution
16. Topographical survey for  Progress preparation for  In progress.        None so far.
Bombay IV               Bombay IV project.



-21-
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estirnate (US$M)       Actual/latest estimate (US$M)
Item               Local      Foreign     Total       Local      Foreign      Total
costs      costs                  costs       costs
1. Water supply                167.0       48.1       215.1       81.9         38.0      119.9
2. Sewerage                     30.6        4.3         34.9       28.6        12.9        41.5
3. Facilities for slums          5.5        0.6                     0.0         0.0         0.0
6.1
4. Common services               3.0        3.9                     6.8         8.9        15.7
6.9
5. Other                        38.7        2.1        41.4       133.2        26.1       42.0
TOTAL                         244.6       59.7       304.3       133.2        85.9      219.1
NOTE: The Actual/latest estimate included expenditures to be incurred to complete all works under each item of
restructured project.
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate (US$M)        Actualllatest estimate (US$M)
Source              Local      Foreign      Total      Local      Foreign      Total
costs      costs                  costs       costs
IBRD                             32.2         7.8       40.0         0.0         0.0        0.0
A                               116.5       28.5       145.0        77.2        49.9      127.1
Subtotal                        148.7       36.3       185.0        77.2        49.9      127.1
MCGB                             95.9       23.4       119.3        56.0        36.0       92.0
TOTAL                          244.6       59.7       304.3       133.2        85.9      219.1
NOTE: The Actual/latest estimate for GOI contribution included expenditures to be incurred to complete all works of
restructured project. Domestic contribution to Credit closing was US$ 18.2 million.



-22-
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
The economic analysis for this ICR employed the same methodology as was used in the SAR (Annex 18) with
actual or updated data. Certain key assumptions were modified where this seemed to be appropriate, as identified
below. The economic rate of return (ERR) was calculated for water supply and sanitation taking into account capital
costs, operating costs and project benefits, as measured by the value of the water supply, expressed in constant prices.
Capital costs were those relating to the whole project and were expressed net of taxes and duties. The project
was unfinished at closing but the estimated costs to completion at the end of December 1996 have been taken into the
analysis. A labor shadow price for local labor of 70% was used, which was applied to 26.4% of the investment costs,
representing the estimated labor element. Annual incremental operating costs were estimated and divided into local
and foreign components assuming proportions of 85/15 respectively. A standard conversion factor of 0.9 was used for
the local component. Operating costs were assumed to start to be incurred from January 1997, at the completion of
investment, for a period of 25 years. (The SAR assumed operating costs would start to flow from the second year of
construction). The project benefits have been assumed equal to the product of the additional water sold to consumers,
after losses in distribution, and the average tariff. (The SAR analysis made no allowance for losses in distribution, and
implicitly assumed production and consumption were equal). There will be some supplementary benefits associated
with water conservation in Tansa and Vaitarna lakes but these are difficult to quantify and are not included. Sewage
benefits are also difficult to estimate, and are not included. Benefits were assumed to accrue from January 1997, at the
completion of investment, for a period of 25 years. (The SAR assumed benefits would start to flow from the second
year of constmction).
Year       Local     Labor    Plant &    Foreign    Incr.     Total     Incr.     Incr.    Value of    Net
cap.   element of  material   element  operating    incr.  water     water      mcr.   economic
(to       expend.  local cap.    cap.   of cap.    costs   economic  supply    supply    supply   benefits
end                 expend.   expend.   expend.              costs
March)      (Rs. m)   (Rs. m)   (Rs. m)   (Rs. m)   (Rs. m)   (Rs. m)    (mild)    (m m3)   (Rs. m)   (Rs. m)
1989      116.88     21.60     64.80     20.94              107.34                                  -107.34
1990       33.32      6.16     18.47      5.97               30.60                                   -30.60
1991      302.33     55.87    167.61     54.17              277.65                                 -277.65
1992      483.18     89.29    267.87     86.57              443.73                                 -443.73
1993      460.32     85.07    255.20     82.47              422.74                                 -422.74
1994      850.56    157.18    471.55    152.39              781.12                                 -781.12
1995      643.34    118.89    356.67    115.26              590.82                                 -590.82
1996      759.97    140.44    421.33    136.16              697.93                                 -697.93
1997     1132.97    209.37    628.12    202.98     37.75   1078.22    113.75     41.52    207.59   -870.63
1998      650.71    120.25    360.75    116.58    151.00    748.59    455.00    166.08    830.38      81.79
1999      398.45     73.63    220.90     71.39    151.00    516.92    455.00    166.08    830.38    313.46
2000       74.18     13.71     41.13      13.29    151.00    219.12    455.00    166.08    830.38    611.25
2001                                               151.00    151.00    455.00    166.08    830.38    679.38
2002                                              151.00    151.00    455.00    166.08    830.38    679.38
2020                                              151.00    151.00    455.00    166.08    830.38    679.38
2021                                              151.00    151.00    455.00    166.08    830.38    679.38
Note: For the purposes of compacting the presentation, years 2003 through 2019 are not shown.
Results
SAR estimated ERR                                               =        12.3%
ICR estimated ERR at benefits valued at average tariff          =          9.5%
The lower actual ERR compared with the SAR estimate reflects the delays in the realization of the WSS benefits and lower
than anticipated revenues. Benefits measured by the consumers' willingness to pay for water would be higher than the
average tariff.



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
INDIA: Third Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project
Original   Revised
Covenant Present fulfillment fulfillment
Agreement Section  typ       status  date       date                          Description of covenant                            Comments
DCA        3.01(a)    10        C                         India to cause Maharashtra and MCGB to perform in accordance with
the provisions of the Maharashtra Agreement and the Project
_______ .________                              Agreement respectively.
3.01(b)    10        C                         India to make the proceeds of the Credit available to Maharashtra.
LA         3.01(a)    10        C                         India to cause Maharashtra and MCGB to perform in accordance with
the provisions of the Maharashtra Agreement and the Project
Agreement respectively.
3.01(b)    10        C                         India to make the proceeds of the Credit available to Maharashtra.
MA         2.01(a)     10       C                         Maharashtra shall cause BMC to perform in accordance with the
provisions of the Project Agreement.
2.01(b)     4        C                         Maharashtra shall relend the proceeds of the Credit and Loan to BMC
under SLA with the following terms: (1) proceeds to be made available
for 25 years including a grace period of 5 years; (2) interest to be
charged at the rate of 8.75% per annum; and (3) proceeds to be made
available quickly as required to enable BMC to meet expenditures
required for the project.
2.01(c)    3,4      CP                         Maharashtra shall ensure that funds not less than 60% of the annual    About Rs 600 million
capital expenditures are available to BMC under the same terms and    outstanding at Credit closing.
conditions as given for 2.01(b).                                                         l
2.01(d)     4        C                         Maharashtra shall exercise its rights under the SLA and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, Maharashtra shall not assign, amend,
abrogate or waive to SLA or any provision thereof.
2.02(a)    5, 9      C                         Maharashtra shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views
with the Association with regard to progress of the project, etc.
2.02(b)     5        C                         Maharashtra shall promptly inform the Association of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the
project.
2.03       10        C    30-Jun-94            Maharashtra shall make available water from the Bhatsai reservoir as
required for the project.
2.04       10        C                         Maharashtra shall take all actions to acquire as and when needed all



Original   Revised
Covenant Present fulfillment fulfillment
Agreement Section  tp        status  date       date                          Description of covenant                            Comments
such land and rights in respect of land as shall be required for carrying
out the project.
PA         2.01(a)     5        C                         BMC shall carry out the project with due diligence and efficiency and
shall provide promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the project.
2.01(b)     10       C                         BMC shall carry out the project in accordance with the Implementation
Procedures set forth in SCH 2 to the PA and such Schedule may be
amended form time to time by Agreement between the Association and
BMC.
2.02        10       C                         Procurement of goods, works and consultants services required for the
project and to financed out of the proceeds of Credit/Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule I of PA.
2.04        4        C                         BMC shall duly perform all its obligations under the SLA.
2.05(a)     9        C                         BMC shall exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under the PA
and under the SLA.
2.05(b)     5        C                         BMC shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the project, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by
BMC of its obligations under the PA and under the SLA.
3.01        5        C                         BMC shall cause WSSD to carry on its operations and conduct its  MCGB staff was supplemented
affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering  by consultants for engineering
and public utility practices under the supervision of qualified and  preparation and supervision of
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate  complex works.
numbers.
3.02        5        C                         BMC shall cause WSSD at all times to operate and maintain its plant,  Operation and maintenance
machinery, equipment, and other property, and make all necessary  study for sewerage is in
repairs and renewals thereof all in accordance with sound engineering,  progress.
financial and public utility practices.
3.03(a)     5        C                         BMC shall, in respect of WSSD, take out and maintain with responsible
insurers or make other provisions satisfactory to the association for
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent
with appropriate practice.
3.03(b)     5        C                         BMC shall cause WSSD to maintain its existing separate fire/accident
I         I      I          I   -      and third party insuraice



Original   Revised
Covenant Present fulfillment fulfillment
Agreement Section  type        status   date       date                             Description of covenant                                Comments
3.04       5, 12     NC                           BMC shall consult the Association prior to making any material     BMC did not consult IDA before
modifications in the structure, organization, responsibilities and  the subject of storm water was
technical and financial operations of WSSD.                       transferred to WSSD.
3.05         5        C                           BMC shall consult the Association prior to the sale, lease, transfer or
disposal of any of the properties or assets of WSSD except in the
ordinary course of business.
4.01(a)      I        C                           BMC shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices its operation and financial
condition.
4.01(b)     1, 2      C                           BMC shall have accounts and financial statements of WSSD for each
(i)                                               fiscal year audited by independent auditor acceptable to the Bank.
4.01(b)      I        C                           BMC shall furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in case
(ii)                                              not later than six months after end of each year: (a) certified copies of
its financial statements of WSSD for such year as so audited; and (b)
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested..
4.01(b)      I        C                           BMC shall furnish to the Association such other information concerning
(iii)                                             said accounts and financial statements as well a the audit thereof and
said records, as the Association from time to tome reasonably request.
4.01(c)      I        C                           For all expenditure to which withdrawals are requested form the Cr
Acct. on the basis of SOE, BMC shall (i) maintain separate accounts
reflecting such expenditures, (ii) retain records until one year after
closing date, (iii) enable Association's representative to examine
records, (iv) ensure such separate accounts are included in annual
audits.
4.02(a)     2, 4      C                           BMC shall, with effect from April 1, 1987 and for each financial year   WSS tariffs were revised on 05-
thereafter, set and maintain for water supply and sewerage services to   Apr-87, 01-Apr-93, 01-Apr-94
ensure operating revenues are sufficient to meet all WSSD operating    and 01-Apr-95.
expenses and debt service and, together with any internal funds of
WSSD available for investment for, provide at least 40% of annual
capital expenditure.
4.03       1, 2, 5   CD    31-Mar-87 31-Mar-89 By March 31, 1987 shall cause WSSD to: (a) establish a specific cash
account for the eventual replacement or rehabilitation of capital assets,
(b) ensure that all operating surpluses are allocated to the said account
until the amount in the said account equal accumulated depreciation



Original   Revised
Covenant Present fulfillment fulfillment
|Agreement Section  type      status   date     date                           Description of covenant                            Comments
l                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~charges.
DCA - Development Credit Agreement with Government of India
LA - Loan Agreement with Government of India
MA - Maharashtra Agreement with State of Maharashtra
PA - Project Agreement with Municipal Corporation of Greater Bombay (Mumbai)
Covenant types:                                                                          Present status:
I =    Accounts/audits                     8 =    Indigenous people                      C  =   Complied with
2 =     Financial performance/generate     9 =    Monitoring, review, and reporting      CD =   Compliance after delay
revenue from beneficiaries             10 =    Implementation                        NC =   Not Complied with
3 =     Flow and utilization of project funds    11 =    Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or  CP =   Complied with partially
4 =     Counterpart funding                      other resource allocation
5 =     Management aspects of the project or   12 =    Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
of its executing agency                     regulatory/institutional action
6 =     Enviromnental covenants            13 =    Other
7 = Involuntary resettlement



- 27 -
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
The Bank's OMS 2.33: Social Issues Associated with Involuntary Resettlement in Bank-Financed
Projects was not addressed at the time of preparation. This resulted in failure to identify the adverse
impacts associated with land acquisition/resettlement and plan effective measures to address the issues.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of project cycle        Planned                Revised                  Actual
Weeks       US$        Weeks        US$        Weeks        US$
Preparation to appraisal    n.a.        n.a.         n.a.       n.a.       23.2       50,400
Appraisal                   n.a.        n.a.         n.a.       n.a.       34.0       76,800
Negotiations through        n.a.        n.a.         n.a.       n.a.        16.2      40,000
Board approval
Supervision                 n.a.        n.a.        n.a.        n.a.      146.5      369,400
Completion                  n.a.        n.a.        16.0     55,780         18.4      58,300
TOTAL                      n.a.        n.a.        n.a.        n.a.      238.3      594,900
Table indicate n.a where information is not available from Bank's MIS.
Completion Actuals are final estimates.



- 28 -
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance rating
Stage of project    Month/    Number   Days in   Specialized  Implem-   Develop-   Types of
year        of       field    staff skills   entation   ment    problems
persons             represented    status    objectives   b/
Through Appraisal    Jul-83          1      n.k.       E
Feb-84          2      11         E,F
Jun-84          1       9
Oct-84          2      13         E,F
Appraisal through    Feb/Mar-85      4      13         E,F
Board approval
Aug-85          1       3         T
Board approval       Nov/Dec-86      3      21   a/  E,F
through effectiveness
May/Jun-87      2      24   a/  E,F
Oct-87          2       7   a/  E,F
Supervision         Jul-88           2       6   a/  F,E               1          1
Feb-89          2       9   a/  F,E               1          1
Aug-89          2      n.k.  a/  F,E              1          1         M,P
Nov-89          2       6    a/  F,E              1          1         M
Oct/Nov-90      2      11   a/  F,E               3          1         M,P,L
Jul/Aug-91      2      12   a/  E                 2          1         M,P
Nov-91          3      12   a/  E,F               2          1         M,P
May/Jun-92      3      15   a/  E,F               2          1         P
Feb/Mar-93      5      11   a/  E,F,En,P          2          1         P
May-94          3       8   a/  F,E               2          1         M,P
Apr-95          3      13         E               S          S         M
Sep-95          3       4        E, S             S          S         M
Completion           Jul-96          4      16         E,Ec/F          U          U
a/ Combined with other projects. b/ P = procurement; M = project management; L = Legal Covenants
Staff skills: F = Financial analyst; E = Engineer; Ec = Economist; En = Environmentalist; T = Training
specialist; S = Social scientist; P = Procurement specialist; n.k. = not known.



- 29 -
INDIA: THIRD BOMBAY WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
(Loan 2769-IN and Credit 1750-IN)
Implementation Completion Reporting Mission
July 10 to 24, 1996
AIDE-MEMOIRE
Table of Contents
I.     INTRODUCTION ..........................................                                  30
II.     THE PROJECT .......................................... 30
III.     PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION STATUS AT CLOSING ........................................ 33
IV.      VIEWS ON PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION                           ........................................... 36
Bank view on Project Implementation ........................................... 36
MCGM  view on Project Implementation ..........................................         39
V.   VIEWS ON FUTURE OPERATION, OPERATIONAL PLAN AND SUSTAINABILITY
Future Operation ..............................                                         41
Operational Plan .............................. 41
Sustainability ..............................                                           42
VI.      FOLLOW-UP AND AGREED ACTIONS ..............................                             42
ANNEXES
ANNEX 1 Project Cost Estimate and Status at Credit Closing .44
ANNEX 2 Procurement: Summary of Contracts Awarded .48
ANNEX 3 Performance Indicators .50
ANNEX 4 Guidance on Borrower's Contribution to the ICR .51
ANNEX 5 List of Key Persons Met .52



- 30 -
INDIA: THIRD BOMBAY WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
(Loan 2769-IN and Credit 1750-IN)
Implementation Completion Reporting Mission, July 9 to 24, 1996
AIDE-MEMOIRE
L. INTRODUCTION
1.01   A mission comprising Shyamal Sarkar (World Bank - SA2RS, leader), R.G. Paterson
(engineer, FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program), J. Fullbrook (economist/financial analyst,
consultant) and B. Datta (engineer, consultant) visited Mumbai from 10 to 24 July 19961 to review the
project status at the Credit closing and draw out lessons for future lending in the sector and to provide
advice and support to MCGM for the preparation of the borrower's contribution to the ICR The
Bank's letter of May 16, 1996 to MCGM copied to GoM and Gol, indicated the purpose of the ICR,
the process involved in its production, the borrower contribution and the borrower responsibilities, and
a letter of June 30, 1996 to MCGM indicated the data requirement by the ICR mission.
1.02  After an initial meeting with the Additional Municipal Commissioner, Projects (AMCP) and
senior staff of the Water Supply and Sewerage Department (WSSD) the mission spent two days
visiting Pise, Panjrapur and other water supply and sewerage sites. Implementation of the project was
then discussed with both current Deputy Municipal Commissioners (DMC), the two previous AMCPs,
previous DMCs, Chief Engineers and their staff, who provided valuable insights and information to the
mission. The mission also met and discussed the project with the Principal Secretary, Water Supply
and Sanitation Department of the Government of Maharashtra (GoM). A list of the key officials met
by the mission is attached in Annex 5. The mission wishes to thank all concerned officials for their
assistance, courtesy and hospitality.
1.03   This Aide-Memoire, which is based on information provided by MCGM and the mission's
discussions has been prepared by the mission to record its findings and the views of the Bank and
MCGM-GoM on project implementation and future operations. The findings and conclusions of the
mission were reviewed on July 24, 1996 at a wrap-up meeting in Mumbai13/, chaired by the AMCP,
and a copy of the draft Aide-Memoire was left in the field. However, these are subject to review and
confirmation by the Bank management.
II. THE PROJECT
2.01   The objectives of the project were to expand the water supply and sewerage facilities for the
city of Bombay and further strengthen WSSD's implementation capacity and its financial and
operational performance by: (a) continuing and expanding on the efforts of previous projects in
improving sector efficiency through improvements in project management, procurement, billing and
12/   Shyamal Sarkar from July 9 to 12 and 21 to 23.
13/    Bombay is now known as Mumbai.



- 31 -
collections, and leak detection and repair in the WSSD; (b) expanding water supply and sanitation
facilities for the urban poor; (c) increasing the supply of water to the MCGM area by 455 Mld to help
reduce Bombay's deficit; (d) expanding Bombays sewerage system in the isolated developed areas; and
(e) evaluating operational experience and developing appropriate design criteria and technical options
for future investments in sewage treatment.
2.02   The appraised project included:
(a)  the construction of 52 km of trunk mains with diameters ranging from 600 mm to 3000 mm;
49 km of distribution mains with diameter ranging from 150 mm to 1800 mm diameter; 9 km
of transmission tunnels of 3000 mm dia.; internal cement mortar lining of 76 km of pipeline
from 1200 mm to 3000 mm dia; the provision of leak detection, control equipment and system
instrumentation and about 32,000 water meters;
(b)  construction of a 455 Mid water treatment plant; four service reservoirs with total capacity of
144,000 m3 and the building and installation of pumping capacity of 2,233 Mid;
(c)  construction of about 54 km of sewers with diameter ranging from 230 mm to 1000 mm dia;
building and installation of sewage pumping equipment of 150 Mld capacity in 12 units;
(d)  provision of water supply and low-cost on-site sanitation for the urban poor in slums;
(e)  training for MCGMIWSSD staff in system maintenance and operations, and expansion of
course curricula at MCGM's existing training center;
(f)  appointment of consultants to improve WSSD's project planning and implementation capacity,
and to help implement the project and prepare preliminary designs for the next tranche of
source development (Vaitarna) to meet future water supply needs, and review and develop
design parameters in wastewater disposal systems, based on stabilization pond technology
(Versova) and examine the possibilities for recycling wash water at the potable water treatment
plants and to reduce distribution system water losses by application of improved techniques;
and
(g)  supply of 83 trucks, four wheel drive vehicles, buses and other vehicles for project
implementation and operations.
2.03   Based on GoM and Gol request, a project restructuring proposal was initiated in October 1992
to finance high priority remedial works of the Bombay sewerage systems from the savings from the
Loan/Credit, which accrued due to variation of foreign exchange rates and also due to extremely poor
withdrawals over the initial three years due to delays in the preparation of bid documents and award of
contracts. The additional items were estimated to cost US$ 25 million and were planned for
completion by 1996. However, the final shape of the restructuring proposal was delayed until April 9,
1996, when the amendment to the legal agreement was issued. The restructured project included
several remedial works of the sewerage system, completion of some of the Bombay II uncompleted
sewerage works, and a few new works, mostly related to rehabilitation of water distribution mains.
These additional works were estimated to cost about US$ 7.7 million. Attached Annex 1 (Project
Cost Estimates and Status at Credit closing) also provides a comparison of the project 'as-appraised'
and the 'restructured project'.
2.04   The key dates related to the Loan/Credit, are as follows:



-32 -
Date        Elapsed Time (Month) from Appmval
Appaia                            Feb-85
Negotiations                      22-Apr-86
Board Approval                    16-Dec-86                0.0
Agreement                         12-May-87                5.0
Effective                         29-Jan-88                13.5
Project Completion                3 1-Dec-96              84.5
Original Credit Closing           30-Jun-94               90.5
First Extension to                30-Jun-95               102.5
Project Restructuring             09-Apr-96               111.8
Second Extension & Credit closing  30-Jun-96              114.5
Agreements for an IDA Credit of SDR 105.5 million (equivalent to US$ 145.0 million at that time) and
an IBRD Loan of US$ 40.0 million were signed on May 12, 1987. The Loan was fully canceled in
three steps: US$ 10.0 million in June, 1993 and October, 1994 and US$ 20.0 million on June 26, 1995.
The Credit closed on June 30, 1996 after two extensions of one year each, when US$ 112.6 million
had been disbursed.
Contracts
2.05   A combination of international and domestic procurement of goods and civil works was made
by MCGM as agreed at appraisal. However, the processing of bidding document to award of contract
took an inordinately long period which resulted in MCGM's not awarding/completing all the envisaged
works by the closing date. Of the 212 goods and civil works contracts planned, 188 were awarded at
closing and the remainder were at various stages of processing. The attached Annex 2 gives a
summary of the contracts of each of the WSSD divisions. Except a few large contracts (one tunnel,
one reservoir and one pumping station, some sewerage conveyance) and a few contracts which were
taken-up near the end of the project implementation (mortar lining of distribution networks,
uncompleted mechanical and electrical works of BWSSP-II, etc.), others were completed or
substantially completed. The distribution (percent) of the value of ICB and LCB contracts for civil
works and materials and equipment over the aggregate value of contracts awarded followed, more or
less, the pattern forecast at appraisal and given at table 3.3 of SAR. The variation (see attached Annex
2) was caused by the increase in the consulting services from US$ 7.7 million to about US$ 26.1
million (Rs 776.3 million at an average exchange rate of Rs 29.7 to a US$).
Project Cost Estimates
2.06   Based on information provided by MCGM, the project cost estimated at appraisal, the
estimated cost of the restructured project, estimated cost to completion, and an estimated expenditure
(an early estimate) at closing are shown in detail in Annex 1 attached with this Aide-Memoire. A
summary of it is given below:



- 33 -
Amount: Rs million
Estimated      Estimated
SAR       Completion   Expendituires to
Item                          Estimate      Cost (*)     30-Jun-96 (*)   Remarks
Water supply: civil            1253.1        2805.6           1105.1     Actual cost of treatment equipment included in civil works.
Water Supply: equipment         468.8        1026.8            922.4     One Pumping Station uncompleted
Sewerage: civil                 261.4         826.4            685.5    Includes carry over from BWSSP II
Sewerage: equipment              13.6         479.7            124.3    Includes carry-over M&E works from BWSSP-11
Slum areas: water                31.3           0.0              0.0    Financed from other sources
Slum areas: sanitation           17.0           0.0              0.0    Financed from other sources
Vehicles                         11.1          88.4             88.4
Staff quarters                   10.9          53.6             53.6
Meters                           16.4          34.3              8.3
Leak detection equipment          6.9          20.0              0.0
Telemetry & misc. equipment      12.1         332.0              2.4     Bids for SCADA not invited.
Training & Tech. Assistance      31.9           12.9            12.9     Expenditure only on training infrastructure
Studies                          40.8          17.7             10.8    Included part of 3 major studies for BSDP
Middle Vaitarna Site              5.5         178.9             84.8     Restructured project included feasibility and detailed
investigation                                                            engineenng preparation
Consultants                       0.0         555.2            548.3    Included supervision consultants.
BMC engineering                 243.8         522.0            348.0
Land acquisition                  2.4           NA               NA
Total Base Cost                2427.3
Contingencies: Physical         254.3
Contingencies: Price           1006.2
Contingencies: Total           1260.5
Total before Taxes & Duties    3687.8                                                                                        l
Taxes and Duties                268.7                                                                                        l
Total Project Cost             3956.5        6953.5           3994.8
(*) including contingencies, and taxes and duties.
The increase in costs of sewerage works is largely due to the addition to the project of new works and
works carried over from BWSSP II. MCGM has applied for a loan from Mumbai Metropolitan
Regional Development Authority (MMRDA) for completion of the outstanding works and this is now
under consideration by MMRDA.
m1 PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION STATUS AT CLOSING
3.01     The implementation effort was largely concentrated in building the facilities for increasing
water supply and expansion of sewerage conveyance. Improving sector efficiency through
improvement in project management, procurement, billing and collection, leak detection and repairs did
not receive adequate MCGM attention.
3.02    Improving sector efficiency. No importance was attached to the training needs despite
agreeing at negotiations that MCGM will prepare and implement a staff training program
encompassing various facets to increase job-skills and to improve operational and management
efficiency. Only some expenditures were made in building limited training infrastructures such as
accommodation at the Training Institute. No record of training conducted was readily available to the
mission. The mission requested MCGM  to provide information on the training provided.



- 34 -
3.03   Further strengthening of the operational efficiency of WS SD in the area of revenue collection
has not been achieved, although MCGM met in each year the financial performance covenant of
making 40% contribution to investments after meeting the operation and maintenance cost and meeting
the higher of the debt service and the depreciation. A consultancy for metering, billing and tariff
systems identified at the beginning of the project implementation is expected to start in October 1996.
3.04   A consultancy to demonstrate and train staff in the latest techniques in leak detection and make
recommendations for future work was included in the project (para 3.17 of the SAR). This was
deferred in 1991 because MCGM considered it to be more cost-effective to buy leak detection
equipment and train staff separately. However, this was not done. Instead, a consultancy to study
reduction of contamination in C Ward (one of 23 wards of MCGM) was awarded in 1995, financed
from MCGM's own resources, and is nearing completion. The mission observed that the study results
are not expected to be of any meaningful use to reduce the water losses due to leakage.
3.05  In March 1991, MCGM created a new post of AMCP to take overall responsibility for the
implementation of BWSSP mII and related water and sewerage investments. WSSD claim that
improvements in project management have been achieved by experience and a greater awareness of
procedures and the likely problems.
3.06   Expanding water supply and sanitation facilities for the urban poor. Five small reservoirs
with pumping stations and about 18 km of pipelines have been built to provide water supply to slum
areas on high ground. MCGM provided a large number of water connections to the slums during the
project implementation period. However, these were financed out of MCGM's own sources. The
procurement procedures were found to be inappropriate for carrying out such small works.
Amendment to the procurement procedures was delayed and thus, no further work was done by
MCGM. Sanitation facilities have not been financed by this project, but have been provided under the
Bank assisted Bombay Urban Development Project, GoI/GoM's slum improvement program and, since
1991, GoM's slum redevelopment scheme. A Slum Sanitation Program has been taken-up under the
Bombay Sewage Disposal Project (BSDP) which became effective on March 22, 1996.
3.07  Increasing the supply of water by 455 Mld. By the time of credit closing most of the main
water supply works were nearing completion. It is expected that by about December 1996 the
additional 455 Mld of treated water will be available and most water supply works will be complete.
The main exceptions are (a) reservoirs at Malabar Hill (estimated completion in December 1998) and
Worli Hill (September 1999), where work has not yet begun due to delay in obtaining access to site,
(b) a tunnel between E. Moses Road and Ruparel College, the contract for which had to be rebid due
to cancellation of the original contract (completion planned for January 2000) and (c) Raoli pumping
station and reservoir, which were delayed by decisions on reservoir capacity and pump duty as well as
unavailability of access to site and are now expected to be complete by July 1998.
3.08 However, the increase in availability of water to Mumbai will be only 365 Mld after
compensating for the losses occurred by the MCGM's turning-over the Ulhias river intake of 90 Mld
capacity to Kalyan Municipality. Although the quality of treated water is expected to meet acceptable



- 35 -
standards when it enters the distribution system, there is an unacceptable risk of contamination before it
reaches consumers because of intermittent supply conditions.
3.09  Expanding sewerage system in the isolated developed areas. The progress on the
sewerage works was slower. Although the pumping station at A.S. Marg was completed and the
Versova pumping station is nearing completion, none of the sewerage works included in the project
was complete and operating by the time of credit closing. However, substantial length of the
conveyance works will be completed by May/June 1997. In about the same time all the four (Bhandup,
Ghatkopar, Malad and Versova) waste water treatment facilities of the BWSSP-II which were
included in the project at a latter stage would be completed and commissioned and would offer
substantial opportunities to expand the number of connections and would enable discharge of degritted,
screened sewage into coastal waters. The schedule of completion and commissioning of various
important units is given below:
Waste Water Treatment Facility at Bhandup      December 1996
Sewage Pumping Station at Ghatkopar            March 1997
Waste Water Treatment Facility at Ghatkopar    March 1997
Waste Water Treatment Facility at Malad        March 1997
Waste Water Treatment Facility at Versova      June 1997
Aerated lagoon at Versova                      June 1997
Sewage Pumping Station at Matunga              February 1997
3.10  The delays experienced by MCGM in laying the conveyance mains were due to: (a) difficulty in
obtaining permission from traffic police to excavate in roads; (b) hard rock encountered at shallow
depth; (c) slow procurement progress; (d) poor performance by contractors; and (e) refusal by railway
authorities to permit open excavation across railway tracks.
3.11  Evaluation of operational experience etc. of sewage treatment. The aerated lagoon at
Versova is not yet complete and as such the intended review of its operational performance to develop
appropriate design criteria and technical options for future investment in sewage treatment was not
done. The lagoon is now expected to be completed and commissioned by June 1997. No plan for
evaluation of performance is being thought of by MCGM at present.
3.12 The development of Middle Vaitarna scheme as the next tranche of investment which was
identified as the least cost development to provide next water source for Bombay remained unfulfilled
despite completion of considerable preparation work due to lack of GoM and GoI interest.
3.13   Monitoring reports. WSSD has not complied with the action agreed at negotiations to report
quarterly to the Bank the monitoring indicators (Annex 6 of the SAR), even though most of these
indicators are easily available in WSSD. Thus, the underlying concept to have in place a set of records
to assist the project agency and the Bank to monitor progress towards the achievement of
'development objectives"which are much broader than mere physical achievement was not met.



- 36 -
3.14   Compliance with Covenants. The Government of Maharashtra (GoM) has not fully
complied with the on-lending covenant. An estimated amount of over Rs 600 million remained
outstanding to MCGM at Credit closing. Storm Water Drainage was transferred to WSSD in 1991
without prior consultation with the Bank as is required by Section 3.04 of the Project Agreement.
However, the Bank was informed soon after and did not object. Otherwise, compliance with
covenants has been good. MCGM had consistently met all the financial covenants. The MCGM has
without fail provided audited financial statements relating to the WSSD within the stipulated period of
six months from the preceding financial year end.
IV. VIEWS ON PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Bank View on Project Implementation
4.01   Only implementation of the physical works for increasing water supply and expansion of
sewerage conveyance was taken-up by MCGM. The institutional development aspects of the project
were not given the required attention. MCGM-WSSD did not implement the leak detection and waste
prevention component of the project nor the study for washwater recovery.
4.02   The need for improved coordination and detailed forward project planning did not receive
enough attention to provide the project management with an early warning system. With the
experience of two earlier similar projects, many of the problems encountered were foreseeable and
could have been avoided or mitigated by adequate advance planning and coordination. A Project
Management Manual was to be prepared and issued to all officials concerned with BWSSP III at the
beginning of project implementation, but this was not done.
4.03   More than three years after effectiveness was taken to prepare the bidding documents and
contracts award, even though the prequalification of contractors/suppliers was completed before
negotiations for most of the major water supply works which accounted for about 40% of the
estimated project costs. As a result, the project implementation effectively started about three years
after the loan effectiveness. The implementation was generally slow. Contracts requiring foreign
exchange payments needed Gol approval before award which on many occasions delayed award
decisions.
4.04   A review undertaken by the Bank of contracts over US$ 5.0 million awarded during FY95
showed that MCGM took an average of 567 days compared to a bid validity of 180 days. The
requirement of GoI clearance of contracts involving foreign exchange payments was dispensed with in
1995 and this enabled saving of considerable time. However, the procedures for bid evaluation to
signing the contracts are still cumbersome and contribute to delays.
4.05   The large number of delayed contracts (a tunnel, a pumping station, three reservoirs, some
sewage conveyance), and some works which have not yet started more than eight years after the
project became effective, indicates that there is still substantial room for improvement, particularly in



- 37 -
acquiring vacant possession of sites, coordination with other authorities, and in the preparation of bid
documents, procurement scheduling, procedures for awarding contracts, and contract management.
4.06   The bidding documents were improved after 1992 by inclusion of improved conditions of
contract such as: price adjustment, arbitration procedures for foreign contractors, interest for late
payments, foreign currency payments for local contractors, single-responsibility contracts, and sound
technical information (specifications, bill of quantities, drawings). These elements were accepted in
varying degrees in the various divisions of WSSD due to a lack of understanding of the difference
between mandatory requirements of the Bank and recommendations made for reasons of good
practice.
4.07   Construction of the complex works of water supply (water treatment plant, tunnels, pumping
machinery) and sewerage (waste water treatment facility, pumping machinery) for which MCGM did
not have the capacity was supervised by consultants, and the experience has been quite satisfactory and
the quality of construction has generally been good. MCGM continued with the supervision of the
uncompleted works by consultants even after the Credit closure.
4.08   Contract period was generally long, which helped undercapitalized contractors/suppliers to win
contracts. Several contractors performed poorly due to cash flow problems and their own
organizational weaknesses which confirms that stricter criteria for pre-and post-qualification of
contractors including their financial standing and the bid capacity should have been adopted.
4.09   Staff continuity was generally maintained in water supply, whereas in the sewerage project the
tum-over of senior staff was rapid and the relative poorer performance in sewerage is a reflection.
Water Supply
4.10   Completion of part of the pipeline from Pise to Panjrapur in March 1993 enabled the existing
pumps to deliver an additional 90 Mld of raw water to Panjrapur, which was then transferred through
the existing system to Bhandup for treatment. Therefore, partial benefit of water supply investment
was available quite early, although this got neutralized in July 1994 when MCGM tumed-over the
Ulhas river intake (90 Mld) to Kalyan Municipality. Thus, the incremental water supply that will be
available for Mumbai when the Panjrapur water treatment plant and transmission main are
commissioned would be only 365 Mld.
4.11   MCGM's slow action in recruiting a consultant to study the metering and charging policies
would indicate that this was not sincerely pursued. Despite agreeing to act promptly in May/June
1992, consultant recruitment could not be completed. This being an important item to further improve
MCGM's commercial performance (metering, billing and collection), MCGM should actively pursue
the proposed study (consultant recruitment is reported to be completed by October 1996) and
participate in the process of the analysis of existing situation and implement its recommendations.
4.12   There are examples whereby the prelininary engineering reports were prepared without proper
engineering calculations and also without site investigations (availability of land and site conditions).



- 38 -
For example, the decision on the capacity of the reservoir at Raoli took inordinate long period
involving resolution of some issues between the consultant and MCGM engineers, and the availability
of less land area at Malabar Hill than is required to install the originally designed reservoir capacity.
Another example of slow preparation is the documents for Instrumentation and Telemetry (W-3 5E) for
which bids could not be invited by MCGM as the engineering preparation and the preparation of the
bidding documents are completed only near about the Credit closing date.
4.13   The need for the leak detection remained partly understood and no action was taken to
implement any leak detection. MCGM contends that the losses are only 20%. However, what is not
being realized is that the loss accounts for over 500 Mld treated water and occurs in a space of about
of 3 hours (average daily water supply duration). On a 24 hour per day supply basis, the losses would
be 160%. The negative pressure condition in the distribution pipe allowed contamination of water
through the leakage in some 'wards' of Bombay. Given the overall water availability situation, MCGM
should implement the leak detection and waste prevention, first by developing an action plan and then
by implementing the action plan. This should certainly be considered as the most important part of
future development of water supply for Mumbai.
4.14  Provision for use of force account, direct contracting, construction by community, and priced
quotations in the procurement procedures would have provided implementation flexibility for the
repairs and rehabilitation of the local water supply systems in the slum areas.
Sewerage
4.15   Some important uncompleted works of the BWSSP-II which were included in the project at a
latter stage are scheduled for completion by June 1997. These will enable MCGM to desilt and degrit
an additional 685 MId (240 Mid at Malad; 140 Mid at Versova; 130 Mid at Ghatkopar; and 185 Mid at
Bhandup) sewage before disposal.
4.16   Several works of sewerage conveyance could not be completed because of failure to take into
account the adverse effect of the extraneous factors on implementation schedule. A thorough planning,
a sound geo-technical investigation and coordination with the traffic police and the respective utility
operators (water supply, telephone, electricity) should be completed and a schedule worked out before
the bids are invited for all works, especially those needing open excavation.
4.17   The project successfully introduced to India an innovative technique for in-situ mortar lining of
distribution pipelines. The project also introduced the concept of trenchless sewer construction which
MCGM will pursue.
Financial Aspects
4.18   There had been no improvement in the efficiency of collection of charges for water supply,
which was still 78% in 1994-95, the same as in 1985-86. Customer accounts receivable (i.e. unpaid)
had risen from Rs 630 million in 1985-86 to Rs 2408 million in 1994-95. During the same period, the
consumer price index had increased by 123% and the domestic water tariffs by only 100%.



- 39 -
4.19   The financial performance of MCGM-WSSD is generally satisfactory but is too dependent on a
narrow revenue base, made up of commercial and industrial users and taxes. MCGM had consistently
met all the financial covenants and revised water and sewerage tariffs in April, 1987, . April 1993,
April, 1994 and April 1995. Furthermore, it continued to meet operation and maintenance costs and to
contribute 40 percent (now 35% in BSDP) of capital investment costs from its own resources.
4.20   The MCGM has provided audited financial statements relating to the water and sewerage
operations within the stipulated period of six months from the preceding financial year-end. The audit
practices followed by MCGM have shown further improvement and reports were produced promptly.
MCGM Views on Project Implementation
4.21   Although all the physical works have not been completed fully and the envisaged benefits are
not available at closing and are estimated to be available three/four years later, MCGM feels that the
project has partially achieved its main objectives. 455 Mid water will be available to Mumbai in
December 1996, and the transmission and trunk distribution and the reservoirs already built/being built
will enable MCGM to expand water supply by another 455 Mld by constructing only a water treatment
plant and improving upon the intake and raw water transmission.
4.22 Although the water supply benefits will not be available immediately to the city area, the
additional water that will be available in December 1996 will meet the demand of the eastem and
western part of the metropolis where high potential for additional consumer connections exists and is
expected to improve the revenue base of MCGM.
4.23   Further, the accelerated completion of the mechanical and electrical works of the various
wastewater treatment facilities, pumping station and pumping plants, and Versova lagoon, will enable
MCGM to screen and degrit an additional 685 Mid capacity sewage which will provide environmental
benefit. Were these works to be financed entirely from MCGM's own sources, these would have
lingered on for a longer period, mainly for the reasons of difficulty in making foreign exchange
payments for domestic finance contracts. MCGM has expressed appreciation of the Bank for agreeing
to finance these facilities by restructuring the project.
4.24   MCGM acknowledges that inadequate attention was given to capacity development and
training. In view of failures in the previous project, MCGM's attention was largely concentrated on
completing the physical works as far as possible within the project time-frame. MCGM also felt that
had the Bank supervision missions provided more attention and guidance on these topics, better results
would have been achieved.
4.25   The initial hesitation and difficulty to accommodate the changes required to the bidding
documents arose from Bank's inadequate explanation of the mandatory requirements and the
recommendations made for reasons of good practice. Bank's insistence on changing some of the
clauses in the bidding document took considerable time to finalize the documents. However, from the
good experiences of using Bank documents, MCGM has decided to use these documents for the



- 40 -
proposed Bombay 3-A Project, which is estimated to cost Rs 6600 million (about US$ 185 million)
and financed from MCGM sources.
4.26   MCGM was seriously concemed and disappointed with the delay (delayed by about three and
half years) on the part of the Bank in amending the project description to accommodate especially the
uncompleted mechanical and electrical works of BWSSP-II. Their concem was that they proceeded
with awarding these ICB contracts with the encouragement given by the supervision missions, from
time to time, since mid-1992, and with the required procurement reviews by the Bank, and continued
to finance these in the expectation of receiving reimbursement. Had this expectation not materialized,
the financing of BWSSP-III could have faced serious problems. The delayed amendment and
restriction imposed on the withdrawal by limiting the retroactive financing of expenditures only for a
period of one year was against the understandings MCGM had with the supervision missions, and did
not allow MCGM to claim withdrawal of some expenditures.
4.27   The procurement procedures given at Schedule 1 of Project Agreement were inappropriate for
works of small nature, especially for site-specific facilities in slum areas. Bank action on MCGM
request to amend the procurement procedures to include the use of force account, direct contracting
and priced quotations, etc. to implement the additional water supply schemes for slum areas was far
too late to be acted upon.
4.28   The delays in implementation were caused by various factors. These are:
(a)  late submission of designs, technical specifications and draft bidding documents by consultants,
and protracted discussions required between the MCGM and the consultant to reach
conclusion on most of these;
(b) poor support and cooperation from agencies like the traffic police, State PWD, State Forest
Department, and the Railways;
(c)  difficulties in obtaining vacant possession of construction sites (a length about 175 m of the
transmission line alignment at Majiwade junction, inlets/outlets of reservoirs at Raoli and Worli
were occupied by slums; and the site for reservoir at Worli was occupied by MCGM staff and
tenants of which the tenants were reluctant to move to an altemate equivalent accommodation
nearby; and at the site for reservoir at Malabar Hill due to the reluctance of institutions such as
a primary school, a sub-post-office and a small office of PWD to move to adjoining land
provided by MCGM);
(d) poor contractor performance despite procedures established for qualifying contractors prior to
award (some suffered from severe cash flow and organizational problems); and
(e)  procurement delays.
4.29   All the incomplete works will be completed by MCGM. However, MCGM was not sure
whether payments in foreign currency for the ICB contracts (7 contracts with aggregate estimated cost
of Rs 486.5 million) which remained to be awarded at closing would be permitted by the Gol.



- 41 -
V. VIEWS ON FUTURE OPERATION, OPERATIONAL PLAN AND SUSTAINABILITY
Future Operation
5.01     The additional water that will be available in December 1996 is proposed to be provided to
water-deficient areas of eastern and western parts of the metropolis in lieu of the envisaged
transmission to the city, due to non-completion of the trunk distribution main (3000 mm dia tunnel
between E. Moses Road and Ruparel) and the reservoirs at Raoli, Malabar and Worli. MCGM has
planned to allocate 360 MId water to the suburban areas as follows:
SI No,   Reservoir at                                         Allocation
l_____ ________________________________    in Mld
1    Bhandrawada HMl                                         25
................... ............................................................................................... ...................................... l
2     VeravaliHill I, I, I                                    75
....................   ................. .........................................  ......     ......................................l
3     Malad Hill I, nI                                        45
4     Bonivali Hill ,11                                       70
................... ............................................................................................... .......................................
5     Powai Low Level & High Level II                         15
.................... ................................................ ............................................. ......................................l
6     Ghatkopar Low Level& High Level                         10
7     TmbyLow Lev.el and Hfigh Level                          80
.................... ..   .....   ...............  .................................................... ......................................l
8.    Bhandup I,1I and Bhandup (BUDP)                         40
5.02    The proposed transmission to the eastern/western parts, according to MCGM, will not require
augmentation of the existing arrangements (inlets to reservoirs, reservoir capacity, distribution
network, etc.) in their respective command areas of the reservoirs. The proposed Bombay 3-A Project
which is planned for completion by the year 2000 with MCGM's own finance will augment the water
availability by another 455 Mld and using the facilities (transmission and trunk distribution) both
existing and those being built with BWSSP III, would distribute water to the city.
5.03    MCGM  has the capacity to operate the treatment plant and the various pumping plants
installed for water supply systems, but have limited number of skilled personnel to operate and maintain
the facilities being built for sewerage and sewage treatment. The mission's discussions with the senior
management staff of WSSD confirmed that MCGM is in a position to redeploy skilled personnel from
the existing centers to the newly built facilities such as (sewage pumping plants, waste water treatment
facilities, aerated lagoon, etc.). The aspect of operation and maintenance of the sewerage facilities will
be reviewed from time to time by the Bank while supervising the BSDP.
Operational Plan
5.04    All the water and sewerage works of BWSSP-III will be integrated into Bombay's water and
sewerage system and thus individual operations of a water treatment plant or a waste water treatment
facility or a pump house cannot be considered in isolation. Accordingly, it is appropriate that
operational indicators are generated for the WSSD as a whole, including physical, financial and
institutional indicators. In fact, the indicators agreed with the Bank for the BSDP are being reviewed



- 42 -
by MCGM and these will be reported in the September 1996 quarterly report to the Bank. However,
the mission suggested indicators as in Annex 4 of this Aide-Memoire.
Sustainabiity
5.05      Sustainability of WSSD  operations largely depends on its financial performance since technical
capacity for water supply operations exists and is expected to improve in sewerage by the various
actions proposed to be taken under the BSDP. WSSD at present generates sufficient income to meet
the costs of operating and maintaining the system and finances 35% of investments after meeting the
debt service/depreciation. However, the current resistance from the Corporation to raising domestic
tariffs, if not overcome, will make future operations of WS SD unsustainable. The track record of
MCGM in financial performance has been good and the mission hoped that MCGM will be able to
improve the revenues by restructuring and revising the water and sewerage tariffs. The WSSD's
financial performance has been covenanted in the BSDP and gives confidence that MCGM will comply
with the covenant and operations will continue in an orderly and efficient manmer.
VI. FOLLOW-UP AND AGREED ACTIONS
6.01   Mr. C.D. Kotnis, Deputy Municipal Commissioner (Special Engineering) has been assigned to
coordinate the inputs from the various WSSD wings and the draft ICR contribution which will be
included as Appendix B of the ICR. As agreed with the mission, WSSD will provide by July 26, 1996
to the Bank: (a) details of incremental operating costs of BWSSP III pumping stations and water
treatment works; (b) a revised staffing plan for the plan of operation; (c) a completed table of quantities
of project works completed by the Hydraulic Engineer's department; and (d) details of training courses
and number of staff trained using the resources of the project.
6.02   The mission advised MCGM on their contribution to the ICR (see Annex 4 to this Aide-
Memoire) and agreed on the following program for ICR preparation:
Agreed Action                                    ~                                   yWo                        yWhen
....... .     ...................................-.............I...................................  ....................................................... ,r....  ................................... .......
Data requested by the Mission (para 6.01 above) and not supplied at the            MCGM                       26-Jul-96
time of the mission to be forwarded to the Bank.
Draft ICR (Bank portion including tables) to be forwarded to Borrower for   Bank                              30-Sep-96
comment.                   .....................                                          M
....     .....................................................  ................................................................................. ................................................ ...........................................
Borrower's Evaluation to Bank.                                                    I MCGM                      30-Set
Cm eton draft ICR to be forwarded to the Bank.                                MCGMVGoM                   15-Oct-96
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.............................................................................................  ................................................;.... .......................
Final draft of ICR (complete version including Borrower's Evaluation) to           Bank                       3 1-Oct-96
~~~~~~~~~...................... ...... .............................................................................................. ................................................ ................................................
Distribution of Final ICR                                                          Bank                       30-Nov-96
6.03      The mission also advised MCGM  of the project obligations during the post-closure period.
These are:



- 43 -
(a)  Further disbursements from the Credit will be made for withdrawal applications received by the
Bank by October 31, 1996 in respect of eligible expenditures made before June 30, 1996.
(b)  audit report for 1995-96 should be submitted in accordance with the covenant by September
30, 1996;
(c)  audit report for 1996-97 should be submitted by September 30, 1997, although this is also a
requirement of the Agreements of the Bombay Sewage Disposal Project;
(d)  comply with covenants, as appropriate, during this period; and
(e)  assist in preparation of the ICR in accordance with the actions agreed with the mission and,
additionally, prepare Borrower Evaluation for inclusion in the ICR.



Annex 1
INDIA: THIRD BOMBAY WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT (Ln/Cr 2769/1750-IN)
PROJECT COST ESTIMATE AND STATUS AT CREDIT CLOSING
Amount Rs. Million
Original Project (per SAR Annex 4)                           Restructured Project                  Estim.    Estim.
SI.  Description                                 Estim.   Description                                   Estim.   Cost to   Expen. at Status at Credit Closing
No.                                              Cost                                                   Cost      Compln   Closing
WATER SUPPLY: Civil Works                            WATER SUPPLY: Civil Works                                                                                l
I.   Transmission main Pise-Panjrapur, 7.65 Km long,    41.3   Transmission main Pise-Panjrapur, 7.65 K long,  35.3  26.3      23.0   Complete.
2235 mm dia including mortar lining                  2235 mm dia (Mortar lining in separate item)                      _
2.   Pump house at Panjrapur                        52.8   Pump house at Panjrapur                         86.3      84.3      80.8   Complete.
3.   Panjrapur Treatment Plant                      84.4   Panjrapur Treatment Plant                      273.3     239.3     182.0  In Progress. Expected
completion by 31-Dec-96.
4.   Transmission main Panjrapur to MGL/EEH        322.4   Transnission main Panjrapur MGL/EEH Junction,    371.8   332.8     235.0  In Progress. Expected
Junction, 27.2 Km, 3000 mm diameter including        27.2 Km, 3000 mm diameter (Mortar lining in                                 completion by 31-Dec-96.
mortar lining.                                       separate item)
5.                                                         Mortar lining of 7.65 Km long 2235 mm dia and  140.7     117.2      67.2  In Progress. Expected
27.2 Km long 3000 mm dia transmission mains.                               completion by 04-Nov-96.
6.   Modification pump house at Bhandup              0.6   Modification pump house at Bhandup              30.8      26.8      20.7   Complete. Includes equipment.
7.   Transmission connection MGL/EEH to Bhandup,    29.8   Transmission connection MGL/EEH to Bhandup,     51.8      51.1      51.1  In Progress. Expected
3.3 Km long, 1800 mm dia.                            3.3 Km long, 1800 mm dia.                                                   completion by 31-Dec-96.
8.   Distribution tunnel 9 Km long, 3000 mm diameter   356.6   Distribution tunnel 9 Km long, 3000 mm diameter    784.2  836.2  76.2  In Progress. Futka Tank -
Sewree to be completed by 3 1-
Dec-96 and E Moses Road to
Ruparel by Jan-2000.
9.   Reservoir inlet/outlet connections 12.8 Km long,  55.6   Reservoir inlet/outlet connections about 20 Km  118.7  108.8     50.6   Except for Worli where work is
600-1200 mm dia                                      long, 600-1200 mm dia                                                       yet to start, remaining completed.
10.  Cement mortar lining, 6.3 Km of 1200 mm dia.  47.5   Cement mortar lining, 6.3 Km of 1200 mm dia., 27    216.7  217.8     32.0  In Progress. Lining of mains in
and 27 Km of 1450 mm dia.                            Km of 1450 mm dia and about 114 Km                                          Bombay Central and Kalvadevi
distribution mains of smaller sizes mainly 150 mm.                         Zones completed. Bids in
_____________________________________         ________  evaluation   for  D    ward.
11.  Distribution system extensions 49 Km long, 150-    130.1   Distribution system extensions 49 Km long, 150-  260.5  243.3  103.3   Distribution system extensions
1800 mm dia.                                         1800 mm dia and rehabilitation of about 5 Km of                            completed. Works not started for
mains, diameter range 1200 mm to 1500 mm.                                  rehabilitation of large mains.
12.  Reservoirs at Malabar (I1.25 Ml), Borivali (36  119.2   Reservoirs at Malabar (11.25 Ml), Borivali (36  608.7  521.7     183.2  In Progress/Process. Borivali to
Ml), Raoli (80 Ml) and Worli (16.34 Ml)              Ml), Raoli (80 Ml) and Worli (16.34 Ml)                                     be completed by 31-Dec-96 &
Raoli by 31 -Jul-98. Malabar and
Worli reservoirs in bidding stage



Original Project (per SAR Annex 4)                           Restructured Project                  Estim.    Estim.
Sl.  Description                                  Estim.   Description                                  Estim.   Cost to   Expen. at Status at Credit Closing
No.                                               Cost                                                  Cost      Compln   Closing
to be completed by Dec-98 and
__Sep-99 respectively.
13.  Raoli Pump station                             12.8   Raoli Pump station                           Included in contract at SI. 12.
Sub-Total: Water Supply Civil Works          1253.1   Sub-Total: Water Supply Civil Works           2978.8    2805.6    1105.1
WATER SUPPLY: Materials and Equipment                 WATER SUPPLY: Materials and Equipment
14.  Transmission Mains                            220.1   Transmission Mains                             504.9     503.0     495.0   Complete.
1    Pumping Plant at Pise (M&E)                    31.6  Pumping Plant at Pise (only mechanical)          54.6      50.6      49.0   Complete.
16   Pumping Plant at Panjrapur (M&E)               38.0   Pumping Plant at Panjrapur (only mechanical)   102.7      77.7      68.5   Complete.
17.                                                        Electrical equipment at Pise and Panjrapur      56.4      50.3      40.3   Complete.
18.  Pumping Plant at Bhandup                        3.1   Pumping Plant at Bhandup                     Included in contract at S1. 6.  Complete.
19.  Pumping Plant at Raoli                         20.3   Pumping Plant at Raoli                          75.6      75.6       0.0  In Evaluation. Works are to be
completed by Nov-98.
20.  Panjrapur Treatment Plant Equipment            88.4  Panjrapur Treatment Plant Equipment           Included in contract at Sl. 3.  In Progress. Expected
completion by 31-Dec-96
21.  Reservoir Inlet/Outlet Pipeworks               18.6   Reservoir Inlet/Outlet Pipeworks             Included in contract at SI. 14.  Complete. New works such as
Worli is being offered on single-
responsibility basis.
22.  Distribution system extensions                 42.3   Distribution system extensions                 269.6     269.6     269.6   Complete. Included butterfly   l
valves.
23.  Tunnel lining                                   6.4   Tunnel lining                                Included in contracts at Sl. 8.
Sub-Total: Water Supply-materials and equip.    468.8   Sub-Total: Water Supply-materials and equip.    1063.8    1026.8  922.4
SEWERAGE: Civil Works                                SEWERAGE: Civil Works
24.  Conveyance sewerage, 54 Km, dia range 230 mm  235.9   Conveyance sewerage, about 100 Km dia range    682.6     321.5     306.3  In Progress. All works
to 1000 mm.                                          230 im to 1800 nun                                                         identified at SAR are due for
I ________________________________I______                                                          ________                      completion  by  31-M ay-97.
25.  Pump stations, 12 units of aggregate 150 Mld   25.5   Pump stations, 20 units of aggregate capacity of  65.3    35.6      18.9  PS at A.S. Marg completed and
capacity.                                            2460 Mld.                                                                   others are in progress. Wadala
PS dropped due to land problem.
26.                                                        Repair and rehabilitation of conveyance system,  66.5     66.5       0.0   Not Done.
and pumping facilities in the entire service area.
27.                                                        Completion of balance civil works at four      459.4     402.8     360.3  In Progress. Completion of all
wastewater treatment facilities, two aerated                               works is expected by 30-Jun-97.
lagoons and three pumping stations.
Sub-Total: Sewerage - Civil Works            261.4   Sub-Total: Sewerage - Civil Works             1273.8     826.4     685.5



Original Project (per SAR Annex 4)                          Restructured Project                  Estim.    Estim.
Si.  Description                                  Estim.   Description                                   Estim.  Cost to    Expen. at Status at Credit Closing
No.                                               Cost                                                   Cost    Compin    Closing
SEWERAGE: Materials and Equipment                     SEWERAGE: Materials and Equipment                                                                          l
28.  Pumping plant at Wadala, A.S. Marg and         13.6   Pumping plant at Wadala, A.S. Marg, Versova and    26.0   14.1        8.9   PS at A.S. Marg completed and
Versova pump stations                                 Malavani pump stations                                                     others are in progress. Wadala PS
dropped due to land problem.
29.                                                        Construction and completion of electrical and  465.6     465.6      115.4  In Progress. Completion of all
mechanical works at the three wastewater                                   works is expected by 30-Jun-97.
treatmnent facilities, two aerated lagoons, threel
pumping stations and other facilities in the entirel
service area.
Sub-Total: Sewerage - Materials and Equip.     13.6   Sub-Total: Sewerage - Materials and Equip.    491.6     479.7      124.3
SITE SPECIFIC FACILITIES FOR SLUM                     SITE SPECIFIC FACILITIES FOR SLUM
AREAS                                                 AREAS
30.  Water services improvements at Shivaji nagar,  31.3   Water services improvements at Shivaji nagar,  46.8        0.0        0.0   Not Done.
Baiganwadi, and Chembur                              Baiganwadi, and Chembur                                                                                    l
31.  Sanitation facilities in outlying areas        17.0   Sanitation facilities in outlying areas        17.0        0.0        0.0   Not Done. Financed from other
sources used.
Sub-Total: Site Specific facilities for Slums  48.3   Sub-Total: Site Specific facilities for Slums  63.8       0.0        0.0
COMMON SERVICES                                      COMMON SERVICES
32.  Vehicles (83 nos.)                             11.1   Vehicles (140 nos.)                            88.4       88.4       88.4   Completed except for Cesspool
Vehicles to be completed by 25-
____________________________________________                                Nov-96.
33.  Staff Quarters                                 10.9   Staff Quarters                                 53.6       53.6       53.6   Complete.
34.  Meters                                         16.4   Meters                                         34.3       34.3        8.3   Balance to be procured following
completion of Metering study.
35.  Leak Detection Equipment                        6.9   Leak Detection Equipment                       20.0       20.0        0.0   Bids in evaluation.
36.  Telemetry and Miscellaneous Equipment and      12.4   Telemetry and Miscellaneous Equipment and     332.0      332.0       2.4   User requirements, specifications
valves                                               valves                                                                      and bidding document prepared for
SCADA. Bids not invited.
Sub-Total: Common Services                    57.7   Sub-Total: Common Services                    528.3      528.3      152.7
OTHERS                                               OTHERS                                               I
37.  Training                                       27.4   Training                                       12.9       12.9      12.9  Includes only training
infrastructure.



Original Project (per SAR Annex 4                         Restructured Project                  Estim.     Estimn.
SI.  Description                              Estim.   Description                                  Estim.   Cost to    Expen. at  Status at Credit Closing
No.                                           Cost                                                  Cost    Compin    Closing
38.  Technical Assistance                        4.5   Technical Assistance                           20.0       17.7       10.8   Consultant studies other than those at SI
39, 40 & 41 below.
39.  Site Investigation for Middle Vaitarna      5.5   Feasibility studies and preliminary design for the   155.0  17.0      5.6  In Progress. To be completed by 31 -
reservoir                                         next tranche of source development (middle                                 Dec-96.
Vaitarna)
40.                                                    Feasibility and operational studies for water  253.7     161.9       79.2   Expenditures from 01-Jul-96 for
supply, sewerage and sanitation services.                                  Topographical study, Condition
assessment and O&M for sewerage will
be financed from BSDP.
41.  Consulting services                        40.8   Consulting services for detailed engineering  536.3      555.2      548.3   Water Supply is scheduled for
designs, bidding document and supervision.                                 completion by 31-Oct-96. Sewerage
expenditures effective 01-Jul-97 will be
financed from BSDP.
42.  BMC Engineering                           243.8   BMC Engineering                              522.0       522.0      348.0   Rs 914.5 million for WSSD during
_______1987-88 to 1994-95.
43.  Land Acquisition                            2.4   Land Acquisition                               NA         NA         NA   Land acquired prior to the Loan
effectiveness. Information is not  l-
available.
Sub-Total: Others                         324.4   Sub-Total: Others                            1499.9    1286.7    1004.8
1985 Base Cost                          2427.3                                                                                   _-
CONTINGENCIES                                                  ..                                                                                               l
Physical                                  254.3
Price                                    1006.2                                                                                                                 l
Sub-Total: Contingencies                 1260.5                                               _
Total before Taxes and Duties            3687.8                 _                 _____                              _
TAXES AND CUSTOMS DUTIES                  268.7
Sub-Total                                 268.7
TOTAL PROJECT COST                       3956.5   TOTAL PROJECT COST                           7900.0   6953.5    3994.8
100.0%  I                                             199.7    175.7%     100.1%               .
50.1%                                                100.0     88.0%      50.6%



Annex 2
INDIA: THIRD BOMBAY WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT (Ln/Cr 2769/1750-IN)
PROCUREMENT: CONTRACTS AWARDED
Amount: Rs. Million
INTERNATIONAL COMPETITIVE BIDDING                 LOCAL COMPETITIVE BIDDING
Civil Works         Goods & Equipment       Civil Works         Goods & Equipment         Services          Total Contract
MCGM Division            No.    Contract    No.          Contract        No.   Contract   No.        Contract     No.   Contract            Value
Value                   Value                  Value                Value               Value
Water Supply Project     13        2349.0      6           586.3           6        34.3      3         89.9       7         79.7     3139.2      50.8%
Hydraulic Engineer        3         145.3      -               -          17       182.8      -            -        1         6.2      334.3       5.4%
Sewerage Project - Civil   -            -      -               -         66        832.8                   -       1       459.6      1292.4      20.9%
Sewerage Project-M&E       -            -    12            446.1           -           -      3         21.2        -           -      467.3       7.6%
Sewerage Operation                   -              -        -             -                  -            -       4       220.8       220.8       3.6%
Common Services            -            -    27            658.1                             32         51.3        1        10.0      719.4      11.7%
Contract Value:          16        2494.3    45           1690.5         89       1049.9     38        162.4      13       776.3      6173.4    100.0%
% over Total Contract             40.4%                   27.4%                  17.0%                 2.6%        _      12.6%       100%
% as in SAR Table 3.3             43.0%                  29.3%                   18.8%    ____         2.3%                4.5%                                    1
Summary:
Value of ICB        Value of LCB
Contracts                             Total Number of Contracts                Aggregate Contract Value              Contracts            Contracts
Civil Works                    105                 52.2%                3544.2                57.4%              2494.3              1049.9
Goods & Equipment              83                  41.3%                 1852.9               30.0%              1690.5              162.4
Services                       13                  6.5%                 776.3                 12.6%              -
Total:                         201                 100.0%               6173.4                100.0%             4184.8              1212.3
___________________________________  I__         ~(67.8%)    (19.7%)



PROCUREMENT: CONTRACTS NOT AWARDED (In Planning/Tendering/Evaluation Stage)
Amount: Rs. Million
INTERNATIONAL COMPETITIVE BIDDING    LOCAL COMPETITIVE BIDDING
Civil Works         Goods & Equipment        Civil Works        Goods & Equipment          Services          Total Estimated
MCGM Division            No.   Estimated    No.          Estimated        No.   Estimated   No.    Estimated        No.   Estimated            Cost
_   Cost                     Cost           _        Cost                Cost                 Cost
Water Supply Project       -            -      2            405.2           3       187.4                                                 592.6
Hydraulic Engineer         1         20.0      2             29.4           1         4.0                            1         NA          53.4
Sewerage Project - Civil   -            -       -               -          12       189.1                                                 189.1
Sewerage Project - M&E                 I-                    11.9           -           -                                                  11.0
Sewerage Operation                              -               -
Common Services                         -      1             20.0           -           -      1          6.0         --                   26.0
Total:                     1         20.0      6            466.5          16      380.5       1          6.0        1         NA         873.0
Summary:
Estim. Cost of    Estim. Cost of LCB
Contracts                                        Total Number of Contracts          Aggregate Estimated Cost        ICB Contracts           Contracts
Civil Works                                  17                                 400.5                              20.0               380.5
Goods & Equipment                             7                                 472.5                            - 466.5              6.0
Services                                     1                                  NA                                        _      __
Total:                                       25                                 873.0                              486.5              386.5
PROCUREMENT SUMMARY AND COMPARISON WITH SAR TABLE 3.3 (SAR Page 24
INTERNATIONAL COMPETITIVE BIDDING    LOCAL COMPETITIVE BIDDING
Civil Works         Goods & Equipment        Civil Works        Goods & Equipment          Services         Contract Value/
No.  Contract        No.  Contract              No.  Contract    No.  Contract            No.  Contract         Estimated Cost
Value/Estim          Value/Estim                Value/Esti         Value/Estim            Value/Esti
______________________ l        -ated Cost   ____-ated Cost              ____mated Cost |___-ated Cost                    mated Cost
Contracts Awarded         16       2494.3    45            1690.5         89       1049.9     38        162.4       13       776.3       6173.4    87.6%
Contracts not Awarded
but in Planning/
Tendering /Evaluation      1         20.0      6  1        466.5          16       380.5       1          6.0       1        NA          873.0    12.4%
Total                     17       2514.3    51           2157.0         105      1430.4      39        168.4      14       776.3       7046.4   100.0
% over Total Cost                  35.7%    |___          30.6%         |     |  20.3%/                 2.4%               11.0%       100.0%
|     as in SAR Table 3.3  ____    43.0%    _    |        29.3%        1      |  18.8%                  2.3%                4.5%



- 50 -
ANNEX 3
INDIA: THIRD BOMBAY WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
(Ln/Cr 2769/1750-IN)
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
WSSD total employees
No. of Engineering/Technical staff
No. of Finance/Accounts staff
Staff participating in training (Nos.)
Average Water Tariff - Domestic (Rs/1000 liters)
- Non-domestic (Rs/1000 liters)
Average cost of water Rs/1000 liters delivered
Average water revenue Rs/1000 liters delivered
Revenue Billing (Rs million)
Revenue Collection (Rs million)
Collection efficiency
Average age of customer receivables (months)
Working ratio
Operating ratio
Population of Greater Bombay in million
Water supply coverage (% population)
Average daily production of treated water (Mld)
Average duration of water supply (Hrs.)
Unaccounted-for water (%)
Total number of private connections
Total number of metered connections
Domestic connections with working meters (%)
Non-domestic connections with working meters (%)
Population served by private connections in million
Number of standpipes operating
Population served by standpipes in million
Staff/lOOO water supply connections (Nos)
Number of sewer connections
Sewerage/Sanitation coverage (% population)
Population benefited by sewer connections (million)
Number of seats in conmmunal sanitation facilities
Population benefited by communal sanitation facilities (million)
StaffllOOO sewer connections (Nos)



- 51 -
ANNEX 4
INDIA: THIRD BOMBAY WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
(Ln/Cr 2769/1750-IN)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORTING MISSION
GUIDANCE ON BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
1.    The Borrower's evaluation of the project implementation is an important part of an ICR. It is
attached, unedited, to the ICR. It can be selective in its coverage and should address issues and lessons
learned in project implementation, from the borrower's perspective. Topics covered can be the same as
in the ICR, namely, project design and appraisal, implementation, and project results and sustainability.
At each stage of the project the contribution should comment on the performance of both the
Bank\IDA and the implementing agencies, with the observations, where possible, supported by
evidence or reasoned argument.
2.    For project design and appraisal the contribution could address such questions as the
appropriateness of the project's objectives, the size of the project and scope of the investments
proposed, aspects of design leading to easy (or difficult) implementation and the effect on government
institutions and implementing agencies.
3 .    Project implementation experience should be divided into an assessment of the performance of
the Bank\IDA in supporting and supervising the project and the performances of the implementing
agencies.
4.    Project results and sustainability should include an assessment of the benefits arising from the
project. Since financial and economic re-analysis of the project will be undertaken by the FAO/World
Bank mission as part of the ICR, it is suggested that the contribution could most usefully comment on
the effects of the project from the borrower's perspective. Such an analysis would be a most useful
contribution to the ICR.
5.    Based on the foregoing sections, the contribution should list the main lessons learned from the
implementation experience.
6.    If the contribution is more than ten pages, it should include a summary. The latter is
recommended for all but the shortest contributions.



- 52 -
ANNEX 5
INDIA: THIRD BOMBAY WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
(Ln/Cr 2769/1750-IN)
ICR Mission, July 10-24, 1996
List of Key Persons Met by the Mission
Government of Maharashtra (GoM)
Mr. V. Ranganathan, Principal Secretary, Water Supply and Sanitation Department
Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai (MCGM)
Ms. Sharwaree Gokhale, Additional Municipal Comnmissioner (Projects)
Mr. V.K. Kadam, Chief Accountant, WSSD
Mr. P.C. Pisolkar, Municipal Chief Auditor, MCGM
Mr. A.B. Burute, Chief Engineer, Common Services
Mr. C.D. Kotnis, Deputy Municipal Conmmissioner (Special Engineering)
Mr. V.R. Khatkhate, Chief Engineer, Water Supply Project
Mr. D.B. Nirantar, Deputy Chief Engineer, Water Supply Project
Mr. S.N. Turkar, Hydraulic Engineer
Mr. R.K. Naik Deputy Hydraulic Engineer
Mr. I.C. Gandhi, Deputy Municipal Conmnissioner (Engineering)
Mr. S.S. Dubal, Chief Engineer, Sewerage Project
Mr. V.D. Majumdar, Chief Engineer, Sewerage Operation
Mr. S.N. Phatnani, Deputy Chief Engineer (M&E), Sewerage Project
Mr. H. Laad, Deputy Chief Engineer, Sewerage Project
Former/Retired MCGM Officials
Mr. A. Dasgupta, Secretary, Department of Atomic Energy
(Former Additional Municipal Commissioner, MCGM)
Mr. B.B. Sharma, Managing Director, State Co-operative Cotton Growers Marketing Fed. Ltd.
(Former Additional Municipal Commnissioner, MCGM)
Mr. A.B. Maduskar, Additional Municipal Commissioner (retd.) and former Chief Accountant
Mr. Totade, Hydraulic Engineer (retd.)
Mr. M.K. Gokhale, Chief Engineer, Water Supply Project (retd.)



- 53 -
BRIHANMUMBAI MUNICIPAL CORPORATION
INDIA- BOMBAY WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
(Cr/Ln: 1750/2769 IN)
APPENDIX B. BORROWER'S EVALUATION
1.    INTRODUCTION:
The World Bank [the International Development Association (IDA) and the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD)] first associated with Municipal Corporation
of Greater Bombay (MCGB) in 1974 with a credit for the First Bombay Water Supply and
Sewerage Project (BWSSP-I). BWSSP-I consisted of impounding of water of the Bhatsa river,
its conveyance, distribution and treatment facilities and the expansion of the city's sewerage
system. BWSSP-I was implemented from 1974-75 to 1979-80. It augmented the city's water
supply by 455 rnillion litres per day. The Second Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project,
(BWSSP-II) was implemented between 1979-80 and 1987-88. It augmented water supply by a
further 455 Mld as well as improved sewage conveyance, collection and disposal facilities in the
city and its suburbs. The water supply component of the II-BWSSP was satisfactorily
implemented. However, due to several reasons the sewerage component could not be fully
completed.
The Third Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project (BWSSP-III), was a logical
extension of BWSSP-I and BWSSP-II, each of which envisaged bringing 455 Mld of water and
extending the sewerage system in Greater Bombay. BWSSP-III, as appraised in early 1985,
provided for a credit of 105.5 million special drawing rights (SDRs) amounting to approximately
US$145.0 million and a loan of US$40.0 million, the total tranche amounting to US$185.0
million. The SAR envisaged the implementation period of BWSSP-III from 1987-88 through
1994-95. The devaluation of the rupee in 1991 resulted in enlarging the total quantum of money
available for the project. The World Bank agreed to let MCGB take up extra works to utilise this
surplus. To enable utilization of funds, the original credit closure date of 30 June, 1994 for
BWSSP-III was extended twice, first to 30 June, 1995 and then to 30 June, 1996. Yet MCGB
surrendered US$40.0 million in three steps - US$10.0 million each during May, 1993 and
October, 1994 and US$20.0 million during June, 1995. The final disbursements from the World
Bank were to the tune of SDR90.4 million.
2.    PROJECT OBJECTIVES:
In brief, the objectives of the BWSSP-III were to -
(a)   Continue and expand on the efforts of previous projects in improving sector efficiency.
(b)   Expand water supply and sanitation facilities for the urban poor.
(c)   Increase the supply of water to the MCGB area by another 455 Mld bringing it to a total
of 2900 MId.



- 54 -
(d)   Expand the sewerage conveyance facilities in isolated developed areas of the City which
were not already served.
(e)   Evaluate operating experience and develop appropriate design criteria and technical
options for future investments in sewage treatment.
3.    THE PROJECT:
3.1   The Project components were-
(1) The construction of 52 km of trunk mains, 3 pumping stations, 49 km of distribution
mains and two tunnels of 3000 mm diameter, internal mortar lining of pipes and leak
detection.
(2) The construction of 455 Mld water treatment plant and four service reservoirs with a
collective capacity of about 144 million litres.
(3) The construction of about 54 km of sewers and building and installation of three
sewage pumping stations.
(4) The construction of low cost sanitation facilities, training of WSSD staff, consultancy
services and supply of vehicles for operational purposes.
3.2   The exchange rate was Rsl 3.00 per US$ when the agreements were signed. However,
during implementation period of BWSSP-III, the exchange rate of the Re to the US$ shot up to
more than double, due, mainly to the devaluation of the Rupee and partly to market forces.
Although the costs of the works included in the III BWSSP had gone up simultaneously, the
doubling effect would still have left large funds surplus. Therefore, the Bank at the instance of the
MCGB included certain additional BWSSP-II works which were incomplete on the credit closure
date for BWSSP-II.
4.    ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES:
The Project objectives in both Water Supply and Sanitation Sectors were only partially
fulfilled during the project period.
4.1   Water Supply Sector:
4.1.1. The sector efficiency envisaged by increasing per capita availability of water of 137 litres
per day for the projected population of 10.37 million in the year 1991, could not be fulfilled
during the project period. Of the planned 455 Mld water, 90 Mld of raw water was brought in
March, 1992. This was treated at the existing treatment plant at Bhandup. Since this move
conserved water in the Vaitarna and Tansa lakes, there was no additional quantity of water
supplied to the city. On completion of certain priority works, 130 Mld additional water was
brought to the city from December, 1996 and remaining 225 Mid is expected to be brought to the
city by June, 1997 on completion of the last link of the conveyance system.



- 55 -
4.1.2 During the period from 1992 till the closure date, i.e. June, 1996. 30,838 water
connections were given to improve water supply for the urban poor. Five small reservoirs with
pumping stations and eighteen kilometers of pipeline were laid to provide water to slum areas
situated at high levels.
4.1.3. The water supply component was divided into 27 sub projects and one consultancy
assignment aggregating in all to 28 sub projects. The projected additional supply of 455 Mld of
treated water could not be brought to Mumbai by the extended credit closure date of 30 June,
1996, although fifteen sub projects were completed out of the 23 awarded by the credit closure
dated. Of the remaining eight sub projects, two are completed in December, 1996, three are
expected to be completed by June, 1997, and two can only be completed by the year 2000. Of the
remaining five sub projects that were at the planning stage, two have been since awarded and are
in progress. These works consist of service reservoirs, (one each at Malabar Hill and Worli). The
sub projects for inlet/outlet mains at Worli, Raoli Pumping Station and Instrumentation are being
undertaken. These are mainly distribution works and will not adversely affect the bringing of
additional 455 MId of water to the city by June, 1997.
4.i   Sanitation Sector
4.2.1 In BWSSP-III, during the project period, 57 kilometers of sewer lines were laid to
progressively convert unsewered areas into sewered ones. These include some sewer lines
covered under the original SAR as well as the additional works appended later. 7 kilometers are
in progress, and 6 kilometers were deferred because development of the area did not take place as
expected.
4.2.2 Three pumping stations were included in the SAR, and four (balance work left over from
BWSSP-II) were added later. None were at a stage as to be ready for commissioning by the
project completion date. The existing pumping stations were updated and additional pumping and
treatment facilities provided. This, coupled with removal of accumulated silt in the conveyance
system, by using newly acquired sewer cleaning equipments and the development of contracting
agencies to clean sewers, the operation and maintenance of the conveyance system was greatly
improved. In BWSSP-III, systematic planning and maintenance of the collection, conveyance and
pumping treatment facilities were improved.
4.2.3 Originally forty seven works were included in the sewerage component of BWSSP-III.
Because of large savings in the credit amount due to rupee devaluation as mentioned in para 1,
additional works comprising thirty two contracts were added. The status of these contracts is as
follows:-
Total   Completed       In        Fore-        At       Deleted/
Progress    closed/    Planning    deferred.
terminated  -st7Le                                                      . . . 
Original     47         22           9          1 1         2          3



- 56 -
Additional    32 --5                15- -        1         11 1         -
Total        79         27          24          12         13          3
The balance of the original works are expected to be completed by March, 1997. Most of
the above works are conveyance works for laying sewers in unsewered area.
4.2.4 The BWSSP- III also included a provision for low cost sanitation facilities in selected
areas not covered by water borne sewerage. Unlike normal engineering components, the low cost
sanitation component also requires a sociological and community based approach. The skills
required to undertake such a scheme were obviously unavailable with the WSSD project staff of
the MCGB. Besides, low cost sanitation facilities were being provided by the MCGB's Slum
Improvement Cell headed by a Deputy City Engineer and under the overall control of the City
Engineer this Cell under the Bombay Urban Development Project (BUDP), the Government of
India/Government of Maharashtra's slum improvement programmes and the latter's slum re-
development scheme. Adequate attention was not paid to the Low Cost Sanitation component of
the BWSSP-III which, therefore, remained unutilized. A comprehensive slum sanitation
programme is now being implemented under the BSDP.
4.2.5 O&M Consultants for improving the sewerage sector efficiency were appointed. Their
report would be available during the period of BWSSP-III's successor project, viz. the Bombay
Sewage Disposal Project (BSDP).
4.3   The project envisaged improvement of WSSD's project planning and implementation
capacity, upgrading operation and maintenance of sewage system, geotechnical investigations,
topographical studies, detailed engineering for Middle Vaitarna Project and feasibility studies of
future water supply source.
4.4 . The MCGB's Project Planning and Control Cell monitored project implementation. The
contract for upgrading Operation and Maintenance (O&M) of sewerage system did fairly well.
These O&M studies are being funded partly from BWSSP-III and partly from the ongoing
Bombay Sewage Disposal Project. Feasibility studies were carried out and completed for Middle
Vaitarna Dam and consultants have submitted feasibility report.
4.5   The MCGB has a well-established training institute namely the Civic Training Institute &
Research Centre (CTIRC). The CTIRC organises regular training programmes including the
WSSD departmental employees of the MCGB. However, training component of BWSSP-III was
largely unutilized.
5.  IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROJECT AND THE MAJOR FACTORS
AFFECTING THE PROJECT:
5.1   As stated in para 4.0 the impact of the rupee devaluation by more than 100% was the
single most important factor affecting the project as a whole.



- 57 -
5.2   The cost of BWSSP-III was originally estimated at Rs3956 million, with Rs3180 million
as the local component and Rs776 million to be spent in foreign exchange. The exchange rate of
rupee which was Rs13.00 per US$ more than doubled during the project implementation period.
Certain additional works from BWSSP-II as well as some new works were added in the project.
As a result the project cost went up to Rs6124 million.
5.3   The works included under BWSSP-III could not be completed by the scheduled date and
even by extended date of completion due to a variety of factors which are listed below:-
(1)   Administrative delays, both within and outside the Municipal Corporation, which resulted
in
a) delays in foreign exchange payments.
b) delays in getting permission from other external agencies like the Highway Authorities,
Public Works Department, City Traffic Police; etc.
c) delays in finalizing tender documents.
(2)   Riots in Mumbai in December, 1992 and bomb blasts in March, 1993.
(3)   Diesel shortage during the gulf war,
(4)   Poor performance or failure of contractors,
(5)   Adverse physical conditions encountered,
(6)   Court Injunctions.
Besides these, specific factors affecting Water Supply Works were:
1)    Delays in the completion of railway bridges by the Central Railway,
2)    Physical resistance and obstruction of the local population to carrying out work.
Those affecting Sewerage Works were:
(1)   Restricted permission from City Traffic Police,
(2)   High premiums charged by tenderers, thus leading to reinvitation of tenders and resultant
delays,
(3)   Refusal by Railway Authorities to allow open excavation across Railway tracks,
(4)   Inadequacy of the proper specifications in tender documents: the engineering staff did not
have adequate training and experience in the preparation of bid documents and supervision
of works - documents were prepared without adequate site investigations which led to



- 58 -
claims for variations, particularly, in respect of rock excavations and provision of adequate
quantities for shoring,
(5)   Delay in terminating contracts that failed to deliver in time,
(6)   There were also frequent transfers of personnel above the level of Chief Engineer because
of superannuation and voluntary retirement. This resulted in lack of continuous
leadership.
6.0   PERFORMANCE OF CONSULTANTS:
6.1   Water Supply Sector: Extensive services of consultants were utilised in three stages of
project. For the first time they were asked to prepare feasibility and detailed engineering studies.
Their services were also used for construction supervision on some of the more complex works.
Overall performance of the consultants, with respect to delivery of the documents, scrutiny of
bids, vendor drawings' review was satisfactory. They also tendered timely advice during the
evaluation and construction stages.
6.2   Sanitation Sector: Overall performance of the consultants for BWSSP III was by and
large satisfactory, especially in the light of the performance of the consultants engaged during
BWSSP-II. Due to deficiencies in tender documents and detail design prepared by the earlier
consultants, a large number of modifications had to be proposed by the new consultants. This
resulted in an increase in the cost of some works by nearly 60 to a 100 percent. However, as far
as construction supervision was concerned, consultant performance did not match the quality of
their design work.
7.0   SUSTAINING PROJECT WORKS IN FUTURE:
7.1   WSSD has its own separate accounting unit and separate funds and accounts are
established for the WSSD. The present tariff structure yields sufficient funds for meeting
operation and maintenance costs and debt-redemption charges. The tariff is revised at intervals to
meet additional demands. There is, however, need to restructure tariff to charge appropriate cost
to domestic consumers who are at present heavily subsidised.
7.2   The operation and maintenance staff of Hydraulic Engineers Department is fully trained
and adept at meeting needs. Consultants are appointed to improve 0 & M in facilities in
Sewerage Operations Department.
8.0 BANK PERFORMANCE:
8.1   The long association that the MCGB has had with the World Bank has brought intangible
benefits along with finance. The Municipal Corporation and its engineers gain from the constant
interaction with Bank staff, learning of methods and technologies as well as upgrading their
documentation, records and management skills. During BWSSP-III, advanced technology in the
field of water treatment, large pumping plants, driving tunnels with a tunnel boring machine



- 59 -
(TBM), upgrading of instrumentation, cement mortar lining to water mains and trenchless
technology for sewer laying, were some of the innovations introduced.
8.2   MCGB acknowledges the guidance and support it received from the Bank officials in
implementation of BWSSP-III. Personal visits by Bank officials as a part of various Missions
were also fruitful for discussing and sorting out a number of pending issues across the table.
MCGB appreciates the Bank's gesture in including financing of left over Bombay II Sewerage
Project works under III BWSSP. Relations between Bank and the MCGM were cordial
throughout the implementation of III BWSSP.
8.3   However, frequent changes in bidding documents by the World Bank contributed to
delays as the documents prepared in accordance with previous prescriptions had to be redrafted
after submission to the Bank. In certain cases, Bank approvals were not received in time. In case
of the bid document for contract 35E, the Bank took 28 months to approve the documents.
8.4.  MCGB does realise that the World Bank management makes continuous efforts to
promote quality improvement in the bidding documents to ensure effective project
implementation, but this contributed to the delay of some works in the BWSSP-III. This also
resulted in different conditions operating for different contractors on works that were on-going
simultaneously, and which were sometimes similar in nature. It is hoped that in future the Bank
will adopt a policy not changing bid documents during the pendency of a credit/loan.
9.0 BORROWER PERFORMANCE
9.1   The constraints adversely affecting project implementation have already been described in
details in para 5 above. Within those constraints, MCGM has spared no efforts in implementing
the Project. Actual achievements have been detailed in para 4. It has to be admitted, that in spite
of dedicated and sincere efforts, project objectives could only be partially fulfilled. The
implementation team of sewerage component of the BWSSP-III remained weak throughout.
However, substantial progress has been made during the project period towards attaining project
goals. Sectoral efficiencies have improved in both water supply and sanitation sectors. MCGB
has today a greater appreciation of its organizational deficiencies, and has already taken steps to
improve performance.
9.2   The infrastructure within BMC for project procurement & implementation needs to be
substantially improved by imparting extensive training to the staff. The provision for training in
BWSSP-III remained grossly under utilized. Unfortunately, this aspect has also been overlooked
in the current project namely, the BSDP.
10.0. CONCLUSION:
Although the objectives of the project were not fully achieved during the project period,
substantial work has been done towards attaining them. MCGB has already taken steps to
maintain the momentum already gained to complete the remaining work. Some of the lessons
learnt during implementation of BWSSP-III reflect back to the mistakes in implementing BWSSP-



- 60 -
II, the effects of which were felt during the project period of BWSSP-III. The selection of right
consultants and right contractors are the key to satisfactory and speedy completion without too
many cost over-runs. The role of the former has to be defined after carefully assessing in-house
capabilities. MCGB engineers need training on contract management.
MCGB thanks the World Bank for its financial assistance, as well as the constant
encouragement, technical advise and support given during the implementation of BWSSP-III, and
looks forward to continuing the association for future enhancement of water supply and sanitation
service to citizens.



MAP SECTION






IBRD 18974R
V.- fat   i  L..S1   't :>                                                                          l
INDIA
THIRD BOMBAY WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
REGIONAL WATER RESOURCES AND MCGM TREATMENT AND TRANSMISSION FACILITIES
BOMBAY III PROJECT WORKS
EXJSTiNG   COMPLETED  UNDER CONSTRUCTION
O                                           Reseroirs
_                            U             Teore  Wrak-n od Pu.pin Statrios
S                    -    mSa4 Pipelire$
Woeirs
k.                     KI.                 FIFIF.0il ~~~~~~~~~Zone served by B-ri Proiect (MIDC)
Zone 5er-d by Trans-T.rarr Water Su2pply Sch-e r(MIDC)
Ag,  d                                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Zone ser,ed by Shchiod Woter Supply Schrevre(GOMI
EZ   Zone sered by Rons- Water Sopply Scheme (MIDCI
MCGM Supply Are
BhotoiIrigton Command Area, Stage I
MIOC Industrial Area
CIDCO Area
Reservois Plannred fon F.tvre De-elpment
wb,Existing Reservoirs and Damns
Rarisays
Lmi.t oh Greater Bombay
--Limit oh Bombay Metropolitn Region
I        -    ~~~~International Boondories
N                                                                                                                                        it   S  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~it  iS  20  25 30
KitOMTtttN
ly.e  or       \~~~~~  ~         I   N   0  i   A
-J~ ~ ~~~~~~J                  






IBRD 28833
INDIA
THIRD BOMBAY WATER SUPPLY
Tron,.                               ~~~AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
BHANDUP                                              hr
%LGOONS                                                                                                                    ____
Ia#OVfERRSSTASNA  LOATESAND DISPOSAL FACIUTIES
N                                4                               *       *               HU~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EISTING
BOMBAY III WORKS ORIGINAL
U p  ~~~~~~,  ~       LGHTOONSU                                                                        __        UNDER CONSTRUCTION
BOMBAY III WORKS BOMBAY II LEFtOVER WORKS
~~~ .yp...nn ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. L.Q~~~~~~~~~~~~~L - d.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~q..UDR.OSTUn,                                                                                                 n OBA IIFNAC
PROPOSED UNDER BOMBAY
SEWAGE DISPOSAL PROJC
G  P A R                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~SEWAGE CONVEYANCE SYSTEM
EXISTING
*                                                                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UNDER CONSTRUCTION
PLANLNED WITHIN ME NEXT S-IT0 TEARS
NATIONAL PARK                                                                                                                                                        .....TUNNELS
RISING MAINS
..k.                                   CRUZ                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SUBMARINE OUTYALLS
f   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~- -DKAINAUE LON E BOANDARIBS
AIRPORT                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAIN ROADS
RAILBCOATS
-                  -   GREATER BOMBAY MUNICIPAL LIMIRT
BRISAPO  -ALA
.    B..  DRAS......-                                                                        -
II   ~~~~~~~~~A~~~tOTABA.
4~~~qVERUOVAjr<~~~~~~~~                 BANORA  I BANDR.A                                                          3L1c,       9~ "OAA'
OU      PINTFALLL                                                        I
RANGRA  0      ~WORE          OMAA 8I&I~LAA
OUTFALL                ~                                OILTUNNELTFAL 0
TUNNEL                 U    I                O.O1
OUTFALL                     I    12~0       3 









IMAGING
Report No.:          16650
Type:     ICR



