Document or
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
dZ/. I? ;16 Z P 
C 4. i)Zo3tW&
Report No. P-4412-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONTAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMEIT
AN) THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO TUE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN IN AN AOWUNT OF US$40 MILLION
AND A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 105.5 MILLION
TO INDIA
FOR THE
THIRD BOMBAY WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
November 19, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performanec of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of November 19, 1986)
US$1.00        =  Rs 13.160
Rs 1.00        =  US$0.0760
Rs 1 million   =  US$75,989
The US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to change.
Conversions in the Staff Appraisal Report were, except
as otherwise noted, made at the rate of US$1 to Rs 13.
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
Abbreviations and Acronyms
BMC    -   Bombay Municipal Corporation (or Municipal
Corporation of Greater Bombay)
GOI    -   Government of India
COM    -   Government of Maharashtra
WHO    -   World Health Organization
WSSD   -   Water Supply and Sewerage Department of BMC



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
THIRD BOMBAY WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
LOAN, CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:        India, acting by its President.
Beneficiaries:   Government of Maharashtra (COM) and Bombay Municipal
Corporation (BMC).
Amount:          Bank Loan:  US$40.0 million
IDA Credit: SDR 105.5 million (US$145.0 million equivalent)
Terms:           Bank Loan:  Repayment over 20 years including five years'
grace, at applicable rate of interest.
IDA Credit: Standard
Relending        From Government of India (GOI) to COM as part of central
Terms:         assistance to states for development projects, on terms and
conditions applicable at the time, for relending to BMC at
8.75% rate of interest, with repayment over 25 years,
including 5 years grace.
Project          The project would:  (a) provide an increment of 455 million
Description:   liters of water per day to help reduce Bombay's c_.rrent
deficit; (b) expand Bombay's sewerage system; (c) provide
site specific sanitation and water supply facilities to
serve the needs of the urban poor; and (d) further strengthen
the operational efficiency of BMC's Water Supply and
Sewerage Department (WSSD) in areas including revenue
collection, financial planning and audit controls, and water
waste and leakage reduction. The project would have the
following main impact: water shortage would be reduced from
present 36% to 18% of demand, and with particular benefit
to the poor, who are less able to afford privately-owned
facilities; investment and operational designs and improve-
ments in leakage detection, repair, and financial management
capacity. In addition, BMC/WSSD, as a well-run public
utility under full municipal control, would provide sector
leadership in the Region through the demonstration of
increasingly efficient financial management and operation
to other conurbations. Project risks are considered low
because this would be the third Bank operation in the water
supply and sewerage sector in Bombay and would be executed
by BMC, which is staffed with well-qualified and experienced
personnel. However, the project provides for additional
professional and training support to enable BHC to further
refine and strengthen its project management capability.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their officialduties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Costa:
Local   Foreign    Total
----- (US$ million)------
Water Supply                           134.6      32.6      167.2
Sewerage                                23.0       2.9       25.9
Site Specific Facilities for
Slum Areas                             4.1       0.4        4.5
Technical Assistance and Vehicles        5.4       4.4        9.8
SubtotaL                               167.1      40.3      207.4
Physical Contingencies                  15.9       3.6       19.5
Price Contingencies                     61.6      15.8       77.4
TOTAL PROJECT COST 1/                  244.6      59.7      304.3
Financing Plan:
Local   Foreign    Total
-----(US$ million)-
IBRD/IDA 2/                            125.3      59.7      185.0
BMC internal cash generation           119.3       -        119.3
TOTAL PROJECT COST                     244.6      59.7      304.3
Estimated Disbursement:
Bank FY        1987  1988  1989  1990   1991   1992  1993   1994
… -…(------gUS$ million) ------------ -----
Annual         2.0   21.5  28.9  35.7   37.8   35.1   20.2    3.8
Cumulative    2.0   23.5  52.4  88.1  125.9  161.0  181.2  185.0
1/ Includes US$20.6 million of taxes and duties.
2/ The loan/credit would be made available to GOI, which
would make the proceeds available to COM in accordance
with GOI's standard arrangements for developmental
assistance to the States of India.
Economic Rate
of Return:         About 12%
Appraisal Report: No. 5733-IN dated October 31, 1986.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN AND CREDIT
TO INDIA FOR THE THIRD BOMBAY WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
and credit to India for US$40.0 million and SDR 105.5 million (US$145.0
million equivalent) respectiveLy, on standard terms to help finance further
development of water supply and sewerage facilities in Bombay. The
Government of India (GOI) would channel the proceeds of the loan and credit
to the Government of Maharashtra (GOM) in accordance with COI's standard
terms and arrangements for financing State development projects. COM would
onlend these funds to the Bombay Municipal Corporation (BMC) for 25 years,
including five years' grace, at 8.752 interest per annum. GOI would bear the
foreign exchange and interest rate risks.
I. THE ECONOMY
2.      A country economic report, "India:  Economic Situation and
Development Prospects" (6090-IN, dated May 9, 1986), was distributed to the
Executive Directors on May 12, 1986. Country data sheets are attached as
Annex I.
Background
3.      India is a large and diverse country with a population of about
780 million (in mid-1986) and an average per capita income of about US$260.
Agriculture continues to dominate the economy, accounting for about two-
thirds of employment. The steady increase in population, which continues at
a rate of 2.0% a year, has put increasing pressure on natural resources, in
particular cultivable land. By the mid-1960s, nearly all productive land had
been brought under cultivation. Although irrigation continues to expand
total cultivable area, an increasing share of the Labor force will have to be
absorbed in non-agricultural activities. Industrial development has not
progressed rapidly enough to provide employr,ent opportunities for the growing
labor force, or to bring about a rapid economic transformation, with sig-
nificantly higher productivity and income levels. As a resuLt, the long-term
growth of per capita income has only averaged about 1.4% p.a. and close to
one-half of India's population continues to live below the poverty line.
Alleviation of poverty has been and remains thus at the core of India's
development strategy.
4.      During the 1950s and 1960s, India's economic performance was charac-
terized by slow economic growth, moderate inflation and a sustainable exter-
nal position. CDP grew at about 3.5%, agriculture at 1.8% and industry 4.8%;
imports grew at 4.6% and exports at 5.8% a year. Although India was able to
reduce its dependence on foodgrain imports, from a peak of 14% of total
consumption in 1966/67 to 4.52 in 1969/70--mainly as a result of the Green
Revolution--progress in poverty alleviation was slow.
5.      The steep rise in international oil prices and accelerating global
inflation led to a sharp deterioration of India's terms of trade in the early
1970s, eroding its capacity to import. In response, the Government inten-



-2-
sified its export promotion efforts and liberalized access to imported
inputs. As a result of these efforts, which were helped by the expansion of
export markets, particularly in the Middle East, export growth rose from an
average of 2.2% a year during the 1950s and 1960s to 7.3% in the 1970s. In
turn, this expansion of exports together with continued import substitution,
particularly in food grains and increased remittances, made it possible for
India to attain a surplus in its current account between 1976177 and 1978/79.
Thus India was able to achieve, in a relatively short time, a comfortable
foreign exchange position, which was further enhanced by a steady increase in
concessional aid. Towards the end of the 1970s, India experienced a series
of domestic and external setbacks. Industrial production, plagued by labor
unrest and a shortage of key inputs began to stagnate. One of the worst
droughts in India's history reduced agricultural output in 1979/80 by more
than 15%. And, in the same year, a second major increase in international
oil prices more than doubled the costs of India's oil import bill. As a
result, the current account showed again a deficit and the remarkable price
stability that the Indian economy had enjoyed after 1975 came to an abrupt
end. The Government responded by mounting an economic adjustment program,
which was eventually embodied in the Sixth Five Year Plan (1980-85). The
principal objective of the program was to raise the CDP growth rate from its
historical level of 3.6% to 5.2Z per annum, through alleviation of
infrastructure and supply constraints, increased energy independence,
improved efficiency in resource use, promotion of exports and efficient
import substitution.
The Sixth Five Year Plan (1980-85)
6.      Overall the adjustment program has been successful, despite
unfavorable weather in several years, a continued worsening of the external
environment and adverse political developments. The developments of the
Indian economy during the Sixth Plan underscore the fundamental soundness
of key policies and programs, particularly in agriculture and energy, and
attest to prudent and skillful macro-economic management, which allowed
production to grow while at the same time keeping external borrowing well
within acceptable levels of risk and holding inflationary pressures in check.
But the results during the Plan period also highlight the disappointing
performance of industry, continuing shortfalls in eLectric power generation,
rising public sector deficits and the importance of regaining and sustaining
momentum in export growth.
7.      During the Sixth Plan period, GDP grew by 5.4% per annum, I/ well
above India's long-term growth rate of 3.6%. This increase in the average
growth rate reflects improvements in the performance of several key sectors.
In agriculture, the ambitious Plan targets with respect to foodgrain and
oilseed production were virtually attained, and the average growth of
agricultural value added of 4.5Z a year exceeded the Plan target of 3.8%.
The progress achieved is an indication of the effectiveness of programs to
1/ Actual GDP growth rate during the 1979/80-1984/85 period was 5.4% per
annum. However, this figure overstates the trend in recent years because
of the relatively low base year (1979/80). The 4.5% GDP growth per annum
and 3.3% annual agricultural growth between 1980/81-1983/84 (two "normal"
years) are more representative of the growth rates during the period.



-3-
expand irrigation, strengthen research and extension and encourage the eEfi-
cient use of other agricultural inputs. At the same time, while achieving
output gains, agriculture appears to have become more resilient and resistent
to poor weather. During the Sixth Plan, India also succeeded in raising the
output of most raw materials. Domestic production of petroleum grew at 20%,
well above the planned rate of 12.1%, natural gas output at 19.2%, coal
output at 6.9%, and the production of cement and fertilizer at 10.6% and
8.1%, respectively. The Sixth Plan also witnessed rapid growth in the serv-
ices sector, in particular transport and communications.
8.      However, this dramatic improvement in performance did not occur
evenly throughout the economy. The industrial sector performed relatively
poorly, growth averaged about 4.9% ('80/8l-1984/85) a year--below the growth
rates achieved in the 1960s and 1970s. Industrial growth has been inhibited
by an inadequate policy environment, coupled with a depressed domestic
demand, power shortages, and labor unrest. In addition, quantitative
restrictions and high tariffs on imports of inputs and capital goods have led
to high inflated costs and prices of industrial goods and manufactures, which
has severely impaired India's competitiveness in world markets. India's
export performance under the Sixth Plan reflects this. Instead of the tar-
getted 9X a year, exports grew only by 4.5%. The savings performance of the
economy also deteriorated somewhat. The national savings rate, which had
risen steeply in the 1970s, fell from 24.3% to about 23Z, and remained well
below the rate required (24.5%) to finance the investment program of the
Sixth Plan. As a consequence, gross investment grew only at 6.4% a year
instead of the targetted 8.9%. The shortfall in savings was mos noticeable
in the public sector, mainly because of the low profits or financial losses
of public enterprises and lower than expected tax revenues.
The Seventh PLan (1985-90)
9.      The Seventh Plan aims to build upon the accomplishments of the Sixth
Plan, which is regarded by many as a turning point in India's development
experience. To deal effectively with the dual challenges of alleviating
pervasive poverty and expanding employment opportunities for a growing labor
force, the Seventh Plan will need to sustain the growth momentum attained
under the Sixth Plan. India's policy makers have become acutely aware in
recent years of the deveLopment constraints and in particular, the shortcom-
ings of the existing policy framework. The Seventh Plan portends to break
new ground in dealing with these constraints. More so than previous plans,
it focusses on the urgent need for greater efficiency, productivity and
competitiveness in the economy. In its various sectoraL strategies the Plan
adopts some new approaches: in agriculture, the Plan gives top priority to
the completion of ongoing irrigation schemes; in industry, the Plan
emphasizes improvements in productivity, reductions in costs, and improved
competitiveness. Unlike previous plans it encourages a greater role of the
private sector and promises to provide the incentives needed to attract
private industrial investment; in the wake of the liberalization measures
taken under the Sixth Plan, which provided entrepreneurs with greater
flexibility in decision making, the Seventh Plan envisages further changes in
licensing policies and the pricing of commodities which are subject to
administered price controls; the Plan aims also for continued trade
liberalization and places particular emphasis on the promotion of export
growth; the Plan also ensures that, even with accelerated growth, the
benefits of that growth are distributed proportionately: Sufficient



-4-
availability of food, which would have a dampening effect on food prices and
thus protect real incomes of the poor, as well as additional employment and
productivity increases which would raise per capita incomes, remain the top
priorities of the Plan.
10.     Recent Developments.  In its effort to implement the economic
strategy embodied in the Seventh Plan, the Government has provided, in the
past year, the critical details of its new economic policy framework through
a series of policy statements and committee reports. The latter included the
Hussain committee report and the import and export policy statement on trade
policies; the Narasimham committee report on shifting from physical to finan-
cial controls; a report on the black economy; the Chakarvarty committee
report on monetary policies; and a statement on long term fiscal policy
issues by the Ministry of Finance. These reports deal with many of the major
issues that constrain economic growth in India. Attainment of the Seventh
Plan targets depends now to a large extent on the early implementation of
their recommendations.  The Government's commitment to policy change is
underscored by its decision to introduce, in short succession, a series of
new poLicy initiatives in the industrial sector and with respect to trade and
fiscal policy.
11.     In addition to the measures implemented in 1984/85 that aimed
primarily at improving industrial efficiency--including the opening up of the
telecommunication equipment manufacturing industry to the private sector, new
initiatives in the development of the electronics and computer industries,
introduction of "broadbanding" into the automotive and machine tool
industries--the focus of the policy changes introduced by the Government was
directed at further reducing industrial controls: the number of industrial
units coming under the Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Policies act was
reduced by 230 to 1505 units; the number of industries required to obtain
licenses to install new capacity or expand existing capacity was reduced
substantially; the number of industries benefitting from "broadbanding" was
increased; and there was also a series of improvements in procedures that
reduced delays in obtaining clearances especially for large units and firms
with foreign collaboration.
12.     Unlike the changes in industrial policy, many of which represented a
radical departure from the past, recent changes in trade policy, in par-
ticular those with respect to export promotion failed to show the same strong
commitment. In its new Import-Export policy, the Government provided both
measures to liberalize imports including substantial import duty reductions
and export incentives. While the import liberalizing measures led to a surge
in imports, the export promotion measures--which included a simplification of
the administrative requirements for duty free imports, a widening of the
eligibility for advance licenses, and a reduction of export taxes and
improvements in foreign exchange forward cover facilities--had only a mar-
ginal impact on the overall ease and profitability of exporting. This resuLt
was at least in part due to several policy changes that undermined the export
promotion effort. The advance licensing system, for example, was tightened
and a number of facilities previously available to large export houses were
withdrawn or restriccved. A future strengthening of existing export promotion
policies is clearly of high priority, if India is to meet its export targets
under the Seventh Plan.



-5-
13.     In parallel with the policy changes in the industrial and trade
sectors, the Government introduced significant changes in the tax policy. In
its 1985/86 budget the Government reduced income tax rates for individuals
and abolished the surcharge on income tax. Wealth taxes were also lowered
which together with lower income tax rates reduced the maximum marginal tax
rate on income from wealth from over 110% to 70%. In the 1986/87 budget,
further concessions and simplification foreshadowed by the Long Term Fiscal
Policy statement were made. But perhaps the most far-reaching policy change
in the 1986/87 budget was the introduction of the modified value added tax
system for 37 of the 68 chapters of the excise tariff covering about 35% of
its manufactured production. Other potentially important policy changes
included a new, more smoothly phased, excise tax concession scheme for small
scale industry and simplification of the excise tariff schedule through the
elimination of special excise duties covering 132 items.
14.     The performance of the economy in the first year (1985/86) of the
Seventh Plan attests not only to the soundness of the Covernment's overalL
approach, but also its determination to attain the ambitious Plan targets.
Economic growth during this past year was indeed robust. Real GDP is
estimated to have grown by almost 6% with industry growing somewhat faster
than the Seventh Plan's target of 6.6%. Agricultural GDP growth is expected
to be roughly on target with foodgrain production reaching about 150 million
tons, just a Little below the peak production level of 1983/84. There was
also a marked improvement in the performance of the key infrastructural
sectors. During the first ten months of the fiscal year, electricity gener-
ation increased by 8% on top of the 13% increase achieved in the previous
year, mainly because of better utilization of thermal plant capacity. Coal
production grew more slowly than in the previous year, refLecting the
Government's efforts to reduce large pithead stocks. Railway freight traffic
increased by more than 9% during the first nine months as larger quantities
of cement, coal, petroleum and fertilizer were shipped. The strong perfor-
mance of the agriculture, energy, and transport sectors, combined with the
new initiatives in trade and fiscal policy have lead to a surge in industrial
output and a buoyant stock market.
15.     Inflation, in terms of the wholesaLe price index, rose by only 6%
during the first nine months of the fiscal year, compared to 7X during the
same period in 1984. High foodgrain stocks, sugar and edible oil imports,
the strict control of non-plan expenditure, and increases in the statutory
liquidity ratio of commercial banks were key factors restraining inflation.
The recent price increases of coal, fertilLzer, grain and petroleum products
are not expected to significantly affect the inflation rate.
16.     However, with respect to one of the principal objectives of the
Seventh Plan, namely to accelerate export growth to a level that would allow
India to finance its imports, performance during the past year has been
disappointing. Preliminary data indicate a 1% decline in the US dollar value
of non-petroleum exports and a 21% increase in imports during the first half
of the fiscal year over the same period in 1984/85. Most of the increase in
imports was due to a bunching of bulk imports by canalizing agencies in the
first two quarters of the year to take advantage of declining commodity
prices. During the third quarter, import growth subsided significantly and
there was also a discernible improvement in exports. Despite the expected
increase in the trade deficit for the year as a whole, however, reserves are
expected to increase by 600 million US dollars. This is in part due to a



-6-
moderate increase in worker's remittances, tourism receipts and a surge in
non-resident deposits which amount now to almost US$1.4 billion.
17.     Development Prospects and  Policies.  Attaining the objectives of the
Seventh Plan in the years ahead will place heavy demands on policy adjustment
and entail major challenges. India will need to: (a) maintain the recent
higher rate of expansion of agricultural production; (b) accelerate
industrial production and export growth through policy changes which enhance
competition and efficiency; (c) expand supply capacities in the economy by
improving basic infrastructure services and the availability of energy;
(d) improve the efficiency with which resources are used, including the
existing and new capital stock in infrastructure and industry; and
(e) further improve the already high resource mobilization effort.
18.     Agriculture.  Despite an impressive performance under tha Sixth Plan,
Indian agriculture faces many challenges in the second half of the decade.
As possibilities for extending cultivated acreage shrink, agricultural growth
will depend on finding new ways of increasing the productivity of land
through further development of irrigation, better water management, more
intensive use of new technology, efficient delivery of inputs and services,
and appropriate pricing policies. High priority must be given to the expan-
siaon of the country's irrigable area through completion of ongoing irrigation
projects, as well as selective investment in new undertakings. Besides
creating new irrigation potential, the efficiency of irrigated farming will
have to be enhanced through the improvement of water management practices in
existing irrigation systems. Greater emphasis should also be given to
obtaining higher yields under rainfed and dryland farming conditions.
Finally, even greater efforts must be made to build and strengthen institu-
tions to ensure the efficient delivery of agricultural services, input
supplies, credit and technology.
19.     Industry and Trade.   Prospects for raising India's GDP growth rate
will, to a large extent, depend on *nore rapid industrial production and
export growth. A key requirement will be greater competitive pressure on
industry than has been the case in the past. The size and domestic orienta-
tion of the Indian economy make it necessary that this competitive pressure
come mainly from within the domestic economy. An important complement,
however, will be greater exposure to foreign trade to stimulate domestic
competition as well as to induce technological innovation and modernization.
20.     To increase domestic competition, domestic policies will need to
allow freer entry and exit of firms in the industrial sector and greater
reliance on market price signals. As indicated above the Government has
taken various initiatives in the above directions during the past several
years. These changes have begun to produce a marked favorable impact on the
investment climate, private corporate profitability and the growth of the
stock market. All these suggest that the manufacturing sector is beginning
to respond to the new policy changes in industry. However, the policy chan-
ges initiated to date only begin the long process of adjusting the trade and
industrial policy environment under which industry operates. Much more
remains to be done to transform the policy environment from one based on a
system of extensive direct physical controls to one in which competitive
pressures both within the country and abroad induce the improvements in
productivity and technology upgrading which are required by Indian industry
for accelerated investment, production and export growth. As indicated



-7-
above, the Government has introduced a number of measures to promote exports.
Up to now these changes have had little impact on export growth. If further
efforts fail to bring the export growth rate closer to the 7% target of the
Seventh Plan, the prospects for sustaining the import Liberalization effort
and in turn the prospects for accelerating industrial and overall GDP growth
will be seriously affected. Thus, there remains an urgent need for the
Government to (a) intensify its efforts in improving direct export incentives
and to provide greater access to imported inputs and capitaL goods through
continued import liberalization; (b) review tariffs, eliminating anomalies
and Lowering their overall level; and (c) modify trade policies in such a
way that the net impact of incentives is more neutral between exports and
import substitution.
21.     Infrastructure Sectors.  Investments in these sectors currently
constitute about one-third oE total investment in India, and the efficiency
with which these investments are managed has an important bearing on the
efficiency of total investment and the growth rate of the entire economy.
There is substantial evidence that better planning and management of public
investments in power, coal, railways and irrigation could improve returns
and lower the current capital-output ratios. For example, more efficient use
of investment couLd be achieved by better water management in irrigation
projects, improved load factors in thermal power generation, better capacity
utilization in the fertilizer industry and improved efficiency in railway
transport.
22.     Resource Mobilization.  India's gross national savings rate (22.6%
in 1980-B5) is already high for country at India's level of income. The
Seventh Plan calls for a public sector outlay of 1,800 billion rupees. Out
of this total, 42Z is to be financed from the public sector's own resourcer,
compared to the 37% level during the Sixth Plan period. Financing of the
Plan--while holding foreign savings as a share of GDP at prudent levels--will
require, apart from restraint in current expenditures (including a reduction
in the rapidly growing food and fertilizer subsidies), some further increase
in the aggregate savings rate especiaLly in public savings.l/ Economically
efficient pricing policies in public enterprises, supported by improvements
in their operational efficiency, would be the preferred means for increasing
public resource mobilization.
23.     Balance of Payments.  A policy of sustained CDP growth of 5% per
annum will need to be complemented by measures which assure a viable balance
of payments position. Acceleration of industrial growth will lead to a
substantial increase in import requirements, even after allowing for con-
tinued import substitution of key bulk cummodity items. Bank staff estimates
place the export volume growth necessary to support these growing import
requirements without excessive increases in externaL borrowing at about 7% a
year over the Seventh Plan period. Prospects for India to attain the needed
1/ As indicated above, the Government has introduced significant changes
in its tax policy, including a reduction of income tax rates for
individuals and the introduction of a moditied value added tax system.
While it is too early to judge the longer term impact of these changes,
it is encouraging that the Central Government's tax receipts during
1985186 were running well ahead of last year and of the budget estimates.



-8-
higher export growth rates will depend heavily on changes in domestic policy
to improve the profitability of exports.
24.     Even assuming favorable export performance, India wiLl continue to
need substantial external capital flows to augment its own resources for the
foreseeable future. Even with 8% export growth, the 5% GDP growth implies an
increase in gross capital inflows from US$17.5 billion to US$23.5 billion
between the Sixth and Seventh Plan periods. In the past, the bulk of this
financing was provided in the form of official development assistance. In
more recent years the availability of concessional assistance to India has
declined. Total bilateral grants and concessional loans declined from a
level of about US$1.3 billion per annum over the years 1979/80-1981/82 to
US$1.1 billion in 1984185. Moreover, there was a Large deterioration in the
terms of aid from multilateral sources. For exampLe, while total lending
from the Bank Group continued to increase in nominal terms, the grant element
declined from 71% to 41% as new commitments of IDA declined from a peak of
$19535 million ila FYB0 to $673 million in FY85 and about $600 million in
FY86.
25.     In the event that official development assistance does not increase
significantly from recent levels, nearly the full additional financing
required would have to be provided from additional non-concessional borrowing
from official and commercial sources. This will increase India's debt serv-
ice ratio from the present level of 15.5% to 21.6% by 1989/90. Provided
India can in fact, expand export earnings along the lines described earlier,
the country should be able to raise the projected amounts.
26.     In the short term, a relatively large level of external borrowing,
including in increased emphasis on commercial borrowing, will be necessary to
cope with the balance of payments consequences of the growth strategy
described e,!rlier. Although India is currently in a position to increase
borrowing on commercial terms from the very low levels of the past, there
are, of course, limits beyond which India will choose to sacrifice growth
objectives rather than accept debt on unfavorable or unmanageable terms.
While therefore a greater volume of both official concessional and non-
concessional asiistance is warranted, concessional assistance, in particular,
will be invaluabLe in moderating the build-up in India's debt service burden.
Apart from the quantitative arguments for concessional aid, there remains the
imperative to assist India in addressing the problems of pervasive poverty.
While India is now better placed than other poor countries to tackle its
development problems, the mobilization of additional resources to address
poverty problems .i heavily constrained. Concessional assistance can play an
important role in reiieving this constraint.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
27.     Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 100 loans and 185 development
credits to India totalling US$10,228 million and US$14,000 million (both net
of cancellations), respectively. Of these amounts, US$1,735 million has been
repaid, and US$9,169 million was still undisbursed as of September 30, 1986.
Rank Group disbursements to India in the current fiscal year through
September 30, 1986 totalLed US$182 million, representing an increase of about
2 percent over the same period Last year. Annex II contains a summary state-
ment of disbursements as of September 30, 1986.



-9-
28.     Since 1959, IFC has made 45 commitments in India totalling
US$396 million, of which a total of US$209 million has been repaid, sold,
terminated or cancelled. Of the balance of US$187 million, US$179 million
represents loans and US$8 million equity. A summary statement of IFC disbur-
sements as of September 30, 1986, is also included in Annex II.
29.     The thrust of Bank Group assistance to India has been consistent with
the country's development objectives in its support of agriculture, energy
and infrastructure. Of particular importance have been investments in
irrigation, extension and on-farm development designed to increase agricul-
tural productivity, and efforts to improve the availabiLity of basic agricul-
tural inputs to farmers through credit, fertilizer, marketing, storage, and
seed projects. Major elements of the lending program have also been directed
at helping to meet the energy needs of the economy while curbing the growth
of oil imports, and to ease the infrastructure bottlenecks which have
hampered economic growth in India, particularLy through power generation and
distribution, and railways and telecommunications projects. The Bank Group
has also provided financing for a broad range of medium- and smaLl-scale
industrial enterprises, primarily in the private sector, through its support
of development finance institutions. Recognizing the importance of improving
the ability to satisfy the essentiaL needs of urban and rural populations,
the Bank Group has supported nutrition and famiLy planning programs, a rural
roads project, as well as water supply and sewerage and other urban
infrastructure projects.
30.     This pattern of assistance remains highly relevant, and consonant
with Government priorities, as reflected in the the Seventh Plan. First,
high priority will continue to be given to GOI's agricultural program. While
India has made significant progress in agriculture, productivity growth will
have to be sustained to improve the balance between food demand and supply
and to contribute tD poverty alleviation and employment. Thus, the Bank
Group will continue to support irrigation, fertilizer production and
distribution, and agricultural extension, research and credit.  Second,
alongside GOI's efforts in promoting greater efficiency and faster develop-
ment of the industrial sector, increased assistance will be provided for
industrial development. Third, in line with the stress which the Seventh
Plan gives to the expansion and more efficient use of basic infrastructure
capacity and to the development of India's indigenous hydrocarbon resources,
the Bank Group will continue to provide substantial support to the develop-
ment of the energy, transport and telecommunications sectors to alleviate
critical shortages which constrain output in both the agricultural and
industrial sectors. Fourth, support of urban development and other GOr basic
social services programs for the poor will also continue in light of the
growth in population which, despite successes in lowering birth and death
rates, still increases by about 16 million each year.
31.     The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of india's economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.
Thanks in part to the response of the aid community, India successfully
adjusted to the changed world price situation of the mid-1970s. However,
India continues to require a substantial level of foreign assistance both to
offset the overall deterioration in the world trade environment, and to
sustain the relatively higher investment and growth rates achieved during the
Sixth Plan period. As in the past, Bank Group assistance for projects in



-10-
India should aim to include the financing of local expenditures. India
imports relatively few capital goods because of the capacity and competitive-
ness of the domestic capital goods industry. Consequently, the foreign
exchange component tends to be small in most projects. This is particularly
the case in such high-priority sectors as agriculture and the social sectors.
32.     India's poverty and needs are such that whenever possible, external
capital requirements should be provided on concessional terms. Accordingly,
the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India in the past was provided from
IDA. However, IDA lending to India is declining from a peak of US$1.5 bil-
lion in FYB0, mostly due to funding constraints. The amount of IDA funds
available to India is likely to remain small in relation to India's needs for
external support. Thus, this requirement for additional assistance will have
to be met, in part, through larger Bank lending. Given its development
prospects and policies, India is judged creditworthy for Bank lending to
supplement IDA assistance. A continuation of efforts already underway to
achieve growth in productive capacity, trade expansion, higher leveLs of
savings, foodgrains self-sufficiency and a reduction in the rate of popula-
tion growth should result in continued economic growth and improvement in the
balance of payments. India's debt service ratio is estimated at about 15.2%
in 1984/85. This ratio is projected to rise to around 20% by 1989/90, mainly
due to the hardening structure of India's debt; and to increase slightly over
this level through the mid-1990's. Although the projected debt service
ratios are considerably above historical levels, they are still manageable
and will not adversely affect India's creditworthiness.
33.     Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1970/71, the Bank
Groupr -counted for 22% of total commitments, 112 of gross disbursements, and
10% of net disbursements as compared with 62%, 40% and 51Z, respectively, in
198586. In 1985/86, about 23.8% of India's total debt service payments were
to the Bank Group. On March 31, 1986, India's outstanding and disbursed
external public debt was estimaLed to be about US$26.7 billion, of which the
Bank Group's share was US$11.9 billion or 45% (IDA's US$9.8 billion and
IBRD's US$2.2 billion). As of September 30, 1986 outstanding loans and
credits to India held by the Bank totalled US$22,492 million, of which
US$9,169 million remain to be disbursed, leaving a net amount outstanding of
US$13,323 million.



-l1-
PART III - THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERACE SECTOR IN INDIA
Sector Investment and National Service Coals
34.     Although the Central Government provides financial support to the
water supply and sewerage sector in India, State Covernments have primary
responsibility for development of this sector. They execute their respon-
sibilities through various government departments and agencies which, in
turn, may delegare part or all of their duties to local authorities.
35.     Since the early 1950's, State Governments have tried to meet the
increasing sector demands caused by rapidly expanding populations and
unprecedented rates of urban growth. However, competing demands for resour-
ces by other sectors, lack of management and planning skills, shortages of
key materials and equipment, as well as foreign exchange constraints, have
resulted in only 1-2% of public expenditure being invested in the sector,
prior to 1975. This situation continued during the Fifth Plan (1974-78) and
the two subsequent annual plans (1978-80), leading to inadequate levels of
water supply and sewerage service. Investment for urban water supply and
sewerage during the Fifth Plan averaged Rs 1,100 million per year, or about
1.5% of the total Plan investment. The corresponding figure for the rural
areas was Rs 750 million, or about 1.0X of the total Plan investment.
36.     These investments were inadequate to achieve substantial progress
in overalL service levels. In 1980, the World Health Organization (WHO)
estimated that in India about 287 million people, or 42% of the total popula-
tion, had access to reasonably safe drinking water, and that only 43 million
(6% of the population) were covered by sanitation services. As part of the
COI drive to meet the goals of the International Drinking Water Supply and
Sanitation Decade, GOI adopted the following targets to be achieved by 1990:
urban and rural water supply - 100%; urban waste disposal - 80%; rural
sanitation - 25%. To meet these targets, COI has significantly increased the
amount of funds available to the sector. In the Sixth Plan (1980-85) 4% of
the total Plan provision was allocated to the sector with 2.2% to the rural
sector (an average of Rs 4,300 million per year) and 1.8% to urban water
supply and sanitation (an average of Rs 3,500 million per year).
37.     While these investment levels represent a substantial increase in
proposed sector expenditures, it is unlikely that the Decade goals witl be
fully realized by 1990. A WHO Study 11 has concluded that there would still
be a substantial shortfall in funds and a lack of sufficiently qualified
manpower. An equally important factor affecting the achievement of targeted
goals is the efficient operation and maintenance of existing systems. This
1/ World Health Organization, South Asia Regional Organization (SEARO)
Regional Health Papers No. 1, Decade Commencement Report, 1983.



-12-
has always presented a serious challenge, and institutional strengthening and
intensive training of personnel at all levels in the sector will be needed to
achieve required standards.
Sectoral Priorities in the Bombay Metropolitan Region
38.     The Seventh Plan (1986-91) anticipates that for the Bombay
Metropolitan Region (BMR) some 34% of total public investment needs will be
in the transport sector, 25% in shelter, and 24% in water supply and sanita-
tion. Hence, these three sectors are the focus of priority in BMR, compris-
ing 83% of budgeted Plan outlays. With the recent launching of the
IDA-financed Bombay Urban Development Project, and the proposed Bank financ-
ing of this Third Water Supply and Sewerage Project, the mix of BMC invest-
ments in the shelter and water supply sector wiLl be consistent with these
BMR sectoral priorities.
Bombay Municipal Corporation
39.     The Bombay Municipal Corporation (BMC) is part of BRM, which is a
legal planning jurisdiction in the State of Maharashtra. As the third
largest state in India, Maharashtra has an area of 306,000 Km2 and an
estimated population of 60 million. Bombay is the capital city of
Maharashtra State and the second largest city in India. It has the largest
port and industrial center in the country, and accounts for about 30% of
India's industrial production.
40.     BMC is responsible for the provision of many local services, includ-
ing water supply, sewerage and sewage disposal. BMC has been able to maintain
considerable autonomy in the provision of services. A separate and finan-
cially autonomous Water Supply and Sewerage Department (WSSD) was established
within BMC in 1973. Previously, responsibility for these services was
divided among a number of Committees and Departments. WSSD maintains
separate funds and accounts, and prepares financial statements using commer-
cial accounting principles. The financial performance of WSSD has been very
good. Over the past five years it has realized operating surpluses suffi-
cient to finance about 50% of its capital investments; it has maintained
strong liquidity positions; and it has achieved rates of return in excess of
its average cost of borrowed funds.
41.     The 1981 census stated the population of the Bombay metropolitan area
as 8.23 million persons.  Populations of 10.75 and 12.78 milLion are forecast
for years 1991 and 2001, respectively, representing annual growth rates of
2.7% for the period 1981-1991, and 1.7% for 1991-2001. The main increase in
population is expected to be in the low income groups occupying tenement and
slum accommodation.
42.     Bombay has obtained its water supplies from various sources commenc-
ing with the development of Vihar lake which was brought into use in 1860,
followed by the commissioning of the Tulsi reservoir in 1879 and the develop-
ment of the Tansa reservoir. These developments ensured adequate supplies



-13-
until around 1944. As the water demand increased BMC sanctioned the commen-
cement of work on the lower Vaitarna scheme which was commissioned in 1957.
Following an unusuaLly dry year in 1966, BMC constructed an intake on the
river Ulhas which was commissioned in 1967 and finally, completed the work on
the Upper Vaitarna reservoir scheme in 1972.
43.     To safeguard future water availability, BMC instituted an investiga-
tion in 1964 to determine additional sources of supply. This resulted in the
development of the Bhatsai potable and irrigation water supply scheme. This
scheme is designed to supply, ultimately, 1,365 million liters per day (mld)
(300 million gaLlons per day tmgd)) of potable water to BMC in three
tranches, and a further 455mld (lOOmgd) for irrigation use. Construction of
an impounding reservoir is being carried out in three stages. The first
stage was completed in 1979 when the first tranche of 455 mld (100 mgd) was
released to BMC. This provided the source water for the First Bombay Water
Supply and Sewerage Project (Credit 390-IN). Dam construction is now suffi-
ciently advanced to enable the second tranche of 455mld to be released to BMC
as soon as the works under the Second Project (Credit 842-IN) are completed
in 1987. The third and final 455 mld tranche of water wilL be provided under
the proposed third project by 1991. The gross potable water availability for
BMC from all sources will then reach 2,930 mld (645 mgd), compared with an
estimated gross demand at that time of about 3,568 mld (785 mgd).
44.     The present sewerage system in Bombay was established in 1905.  The
need for system improvements became acute when BHC's boundaries were extended
in 1951 and 1958. A Sewerage Master Plan prepared in 1979 provided proposals
for the treatment and disposal of Bombay's waste water through year 2005.
Implementation of these proposals started under the First Bombay Water Supply
and Sewerage Project and continued in the on-going Second Water Supply and
Sewerage Project. The First Project covered over 50Z of BMC's area, but the
treatment and disposal facilities remained inadequate. This issue is being
addressed under the Second Project.
World Bank Operations in the Water Supply and Sanitation Sector
45.     The Bank Group's goals in the sector have been: to support the
Central and State Covernments' overall objective of extending water and
sanitation services to a majority of the population and to assist in improv-
ing the efficiency of sector operations and the distribution of services. In
pursuit of these goals, Bank projects have: (a) promoted institutional
development and the formation of semi-autonomous water supply and sewerage
authorities; (b) encouraged the financial viability and managerial efficiency
of sector institutions through the adoption of commerciaL style accounting
systems and controls; (c) assisted in the formulation of tariff policies to
promote the conservation and equitable access to water, and to help finance
operations; and (d) fostered the re-evaluation of design standards and the
adoption of lower cost technologies.
46.     The Bank Group's involvement in the water supply and sanitation
sector in India began in 1974 with a US$55 million credit for the First



-14-
Bombay Water SuppLy and Sewerage Project. Since then, the Bank has made
available nine credits totalling US$643 million for water supply and sewerage
projects, and provided a further US$200 million for water supply and sewerage
as part of a broader program of infrastructure development in urban areas.
Three projects have been completed: the First Bombay Water Supply and
Sewerage Project which financed water transmission, distribution and treat-
ment facilities as well as expansion of the sewerage system in the Greater
Bombay area; a US$40 million credit for Uttar Pradesh which supported the
construction of water supply and sewerage facilities for five large towns,
and provided safe piped water to a number of smaller towns and villages; and
a US$48 million Credit for the Maharashtra Water Supply and Sewerage Project
providing expanded water and sanitation services to large municipalities and
a number of smaller communities throughout the state. On-going projects cover
water supply and sewerage for the city of Bombay, and the states of Punjab,
Rajasthan, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu and Kerala. Rural water supply schemes were
also included in the two Haryana Irrigation Projects.
47.     The physical works financed by the Bank Group have been implemented
satisfactorily, although moderate delays in implementation have been
encountered in most projects. Efforts to reduce costs through the judicious
selection of service standards and the use of lower cost technical options
have been increasingly successful. Several programs to develop, test and
promote low-cost sanitation technologies have been undertaken by State
Governments and by the World Bank/UNDP Technical Assistance Project. The
major concern on the physical side has been the unsatisfactory standards in
the operation and maintenance of completed facilities, which is linked to
institutional and financial issues.
48.     Past projects have not been fully successful in achieving institu-
tional, financial or economic goals. The Bank shares the GOI's concern over
this, and is collaborating with COI through the Central Ministry of Urban
Development and the relevant State Governments in a review of past perfor-
mance. This review has revealed that many of the initiatives agreed under
past projects have not been fulLy or successfully implemented. These
failures have contributed to inadequace cost recovery, and thus
under-financing of operations and maintenance. The difficulties appear to
have resulted from several interrelated problems. First, the initiatives
themselves were ambitious. Second, the reforms and the detailed operating
procedures needed to implement them have not been thoroughly developed or
adequately presented. Third, realistic schedules needed for implementing new
procedures have not been planned or coordinated with the training and techni-
cal assistance needed to facilitate the changes. Despite these difficulties,
the Bombay Water Supply System is one of the better managed operations in
India. Major objectives under the First Project were achieved and the Water
Supply and Sewerage Department under BMC has performed well in meeting its
financial obligations. However, WSSD is trying to catch up with a backlog of
work. Under the ongoing Second Project, WSSD is developing a project
monitoring system to provide management information on a contract-by-contract
basis for physical works progress, and for capital and reimbursable expendi-
tures. A costing system for the existing Bhandup complex (Bombay's major



-15-
water suppLy) also is being developed to provide essential operational cost-
ing data. Both systems are being designed to improve the project implementa-
tion and operational management performance of WSSD.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Formulation
49.     The proposed project was prepared by BMC with assistance from Bank
staff and consultants and was appraised in February 1985. Negotiations were
held in Washington, D.C. in April 1986 with Mr. K.C. Ramachandran, Deputy
Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance as
coordinator of the Indian Delegation. A Staff Appraisal Report entitled
"India, Third Water Supply and Sewerage Project" (Report No. 5733-IN, dated
October 31, 1986), is being distributed separately. A supplementary project
data sheet is attached as Annex III.
Project Objectives
50.     The project would be part of a continuing program to expand the water
supply and sewerage facilities for the city of Bombay to keep pace with
increasing demand from population growth and expansion of industrial and
commercial activities. The objectives of the project are to:
(a)  Continue and expand on the efforts of previous projects in improving
WSSD efficiency through improvements in project management, procure-
ment, billing and collections, and leak detection and repair;
(b) Expand water supply and sanitation facilities for the urban poor;
(c)  Increase the supply of water to the BHC area by 455 mld to a total
of 2,930 mld to reduce the deficiency from the current level of 36%
to 18Z by 1991;
(d)  Expand the sewerage conveyance facilities in developing areas of the
city which are not already served; and
(e)  Evaluate operating experience and develop appropriate design criteria
and technical options for future investments in sewage treatment in
Bombay and other parts of India.
Project Description
51.     The principal features of the project are shown in Maps IBRD 18974
and 18975 (attached). The project components and their all inclusive costs
are summarized below:



-16-
Water Supply
(a) System Transmission Distribution (US$171.2 million)
Ci)  Construction of 101 km of trunk and distribution mains, with a
diameter range of 150 mm to 3,000 mm;
(ii)  Construction of 9 km of 3,000 m  diameter transmission tunnels;
(iii) Installation of 76 km of internal cement mortar pipelining; with
a diameter range of 1,200 mm to 3,000 -m; and
(iv)  Provision of leak detection system instrumentation and control
equipment, valves and about 32,000 water meters.
(b) Treatment Capacity, Pumping and Storage (US$75.0 million)
(i)  Construction of a 455 mld capacity water treatment plant,
together with staff quarters for operators; and
(ii)  Construction of buildings and installation of equipment for a
pumping capacity of 2,233 mld and a clear water storage capacity
of about 144 million liters.
Sewerage and Sanitation
(c) Sewers and Pumping (US$38.5 million)
Ci)  Construction of about 54 km of sewers, with a diameter range
of 230 mm to 1,000 mm, and installation of 150 mld of pumping
capacity; and
(ii)  Construction of buildings and installation of equipment for a
pumping capacity of 150 mld in 12 units.
(d) Sanitation (US$6.6 million)
Ci)  Provision of low-cost on-site waste disposal facilities in
selected areas of Bombay not covered by water-borne sewerage;
and
(ii)  Provision of suction tanks, local pumping arrangements,
tubewells and minor mains to service the urban poor in slums.
Technical Assistance and Vehicles
(e) Training (US$3.5 million)



-17-
Training for BMC/WSSD staff in system maintenance and operations at
facilities in Bombay and abroad, including development and expansion
of course curricula already in use at BMC's training center.
(f) Consultancy (US$8.0 million)
(i)  to improve WSSD's project planning and implementation
capability; enhance billing and collection; strengthen audit
procedures; and enhance financial analysis in operations;
(ii) to help implement the project and prepare preliminary designs
for the next tranche of source development to meet future water
supply needs; and
(iii) to review design parameters in waste water disposal systems,
based on stabilization pond technology, examine the possibili-
ties for recycling wash-water at the potable water treatment
plants and to reduce distribution system water losses by the
application of improved techniques.
(g)  Vehicles for Operations (US$1.5 million)
Supply of 83 trucks, buses and other vehicles for project implementa-
tion and operations.
Project Implementation
52.     Project components would be implemented by WSSD which is already
experienced with similar project components in the on-going Second Project.
The preparation of designs, tender documents, tender reviews and supervision
of major water supply components have been assigned to local consultants who
are acceptable to the Bank/Association. The same consultants have performed
satisfactorily in the implementation of the Second Project. The pre-
qualification of contractors for the major contracts has been completed and
is expected to lead to more rapid project implementation and reduce procure-
ment delays.
Project Management
53.     Project management on the Second Water Supply and Sewerage Project
has been weak, particularly with respect to the sewerage component of the
project. The interrelationship of activities on both the on-going and
proposed projects are complex, and improvement is needed in systems and
procedures to continually monitor and relate project schedules, costs and
technical performance. To achieve this goal, WSSD has established a special
project management cell under the direction of an experienced consultant.



-18-
Training
54.     Training provided under the proposed project would extend and con-
tinue the programs already initiated in the First and Second Projects. BMC's
training establishment, the Civic Training Institute and Research Center, is
already functioning. Training manuals have been prepared by BMC covering a
wide range of water supply and sewerage operational requirements. These
manuals take cognizance of the work of other training facilities elsewhere in
India and make use of relevant foreign technical publications.
55.     Training facilities to be provided under the proposed project would
include: equipping the Civic Training Institute and Research Center; student
residentiaL accommodation; workshops; and laboratory, hydraulic and audio
visual equipment. Overseas training of BMC personnel would also be provided
to increase their job skills and operational and management efficiency.
Training in India and abroad would emphasize financial and construction
management, water supply system operation and maintenance, pollution control,
and instrumentation in system operation.
Project Costs and Financing
56.     The project cost is estimated at US$304.3 million, including US$20.6
million equivalent in customs duties and taxes. The cost estimates (at
December 1985) are based on components for which detailed designs have been
prepared for the major items. Details of the project cost are included in
the Project Summary. Since detailed engineering of major components has
already been completed, the allowances incLuded for physical contingencies
have been minimized; 10% has been added for civil works with the exception
of the distribution tunnels and the water treatment plant where a figure of
15% has been used in view of the greater uncertainty associated with these
major components. A 10% physical contingency has also been included for the
supply of materials and equipment, resulting in an overall weighted average
of all contingencies of 10.4% on the base cost. To provide for inflation
through the expected date of project completion, the following price escala-
tion rates have been used; for local expenditures, 7% for 1985/86, 7.5% from
1986/87 through 1989/90, and 5% thereafter; and for foreign expenditures,
7.5% in 1986, 8% from 1987 through 1990, and 5% for 1991 and thereafter.
57.     The project implementation period of 7-1/2 years is based on Bank
experience in implementing similar projects in the sector. However, it is
possible that the project may be implemented in 6-1/2 years, and this could
reduce the overall project cost by about US$21.4 million (7% of total project
cost).
58.     A Bank loan of US$40 million and an IDA credit of US$145 million is
proposed for the project. This would provide for about 65% of total project
costs, net of taxes and duties. The loan and credit wouLd be made to GOI,
with the proceeds being made available to GOM in accordance with GOI's stand-
ard arrangements for developmental assistance to the States of India. COM
would lend funds to the BMCIWSSD for not less than 60% of the annual captital



-19-
expenditures, and WSSD would cover 40% of the annual capital expenditures
from operating revenues. BMC's borrowing from GOM would be for 25 years,
including a five-year grace period on principal repayment, at an interest
rate of 8.75%. OI would receive the credit on standard IDA terms and the
Bank loan at the applicable interest rate. The loan would be repaid by GOI
in 20 years including a 5 years grace period.
Status of Project Preparation
59.     WSSD and its appointed consultants have already completed satisfac-
tory designs and draft tender documents for the major water supply components
of the project. All major contracts have been identified, and the site
investigation for the two distribution tunnels totalling 9 Km in length has
been completed.
Procurement and Disbursements
60.     Annex IV shows the manner in which items under the project would be
procured. All major equipment and civil works contracts would be awarded
on the basis of international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with
Bank Group guidelines. In evaluating the bids for equipment and materials,
local manufacturers participating in international bidding would be given a
preferential margin equal to 15% of the c.i.f. costs of the competing
imports, or the existing rate of customs duty, whichever is lower. A
preferential margin of 7-1/2% would be allowed for local contractors in
evaluating civil works bids. It is likely that the majority of contracts
for equipment and materials, and most contracts for civil works (with the
exception of the water treatment plant, a turnkey contract, and cement mortar
lining and tunneLling contracts), would be won by local contractors.
61.     The value of civil works, and materials and equipment contracts to
be awarded under ICB procedures is estimated, respectively, at the equivalent
of US$131 million and US$54 million, totalling US$185 million.
62.     In the interests of efficiency and economy, contracts with an
aggregate value of US$56.4 million equivalent (for laying distribution mains,
supplying and laying sewers, construction of small sewage pump stations,
staff quarters, and provision of improved water service and sanitation
facilities for the urban poor) would be awarded on the basis of local com-
petitive bidding (LCB) procedures acceptable to the Bank. These works are
all relatively small contracts which could not readily be combined into
larger contracts to make them attractive to international bidders. Minor
contracts for electrical and lifting equipmenL and pumping plant noL exceed-
ing US$200,000, individually, and aggregating to not more than US$1.0 mil-
lion, would be awarded under LCO procedures. The fabrication of steel pipes,
with a high labor content, where international contractors are not competi-
tive with Indian bidders, would also be secured through LCB. The total
estimated value of these contracts is about US$7.4 million equivalent.



-20-
63.     BHC has already employed consultants, acceptable to the Bank, to
assist WSSD with project preparations. Retroactive financing from March 1,
1985, not exceeding US$250,000 is recommended for project related expendi-
tures for consulting services for (a) the preparation of detailed designs;
(b) tender documents; and Cc) the evaLuation of prequalification of contrac-
tors for water supply components of the project.
64.     The proposed Bank Croup funds of US$185 million would be disbursed
over 8 years. The Bank Group proceeds would be disbursed against 100Z of the
cost of imported equipment and materials, or 100% of the ex-factory cost of
locally manufactured goods procured under ICB; 60% of the expenditures of
locally procured equipment and material; 63% of the cost of civil works
contracts subject to ICB or to LCB; and 100% of the cost of consulting serv-
ices and training. No disbursements wouLd be made against administrative
costs, taxes and duties in India, or against contributions to projects
financed under any other IDA credit. Disbursements would be fully documented
except for civil works contracts under $500,000, and equipment and material
contracts under US$200,000, for which disbursements would be made against
certified Statements of Expenditures.
WSSD Financial Performance
65.     Separate funds and accounts were established for WSSD in 1975, and
WSSD began reporting its financial position and results of operations using
commercial accounting principles beginning in 1979. The performance of WSSD
in implementing its accounting systems, including some computerization, has
been impressive.
66.     The financial performance of WSSD over the past five years has been
satisfactory. The Liquidity position of WSSD has been consistently good with
annual operating surpluses over the past five years. These surpluses have
been sufficient to enable WSSD to finance an average of about 60% of its
annual investment outlays under the Second Water Supply and Sewerage Project.
Annual operating performance of WSSD over the past five years has yielded
satisfactory rates of return, averaging about 10.1% on unrevalued assets. A
revaluation of fixed assets would have reduced the rates of return to an
estimated average of about 6.5%. This would still have been a satisfactory
level, in view of the average cost of borrowed funds for WSSD being only
about 4% during the past five years.
The Revaluation of Assets
67.     WSSD revalued its fixed assets in 1975 to allow for more realistic
depreciation charges reflecting the replacement cost of the assets. The
assets were to be revalued at regular intervals in the future using a general
price index for India. However, the periodic revaLuations have not been
done. GOI has stated that accounting for and reporting fixed assets at
replacement value does not conform to generalLy accepted accounting prin-
ciples in India. Hence, for purposes of establishing cash reserves for
planned rehabilitation or replacement of WSSD plant and equipment, WSSD will



-21-
notionally revalue fixed assets annually, using an appropriate index.
Depreciation amounts calculated on these asset replacement values would then
be the basis for deposits to a specific cash account to be used for asset
rehabilitation and replacement.
Tariffs
68.     Some 75% of billed water and sewerage revenue in Bombay comes from
metered charges, with charges to industrial and commercial users amounting to
about 54% of totaL billed revenue. Presently, the overall effective tariff
rate in Bombay amounts to about Rs 19/10,000 liters. However, domestic
consumers are heavily subsidized by industrial and commercial consumers.
Metered charges to industrial and commercial establishments range from Rs 20
to 60/10,000 liters, while domestic household charges are Rs 3/10,000 liters.
At current water consumption levels, the average monthly domestic water and
sewerage bill amounts to about only Rs 20. Even for a relatively affluent
domestic consumer the bill would not exceed about Rs  13 per month. A Rs 20
monthly bill would approximate 2% of an average family income, suggesting
that higher domestic tariffs would still be affordable. While the weight of
future tariff increases are likely to fall on domestic consumers, it will
become important for WSSD to also consider the relative tariff implications
for low income and high income households. The average incremental cost of
water under this project would be about Rs 29/10,000 liters, assuming 12%
opportunity cost of capital. Effective tariff increases of about 30% in FY
1986, 40% in FY 1988 and 40% in FY 1992 will be needed to bring average
incremental revenues in line with costs.
Internal Cash Generation
69.     Assurances were obtained at negotiations that WSSD would maintain
tariff levels to ensure that internal funds are available to cover at least
33Z of its capital expenditures in any year, and at least a 40% average in
two consecutive years. Also, to minimize the effects of any project
implementation delays on the effectiveness of the covenant, assurances also
were obtained that the cash generation percentages in any year would apply to
either actual annual capital expenditures, or to a stipulated plan of annual
expenditures, whichever would be greater. The stipulated plan of annual
expenditures corresponds to the Bank-wide 8 year disbursement profile, which
was used as a basis for the financial appraisal of the project.
Management of Cash Surpluses
70.     WSSD will be generating significant and necessary cash surpluses
during the implementation of this project, and thereafter. However, this
surplus will be needed for the planned replacement or rehabilitation of
capital assets, and for additional capital investment. To ensure that the
surpluses are being allocated prudently, WSSD would estabLish a specific cash
account for the periodic replacement or rehabilitation of capital assets,
effective for FY1987, and that all annual operating surpluses (after meeting



-22-
40% of capital expenditure from operating revenues, and allowing for suffi-
cient unrestricted cash to maintain a quick current ratio of not more than
2:1) would be deposited in this account, until the accumulated deposits equal
accumulated depreciation charges. This is projected to happen in FY1994.
Thereafter, annual deposits equal to annual depreciation charges would con-
tinue to be made to this cash account.
Debt Ceiling Restriction
71.     Currently BMC has a statutory debt ceiling which limits total debt to
twice the rateable value base of real property. Projected BMC/WSSD borrowing
from COM for this project would cause BMC debt to exceed this ceiling in
FY1987. The matter has been discussed by BMC with GOM, and assurances were
received that necessary statutory amendments to Chapter 6 of the Bombay
Municipal Corporation Act would be made to allow the debt ceiling to be
raised to four times the rateable value base, only applicable to the WSSD
borrowing. As psrt of oA Action Plan WSSD would take necessary administra-
tive actions toward the timely enactment of the statutory amendment.
Health Benefits and Environmental Impact
72.     In some parts of the Bombay municipal area water is available only
for periods of 4 to 8 hours per day. This creates conditions whereby pol-
luted groundwater could be drawn into the system. BMC is aware of this
potential danger and regularly tests the water in the distribution system to
deal with such occurrences. Nonetheless, a high priority of BMC is to
increase the water supply production capability to progressively extend the
hours of water service availability throughout the system. A major component
in this project addresses thin issue by the provision of a further 455 mld of
fully treated water from the Bhatsai source, so that by the time the project
is complete the shortfall will have been reduced to about 18% of the
projected demand. The project also includes provisions to: (a) improve
leakage detection and repair; (b) operational improvements by the introduc-
tion of a telemetry information and system control module; and (c) a study of
the re-cycling of wastewater from potable water treatment plants. These
components are all designed to improve service levels and water availability,
leading ultimately to the provision of a continuously pressurized distribu-
tion system delivering safe hygienic water at all times.
73.     Bombay's wastewater collection and disposal system which is being
implemented under the Second Project has been designed and built progres-
sively for a planning horizon in year 2005. Hence, the additional water
supplies will not adversely contribute to Bombay's wastewater disposal
problems. Minor extensions to the sewer conveyance system are included in
the proposed project to serve in newly developed areas. Also, wasLewater
treatment processes will be reviewed further to decide future investment
options, and to determine the most cost effective technologies for pollution
control.



-23-
Benefits for the Urban Poor
74.     The current population of 9.4 million in BMC's supply area is
explecLed to grow to about 10.75 million in 1991, when the project would
become fully operational. Some 50% of this population is estimated to have
household incon'es below the Bombay absolute poverty level of Rs 875 per
month.
75.     The health impacts of inadequate water suppLy, sewerage and sanita-
tion service levels fall most heavily on the urban poor since they are
generally less able to afford privately owned facilities such as ground water
storage tanks, pumping systems and on site disposal systems to compensate for
the deficiencies in the municipal system. It is acknowledged that to provide
significant health benefits, improved water service facilities must be accom-
panied by adequate sanitation Eacilities and sound hygienic practices. The
water supply and sanitation components in this project would provide improved
services to around 5.3 million of Bombay's urban poor, in addition to the
service improvements provided in the Second Project. Sanitation improvements
incLude on-site human waste disposal, public toilets and ablution facilities.
Site specific components included in the project would provide suction tanks
and pumping systems for slum colonies on high ground, development of well
water for flushing purposes, tubewells and mains extensions in slum areas,
and sanitation facilities in fringe areas of the city. These provisions
would directly benefit the urban poor and complement the provision of latrine
blocks, surface and sullage water drainage, and the provision of standpipe
water services being provided under the Second Project.
76.     Importantly, about half the total incremental volume (320 mld) of
producvion water to be provided by the project, and reserved for domestic
use, would directly benefit those living in poverty by increasing the per
capita amount of drinking water available, and by extending the hours of
service. Thus, about 5.3 million of the poor (60% of Bombay's current
population) would receive direct benefit from this project. Additional
indirect benefits would include improved job opportunities for the poor from
conunercial expansion and iindustrial growth resulting from the additional
water made available under the project. About US$120 million of the total
project cost (about 40% of the project cost) would benefit the urban poor.
Project Risks and Safeguards
77.     This is a complex and extensive project which includes major pumping
and treatment facilities, conveyance works and tunnels associated with the
development of the water supply component. However, these works to a large
extent would be similar to the cumponents in the Second Project, with which
WSSD and its consultant are familiar in their execution. The main problems
on the Second Project have been the lack of project coordination, par-
ticularly on the sewerage component, and delayed implementation due largely
to: (a) BMC's cumbersome procurement procedures; (b) design changes during
project execution; and (c) over ambitious construction schedules.



-24-
78.     In the proposed project, safeguards have been taken to prevent a
recurrence of these difficulties by: (a) the prequalification of contractors
for major contracts before inviting priced bids; (b) determination of least
cost solutions and preparation of detailed designs for major components prior
to project appraisal; (c) determination of reliable cost esLimates based on
detaiLed designs; and (d) the adoption of the 8 year Bank-wide sector disbur-
sement profiLe to determine the implementation schedule and cost inflation
allowances. WSSD has established a project management cell under the direc-
tion of an experienced consultant. This consultant would serve as a project
planning and control coordinator to strengthen WSSD's management performance
on both the on-going and proposed projects.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
79.     I am satisfied that the proposed loan and credit would comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the IBRD and the Association. I recommend thac
the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan and credit.
B.B. Conable
President
November 15, 1986



ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 2
-25-
eCOOMtIC OtVELOPMENT DATA
CNP PER CAPITA IN I91H3 uss2n0 al
GR055 COMeSTIC PRODUCT IN  9104155 to                                      ANNUAL R4TF or OROttl t_  rnOi%IANI POIntS  S
USIS  n.    IL            55/59-59/60  60,63-f4f5f   65/61-69f7o  Irlri-rT4#5   ?5v76-719i0  *0/-W 3/1A14
GOP at Market Prices              179.34  100.0               3.7           3.6            3.7             9             .'5 1.2
Groab  Comeatic lenveateant        41C88   23.4
Gross Na tional Sauulng            35.93   20.0
Current account Salanca             6.95    304
OUIPUT. LA0OR FQRCE AND PN9OOTIHflTV it  1°B1
Value Added (at        Labor force  ±'            V.A  Per Worker
Vecctor Coat)
IL of Nat onal
USS bin.   S           t il.        1USs                 aRvrage
oArIculture           52.5    35.9         172.7      70 6         304          51
Industry              34.5    23.5          3138      1219       1.092         839
Servlces              59.2    40.5          40.3      16.5       1.451J        246
Tottat/Averege        346.2   30O.0        244 a      '00.0        59         '00
GOVERNMENT FINANrCE
General Gouernent e/                     Central Gourfent
am aln.            % of GDP            Re Bin.              % of GOP
98l-/9S     1964/US  90i8I-I4/5        1984155       1994185  90'R1-t4:0s
Current Receipts                    436.23        20.46       19.56        240.99          11 30       la A2
Current Eapendltures                476.26        22 34       20.05        27r 57          17'.8 H     ".J0
Current Surplus/Oeficit             -40.03         1.698      -0.49        -334H9          -1 So       -C.11
Cagltat £spanditur-s f"             164.24        8fl          flu12       '46 '4          6.65         60 9
E.ternal Asslstance [net) al         15.67         a 74        0 87
ONEV.  COED3t AND PhICES               1970/71  1975176  1979/90  9U10B1fl  1981/92  1993f53   1903/84  198I/8S5  Feb. 55  Feb. 56
Os -BIlli'on. outstandi-ng at o..-da t0mr carlod
Aoi-ie  and QuahlMon-y                   1099      024.9    472 3    557.7    627.5    728.7 '         60.9  un  7  10O03.4  1.164,0
lank Credit to Gaowrnent Inet i           54.6    'D6.3    200 3    253.2    306 3    I53.1 1           7 a    gil- 5    49S0.5    593 2
Sank Credit to Co-esercla  Sector        64i.6    i56.2    310.1    366.4    434.e    51l.           b'2. '      S U    685.0    759.1
Iv04/85    1995151
IY1r371   191'576  3979/fl   3960/SI  3991/62  3982/93  1983/64  1984195Dr       Alr,--Peb  Apr-Feb
ri.ey dnd 1A.si-Monvw  as a s
of tdP e                                27 3     30.        43.9      43.D      43.5       44.2      44.4      48.0       -         -
wnuoiasle Prica Inda.
(I 970D71.lOG)                        lOD 0      173.0    217.6    257.3    281 3    7H8.7    316.0    338.4    336.0    357.5
A-.i..I41 PIeCurIldgv  Cndnge1 in;
*i.._lflJie Price [oe.                     7 I      -         17.1       i8 2       9 *       2.6       9 5       7.1       7.1       5.5
in-. CredIt  o Go..rni-nt 4i.t              5 0     72.7      15.6      2 .5       19.1      355       35.3      23,5      20.3 gi  17.1 hi
8a..  Credit to Coaeerclel S-ctor         19.4      22 7      23.5        9.2      la b      19.0      18.5      16.7      12.3 l   10.4 RtI
a, Tne oer ca altt  GiP estimate is at martiit o1icee. .s.Ing Worlld  an. Llac meeTnooology. tbas  perioc 3 .9-63
All other Coflvrslones to  ollars In tnhi  table are at tne sverage eachnng  rate prlhllino during tIl period covoreo.
r. QuicsB Estt-tes. Central Sta-stical Orgenlan tlon.
et Coep.toa  frao  trend line ot GlP at factor coat series.  incluolng one  ooaar.etlon cfere first year and onr
ooser.etion for lst year ot listed period.
Ji morno Be. estimates of net dlsbi.raement of concesslonal aid and IRO.
v. Trausrars nut.ean Centre end Stles ha.*e been netted out.
9; All lam.as and  avncas to tnird paretis nav  been nettea out.
j  Peredntage chen-   frm. -et-M-rcn 1994  o eno-Feoruer1 1965.
1  Perentage change from er,-Merrn .985   anaFn-fb-ru-ry 1986.
T.tal Lacer Force end ue.L. t-s. Lrewado..n From I'll Census.   E.cltuda  date for ^Aaai.



ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 2
-26-
ALAhNCE OF l'AtAVShltS               I 4!e'i3   1913/14    1914165  It I9I5JB,  jt        MeACHANOISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 196d l102 - 'S4/t51 se
(sasS M4hl11iluci                                                                                                          USE_t! MlIlion    11
t-laottb or  O(adt u'                 rJJfJti      iib?       1931        9159            Englnertnng Goods                   14b           13.6
L..0urib tf Guta.O  gt               14395       14360       13399      14400             Teo                                  477           5.7
TisOaw UsIance                      -5990        -5663       -4467      -5241            Goes                                  1093         13.1
1t½ (tnet 1                            915         lODS       1031         946            Clothing                              71t 3e 6
La&ther *n  Leathoe  Products         377          4.5
Se..aultw  Baini@w                  -5054        -4534       -3436      -4294            JutE SerUt tL a                       233           2.3
- -............                                                            I ron Ore                            325           4.6
Cotton Tethes                         2D6          3.6
1lWIhI le tfX 1 1 *CtbI'-,   InCh   hi  -255       7i4         619        946             Sugsr                                  74          0.9
.l"1 tf.a,,hltF  !                    2504         2 630      2352        2362            Oters 63543                                       42.4
duia'sc e st LCrrent h,co..nt        -2610       -2778       -3003       -2666
---  --    ---------------   -                                                          * Total                              8337         1OC.0
e5          bJ          b2         d3            ---
L' CLI Inestitment
rtctal Cra-ns £ tarants (net  l             1       56 IStiS  3659        2193            EXIERNAL DEBT. MAFRCrI 31  1936
is' .55  tsubursa.'ents               2321        21112       2116        2952
hi...' tijeligIl61 3                                 I?        Big9        659                                                        USB lillion
tr' .-.-*ts 0 LISa' Q.V  li"tit        47JY        644         BOI         404            OultsnOing one Dlso.ursa                        26.33
unrJlSDijrie                                    10 57
kS a*.RflSJ*iit Ders,tt                434          736        399        13e30           Outatanolng Including Und3sb.,rsed r/           3. 90
Fr,*ses.Olt aith IMtlF IdF  l         IYbOS       327           76       -262
A l other Steakb e1                   1243          6322      -14el       -330
nDET SERVICE RATIO FOR 199413h5 1I n/          15.0 S
Iirseas.  in ias,rses I -1            -su5        -583        -2b3        -510            --------------------------__
I. ask Aevenisel  etid' reJ  51       496Y         5647       5111        6670
hutf deseirve  leno  tsar as          JU911        1697       2379        2314
13R0/ IUA LENDING. MARCH 31  3966 jI        USS Mg Illi
I..j  n3 Rel4at,1d Matelrials-------------- -- 
F ,-  ,JP---       rte----------------------  ----                                                                                     IAD tO
Outstafldlg and OIsbursed                    2569   9599
lin. .j'LS IParIo.tl- t-l .Jr        4137        3490        3213        3545            Un.isbursoe                                  478o   3963
,r  rnzn    irade                   iiJqo       2240        1521       2495            Outstand .ng   a Un?lbtarsed                 7349  33562
Pe tu_..ts             32 .         ¶1250      3b92        1050
.W ' otb Is ead-Decs.ttter  9 g t       uSS  0 D   Rs7.50
Rat 00   USSO. 13333
MU d-LJsLtier 1971 to end-junne IVd    USS  00 * tsl.2T97
Rai DO  - USSO.137376
artsr einj-.a..iie 1972                    Flo..tilog act.
R rats ena--rct, 1955                    - uS. 40   Rsl2.d300
Rai 00 ' USSO.0l05
s%Pt Rat.  oa-il-arcn  less                uSS  00 £ 9s533609
5.1 00    uSStf0n09
*  fts..rw. w-V'  tt.ei cii ,i.oSal,.l  Incte (nt].  Major Paydeeti  are Int1erest on foreign loans and cnarges
Wa*t0     ml IMP.  a-xo r j0r'euui a   -  nta-rest earned On foreign asaats.
*  .tSb 41iSw tilL lads surilSa  ' tt.scAS blat D     citcluIa- otficlal gr-ant maaleance *niCh   In3 ncl,dl.d  lftntn
of? Ci..  can%  ad i            -rts   du nur-restihnt CaEosite sMicth are snu-n separ tely.
f- ua- net un o3 IMPF ci.Jit
aeoriat ion and Interevt padvmsnts On foreign loans as a percentage of total current receipt.s
.,  Inci.cs i ccoilne rite aQjultments to tbe valuatlon of reservs and financing of i-aIancus In rupee trade.
t - .^li...dtti gold.
m Net of crude p*trsol. OtI e.pdr-s.
r/ Inc luas IMU.



Annex II
-27-                                    Page I of 4
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN [NDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of September 30, 1986)
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                   (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval         Purpose                         Bank         IDA 1/      Undisbursed 2/
59 Loans/                                               2,858.5          -              -
113 Credits fully disbursed                                 -        6,987.6            -
1251-IN    1976      Andhra Pradesh Irrigation            145.0          -             8.55
680-IN    1977      Kerala Agric. Development              -           30.0           0.52
788-IN    1978      Karnataka Irrigation                   -          117.6           0.04
793-IN    1978      Korba Thermal Power                    -          200.0           4.41
806-IN    1978      Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture             -           14.0           7.58
842-IN    1979      Bombay Water Supply II                 -          196.0          62.89
848-IN    1979      Punjab Water Supply & Sewerage         -           38.0           2.79
855-IN    1979      National Agricultural Research         -           27.0           7.53
1648-IN    1979      Ramagundam Thermal Power              50.0          -            32.83
963-IN    1980      Inland Fisheries                       -           20.0           9.36
981-IN    1980      Population II                          -           46.0          11.44
1003-IN    1980      Tamil Nadu Nutrition                   -           32.0           9.18
1011-IN    19B0      Gujarat Irrigation II                  -          175.0          51.39
.1012-IN    19B     Cashewnut                              -           22.0          10.75
1027-IN    1980      Singrauli Thermal II                   -          300.0          64.90
1028-IN    1980      Kerala Agricultural Extension          -           10.0           3.23
1033-IN    1980      Calcatta Urban Transport               -           56.0          11.43
1034-IN    1980      Karnataka Sericulture                  -           54.0          15.15
1046-IN    1980      Rajasthan Water Supply & Sewerage   -              80.0          29.39
1053-IN    1980      Farakka Thermal Power                  -          225.0          35.83
1887-IN    1980      Farakka Thermal Power                 25.0          -            25.00
1897-IN    1981      Kandi Watershed and
Area Development                   30.0          -            11.93
1072-IN    1981      Bihar Rural Roads                      -           35.0           6.87
1078-IN    1981      Mahanadi Barrages                      -           83.0          27.81
1082-IN    1981      Madras Urban Development II            -           42.0          13.99
1108-IN    1981      M.P. Medium Irrigation                 -          140.0          58.08
1112-IN    1981      Telecommunications VIII                -          301.2           2.60
1116-IN    1981      Karnataka Tank Irrigation              -           54.0          23.90
1125-IN    1981      Hazira Fertilizer Project              -          399.1          41.92
1135-IN    1981      Maharashtra Agricultural Ext.          -           23.0           3.18
1137-IN    1981      Tamil Nadu AgricuLtural Ext.           -           2B.0          10.41
1138-IN    1981      M.P. Agricultural Ext. II              -           37.0          23.14
1146-IN    1981      National Cooperative
Development Corp. II                -          125.0          42.06
1172-IN    1982      Korba Thermal Power Project II         -         400.0          201.31
1177-IN    1982      Madhya Pradesh Major Irrigation        -          220.0         124.4!
1178-IN    1982      West Bengal SociaL Forestry            -           29.0          18.84
1185-IN    1982      Kanpur Urban DeveLopment               -           25.0          11.84
2051-IN    1982      IcIcI XIV                            150.0          -             3.63



ANNEX II
-28-                                     Page 2 of 4
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                   (Net of CanceLLations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval         Purpose                         Bank         IDA 1/      Undisbursed 2/
2076-IN    1982      Ramagundam Thermal Power II          300.0          -           222.48
1219-IN    1982      Andhra Pradesh AgriculturaL Ext.    -               6.0           3.80
2123-IN    1982      Refineries Rationalization           200.0          -            49.95
2165-IN    1982      Rural Electrification III            304.5          -           138.31
1269-EN    1982      Kallada Irrigation                     -           60.0          15.15
2186-EN    1982      Kallada Irrigation                    20.3          -            20.00
1280-rN    1983      Cujarat Water Supply                   -           72.0          59.30
1286-IN    1983      Jammnu/Kashmir and
Haryana Social Forestry             -           33.0          19.11
1288-IN    1983      Chambal Madhya Pradesh
Irrigation II                       -           31.0          14.28
1289-IN    1983      Subernarekha Irrigation                -          127.0          91.88
2205-IN    1983      Krishna-Godavari Exploration         165.5          -            81.04
1299-IN    1983      Railways Modernization &
Maintenance II                      -          200.0         134.61
2210-IN    1983      Railways Modernization &
Maintenance II                    200.0          -           197.04
2241-IN    1983      South Bassein Gas Development        139.3          -           114.86
1319-IN    1983      Haryana Irrigation II                  -          150.0          85.11
1332-IN    1983      U.P. Public Tubewells I1               -          101.0          76.25
1356-IN    1983      Upper Indravati Hydra Power            -          170.0         136.76
2278-IN    1983      Upper Indravati Hydro Power          156.4          -           156.01
1369-IN    1983      Calcutta Urban Development III         -          147.0         131.57
2283-IN    1983      Central Power Transmission           250.7          -           250.07
2295-IN    1983      Himalayan Watershed Management        46.2          -            43.42
1383-IN    1983      Maharashtra Water Utilization          -           32.0          20.52
2308-IN    1983      Maharashtra Water Utilization         22.7          -            22.64
2329-IN    1983      Madhya Pradesh Urban                  24.1          -            22.47
1397-IN    1984      Orissa Irrigation II                   -          105.0          59.99
1424-IN    1984      Rainfed Areas Watershed Dev.           -           31.0          35.17
1426-IN    1984      Population III                         -           70.0          65.94
1432-IN    1984      Karnataka Social Forestry              -           27.0          21.19
2387-IN    1984      Nhava Sheva Port                     250.0          -           234.52
2393-IN    1984      Dudhichua Coal                       151.0          -           131.33
2403-IN    1984      Cambay Basin Petroleum               242.5          -           218.84
2415-IN    1984      Madhya Pradesh Fertilizer            203.6          -           141.32
1454-IN    1984      Tamil Nadu Water Supply                -           36.5          42.20
SF-12-IN   1984      asmil Nadu Water Supply                -           36.5          42.83
1468-IN    1984      Periyar Vaigai I1 Irrigation           -           17.5           5.53
SF-16-IN   1984      Periyar Vaigai II Irrigation           -           17.5          20.14
1483-IN    1984      Upper Canga Irrigation                 -          125.0         134.02
1496-IN    1984      Gujarat Medium Irrigation              -          172.0         146.99
2416-IN    1984      Indira Sarovar Hydroelectric         157.4          -           153.71
SF-20-IN   1984      Indira Sarovar Hydroelectric           -          129.8         147.48
2417-IN    1984      Railways Electrification             280.7          -           268.11
2442-IN    1984      Farakka II ThermaL Power             300.8          -           295.24
2452-IN    1984      Fourth Trombay Thermal Power         135.4          -           125.98
1502-IN    1984      National Cooperative
Development Corporation III         -          220.0         211.87
1514-IN    1985      Kerala Social Forestry                 -           31.8          33.33
1523-IN    1985      National Agric. Extension I            -           39.1          44.95



ANNEX II
-29-                                  Page 3 of 4
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                  (Net of CanceLlations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval        Purpose                         Bank         IDA 1/      Undisbursed 2/
1544-IN    1985      Bombay Urban Development              -          138.0         145.11
2497-IN    1985      Narmada (Gujarat) Dam and Power   200.0            -           200.00
1552-IN    1985      Narmada (Gujarat) Dam and Power       -          100.0         103.93
1553-IN    19B5      Narmada (Gujarat) Canal               -          150.0         170.82
1569-IN    1985      Second National Agricultural Ext.   -             49.0          53.65
1611-IN    1985      National Social Forestry              -          165.0         184.67
1613-IN    1985      Indira Sarovar Hydroelectric          -           13.2          15.05
2498-IN    1985      Jharia Caking Coal                  248.0          -           248.00
2505-IN    1985      Maharashtra Petrochemical           300.0          -           290.12
2534-IN    1985      Second National Highway             200.0          -           200.00
2544-IN    1985      Chandrapur Thermal Power            300.0          -           275.37
2555-IN    1985      Rihand Power TransmissiDn           250.0          -           248.14
2582-IN    1985      Kerala Power                        176.0          -           175.97
1619-10    1986      West Bengal Minor Irrigation          -           g9.0         122.56
1621-lN    1986      Maharashtra Composite Irrigation    -            160.0         198.26
1622-IN    1986      Kerala Water Supply and Sanitation  -             41.0          51.81
1623-IN    1986      West Bengal Population                -           51.0          59.32
1631-IN    1986      National Agricultural Research 1I   -             72.1          83.96
2629-IN    1986      Industrial Export Dev. Finance       90.0          -            90.00
2630-IN    1986      ICICI-Indus. Exp. Dev. Finance    160.0            -           160.00
1643-IN    1986      Gujarat Urban*                        -           62.0          70.99
2653-IN    1986      NABARD I                            375.0          -           375.00
2660-IN    1986      Cement Industry*                    165.0          -           165.00
2661-IN    1986      ICICI - Cement Industry*             35.0          -            35.00
1665-IN    1986      Andhra Pradesh II Irrigation*         -          140.0         154.71
2662-IN    1986      Andhra Pradesh II Irrigation*       131.0          -           131.00
2674-IN    1986      Combined Cycle Power*               485.0          -           485.00
2729-IN    1986      Cooperative Fertilizer*             150.2          -           150.20
2730-IN    1986      Cooperative Fertilizer*             152.0          -           152.00
Total                                   10,227.8    13,999.5
of which has been repaid              1458.6         276.8
Total now outstanding                    8,769.2    13,722.7
Amount Sold                     133.8
of which has been repaid    133.8          -            -
Total now held by Bank and IDA 3/        8.769.2    13,722.7
Total undisbursed (excluding *)          5,231.88    3,937.31
l/ IDA Credit amounts for SDR-denominated Credits are expressed in terms of their
US dollar equivalents, as established at the time of Credit negotiations and as
subsequently presented to the Board.
21 U..disbursed amounts for effective SDR-denominated IDA Credits are derived
from cumulative disbursements converted to their US dollar equivalents at
the SDR/US dollar exchange rate in effect on March 31, 1986.
3/ Prior to exchange adjustment.
*   Not yet effective.



ANNEx rI
-30-                               Page 4 of 4
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTKENTS
(As of September 30, 1986)
Fiscal                                                    Amount (US$ million)
Year                      Company                       Loan      Equity    Total
1959             Republic Forge Company Ltd.              1.5        -        1.5
1959             Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.              0.8         -        0.8
1960             Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                  1.4         -        1.4
1961             K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                       0.2         -        0.2
1963-66          Precision Bearings India Ltd.           0.6        0.4       1.0
1964             Fort Closter Industries Ltd.            0.8        0.4       1.2
1964-75-79       Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.          11.8        1.3      13.1
1964             Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.               1.0       0.3       1.3
1967             Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                 1.1        0.1       1.2
1967             Indian Explosives Ltd.                  8.6        2.9      11.5
1969-70          Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.              15.1        3.8      18.9
1976-87          Escorts Limited                        15.2         -       15.2
1978             Housing Development Finance Corp.    4.0           1.2       5.2
1986             Bajaj Tempo Limited                    29.3         -       29.3
1980             Deepak Fertilizer and
Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.         7.5        1.2       8.7
1981             Coromandel Fertilizers Limited         15.9         -       l5.9
1981-86          Tata Iron and Steel Company Ltd.    50.4            -       50.4
1981             Mahindra, Mahindra Limited             15.0         -       15.0
1981             Nagarjuna Coated Tubes Ltd.             2.9        0.2       3.1
1981-86          Nagarjuna Signode Limited               2.3        0.3       2.6
1981             Nagarjuna Steels Limited                1.5        0.2       1.7
1982             Ashok Leyland Limited                  28.0         -       28.0
1982             The Bombay Dyeing and
Kanufacturing Co. Ltd.              18.8         -      18.8
1986             The Great Eastern Shipping
Company Ltd.                         8.0        2.0     10.0
1982             Bharat Forge Company Ltd.              15.8         -       15.8
1982             The Indian Rayon Corp. Ltd.             8.1         -        8.1
1984-86          The Gwalior Rayon Silk Manu-
facturing (Weaving) Co. Ltd.        15.9        -       15.9
1987             The Gujarat Rural Housing
Finance Corp.                         -        0.2       0.2
1985             Bihar Sponge                           13.7        0.8      14.5
1985             Bajaj Auto Ltd.                        23.5         -       23.5
1985             Modi Cement                            12.9         -       12.9
1985             India Lease Development Ltd.            5.0        0.4       5.4
1986             Larsen and Toubro Ltd.                 20.6         -       20.6
1986             India Equipment Leasing Ltd.            2.5        0.4       2.9
1987             Cujarat Fusion Glass Ltd.               7.5         -        7.5
1987             Hero Honda Motors Ltd.                  7.5         -        7.5
1987             Wimco Limited                           4.7         -        4.7
TOTAL GROSS COMMITMENTS         379.4       16.1    395.5
Less: Cancellations, Terminations,
Repayments and Sales            201.0        8.1    209.1
Now Held                     178.4        8.0    186.4
Undisbursed                  114.6        3.5    118.1



-31-
ANNEX III
Page I
INDIA
THIRD BOMBAY WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare the project
About 18 months
(b) The agency that prepared the project
Water Supply and Sewerage Department of
Bombay Municipal Corporation
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank Group
and date of first mission to consider the project
July 1983
January 1984
(d) Date of departure of appraisaL mission
February 17, 1985
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
April 30, 1986
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
April 30, 1987
Section II:    Special IDA/Bank Tmplementation Actions
None



-32-
ANNEX III
Page 2
Section III:   Special Conditions
(a) GON will lend funds to BMC/WSSD for at least 60% of the
annual capital expenditures including the proceeds of the
Loan/Credit, for 25 years, including a 5-year grace
period, at an interest rate of 8.75% (para 58).
(b) BMC will ensure that at least 402 of the annual capital
expenditures are provided from internally generated funds
of the WSSD (para 58).
(c) WSSD will establish a specific cash account, effective
FY1987 for the periodic replacement of capitaL assets
(para 70).



-33-
ANNEX IV
INDIA
THIRD BOMBAY WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
PROCUREMENT METHOD
CUSS Million)
Project Element                      ICB          LCB         NA Ia        Cost
Civil Works                         130.7         56.4          -          187.1
(82.5)/b    (35.6)                   (118.1)
Materials and Equipment              54.2          7.4          -           61.6
(54.2)       (4.4)                    (58.6)
Consulting Services,
technical assistance
and training                           -           0.6         7.7           893
(0.6)      (7.7)         (8.3)
Land                                   -            -          0.2           0.2
Engineering                                         -         26.5          26.5
Taxes and Duties                       -            -         20.6          20.6
Total                               184.9         64.4        55.0         304.3
(136.7)      (40.6)       (7.7)       (185.0)
/a Not applicable.
7T Credit/loan amount shown in parentheses.



V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
*auuni
. 1~~~~~      ~  ~  ~ -- 
\_____E~~~ ~~ ~~~~ _,,   -E
I'I                         i        I
ff,,.    -\                   -/ 
onoo"t qM p M. p°p A 
-"                                Wa-         w oMA a 
X  /_                   A No %"."W d,*  *A-_o 0--2 o
/\E_  t                   =   a-1                           _



1(3RID 18l)/li
I IND I A
THIRD BOMBAY WATER SUPPLY
iTrans.Uhanu&i                                                AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Bridge                                              SEWAGE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL SYSTEM
* %                                            ,       {>  >                                   r_ _  Sn 1IlLALARLl: IAtHI Hill IIMIIAV 111 P)410I Il
XISl IN.I H   IIl Ali AIAS ui
. SNx  f -    \    ,                                             Cl.WI'PtED AHtA; tlNDl'A IDinMlAV II I'M1Y   I
~-                        I                       \3WL1 EUrnD AIIlAS IMPnovl:D tlNDt 11 IIIIIMIIAY 11 I'IIIJI  I
_  -                            I                                 *           ROADS
N                                                                                      hx  /   i \   |  f @ * . -. IIAILWAYS
41s \* 2          *:  ./        - -                                     -           NLW DIJAINAGI, oNr IN nIunDAHIILl
-    -     --   'INI*HATFN ItOMRAY MUNICIPAL L IMP]
;     i-   -     irr INTHNATIONALIKIUIIDAIlItS
9 1 S  r - J  I  H4tI                                                      L 1  IL  lltl PA      I |
.t:; ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*                                                           ,                          ~~1 iIItiASNINI 
1                                                                                 Al IIAIIII~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J.I41lI   t  .)I,
\  .   -;.  \  V   j                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SlAllfr^lt NS
I  TI Nb
I  /                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IRAIIIIIIS
PIPE                                                                                                 SIJUMA 1I
SANTA  CRIV                              -                                                                                                             tmflrliiiV rALS i
LAN                                                I             I 2I                        I             ; 
AiP PO       IPEPIP
-~~                                                                                           ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ OPAAF. 2IN0A  tC    
--~~~% ..  .I    I.     
-    o'  '   "   "  - '   :         '  :                                                                              M ILAl 
MAHIM   SUBMARINE                 WORII SUBMARINE                        AtAI AR
A    'V  K  A  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~02                                                       K~DMA1 S[!
___ _ _ _._ _._______________.1                                                      2
Siii y 19SF






