OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
CREDIT NUMBER 1750 IN
LOAN NUMBER 2769 IN
Project Agreement
(Third Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project)
among
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
MUNICIPAL CORPORATION OF GREATER BOMBAY
Dated       M       /c2           , 1987


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1750 IN
LOAN NUMBER 2769 IN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated      -1 7Qy Io2               , 1987, among
INTERNATIONAL   DEVELOPMENT    AYSOCIATION   (the    Association),
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTON AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank)
and MUNICIPAL CORPORATION OF GREATER BOMBAY (hereinafter called
BMC).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between India, acting by its President (the Borrower)
and the Association, the Association has agreed to make available
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to one
hundred five million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 105,500,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that BMC
agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Association as
are set forth in this Agreement;
(B) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the
Borrower and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to
the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to forty
million dollars ($40,000,000), on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that BMC
agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set
forth iii this Agreement;
(C) by   an  agreement of even    date  herewith  among   the
Association, the Bank and the State of Maharashtra, acting by its
Governor,  (hereinafter   called  Maharashtra), Maharashtra    has
agreed to assist BMC in carrying out the Project described in
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement;
(D) the proceeds of the Credit and the Loan provided
for under the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agree-
merit respectively, will he made available by the Borrower to
Maharashtra La accordance with the Borrower's standard arrange-
ment for developmental assistance to the states of India;
(E) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between Maharashtra arid BMC, the proceeds of the Credit and the
Loan provided for under the Development Credit Agreement and the
Loan Agreement respectively, will be made available to BMC on the
terms arid conditions set forch in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
arid


﻿- 2 -
WHEREAS BMC, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement and the Bank's entering
into the Loan Agreement, with the Borrower, has agreed to
undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement and in
the General Conditions applicable thereto (as so defined), in the
Loan Agreement and in the General Conditions applicable thereto
(as so defined) and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the term "Action Plan"
means the Action Plan dated April 29, 1986 which indicates the
series of operational, financial and administrative actions to be
undertaken under the Project.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) BMC declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering prac-
tices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the Project.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of para-
graph (a) of this Section, BMC shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Procedures set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Association and BMC.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.


﻿-3 -
Section 2.03. (a) BMC shall carry out the obligations set
forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the
General Conditions applicable to Development Credit Agreements of
the Association, dated January 1, 1985, (relating to insurance,
use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in
respect of the Project Agreement.
(b) BMC shall carry out the obligations set forth in
Section 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General
Conditions applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the
Bank, dated January 1, 1985, (relating to insurance, use of goods
and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, mainte-
nance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the
Project.
Section 2.04. BMC shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, BMC shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section  2.05.   (a) BMC   shall, at   the  request of    the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to
the progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) BMC shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by BMC of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of BHC
Section 3.01. BMC shall cause WSSD to carry on its
operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with sound
administrative,   financial,   engineering  and   public   utility
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.


﻿Section 3.02. BMC shall cause WSSD at all times to operate
and maintain its plant, machinery, equipment and other property,
and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary
repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound
engineering, financial and engineering and public utility
practices.
Section 3.03. (a) BMC shall, in respect of WSSD, take out
and maintain with responsible insurers, or make other provision
satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate
practice.
(b) BMC shall cause WSSD to maintain its existing separate
fire/accident and third party insurance.
Section 3.04. BMC shall consult the Association prior to
making any material modifications in the structure, organization,
responsibilites and technical and financial operations of WSSD.
Section 3.05. BMC shall consult the Association prior to the
sale, lease, transfer or disposal of any of the properties or
assets of WSSD except in the ordinary course of business.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) BMC shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.
(b) BMC shall:
(i) have   its   accounts  and   financial   statements
(balance   sheets,  statements   of   income   and
expenses and related statements) of WSSD for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate   auditing   principles   consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year: (A) certified copies of


﻿- 5 -
its financial statements of WSSD for such year as
so audited and (B) the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as
the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said accounts and financial statements
as well as the audit thereof and said records, as
the Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
(c) For all expenditures .,ith respect to which withdrawals
are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of statements
of expenditure, BMC shall:
(i) maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this
Section, separate records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until one year after the Closing Date,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing such
expenditures;
(iii) enable   the   Association's   representatives  to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contains,
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion by the said auditors as to whether the
proceeds of the Credit withdrawn in respect of
such expenditures have been used for the purpose
for which they were provided.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, BMC shall, with effect from its financial year commencing
April 1, 1987, and for each financial year thereafter, set and
maintain tariffs for water supply and sewerage services to ensure
that operating revenues are sufficient to meet all of WSSD's
operating expenses and debt service and, together with any inter-
nal funds of WSSD available for investment, provide at least 40%
of annual capital expenditure.


﻿-6-
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) the requirement to meet a percentage of capital
expenditure shall be deemed to be satisfied if BMC
covers in any two consecutive financial years, at
least 40% of the aggregate of its actual capital
expenditures or the capital expenditure as stipu-
lated in the Annex to this Agreement, whichever
is higher, for such two years, and BMC covers in
each of such years at least 33% of said capital
expenditures;
(ii) the term "capital expenditure" means any expendi-
ture incurred in the financial year on fixed or
semi-fixed assets for water supply, sewerage,
sewage treatment or sewage disposal services of
WSSD or which may be charged to work-in-progress
for such services pending commissioning of fixed
or semi-fixed assets, including expenditures on
engineering services and interest chargeable to
capital assets under construction;
(iii) the term "operating revenues" means all revenues
from the sale of water and all taxes and charges
pertaining to water supply, sewerage and sewage
disposal services and other incidental revenues of
WSSD including net consumers' contributions;
(iv) the term "operating expenses" means all costs of
operation of WSSD, including adequate maintenance
and a reasonable proportion of central administra-
tive charges of BMC but excluding depreciation and
other non-cash expenses;
(v) the term "debt service" means the repayment of
loans and other debt obligations as they mature,
including payment of interest in respect of such
loans and other debt obligations; and
(vi) the term "internal funds of WSSD available for
investment" means net accretions from consumers'
and contractors' deposits, provident and pension
fund contributions of WSSD and its employees,
insurance and similar reserve funds of WSSD, but


﻿-7-
excluding any loans from any source to (A) WSSD or
(B) its reserve funds.
Section 4.03. By March 31, 1987, BMC shall cause WSSD to:
(a) establish a specific cash account for the eventual replace-
ment or rehabilitation of capital assets; (b) ensure that all
annual operating surpluses (after meeting 40% of capital expen-
diture from internal cash generation, and allowing for sufficient
unrestricted cash to maintain a quick current ratio of not more
than 2:1) are allocated to the said account until the amount in
the said account equals accumulated depreciation charges; and
(c) for the purpose of this Section the term "quick current
ratio" means current assets, excluding inventories divided by
current liabilities.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association, of thi Bank and of BMC thereunder shall terminate on
the earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
and the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accor-
dance with their respective terms; or
(ii) the date 25 years after the date of this Agree-
ment.
(b)    If the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan
Agreement terminate in accordance with their respective terms
before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section,
the Association and the Bank shall promptly notify BMC of this
event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any can-
cellation or suspension under the General Conditions.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                   Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (wUI)
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                   Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-9-
For BMC:
Municipal Commissioner for
Greater Bombay
Mahapalika Marg
Fort, Bombay - 1
India
Cable address:                   Telex:
BOWASEP                           011-4325
Bombay
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of BMC may be taken or executed by the
Municipal Commissioner for Greater Bombay or such other person or
persons as he shall designate in writing, and BMC shall furnish
to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿- 10 -
TN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By                        A08 A0~ 4f
Regional Vice President
South Asia
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT
By       bl ~ct{OC4      Ao,,oe
Regional Vice President
South Asia
MUNICIPAL CORPORATION OF GREATER BOMBAY
BAy 4/                           eprsetai
/ /           Authorized Representative


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"'
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   Bidders for major contracts under the Project shall be
prequalified as described in paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines.
Part B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A 1 hereof, goods manufactured in India
may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C.   Preference for Domestic Contractors
In the procurement of works in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A 1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a
margin of preference to domestic contractors in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D.   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts for: (a) laying distribution mains, supplying and
laying sewers, construction of small sewage pumping stations,
staff quarters, provision of improved water service and sani-
tation facilities; (b) the fabrication of steel pipes; and
(c) equipment and materials, may be procured on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association. Individual con-
tracts under (a), (b) and (c) shall not exceed the equivalent of
$1,750,000, $1,000,000 and $200,000, respectively. The aggregate


﻿- 12 -
value for contracts under (a) shall not exceed the equivalent of
$56,400,000 and for contracts under (b) and (c) shall not exceed
the equivalent of $7,400,000.
Part E.   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of prequalification:
With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided
in Part A.2 hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to all contracts for civil works esti-
mated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more and all
contracts for material and equipment estimated to cost the
equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Asso-
ciation has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on
the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall
be retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this
Agreement.
3.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist BMC in carrying out the Project, BMC
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance
with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on
the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency"
published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Procedures
In the implementation of the Project, BMC shall annually
review and update the Action Plan in a manner satisfactory to the
Association and in particular BMC shall furnish the Assoqiation
wlth data according to agreed criteria for monitoring Project
implementation within six months from the end of each quarter.


﻿- 14 -
ANNEX
Stipulated Capital Expenditures as referred
to in Section 4.02 (b)(i) of this Agreement
Fiscal year               Rs Million
1986-87                   1,595
1987-88                     715
1988-89                     593
1989-90                     785
1990-91                     835
1991-92                     768
1992-93                     518
1993-94                     189


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the
International Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


