OFFICIAL
nn0.t iMFNTS,
CREDIT NUMBER 1750 IN
LOAN NUMBER 2769 IN
Development Credit Agreement
(Third Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated      -/,) ,                 , 1987


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1750 IN
LOAN NUMBER 2769 IN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                2, 1987, between
INDIA, Acting by its President (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B) the Borrower has also requested the International Bank
for  Reconstruction   and  Development   (the  Bank)  to   provide
additional assistance towards the financing of the Project and by
an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the
Bank (hereinafter called the Loan Agreement) the Bank is agreeing
to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal amount
equivalent to forty million dollars ($40,000,000) (hereinafter
called the Loan);
(C)  the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent
practicable, that the proceeds of the Credit provided for in this
Agreement be disbursed on account of expenditures on the Project
before disbursements of the proceeds of the Loan provided for in
the Loan Agreement are made;
(D)    by  an agreement of even date herewith among the
Association, the Bank and the Municipal Corporation of Greater
Bombay (hereinafter called BMC), BMC has agreed to undertake
certain obligations in respect of the carrying out of the
Project;
(E)    by an agreement of even date herewith among the
Association, the Bank and the State of Maharashtra, acting by its
Governor  (hereinafter   called   Maharashtra),  Maharashtra   has
agreed, inter alia, to assist BMC in the carrying out of the
Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, in the
Project Agreement of even date hetewith among the Association,
the Bank and BMC and in the Maharashtra Agreement of even date
herewith among the Association, the Bank and Maharashtra;


﻿- 2 -
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)  "Maharashtra" means the State of Maharashtra, a State
of India, acting by its Governor;
(b)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement among the
Association, the Bank and BMC of even date herewith, as the same
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(c) "Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date here-
with between the Borrower and the Bank for the Project, as such
agreement may be amended from time to time; and such term
includes the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, as applied to such
agreement, and all schedules and agreements supplemental to the
Loan Agreement;
(d)  "Loan" means the loan provided for in the Loan Agree-
ment;
(e)  "Maharashtra Agreement" means the agreement among the
Association, the Bank and Maharashtra of even date herewith, as
the same may be amended from time to time and such term includes
all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Maharashtra
Agreement;
(f) "Act" means the Bombay Municipal Corporation Act, 1888,
as amended from time to time;


﻿-3-
(g)    "BMC" means   the Municipal Corporation of Greater
Bombay, a statutory corporation established under the Act;
(h) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement between
Maharashtra and BMC referred to in Section 2.01 (b) of the
Maharashtra Agreement;
(i) "WSSD" means the Water Supply and Sewerage Department
of BMC, established by Order No. MC/1W of the Municipal Commis-
sioner for Greater Bombay, dated April 2, 1973; and
(j) "Rs" means rupees in the currency of India.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section  2.01.  The   Association  agrees  to  lend  to   the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to one hundred five million five hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 105,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1994 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without re-


﻿strictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each
year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each
February 15 and August 15 commencing February 15, 1997, and
ending August 15, 2036. Each installment to and including the
installment payable on August 15, 2006 shall be one-half of one
per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be one and one-half per cent
(1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restric-
tion upon any of its other obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement, shall cause Maharashtra and BMC to perform in
accordance with the provisions of the Maharashtra Agreement and
the Project Agreement respectively, all the obligations therein
set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including
the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable Maharashtra and BMC to perform
such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.


﻿-5-
(b) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the credit
available to Maharashtra in accordance with the Borrower's
standard arrangements for development assistance to the States of
India.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1
to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05,
9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to in-
surance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records
and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively)
shall be carried out by BMC pursuant to Section 2.03 of the
Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   Maharashtra shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Maharashtra Agreement.
(b) BMC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
(c)   As a result of events which have occurred after the
date  of  the  Development   Credit Agreement, an    extraordinary
situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that
BMC or Maharashtra will be able to perform its obligations under
the Project Agreement or the Maharashtra Agreement, respectively.
(d)  The Act shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the
ability of BMC to perform any of its obligations under the
Project Agreement.


﻿-6-
(e)   BMC or any other authority having jurisdiction shall
have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of
WSSD or for the suspension of its operations.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 (d) of the
General   Conditions,   the  following   additional   events   are
specified:
(a)   the events specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of
Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continuc for
a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given
by the Association to the Borrower and Maharashtra or BMC, as the
case may be; and
(b)   the events specified in paragraphs (d) or (e) of
Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
(a)   all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Loan Agreement have been fulfilled, except for the effectiveness
of this Agreement.
(b)   the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of Maharashtra and BMC.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a)   that the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified by BMC, and are
legally binding upon BMC in accordance with their terms; and
(b)  that the Maharashtra Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified by Maharashtra
and are legally binding upon Maharashtra in accordance with their
terms.


﻿-7-
Section 5.03. The date 90 days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04
of the General Conditions.
Section 5.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Section
4.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on the
date  twenty-five   years  after  the  date  of  this   Agreement,
whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Any Secretary, kdditional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary and Under Secretary of the
Department of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government
of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi
India
Cable address:                     Telex:
ECOFAIRS                          953-313546
New Delhi, India
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿-8-
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INDIA
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By g    AJ  DCiI.       4. qmr
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of item to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percent of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of     Amount of
the Credit    the Loan
Allocated     Allocated
(Expressed    (Expressed       % of
in SDR       in Dollars    Expenditures
Category          Equivalent)   Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Equipment and
materials:
(a) procured        30,900,000   11,700,000    100% of foreign
under inter-                              expenditues,
national                                  100% of local
competitive                               expenditures
bidding                                   (ex-factory
costs)
(b) procured         2,400,000      900,000    60%
under local
competitive
bidding
(2) Civil works         67,500,000   21,700,000    63%
(3) Consulting
services and        4,700,000     1,800,000   100%
training
(4) Unallocated           ------       3,900,000
TOTAL        105,500,000   40,000,000


﻿- 10 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of SDR180,000, may be made in reGpect of Category (3) on account
of payments made for expenditures before that date but after
March 1, 1985.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to expand the water
supply and sewerage facilities for the city of Bombay and further
strengthen WSSD's implementation capacity and its financial and
operational performance.
The Project consists of the following Darts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Water Supply
1.   System Distribution
(i) Construction of about 52 km of trunk mains, diameter
range 600 mm to 3000 mm.
(ii) Construction of about 49 km of distribution, diameter
range 150 mm to 1800 mm.
(iii) Construction of about 9 km of 3000 mm diameter trans-
mission tunnels.
(±v) Installing of about 76 km of internal cement mortar
pipelining, diameter range 1200 mm to 3000 mm.
(v) Provision of leak detection, system       instrumentation
and control equipment, valves and about 32,000 water
meters.
2.   Treatment Capacity, Pumping and Storage
(i) Construction of about 455 million liters per day (mld)
capacity water treatment plant, together with staff
quarters for operators.
(ii) Building and installation of pumping capacity of about
2,233 mld in about 17 units.
(iii) Construction of about 144 million liters of clear water
storage in four service reservoirs.


﻿- 12 -
Part B:   Sewerage and Sanitation
1.   Sewers and Pumping
(i) Construction of about 54 km of sewers, diameter range
230 mm to 1000 mm.
(ii)  Building and installation of equipment for a pumping
capacity of about 150 mld in 12 units.
2.   Sanitation
(i) Provision of low-cost on-site waste disposal facilities
in selected areas of Bombay not covered by water-borne
sewerage.
(ii)  Provision of suction tanks, local pumping arrangements,
tubewells and minor mains to service the urban poor in
slums.
Part C:   Technical Assistance and Vehicles for Operating
1.   Training
(i)  Training  for   BMC/WSSD  staff  in  management   system
maintenance and operations at facilities in Bombay and
abroad,   including   development   and   expansion   of
facilities, and course curricula and provision of
equipment for BMC's existing training center.
(ii) Training in the reduction of distribution system water
losses by the application of improved techniques.
2.   Consultancy
The carrying out of consultancy services including, inter
alia, to:
(i) improve WSSD's project planning and implementation
capability; enhance the water and sewerage billing and
collection; strengthen financial audit procedures; and
to enhance financial analysis operations.


﻿13 -
(ii) prepare preliminary designs for the next tranche of
source development (Vaitarna) to meet future water
supply needs.
(iii) review and develop design parameters in waste water
disposal systems, based on stabilization pond tech-
nology (Versova) and examine the possibilities for
recycling wash-water at the potable water treatment
plants.
3.   Vehicles for Operations
Supply of about 83 trucks and other vehicles for the Pro-
ject's implementation and operations.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1993.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


