OFFICIAL
11!19a   i '  ?r   '1 -T  f1
CREDIT NUMBER 1750 IN
LOAN NUMBER 2769 IN
Maharashtra Agreement
(Third Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project)
among
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
STATE OF MAHARASHTRA
Dated                             , 1987


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1750 IN
LOAN NUMBER 2769 IN
MAHARASHTRA AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       fl", 1987, among
INTERNATIONAL   DEVELOPMENT   KSSOCIATION    (the   Association),
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank),
and the STATE OF MAHARASHTRA, acting by its Governor (hereinafter
called Maharashtra).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between INDIA, acting by its President (the Borrower)
and the Association, the Association has agreed to make available
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to one
hundred five million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 105,500,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development  Credit  Agreement, but    only  on  condition   that
Maharashtra agrees to undertake such obligations toward the
Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the
Borrower and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to
the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to forty
million dollars ($40,000,000) on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that
Maharashtra agrees to undertake such obligations towards the Bank
as are set forth in this Agreement;
(C)   by an agreement of even date herewith among the
Association, the Bank and the Municipal Corporation of Greater
Bombay (hereinafter called BMC), BMC has agreed to undertake
certain obligations in respect of the carrying out of the
Project;
(D)  the proceeds of the Credit and the Loan provided for
under the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement
respectively  will   be  made  available   by  the  Borrower   to
Maharashtra   in   accordance  with   the   Borrower's   standard
arrangements for developmental assistance to the states of India;
(E)   by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between Maharashtra and BMC, the proceeds of the Credit and the
Loan provided for under the Development Credit Agreement and the
Loan Agreement respectively will be made available to BMC on the
terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
and


﻿-2-
WHEREAS Maharashtra, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement and the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to
undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement and in
the General Conditions applicable thereto     (as so defined), in
the Loan Agreement, and in the General Conditions applicable
thereto (as so defined) and in- the Preamble to this Agreement
have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Particular Covenants
Section 2.01. (a) Maharashtra declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, without any
limitation or restriction upon any of its obligations under this
Agreement, shall cause BMC to perform in accordance with the
Provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of BMC
therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable BMC to perform such
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)   Maharashtra shall relend the proceeds of the Credit
and the Loan to BMC under a subsidiary loan agreement to be
entered into between Maharashtra and BMC, under terms and condi-
tions which shall have been approved by the Association which
shall include the following terms:
(i) proceeds to be made available for a term of 25
years from   the date of    the  first advance by
Maharashtra to BMC, including a grace period of
five years;


﻿- 3 -
(ii) interest to be charged at the rate of 8.75% per
annum,   payable  semiannually   or  annually,   on
amounts withdrawn and outstanding; and
(iii) proceeds to be made available promptly as required
to enable BMC to meet expenditures required for
the Project.
(c) Maharashtra shall, under suitable financing arrange-
ments with BMC, ensure that funds not less than 60% of the annual
capital expenditures are made available on the same terms and
conditions as those enumerated in the preceding paragraph to
enable BMC to complete the Project.
(d) Maharashtra shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower, Maharashtra, and the Association and
to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, Maharashtra shall not assign,
amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any
provision thereof.
Section 2.02. (a) Maharashtra shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to
the progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) Maharashtra shall promptly inform the Association of
any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by Maharashtra of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.03. Maharashtra shall make available water from
the Bhatsai reservoir as required for the Project.
Section 2.04. Maharashtra shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land
and rights in respect of land as shall be required for the
carrying out of the Project and, if requested by the Association,
shall furnish to the Association, promptly after such acquisi-
tion, evidence satisfactory to the Association that such land and
rights in respect of land are available for purposes related to
the Project.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE III
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 3.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 3.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association, of the Bank and of Maharashtra thereunder shall
terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
and   the  Loan   Agreement  shall   terminate   in
accordance with their respective terms; or
(ii) the date 25 years after the date of th. Agree-
ment.
(b)    If the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan
Agreement terminate in accordance with their respective terms
before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section,
the Association and the Bank shall promptly notify Maharashtra of
this event.
Section 3.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE IV
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 4.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:


﻿-5-
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                   Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For Maharashtra:
The Chief Secretary to
the Government of Maharashtra
Sachivalaya, Bombay
India
Cable address:                  Telex:
RESTIS                        011-2443
Bombay
Section 4.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of Maharashtra may be taken or executed by a
Secretary to the Government of Maharashtra or such other person
or persons as Maharashtra shall designate in writing, and
Maharashtra shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence


﻿-6-
of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each
such persnn.
Section 4.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By        4
Regional Vice President
South Asia
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
By                    O#40e
Regional Vice President
South Asia
STATE OF MAHARASHTRA
By
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the
International Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


