Document ol
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY            FILE
Report No. 2792a-IVC
IVORY COAST
HIGHWAY SECTOR LOAN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
October 16, 1980
Western Africa Project Department
Highways Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officia] duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       =       CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1                =       CFAF 210
MEASURES
I kilometer (km)           =         0.62 mile
1 square kilometer (km2)  =          0.39 square mile
1 square meter (m2)                 10.76 square feet
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL ULSE ONLY
IVORY COAST
HIGHWAY SECTOR LOAN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No
I.      THE TRANSPORT SECTOR  .......       ................ . ..........  .   1
A.  Geographic, Economie and Social Factors .............. .. l
B. The Transport System                    .....   1
Roads ..... .... .. .. ..   0 .. .. .. . . . .. .               2
The Raîlroadi              l     r      o      ad..............  2
Portsorts..                ...............                      3
Aïr  itr.........o.....r t..........                            4
C.  Transport Investment Policy, Planning and Coordination.           4
D.  Bank Group Assistance to the Transport Sector ....... ...         5
II.     HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR       . .. ..............................            7
A.  Roads and Road Transport ...............................          7
The Network .........  ................................         7
Traffic Characteristics and Growth ..............               7
Road Safety ....... ........        ...............................  9
The Road Transport Industry and Regulation ...........    10
B.  Ministry of Public Works Organization ................      .    il
Staff and Training .................        .................    12
Design and Construction .....       ........................    12
Road Maintenance ..................        ..................    13
Maintenance Expenditures .....        .......................    15
C.  Planning and Planning Institutions .......... ..........    16
The Ten-Year (1978-87) Highway Development Plan .....         16
Planning Institutions ................................    17
D.  The 1976-80 Highway Investments ........................    18
III. THE SECTOR LOAN ..19
A. Objectives   ..20
B. Criteria and Procedures  . .21
Civil Works Selection .21
Road Investment Ceilings .22
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
the Ivory Coast in July 1979 and updated at the time of negotiations in August
1980. The members of the mission were Mrs. I. Sebastian (Economist) and Mr.
R. Millard (Engineer).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Worid Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No
C.  1980-82 Road Investment Program ......................ni     22
D.  Technical Assistance and Training .......... ...........   23
E.  Procurement and Implementation ..........len.. ..........n    25
F.  Ccst Estimates .. .....................................    25
G.  Disbursements.                  ...........                  26
H.  Economic Viability and Risks                                 27
IV.     AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS..                         28
ANNEXES:
1.  Tables
2.  Terms of Reference for Establishment of a Highway Data Service in
the Sous-Direction des Routes
3.  Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance to Establish an Analytical
Unit in the Sous-Direction de Transports Terrestres of DCTT
4. Terms of Reference for Study of a Driver Training Program
5.  Equipment to be Procured for LBTP
6. Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance for Training of Maintenance
Staff
7.  Draft Plan of Action
8.  Description of Roads to be Financed under the Proposed Sector Loan
CHARTS:
20979 - Ministry of Public Works Organization
20980  - Planning Institutions and Process
MAPS:
14697  - Primary and Secondary Gravel Roads Betterment Program
1976-1983
14698  - Ten-Year Highway Investment Plan/Location of Proposed Investments



GLOSSARY AND ABBREVIATIONS
AFT     Association Francaise des
Transporteurs                       French Transporters Association
ARSO    A torite pour l'Amenagement          Southwest Regional Development
Regional du Sud-Ouest
ASECNA  Agence pour la Securite de la        Agency for Air Navigation
Navigation Aerienne                  Safety
BAD     Banque Africaine de
Developpement                       African Development Bank
BCET    Bureau Central des Etudes            Central Bureau of Technical
Techniques                           Studies
BEI     Banque Europeenne d'Investisse-
ments                               European Investment Bank
BSIE    Budget Special d'Investisse-
ments de l'Economie                 Special Investment Budget
CAA     Caisse Autonome d'Amortisse-         Special Amortization Fund
ments
CCCE    Caisse Centrale de Cooperation       Special Fund for Economic Cooperation
Economique
CFP     Centre de Formation Profession-    Center for Vocational Training
nelle
CNFB    Centre National des Bureaux de       National Center of Freight
Fret                                 Bureaus
CSSPPA  Caisse de Soutien et                 Special Fund for Price Stabilization
Stabilisation des Prix des           of Agricultural Products
Produits Agricoles
DCCGT   Direction Centrale du Controle       Central Directorate for Control
des Grands Travaux                   of Works
DCFP    Direction Centrale de la             Central Directorate for Vocational
Formation Professionnelle            Training
DCMTP   Direction Centrale du Material       Cental Directorate of Equipment
Travaux Publics                      and Materials
DCTP    Direction Centrale des Travaux       Central Directorate of Public
Publics                              Works
DCTT    Direction Centrale des               Central Directorate of Land
Transports Terrestres                Transportation



GL.3SS9it i~ANLi A_i^EçViAÎiONS (Continued)
DER     Direction de l'Entretien
Routier                            Directorate of Road Maintenance
DTRP    Direction des Travaux                Directorate of Periodic Road
Routiers Periodiques                Works
EDF/FED Fonds Europeen de Developpement    European Development Fund
ENSTP   Ecole Nationale Superieure des       Higher National School of
Travaux Publics                      Public Works
INSET   Institut National Superieur          Higher National Institute of
d'Enseignement Technique             Vocational Training
LBTP    Laboratoire du Batiment et des       Buildings and Public Works
Travaux Publics                     Laboratory
LTP     Lycees Techniques Profession-
nelles                             Vocational Training Schools
METFP   Minîstere de l'Enseignement
Technique et de la Formation       Ministry of Vocational Training
Professionnelle                     and Technical Education
MFPE    Ministere des Finances, du           Ministry of Finance, Planning,
Plan et de l'Economie                and Economy
MTPTCU  Ministere des Travaux Publics,
des Transports, de la Construc-   Ministry of Public Works, Transport,
tion et de l'Urbanisme              Construction and Urbanism
ONFP    Office National de la Forma-         National Office of Technical
cion Professionnelle                Education
OSER    Office de Securite Routiere          Road Safety Office
RAN     Regie de Chemin de Fer Abidjan-
Niger                              Abidjan-Niger Railroad
SNT     Syndicat National des Transpor-
teurs                              National Syndicate of Transporters
SONAGECI     Societe Nationale de Genie
Civil                         National Civil Engineering Company



IVORY COAST
HIGHWAY SECTOR LOAN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.  Geographic, Economic and Social Factors
1.01      The Ivory Coast, situated on the Gulf of Guinea, covers 332,000
km2. It had a population of approximately 8.1 million in 1979, growing at
about 4% per year partly due to migration from neighboring countries. Popula-
tion densities vary from 29 per kmZ in the center to only 7 in the south-
west. Urban population, defined as any settlement of over 4,000 people,
increased from 13% of the total in 1955 to 34% in 1975; Abidjan, the capital,
alone has about 1 million inhabitants. Most of the population is involved in
agriculture. Cocoa, coffee and timber are the main export products and are at
the basis of Ivory Coast's economic growth, exceptional in Africa, of over 7%
per year in real terms since 1960. GDP per capita was estimated at US$1,060
in 1979 and it is more equitably distributed than in most African countries:
the 40 percentile of the population received 20% of the income and the top 20%
about 50%; the hourly wage rate for unskilled labor is around US$1.
1.02      Demand for transport has followed the pattern of economic activity:
heavily concentrated around Abidjan, and quite low in the north with the
exception of the corridor to Upper Volta used by both Upper Volta and Mali for
access to the ocean. Value added in the transport sector grew by 9% p.a. in
real terms in the last decade, while it absorbed about 20% of the public
investment each year. Further transport and telecommunications development
remain important means to achieve the current Government policy goal of
balancing the economic development of the various regions; however, the Bank/
IMF have recommended that the Government moderate the pace of investments
for the next few years to keep foreign debt at manageable levels, and ceilings
for investment and external public debt for 1979-82 have been agreed accord-
ingly. The proposed Sector Loan, in this context, will assist Government in
identifying and financing at low cost the highest priority projects in the
road sector over 1981-84.
B.   The Transport System
1.03      The seaport of Abidjan in the southeast is the focal point of the
system. It is served by the only rail line in the country, which runs north
into Upper Volta up to Ouagadougou, and by trunk roads radiating in all
directions. The road network now totals over 45,000 km and provides a
good grid, one of the densest of West Africa (about 135 m/kmZ), decreasing
in density and standards towards the north and the southwest. The port of
San Pedro in the southwest was opened in 1971, and after an initial period
of little movement, has become the secondary focal point of the system;



improvements to its hinterland infrastructure boosted the regional traffic but
further improvements are needed. The country has three international airports,
at Abidjan, Yamoussoukro, and Bouake; 25 smaller airfields serve other major
towns. While 400 km of navigable lagoons along the coast serve domestic
traffic, there are no navigable rivers.
Roads
1.04      Ivory Coast has an extensive road network of over 45,000 km of
which over 3,000 km will be paved by 1981; about 3,500 km of unpaved main
trunk and secondary roads are in good condition while the remaining roads are
being improved at the rate of 3,000 km per year. The vehicle fleet comprises
an estimated 131,000 units, or 1 per 62 inhabitants; road traffic is increas-
ing at more than 10% p.a., and is concentrated on the paved network. Trucks
and buses account for about 20% of the fleet, and carry about 80% of the
domestic freight. Because of the increasing traffic there is a continuing
need to strengthen pavements on the main road network and to improve some
portions of it. The gravel and earth roads also need improvement. Further
details on the highway subsector are included in Part II.
The Railroad
1.05      The Regie des Chemins de Fer Abidjan-Niger (RAN) operates a 1,150
km, single-track line from Abidian to Ouagadougou; 630 km of the line are in
the Ivory Coast.  The RAN is a major element in the regional transport system:
it handles about 75% of Upper Volta's exports and imports and some 20% of the
Ivorian domestic ton-km freight. It is, however, losing part of the latter due
to the competitiveness of road transport for short and medium distances (up to
400 km). In 1979, the RAN transported 600,000 tons, or about 465 million ton-
km, of mainly five commodities: cotton, cereals, petroleum products, cement
and fertilizers. While freight in ton-km has been fairly stable from 1976 to
1979, passenger-kms have increased considerably and the current 4 million
annual passengers generate more than 50% of RAN's revenues (Table 1). 1/
1.06      RAN is a financially autonomous agency owned by the Governments
of Ivory Coast and Upper Volta. Until 1978 its financial performance was
relatively adequate when helped by Government contributions towards mainte-
nance and capital renewal costs. In 1979, under conditions of traffic decline
and operating cost increases, tariff increases were implemented, but too late
and too low under conditions of accelerated inflation and may need to be
revised. RAN's planning is limited to annual budgeting and a medium-term
investment plan, largely established ad-hoc and without a systematic data
base; such weak planning resulted in serious operational difficulties in
recent years, largely reflected in lack of motive power and rolling stock.
However, since the delivery, in mid-1979, of 19 new locomotives and 210
additional freight cars provided under the First Regional Railway Project
(plus 216 freight cars under CCCE financing), the quality of service improved
and in 1980 it is expected that freight traffic will increase by 30% over the
level in the previous year.
1/   All tables are in Annex 1.



- 3 -
1.07      The RAN's actual investments in 1978 were about CFAF 7 billion;
the 1979 budget included CFAF 19.5 billion for investments, of which CFAF
3.7 billion were to be self-financed. However, net revenues decreased in that
year, and the Ivorian Government cut the RAN provision for 1979-81 even before
the newly Pdopted investment and foreign debt restraint policy. RAN's yearly
investment in 1981-85 should range from CFAF 8 to 10 billion, based on tech-
nical and operational requirements as identified by the Bank appraisal mission
for the Second Railway Project.
Ports
1.08      The Ivory Coast has two deep-water ports, at Abidjan and San Pedro.
The port of Abidjan is considered the most efficient in West Africa, and
ranks second after Lagos in terms of cargo volume handled: over 7.5 million
tons annually (Table 2). It serves most of the country's international
traffic, most of Upper Volta's and a steadily increasing share of Mali's;
occasionally it even handles imports for western Niger. Exports are slightly
higher than import volumes, a unique relation among the ports in the region.
From 1970 until recently, exports grew by 11% p.a. and imports by 6% p.a.
This pattern reflects the successful development of cash crops and of agri-
culture in general, which has allowed a decrease in food imports and increased
exports of crops (coffee, cocoa, tropical fruits), processed cotton, sugar,
rubber and wood products. Further, the port of Abidjan handles the largest
volume of container traffic in West Africa, almost 1 million tons per year; it
started such operations in 1971.
1.09      The port is managed by the Port Authority of Abidjan, an autonomous
agency, assisted by a competent team provided by UNCTAD.  The handling opera-
tions are entrusted to well-equipped and well-managed private companies.  For
servicing vessels the commercial port offers: 22 berths for general cargo and
containers; 11 specialized berths; 15 buoy-mooring facilities for loading logs
and timber; and an offshore port for tankers supplying crude oil to the
refinery. Because of the port's efficiency and its central location on the
Gulf of Guinea, shipping lines are using it more and more for container trans-
shipment. However, the port has some deficiencies, such as shortage of stocking
areas and slower operations during the rainy season. As activity is expected
to continue to grow, some improvement and expansion is planned: the priority
for further capacity expansion is given to the construction of about 1,000 m
of quay, including 4 conventional berths and 2 container berths, at an
estimated cost of CFAF 26 billion; construction of a second fishing port and
dredging of a port canal are also envisaged. The 1979-81 program includes
about CFAF 20 billion for the port investments.
1.10      San Pedro, the country's second deepwater port, includes 6 mooring
buoys for log traffic and two general cargo berths. The port, also managed
by an autonomous agency, started operations in 1971 with the objective to
facilitate development of the southwestern region, and by 1978 it was handling
about 1.5 million tons, of which 86% was logs. Initially traffic growth was
slow due to inadequate hinterland infrastructure, but it accelerated after the



Southwest Regional Development Authority started a coord.nated Im,'estment
program in 1973. The European Development Fund (FED) assisted the Ivorian
Government in financing a paved road from San Pedro to Odienne in the north.
Two east-west trunk paved roads were built connecting the area with Abidjan,
and a  network of secondary and feeder roads is being built or imrroved in the
region with Bank assistance. Two additional general cargo berths are under
construction and Government expects traffic to reach 3.5 miiLon terns in the
1980s.
Airports
1.11      The country has 3 airports of international standards, at Abidjan,
Yamoussoukro, and Bouake, and 25 other airfields of which 12 are able to
handle up to DC3-type aircraft. The Abidjan airport is the focal point,
handling near 1 million passengers p.a.: about 85% are international tra-
vellers, taking mainly business trips which are divided almost half and half
between Europe and other African countries. Air cargo is limited. The
present traffic growth rate of the airport is about 15% and full capacity use
is being reached.  Yamoussoukro, which has only recently been provided with
international standard facilities, handles only 12,000 passengers p.a.;
Bouake, registered about 55,000 passengers in 1978.  Except for San Pedro,
which serves about 45,000 passengers p.a., traffic at other airports is
negligible although growing fast, at about 20% p.a. (Table 3).
1.12      The Agency for Air Navigation Safety in Africa (ASECNA) operates the
most important airports, and the Civil Aviation Agency, the remainder.
While many international airlines stop at Abidjan, Air Afrique carries
about 40% of international passengers and UTA another 20%. Three companies
share the domestic air traffic, the most important being Air Ivoire. Because
of the Government policy to promote domestic air traffic through low tariffs,
these have not been increased since 1974. As a result, under conditions of
increasing operating costs, revenues do not cover the operating expenses of
the airline.
1.13      The 1979-81 program allocates about CFAF 35.5 billion for airport
investments. CFAF 24 billion were envisaged for a new airport at Abidjan, but
as its cost is now estimated at CFAF 200 billion, far beyond available funds,
its construction will be delayed. Of the remaining allocation, CFAF 10
billion are for works at the three international airports and only CFAF 1.5
billion for extending the San Pedro runway and navigation control equipment
to the regional airports. In addition, about CFAF 3 billion were foreseen for
the purchase of small airplanes. The investment program is being reviewed.
C.   Transport Investment Policy, Planning and Coordination
1.14      Until 1978, in the context of the country's rapid prosperity, the
Governnent's transport policy emphasized rapid upgrading of its main infra-
structure to high international standards, not always with due regard for
the economic justification and the long-term effects of excessive foreign
borrowing necessary to carry out the improvements. At the same time the
Government tried to expand its regional transit role, provide rural access
and feeder roads, and carry out proper maintenance. More recently, in



- 5 -
view of overall lower investment capacity, more attention is being paid to
select the high priority, soundly justified proposals, in support of the
overall policy of balanced regional development and diversification of the
economy.
1.15      Governrment policy is translated by the Ministry of Finance, Plan
and Economy (MFPE) into five-year public investment plan targets for each
sector and further defined in annual, three-year revolving programs (Loi
Programme des Investissements Publics). The technical agencies submit
updated investment proposals every year to the MFPE, which can add and defer
individual projects in the Loi Programme in response to changing circumstances
and availability of funds. This planning system allows the MFPE to sereen and
coordinate investment proposals made by the Ministry of Public Works, Trans-
port, Construction and Urbanism (MTPTCU) for roads, by the RAN for rails, by
the port authorities under the Ministry of Marine for the Abidjan and San
Pedro ports, and by the airport agencies. Largely as a result of the emerging
budgetary and foreign exchange constraints the MFPE role has been reinforced,
by giving it sole authority below the President to approve financing and
procurement for projects proposed by the technical ministries. As a result,
the freedom previously abused by technical ministries and para-public agencies
to contract directly with suppliers which offered their own commercial credit
at high cost has been restricted (para. 2.36). The system is adequate and
further details on road investment planning are given in Part II. During
implementation of the proposed Highway Sector Loan the Bank, MFPE and MTPTCU
will discuss and review the transport sector program periodically and analyze
all transport projects in the context of overall economie trends ln the
country (para. 3.06).
D.   Bank Group Assistance to the Transport Sector
1.16      Over the past 10 years the Bank Group-s direct lending to the
sector totalled US$123.3 million for the highway sub-sector and US$29
million to the railway (complemented with an IDA credit of US$5.2 million to
the Government of Upper Volta).  Loans and credits in the sector account for
about 27% of all Bank lending to the country. As a result of the Bank's
lending operations for highways, some 600 km of roads have been improved to
paved standards or strengthened; about 1,600 km of main trunk and regional
roads have been upgraded to good gravel standards; and 3,600 km of local
roads are being upgraded. Bank-financed agricultural projects account for
the building, rehabilitation and maintenance of some 6,000 km of unclassi-
fi ed roads serving agricultural communities. The highway projects also
assisted in building up capacity for road maintenance and in creating
planning institutions in the MTPTCU. The regional railway project is
providing the most urgently needed items of the 1978-80 railway investment
program and training and technical assistance during implementation. A
second Regional Railway Project is under preparation and is scheduled to be
implemented during 1982-84. Total project cost is estimated at about
US$97.5 million including components in Upper Volta.



- 6 -
1.17      The First (Ln. 542-IVC, US$5.8 million, 1968), Second (Ln. 761-IVC,
US$20s5 million, 1971), Third (Ln. 837-IVC, US$17.5 million, 1972) and Fourth
(Cr. 406-IVC, US$7.5 million, 1973) Highway Projects have been satisfactorily
completed. Project Completion Reports have been issued on all four projects.
An audit report was issued on the First Highway Project and the other projects
will be audited in FY81.
1.18      During implementation of the First Highway Project, an important
step was taken in transport investment planning with the UNDP-financed Trans-
port Sector Survey Study carried out by consultants SETEC, France (1968-72)
and the Bank as executing agency. This survey, which was updated by SETEC in
1976, with Bank financing under the Fifth Highway Project, called for an
extensive program to upgrade primary roads and to improve the capacity to plan
and execute road maintenance. It provided the context for subsequent Bank
highway projects, and has given the Government an opportunity to develop its
in-house capacity for transport planning through its Bureau Central d'Etudes
Techniques (BCET) (paras 2.29 and 2.30). The First Highway Project cost was
close to the appraisal estimate. Substantial increases in traffic and higher
unit savings in vehicle operating costs led to a re-estimated rate of return
of 21% at completion as compared to a range of 9.5 to 12% at appraisal.
1.19      The theme emerging from Project Completion Reports on the First
through Fourth Projects demonstrates the useful application of experience
gained and increasing concordance between the Bank and the Government on
design standards and project execution. During the preparation and execution
of the Second and Fourth Highway Projects, there were extensive discussions on
geometric design standards. The Government has moved from its initial aim to
use uniformly high standards on all the main roads of the country to their
present policy in which general design standards are modified on particular
road schemes to be appropriate for the expected traffic and the nature of the
terrain.
1.20      The construction components under the Fifth Highway Project (Ln.
1161-IVC, US$43.0 million, 1975) have been completed. Some equipment pur-
chases and engineering studies to be carried out under the project are sche-
duled to be executed by December 1980. The Feeder Roads and Highway Mainte-
nance Project (Ln. 1501-IVC, US$29.0 million, 1977), after a slow start caused
by delays in equipment procurement, is proceeding satisfactorily.
1.21      The Regional Railway Project (Ln. 1490-IVC, US$29 million; Cr.
744-UPV US$5.2 million, 1977) provided for the capital items of the 1978-80
portion of the railway investment program. Project execution of the physical
components has already begun to show positive results (para 1.06). Problems
which arose in the execution of the technical assistance program are being
resolved, as the project approaches completion.



- 7 -
II. HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
A.   Roads and Road Transport
The Network
2.01      Ivory Coast has an extensive network of over 45,000 km of roads; the
road classification and kilometrage are shown in the table below.
Road Kilometrage by Type and Classification
(1976 and 1980)
Percentage
Class of Road               Type of Pavement                Total         of Total
Bituminous      Gravel    Earth
1976    1980      1976      1980    1976      1980       1980
Main Trunk (A)   1,533   2,295    4,312    3,550   5,845    5,845           12.9
Regional (B)        211      330    6,802    6,683   7,013    7,013         15.5
Local (C)            93       93   20,956   20,956  21,049   21,049         46.4
Unclassified         68      359   11,190   11,091  11,258   11,450          25.2
Total       1,905   3,077   43,280   42,260  45,165   45,357          100.0
2.02      The proportion of paved roads is still quite small, less than
10%, out of which almost 1,200 km were built over the last 5 years.  Many of
the older paved roads need to be strengthened to avoid extensive pavement
failure and to accommodate traffic. The Government has made a start in
strengthening these old roads with assistance from the Bank, and the proposed
Sector Loan will continue such assistance. Gravel and earth roads present a
more serious problem. Over the period 1974-80, some 2,000 km of gravel
roads will have been upgraded, and some 4,500 of feeder roads in the cotton
area will also have been improved all with Bank assistance. The unpaved
network which can therefore be kept in good condition with normal maintenance
will have increased from 20% to 35% over the period. To continue the better-
ment program, the Bank is further financing, under the Feeder Roads and
Highway Maintenance Project, the foreign exchange costs for two additional
brigades which started working by the end of 1979 and should improve 3,600 km
of gravel roads over 3.5 years.
Traffic Characteristics and Growth
2.03      The fleet in the Ivory Coast was estimated at about 131,000 units as
of January 1980. The registration numbers as presented in Table 4 overstate
the actual fleet on the road as registration of vehicles taken out of circula-



- 8 -
tion are not systematically deleted. The table below gives the results of the
analysis of the current size and composition of the fleet undertaken by the
Direction Centrale des Transports Terrestres (DCTT) and the Direction du Plan
under the supervision of BCET. By comparison with the results of a similar
study issued by consultants SETEC in 1976, as part of the Transport Sector
Survey, the fleet has grown by more than 15% in five years.
Estimated Vehicle Fleet            Percentage
Vehicle Type                         as of January 1980              Composition
Private cars and taxis                      83,500                         64
Pick-up trucks and camionnettes              19,200                         15
Minibuses & buses                             5,400                          4
Trucks                                       17,700                         13
Roads tractors                                3,800                          3
Trailers and trailer trucks                   1,600                          1
Total                                 131,200                        100
2.04      Traffic growth is on average 11% p.a.; estimates are based primarily
on SETEC's 1976 Transport Sector Survey, origin/destination information from
consignment bills provided by the Centre National des Bureaux de Fret (CNBF),
and from the expected increase in real output and trade patterns in the
economy. The Sous-Direction des Routes carried out annual traffic count-
ing campaigns in 1976 and 1979. The BCET, with the Direction du Plan, has
analyzed the data which confirms the Sector Survey predictions of strong
traffic growth rates. The data also revealed higher rates on recently paved
roads, a fact which will be studied by BCET to determine the importance of
induced traffic. It is estimated that about 70% of the traffic is concen-
trated on 10% of the network, i.e. the paved roads, but, recently, regional
gravel and earth roads are experiencing more than the average traffic growth.
It is expected that by 1982 average daily traffic on some main trunk and
regional gravel roads will reach about 190 vehicles, at which point such roads
should be studied for upgrading to paved standards. The DCTP is still inade-
quately staffed to conduct comprehensive traffic data collection and analysis
on a systematic basis; the Fifth Highway Project and the proposed Sector Loan
will assist in improving traffic data collection and analysis (para. 3.12).



-9-
Road Safety
2.05      Some basic data on road accidents are given below:
Road Accident Data
… ________-------…Year------------------
1973     1974      1975      1976     1977
Accidents                               1,113    1,514    2,382    2,582    3,894
In Abidjan                             392       640    1,264    1,443    2,374
Outside Abidjan                         721      874    1,118    1,139    1,520
Fatalities                                357      356       464       424       600
In Abidjan                               92      123       226       168      245
Outside Abidjan                         265      233       238       256      355
Inunries                               2,521    3,780    4,849    4,950    6,266
In Abidjan                             446    1,051    1,362    1,617    1,922
Outside Abidjan                      2,075    2,729    3,487    3,333    4,344
2.06      These figures suggest inconsistencies between the number of accidents
reported and the numbers which actually occur (for instance in the large
decrease in the ratio fatalities/accidents). It is likely that the standard of
accident reporting is improving, and some general conclusions can be inferred:
(a) In relation to road use, the accident rate in Ivory Coast is
consistent with that in other developing countries, but is consid-
erably higher than in Europe and North America. The death rate per
vehicle-kilometer is over ten times that in the United States, and
death rates and casualty rates per capita are already as high as in
France and Great Britain despite the much lower vehicle/population
ratio in the Ivory Coast.
(b) During the past five years, accidents have increased, at approxi-
mately the same rate as the increase in vehicle use.
(c) The rates of increase of accidents have been greater in the urban
area of Abidjan than elsewhere in the country.
2.07      The Government is anxious to promote road safety and is preparing
programs concerning the education of road users, the enactment and enforcement
of road safety legislation and the promotion of safety features on both roads
and vehicles. An Office of Road Safety was formed early in 1979 to study road
accidents, and to promote and coordinate road safety activities. As part of
this effort, 15 vehicle testing units are in operation. But overall, it is



- 10 -
evident that the two main instruments for influencing the behavior of road
users, enforcement and education, are as yet having littie impact on the road
accident problem in the Ivory Coast. Under the proposed Highway Sector Loan,
following the consultant's recommendations on the truck drivers training
program, the Bank will support Ivorian efforts to improve road safety through
driver training (paras. 2.12 and 3.12).
The Road Transport Industry and Regulation
2.08      The industry can be categorized according to vehicle ownership:
55% consists of small enterprises owning one or two vehicles; 22% are medium
enterprises with three or more vehicles; and 23% are foreign enterprises of
various sizes. Large foreign enterprises dominate the transport of petro-
leum, logs, cocoa, coffee and perishable products, the segment of the industry
which is best remunerated, while the smaller, unspecialized firms usually
transport general cargo and passengers, particularly in rural areas. The
small entrepreneurs have a poor performance record which is attributed to lack
of commercial training and managerial skills and to price-cutting competition.
2.09      Public transport is loosely regulated in terms of licensing, of
vehicle inspection and of tariffs for loads over three tons, for hauls exceed-
ing 100 km, and for all passenger services (only the latter are subject to
route allocation). Tariffs are established per type of freight, but are
hardly enforced as a 15% margin is allowed on transport contracts, and the
competition often results in lower rates. The Centre National des Bureaux de
Fret (CNBF) was created to facilitate contacts between shippers and trans-
porters. It has regional offices but its main activity is collecting limited
statistical data from the consignment letters it issues to a small number of
large companies. Many shippers of general cargo find rates below the
established tariffs outside the freight offices.  In some municipalities the
industry's union also helps members to find shipments, and advises on vehicle
maintenance and bookkeeping, but the union is mainly concerned with public
passenger services fior which it allocates routes, and operates bus and truck
stations.
2.10      In 1976 consultants SETEC carried out at the Government request
a road user tax study and concluded that while the overall level of taxation
is sufficient to cover both maintenance and investment expenditures, the
incidence of specific taxes leads to indirect subsidization of truck traffic
by private passenger traffic. The results of the study were discussed with
the Bank, and the Government agreed that road user taxes had to be raised in
order to keep up with the level of expenditure in the sector, but it con-
sidered the issue of redistributing the tax burden among road users poli-
tically and economically undesirable. In fact, taxes have been increased by
25% on fixed operating cost items and by as much as 43% on gasoline and 32% on
diesel fuel over 1976-78. In July 1980 taxes on gasoline represented over 36%
of the consumer price for regular gasoline and 22% of the diesel fuel price.
The price at the pump was CFAF 198 per liter of "super", CFAF 190 per liter of
"regular" and CFAF 135 per liter of diesel fuel. Prices are within the range
of those in neighboring countries. A thorough re-evaluation of road user tax
incidence and its relationship with the expenditures in the sector will be
made by the analytical unit in the DCTT with technical assistance financed
under the proposed Sector Loan (para.3.12).



- Il -
2.11      Ten tons is the official axle load limit and it is enforced on the
main timber routes to Abidjan. A serious regulatory problem is raised by the
fact that Mali and Upper Volta, which have higher axle load limits, use the
lvorian trunk roads to the port. The question was raised by the Governments
concerned n the last meeting of the Conseil de l'Entente 1/ and a resolution
was voted to conduct a regional study to identify the impact of changes in
axle-load limits on an existing network. The Bank participated in the draft-
ing of the Terms of Reference for the study which is expected to start in
1981 .
2.12      The Direction Centrale des Transports Terrestres (DCTT) is
responsible for traffic regulations and enforcement, and in formulating
transport policies; however, its limited staff enables it to carry out only a
few functions. DCTT therefore intends to strengthen its capabilities, inter
alia to issue licenses to drivers of passenger and heavy commercial vehicles;
to gather data on the vehicle fleet, its size, carrying capacity and operating
costs; to ascertain the adequacy of the fleet and prevailing tariffs; and to
formulate transport policies based on such better factual knowledge. The DCTT,
assisted by the Association Francaise des Transporteurs, is already preparing
a drivers' training program modelled on the one carried out by the Conseil de
l'Entente at Niamey for its member cotntries. The program emphasizes proper
driving behavior and adequate preventive maintenance of vehicles. Once the
courses are operating, a professional driver license will not be issued
without proof of satisfactory course, completion. The proposed Sector Loan
would assist in the program's implementation, and would also provide technical
assistance to DCTT for fact finding, analysis and policy recommendations
(para. 3.12).
B.   Minîstry of Public Works Organization
2.13      To carry out its responsibilities, the MTPTCU has ten central
directorates, four of which are directly concerned with roads and road trans-
port; and seven regional directorates. It is also supported by two autonomous
agencies, the Bureau Central des Etudes Techniques (BCET), and the Laboratoire
du Batiment et des Travaux Publics (LBTP). The Direction Centrale des Travaux
Publics (DCTP) generates investment and maintenance programs based mainly on
data it receives from the regional directorates, undertakes budgeting and
planning, and monitors progress on road construction and maintenance.
The Direction Centrale du Controle des Grands Travaux (DCCGT) is responsible
for design standards, choice of least cost alternatives, detailed engineering,
preparation of bidding documents and supervision of works. The regional
Directorates gather data and execute road maintenance, with equipment pur-
chased and allocated by the Direction Centrale du Materiel (DCM) and with
funds administered from Abidjan. The BCET is the center for economic and
technical studies, integrates and coordinates proposals from the various
directorates and discusses them with the Ministry of Finance, Planning and
Economy (MFPE). This organization, which gives more responsibility to the
1/ The Conseil de l'Entente is an organization of Benin, Ivory Coast, Niger,
Uper Volta and Togo, to promote and coordinate political, social and
economic policies.



- 12 -
regions, was adopted in 1977 and, although adequate, is not yet fully opera-
tional as some of the directorates lack qualified personnel. Ongoing Bank
projects are providing technical assistance and equipment for the proper
functioning of the various Directorates, and the proposed Sector Loan would
provide some additional experts as needed. The MTPTCU organization is sum-
marized in attached Chart 20979 and further discussed in the following sec-
tions.
Staff and Training
2.14      The shortage of trained manpower in the technical fields is the
major constraint on investment and maintenance projects in the sector.
The large public investments in education should soon meet the needs of the
country for engineers and highly trained technicians, but it will not meet the
needs for specialist training of highway technicians, particularly foremen,
mechanics and machine operators. The MTPTCU draws on its own Centre d'Appli-
cation des Travaux Publics (CATP) and on the Ecole Nationale Superieure des
Travaux Publics (ENSTP) for its manpower needs. In two years time the ENSTP
at Yamoussoukro is expected to turn out all the engineers and high-level
technicians needed in the country. On the other hand, the CATP can barely meet
the demand for mechanics and chiefs of maintenance brigades.
2.15      The Bank has already financed technical assistance to recruit
and train the personnel needed to staff the maintenance and road betterment
brigades created under both the Third Highway Project and the Feeder Road and
Highway Maintenance Project. By 1977, as a result of this effort, 203
individuals were trained for specific equipment maintenance tasks and about
1,000 received on-the-job training before assignment to the regions. Still,
the need is much larger as more maintenance brigades are created and skills
have to be continuously upgraded to match the requirements of modern equip-
ment. The personnel in place have to be brought up to the standards where they
are able to take over the brigade operation and management as the technical
assistance is phased out. The proposed Highway Sector Loan will provide for
(i) expert technical assistance to the Direction Centrale de la Formation
Professionnelle (DCFP) in the MTPTCU for on-the-job training of maintenance
personnel (para. 3.13), and (ii) the extension of the existing technical
assistance for maintenance for about nine months by when the proposed training
program under (i) will be in place (para 3.12).
Design and Construction
2.16      Excessive geometric standards were a major issue during implementa-
tion of earlier Bank projects (para. 1.19). A more realistic attitude now
prevails; MTPTCU main design standards are summarized in Tables 7 and 8 of
Annex 1. The geometric design standards are based on French practice,
adjusted as needed: for instance, design speeds are selected according to the
traffic and nature of the terrain, balancing the possible advantages of higher
design speeds against the extra construction costs they require. Shoulder
width and treatment varies, for instance, according to the use made of them by
pedestrians on the approaches to towns and villages. Structural design of
road pavements is based on extensive knowledge of the uses and limitations



- 13 -
of locally available road-making materials and of the influences of terrain
and climate; LBTP has published a series of manuals to guide designers and
builders. For asphalt, the design assumes that, with the estimated traffic,
the pavement will require strengthening after 10-15 years.
2.17      Design and supervision of major road works has norrLally been under-
taken by foreign consultants. MTPTCU through DCCGT and LBTP is playing
an increasing part in guiding consultants in design and in the solution
of technical problems which arise during construction. BCET is taking over
the feasibility and engineering studies for major works, and foreign firms
are employed for studies for which there is no local expertise available.
LBTP works with the BCET on geotechnical and survey studies for the detailed
engineering of projects awarded to it by the MTPTCU.
2.18      Construction, improvement and strengthening of main roads are
undertaken by contractors. The Direction Centrale du Controle des Grands
Travaux (DCCGT) analyzes contracts to ensure that competitive prices are
being offered. It analyzes information on unit construction costs and cost
variations and is well aware of the need to produce lowest-cost solutions for
each individual project. The DCCGT supervises progress on civil engineering
works, while construction and improvement of earth and gravel roads is carried
out by force account.
2.19      Several large, foreign contractors operate in the country, and
there is a Government-owned contracting organization SONAGECI.   There are
small contractors in the forestry and transport industries who could build and
maintain earth and gravel roads, but the MTPTCU has held back in developing
them, believing that it was first necessary to build up the public service
expertise. The time is now right to develop with the Government a program
for the promotion of domestic contractors; consultants BCEOM, France, have
recently conducted a study, financed by the MFPE, on the potential for the
development of a domestic construction industry. During the implementation
of the proposed Sector Loan the Bank and the Government will prepare a
sub-project for technical assistance to train Ivorian contractors, if their
potential for undertaking road works is proven (para. 3.12). This would be
complemented by financial assistance available to them through the Bank's
Small Scale Enterprises Project.
Road Maintenance
2.20      Road maintenance activities in Ivory Coast include routine and
periodic maintenance; some 35% of the network is now in a condition that it
can be kept in good order by regular maintenance and a program of betterment
works exists for the more important remaining roads, to bring them to this
condition. Previous and current Bank projects have encouraged rapid develop-
ment of the organization of road maintenance over the past few years. The
most recent major reorganization (1977) is likely to meet the country's needs
for some years to come. Its major features were the creation of Direction de
l'Entretien Routier (DER) within the Direction Centrale des Travaux Publics
(DCTP) and the shifting of responsibilities for routine maintenance to the



- 14 -
regional offices and their subdivisions while the programming and execution of
betterment works are shared between them and the Direction des Travaux Rou-
tiers Periodiques (DTRP).
2.21      Road maintenance in Ivory Coast is mechanized as labor costs are
high. However, some routine maintenance tasks are done by labor-intensive
gangs, who are responsible for about 300 km of road each. In the subdivisions
30 road maintenance groups carry out routine and periodic maintenance; they
will be increased to 39 by 1984. For road betterment there are currently five
heavy brigades, established and equipped under the Third and the Feeder Roads
and Highway Maintenance Projects. There are special gangs for the routine
maintenance of bituminous pavements. When periodic maintenance such as
surface treatment or pavement strengthening is necessary, it is undertaken
by contract.
2.22      The force account brigades for the construction and maintenance of
gravel roads are now working with a very tight allocation of equipment. The
productivity of the brigades, which improved rapidly after a slow start, is
now falling. The once new machinery requires expert maintenance to keep it
operational; the breakdown of a major item causes considerable reductions in
productivity and there is no spare capacity for substitution, or to provide
for on-the-job-training. However, road maintenance tasks have been clearly
defined and operational norms for the maintenance brigades are being estab-
lished. For instance, a grader is expected to cover 6 km of earth or gravel
roads per day and the following norms apply:
Working Hours
Traffic Level                         Allocated to a Grader
(Vehicles/Day)                           per Km per year
Local and unclassified roads                  2.25
Main trunk and regional roads:
T \  50                                 6
50 \ T \ 100                                 9
100 \ T \ 150                                12
150 \ T \ 200                                15
200 \ T \ 300                                18
Other productivity norms concern:
-    Side clearance 800 m2/day/man
-    Clearing of ditches 15 m/day/man
-    Earth road surface repair 25 m2/day/man
During negotiations the Government agreed to continue the efforts to maintain
its highway system in accordance to sound engineering practices and to prepare
appropriate road maintenance productivity targets (para 4.02 a). The produc-
tivity measures will be used in the preparation of annual maintenance programs
and the corresponding budgetary allocations.



- 15 -
2.23      There is a shortage of trained and experienced staff in the organi-
zation and execution of road maintenance. There is a need for many more
expert mechanics and for more mobile workshops to improve the routine main-
tenance of equipment. Although analytical accounting was introduced in every
subdivision in the country under the Third Highway Project (Table 9), field
personnel n.ed further training and the regional administrators have to
become versatile in processing the information and using it to plan road
maintenance budgets in their regions.  Further technical assistance is being
provided under the Feeder Roads and Highway Maintenance Project which includes
a program to recruit and train mechanics and other skilled personnel needed
for the brigades.
Maintenance Expenditures
2.24      The maintenance budget is apportioned among the central and the
regional directorates of public works involved in maintenance operations. The
budget covers salaries, materials, and equipment operating costs. Around 70%
of expenditures is covered by the road maintenance fund, replenished from
gasoline tax revenues, with the remainder provided by the general budget:.
Renewal of equipment is financed as a capital investment item from the Budget
Special d'Investissements et d'Equipement (BSIE). On the average, maintenance
expenditures account for less than 20% of annual road expenditures, and about
25% of the revenues from road user taxes. Total budgetary allocations to
maintenance are adequate; maintenance expenditures for 1976-78 are shown
below:
(Million FCFA - current values)
Maintenance Expenditures                   Sources of Finance
Betterment Works             Road       General
Routine     on Earth and               Maintenance   Budget
Year    Administration Maintenance   Gravel Roads    Total           Fund       & BSIE
1976         442           4,836          1,404         6,682        5,197       1,485
1977         508           4,601          1,816         6,925        4,770       2,155
1978         554           4,182          2,742         7,478        5,488       1,990
The decrease in expenditures on routine maintenance was offset in 1978 by
about 35% increase on betterment works necessary to bring the roads to a
condition at which they can be kept up by routine tasks.
2.25      The maintenance budget prepared by the DER/DCTP for the 1980-83
period takes into account, apart from the continuation of existing operations,
the following elements:
(a) the betterment program, and the maintenance of feeder roads cur-
rently under construction, will come under the financial responsi-
bility of the DER/DCTP;
(b) gradual renewal of maintenance equipment;



- 16 -
(c) maintenance services will be expanded over increased road length
as required by traffic;
(d) the repair of drainage works which have been damaged on a number of
roads as a result of the past heavy rainy seasons;
(e) the technical assistance and on-the-job training programs currently
financed by the Bank are due to terminate in 1981; and
(f) an estimated rate of inflation of 12% p.a.
The 1980-83 proposed maintenance budget, is presented below and seems ade-
quate.
(Million CFAF - current values)
Budget-items        Expansion of Maintenance
Currently Financed      Operations and Other
Continuation of          by Bank             Related Functions
Year    Existing Operations  (item "a" above)          (items b/c/d/e above)    Total
1980           9,878                4,814                      4,061            18,793
1981         11,063                 4,862                      6,256            22,181
1982         12,390                 5,503                      7,027            24,920
1983          13,877                6,162                     12,891             32,930
During negotiations the maintenance budget figure for 1980 was confirmed.
The Government gave assurances that it will discuss with the Bank future
budgetary allocation as per the proposed Plan of Action (Annex 7) (para
4.04).
C. Planning and Planning Institutions
The Ten-Year (1978-87) Highway Development Plan
2.26      Consultants SETEC, France, were engaged under the Fifth Highway
Project to prepare a 10-year road plan (para. 1.18). Submitted in 1977, it
was endorsed by the Government and the Bank, and continues to be the basis for
road investment proposals. The plan, which focuses on main roads, was based on
a detailed road inventory and traffic surveys, and was limited, insofar as
other modes were concerned, to their impact on the primary road network.
Traffic forecasts were based on reasonable assumptions concerning different
growth rates following each region's economic profile and development plans.
The plan is divided into: (a) a basic program, consisting of projects with
rates of return of over 10%, and (b) two optional low priority programs
including projects with low rates of return but which could be included to
balance regional development (Table 10). Expressed in 1980 prices, the
basic program might cost more than US$1 billion.
2.27      The following roads were selected as having highest priority in the
plan:



- 17 -
(a) in the Abidjan region, investments with an economic rate of
return of 19% to 39%: Mafou-Akoupe, Agboville-Akoupe,
Abidjan-Bassam, Abidjan-Dabou, and Abobo-Alepe;
(b) in the Bouake region, investments with an economic rate of
return between 26% and 31%: Bouake-Beoumi, Bouake-Tieningboue,
and Bouake-Mbahiakro;
(c) in the San Pedro area, Pont Weygand-San Pedro (16% return) and
San Pedro-Bereby (25% return); and
(d) the rest of the projects in other regions have rates of
return between 15% and 25%.
2.28      The plan is an important statement of the long-term investment needs
in the sector. The planning institutions in MTPTCU and BCET have the mandate
to update the plan's data base and establish current investment priorities
each year when they present their three-year programs to the MFPE; the current
three year program is discussed in paras 3.09 and 3.10 in relation to the
proposed Sector Loan.
Planning Institutions
2.29      Investment programs for roads are generated by the MTPTCU each
year and presented to the MFPE for approval and inclusion in the Loi Programme
d'Investissements Routiers. In the Direction Centrale des Travaux Publics
(DCTP), the Sous-Direction des Routes is in charge of coordinating, collect-
ing, and analyzing data from the regions on road inventory and traffic counts.
Based on the data analysis provided by this office, the Sous-Direction de la
Programmation des Investissements and the Direction de l'Entretien Routier
(DER) establish a preliminary list of priorities for upgrading roads which are
more expensive to maintain than to upgrade.
2.30      The proposals of the DCTP are submitted to BCET for economic evalua-
tion. BCET is central to planning and coordination efforts in the sector.
It recently acquired an independent budget, which permits it to recruit
experienced employees whose salaries can be set competitively with the private
sector. Within BCET a Transport Planning and Coordinating Unit was created
with technical assistance from consultants SETEC, financed under the Fifth
Highway Project. BCET's role is identified as follows:
(a) a center for coordinating data collection and for analyzing
intermodal traffic distribution;
(b) a liaison center between research and cost analysis carried out
on road maintenance and construction (LBTP and DCCGT) and the
programming of new investments and road maintenance (DCTP and DER);
(c) the bureau in charge of economic analysis of proposed projects,
either by in-house staff or by consultants under staff supervision.



- 18 -
2.31      BCET's Transport Planning and Coordination Unit updates the infor-
mation on investment programs in other sectors of the economy and all other
modes and, based on information provided by DCTP and DCTT, forecasts origin/
destination traffic patterns and overall traffie growth rates. The projects
selected as priority are proposed to the MFPE for inclusion in the draft Loi
Programmes; the MFPE further coordinates them with other sector proposals
and draws up a final investment program within available resources. For
the approved projects, BCET undertakes economic feasibility and detailed
engineering studies. The planning process is summarized in Chart 20980
attached.
2.32      Decisions on when and by how much to strengthen paved roads have
been made by engineering judgment based on immediate and obvious needs;
in some instances strengthening has been overdone. With the direct encourage-
ment of the Minister, the Laboratoire du Batiment et des Travaux Publics
(LBTP), which sets standards for road maintenance and strengthening, has
established a Pavement Evaluation Unit to provide a data base on which a road
strengthening program can be planned in the most economical way. LBTP has
completed a review of pavement deflections and traffic loading over the whole
paved network and a handbook describing its methedology for pavement evalua-
tion is expected to be published soon.
2.33      Overall road planning is still handicapped by the lack of a coher-
ent, up-to-date and systematic data base on road use and on the current
condition of the entire network of gravel and earth roads.  In 1976 and 1979
manual traffic counts were conducted at about 100 posts, in four survey
periods of three days each.  The data obtained was analyzed to give a compre-
hensive picture of traffic trends and composition and this provided the basis
for the 1981-85 investment plan. MTPTCU has established manual traffic
counting brigades in the seven regional directorates and is installing automa-
tic traffic counting equipment purchased with Bank financing under previous
loans. The MTPTCU also recognizes the need for continuous update of the road
inventory (para 3.12).
2.34      The institutions necessary for national road planning are in
place and there are provisions under the proposed Sector Loan to provide
them with the assistance necessary to make them fully effective (para 3.12).
In the past, decisions on highway development were often made without a full
appreciation of the likely economic consequences. With the development of the
planning institutions, this weakness is being rapidly overcome. It is already
possible to provide a rational basis for decisions on improving the main trunk
road network.
D. The 1976-80 Highway Investments
2.35      Since 1976, about 1,500 km of paved main roads were built or streng-
thened at a cost of about CFAF 184 billion in current prices. Investments in
roads were about CFAF 36 billion in 1977, 41 billion in 1978, CFAF 48 billion
in 1979 and an estimated CFAF 50 billion in 1980. The Treasury, the Caisse
de Soutien et Stabilisation des Prix des Produits Agricoles (CSSPPA) and
Financement Etat provided the local financing; the latter is an extra budgetary



- 19 -
source which can be used to finance works not yet included in the Loi Pro-
gramme. Foreign borrowing covered about 46% of the expenditures; the Bank
group has contributed about 6% and suppliers credits have been the main
external financial source (Table 11). In addition to these works, in 1974 the
Government embarked on extensive earth and gravel road betterment and feeder
roads construction programs with the Bank financing foreign cost of equipment
purchases and of operating costs.
2.36      Almost 35% of the road paving program was financed under supplier
credit contracts, as they could be entered into in addition to the investment
budget, and 100% of the works cost including taxes were thus financed,
thereby even providing some short-term revenues. The longer term negative
effect on the balance of payments was disregarded, and the high financial
cost of a contract covering both financial and physical execution, was not
recognized until 1979. That year, faced with rapidly escalating unit con-
struction costs, DCCGT started to analyze road construction costs and found
that these were up to 30% higher under supplier credit contracts. The Govern-
ment has since restricted the recourse to supplier credits and now negotiates
separate contracts for physical execution and for financing. The proposed
Sector Loan would provide a cheaper financing source for foreign costs, but
Government would have to finance the local costs, and taxes, which at 29%
average on civil works, result in a considerable demand of local funds.
2.37      Apart from some cases of Qverdesign, the high construction costs
also resulted from inordinately large contracts and a number of amendments, to
which price escalation formulae were automatically applied. The MTPTCU has
already adopted the practice of restricting the volume of works under any one
contract to about a three-year execution period (para 3.16). Moreover, in
order to avoid amendments and high incidence of cost revision formulae, the
Government agreed at negotiations to include in the bidding documents, where
applicable, minor essential complementary works (para 3.06 d).
III. THE SECTOR LOAN
3.01      During recent years, based on a buoyant economy, the Government has
relied heavily on suppliers credits to finance investment in building up the
main trunk road system. Now faced with more restricted economic growth and
with the advice of the Bank, the Government is seeking to restrain future
financial commitments. At the same time, Government organizations have been
established which provide the opportunity to plan road investment so that it
keeps pace with overall economic development and so that individual schemes
are planned and executed in the most efficient way (Chapter II). In this
context the proposed Sector Loan provides the Ivory Coast with US$100 million
to meet part of the foreign exchange costs for the further development of the
road network over the 1981-83 period in an effort to build up and strengthen
existing institutions.



- 20 -
A.   Objectives
3.02      Specifically, the main objectives of the proposed Sector Loan are:
(a) to assist Government in its policy of restrained investments,
by evaluating its absorptive capacity, establishing investment
ceilings for the road sector, and ensuring that only high priority
projects are undertaken;
(b) to further improve highway sector planning and coordination,
including the adoption of sound engineering and economic
criteria for project selection;
(c) to finance the foreign exchange cost of priority investments
to be included in the road investment program, and substitute
for more expensive sources of funds; and
(d) reinforce maintenance operations and increase productivity
of the equipment and make efficient use of the allocated budget
through further training.
3.03      To reach these objectives, the following categories have been
identified for financing under the proposed Sector Loan over 1981-84:
(a) Civil Works: Main road construction, reconstruction and pavement
strengthening; so far no secondary or feeder roads have been
identified for upgrading under the loan other than the road from
Adzope to Betie (about 100 km) serving a Bank-financed rubber
plantation project, but more may be incorporated if needed;
(b) Technical Assistance and Training: for the various MTPTCU
directorates;
(c) Road Maintenance Equipment: intended for training brigades;
and
(d) Road Laboratory Equipment: for further research into pavement
design standards.
3.04      In addition, the criteria and procedures for the selection of
specific road works and for their financing under the proposed Sector Loan,
have been discussed with Government as outlined in following sections. A
ceiling for investments in main roads was agreed for 1981, and the share of
road investments relative to the total public investment program was estab-
lished for 1982 and 1983 (para. 3.08). Technical assistance needs have been
identified with various degrees of precision (para. 3.12), and US$6 million
equivalent would be allocated for their foreign exchange financing under the
proposed Sector Loan. About US$200,000 were allocated for the purchase of
road research laboratory equipment as described in Annex 5.



- 21 -
B.   Criteria and Procedures
3.05      The proposed road investment program and ceilings, selection of
items for financing and progress under the Sector Loan will be reviewed in
bi-annual meetings between the Bank and the Government (MTPTCU and MFPE)
during the period of execution. The following agenda would be pursued:
(a) review project implementation during the past year;
(b) review Government's progress in intermodal transport planning
and proposed highway investment program;
(c) review and agree on proposed highway investment ceiling; and
(d)  select and/or approve additional items to be financed from
the Sector Loan.
It was agreed to hold the first meeting each year in March or April to coin-
cide with the preparation of the Loi Programme, and the second in September or
October. This was confirmed at negotiations (para 4.02 b).
Civil Works Selection
3.06      To ensure that all civil works to be undertaken in the road sector
have high economic priority, are coordinated with programs for other transport
modes, are designed to optimum standards and are executed at lowest possible
cost, the following was discussed during appraisal:
(a) all road projects to be included in the three year investment
program will be evaluated according to the agreed economic and
technical criteria, and the majority of them will have an estimated
minimum 12% economic rate of return, based on preliminary engineer-
ing cost estimates, projected vehicle operating savings, eventual
road maintenance savings, and eventual intermodal effects;
(b) the Government will decide which of the projects complying with
the economic return criteria should be included in the three year
road investment program and will discuss its selection with the
Bank;
(c) each project shall be prepared to sound engineering and econo-
mically justified standards; in particular and as applicable,
alternate lay-outs and cross sections, in line with MTPTCU
standards, will be investigated and the detailed engineering
should aim at the least total cost solution after careful
evaluation of alternatives. The economic return, based on the
detailed engineering cost estimate, will be at least 12% to
proceed with the works under Sector Loan financing; and
(d) bidding documents should include, where applicable, minor essential,
complementary works, to curb the effect of costly price escalation
clauses and/or subsequent contract amendments.



- 22 -
3.07      In fact, all new projects so far proposed for inclusion in the
1980-82 road investment program (para 3.10 and 3.11) already follow these
principles. During negotiations the Government agreed that ail road works
to be included under the Sector Loan will comply with the above criteria; projects
will be approved only after detailed engineering and final economic analyses
are completed and are satisfactory to the Bank (para 4.02c).
Road Investment Ceilings
3.08      Following Bank-Governnent discussions on the overall investment
program in Ivory Coast, inter alia to establish absorptive capacity of further
foreign debt contracting in view of the already heavy and increasing debt
repayments due, ceilings were determined for acceptable investment levels
in each sector of the economy over the next years. These ceilings take into
account past sectoral allocations, and local resources expected to become
available. It was agreed that for the highway sector the acceptable ceiling
is CFAF 56 billion for 1981, or about 12% of the total public investment
program, for works ongoing and to be started, independent of the sources of
financing. For succeeding years of project implementation, it was agreed that
investments in inter urban roads should stay in the order of 12% of the total
public investment program. This, in turn, is subject to review in response to
development of economic conditions (para 4.03a and b). Moreover it was agreed
that all roads to be undertaken will have been previously included in the
revolving three-year Investment Program after due consultation with the Bank
(para 4.02d).
C. 1980-82 Road Investment Program
3.09      Completion of ongoing works and programs, and new road paving and
strengthening is estimated to reach, over 5 years, CFAF 211 billion in 1980
prices, or an average investment of about CFAF 42 billion a year. In 1981,
commitments carried over from the previous year alone will amount to CFAF 44
billion at current prices. To these a volume of new works will be added under
the proposed Sector Loan financing up to a total investment level of CFAF 56
billion in 1981, as an alternative to contractor financing arrangements
(para 2.36).
3.10      New components proposed for the 1981-82 road investment program are
listed below; each follows the economic and engineering criteria outlined in
para. 3.06. Given the high level of commitments for 1980, most works can only
start late in 1981 and some will have to be carried over into 1984 or beyond.
Depending on the various stages of sub-project preparation, procurement delays
and the execution periods, these components will be financed by the proposed
Sector Loan starting in 1981.



- 23 -
IDENTIFIED COMPONENTS AND COSTS
(US$ million, base 1980 prices)
Foreign
as Z of
Local    Foreign    Taxes    Total      Total
Civil Works
a.   Road Strengthening
Akoupe-Abengourou               2.2         11.0       5.3    18.5
Akoupe-Bongouanou               0.9          4.4       2.3      7.6
Man-Issia                       2.5         12.4       6.0    20.9
b.   Road Construction
Mafou-Akoupe                    4.3         21.6      10.6    36.5
Subtotal                     9.9        49.4       24.2    83.5        59
c.   Contingencies
15% physical                    1.6         7.4        3.6    12.6
Price adjustments (12% p.a.)   3.1          12.3       6.1    21.5
Total Civil Works           14.6         69.0      33.9   117.6
3.11      For the following additional sub-projects, the MTPTCU is preparing
studies or bid documents, and agreement was reached at negotiations to include
them under the Sector Loan depending on the availability of funds:
-    road strengthening of San Pedro-Issia (210 km);
-    road construction of Dimbokro-Bondouanou (70 km) and Issia-Daloa (45
km);
-    earth-road improvement of Adzope-Betie (100 km);
-    construction of the bridge on the Mossou river; and
-    purchase of ferries for the N'Zida river.
D.   Technical Assistance and Training
3.12      So far, 137 man-months have been clearly defined for the various
directorates of MTPTCU, while the training program for mid-level road mainte-
nance technicians and eventually for training of domestic contractors and
heavy vehicle drivers is in the initial stages of preparation. The program
includes:
(a) 72 man-month extension of the Louis Berger/BCEOM technical assistance
under the Feeder Roads and Highway Maintenance Project from March to
December 1980, to bridge the gap until the training program included
under the proposed Sector Loan ((f) below) is operational;



- 24 -
(b)  32 man-months to assist in organizing a data unit, and training
Ivorians in preparing and updating road inventories and traffic
counts in DCTP (Annex 2);
(c) 32 man-months to assist in organizing and training Ivorian personnel
in road transport planning in DCTT (Annex 3);
(d) 1 man-month to assist in preparing a training program for drivers
of heavy trucks (Annex 4), eventually to be implemented with
additional technical assistance;
(e) fellowships and research equipment for LBTP, the national soils
laboratory (Annex 5);
(f) an on-the-job training program, including technical assistance,
teaching materials and equipment, for mechanics and equipment
operators in DCM, DER, DTRP and the regional directorates (Annex 6);
and
(g) eventually, training of domestic contractors.
3.13      The program for training of maintenance personnel under the proposed
Sector Loan will continue the training program under the Third Highway Project
and would be directed essentially to: (i) drivers of road equipment and heavy
vehicles; (ii) equipment maintenance workers of all kinds; (iii) supervisory
staff at the level of chief of brigades and chiefs of sectors. It is envisaged
that drivers would essentially be trained at the existing training center at
Vridi (Centre de Formation Poids Lourds) followed by a short stage on the job
under supervision. The maintenance workers and supervisors would receive a
short basic training course and on-the-job training in specialized brigades
and regional workshops. Tentatively, the following requirements have been
identified:
(a) the creation of training/production brigades with the necessary
equipment, and training specialists in road maintenance to run
the brigades, assisted by maintenance technicians;
(b) some strengthening of the regional workshops (perhaps three out of
seven), through the provision of training equipment and perhaps
a training room;
(c) about 15 man-years of technical assistance.
3.14      A Bank consultant was hired to evaluate the training needs of
maintenance personnel in the Ivory Coast and to design the program for on-the-
job training and upgrading of field personnel skills. It was estimated that
over the next four year period some 1,900 workers of various skills have to be
recruited and trained, and most of the 3,200 existing staff need additional
basic courses, mainly on-the-job. Although the consultant defined and identi-
fied the magnitude of the needs well, he recommended a program which is too
ambitious and averlooks the availability (current and in the near future) of



- 25 -
vocational training facilities and coordination with ongoing training pro-
grams. Further preparation is needed; during negotiations agreement was
reached (para 4.02e) that assistance is needed for the preparation of the
training program and on the proposed terms of reference (Annex 6).
3.15      The proposed terms of reference for the above (a) through (d) have
already been discussed and the Government agreed at negotiations to establish
the analytical units in the MTPTCU no later than July 1, 1981 (para. 4.02e);
the Government has already approached consultants for proposals for the above
technical assistance needs. The Government gave assurances that the plan of
action establishing responsibilities and schedules for the technical assis-
tance and training programs, as proposed in Annex 7, will be followed during
project implementation (para 4.04).
E.   Procurement and Implementation
3.16      Civil works and equipment eligible for financing under the proposed
Sector Loan will be procured through international competitive bidding in
accordance with the Bank guidelines for procurement. Contracts for equipment,
materials, and supplies costing less than US$100,000, e.g., research equipment,
teaching materials and road maintenance equipment for training, may be awarded
on the basis of local competitive bidding using procedures acceptable to the
Bank up to a total of about US$600,000. The Government has agreed during
negotiations that during loan implementation all contracts will be limited
in duration to 36 months for three dry seasons in order to broaden competi-
tion and keep construction costs under control (para 4.02f).
3.17      The identified technical assistance to the DCTP and the DCTT will
require about 137 man-months of consultant services at an estimated total
cost of about US$1,600,000 including price contingencies. The cost of
technical assistance is based on man-month unit prices of similar services
in Ivory Coast. The billing rate for consultant services is estimated at
an average of US$7,000 per field man-month and includes salaries and overhead
(home, office expenses, expatriate allowances, social security, proposal
preparation and other indirect expenses). Reimbursable expenses payable to
consultants are estimated at US$4,000 per field man-month including housing,
internal and external travel, and telecommunications. The terms of reference
were discussed at appraisal, and the experts will be appointed under terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
3.18      The executing agency will be MTPTCU.  DCCGT will be responsible for
supervision reports and completion reports on the execution of civil works.
DCTP and DCTT will be responsible for progress reports on the technical
assistance placed in their respective directorates, while the Direction
Centrale de la Formation Professionnelle (DCFP) and DER will jointly issue
semi-annual progress reports on the maintenance training program. The Govern-
ment agreed to furnish the Bank with progress reports and a project completion
report within six months after the last disbursement (para 4.02g).
F.   Cost Estimates
3.19      The proposed Sector Loan of US$100 million would finance the foreign
cost of road investments and technical assistance and training programs. As



- 26 -
the foreign cost is estimated to be 60% average of total costs, the loan would
enable investments for a total cost of US$166 million or CFAF 35 billion; taxes
represent 29% of total costs. An equivalent of US$6 million is allocated for
the technical assistance and training programs, and US$94 million, for civil
works. The proposed Sector Loan could thus finance up to 15% of the road
investment program for 1981-83, depending on the actual rate of investment
over that period.
3.20      The cost estimates for the technical assistance identified were
based on the latest contracts signed by MTPTCU for the services of foreign
experts and are in line with the fee for foreign, specialized technicians in
West Africa (para. 3.17). The training program is tentatively estimated to
cost about US$5.8 million, considering that about 15 man-years of technical
assistance and equipment for the training brigades may be needed (para. 3.13).
3.21      The Government and the Bank agreed at negotiations on a set of
priority projects which will be included under the proposed Sector Loan (para
3.10). Detailed engineering for all of the identified proposals (Table in
para 3.10) will be finished by December 1980 and bidding documents by January
1981. The total cost of these works is estimated at about US$117 million
equivalent, based on preliminary engineering cost estimates, 15% physical
contingencies and price escalation expected to be 12% p.a. over the 1981-83
project execution period.
G.   Disbursements
3.22      The loan will be disbursed to cover the foreign exchange cost, or
59% of the total cost of the works executed each year during 1981-83, under
the Bank-financed sub-projects, until no funds remain. The Government is
aware that the last year of execution of the project might require more
foreign exchange than will remain uncommitted under the Sector Loan, and is
prepared to finance the balance. The Government also agreed at negotiations
to finance any cost overrun on projects approved and ongoing which could not
be covered by the Sector Loan (para. 4.02h).
3.23      The proposed Sector Loan would be disbursed to cover foreign costs
on the following basis:
- 59% of total contract expenditures including taxes of approved projects;
- 100% of cif cost for imported equipment, materials and supplies; and
- 68% of technical assistance and training cost.
3.24      A tentative disbursement schedule can only be indicated at this
stage (see over), based on the ceilings foreseen for new works in the road
investment program usual civil work execution schedules and on an average 60%
sector loan financing. Disbursements under the loan are expected to start in
FY81 and be completed in FY84; retroactive financing for technical assistance
to continue the maintenance program and to start project implementation is
recommended, and should not require more than US$600,000 until the loan
agreement is signed.



- 27 -
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
US$ million
End Bank FY                                Cumulative Disbursements
1981                                              28.0
1982                                              58.0
1983                                              88.0
1984                                             100.0
H.   Economic Viability and Risks
3.25      As all the civil works to be financed under the Sector Loan will
have to have an estimated rate of return of at least 12%, based on detailed
engineering cost estimates, and will represent the highest priority investment
for the main roadwork, the economic viability of the project does not present
particular risks.
3.26      Preliminary engineering and economic evaluation of the works to be
started in 1981 have been carried out. Initial choices were made by engineer-
ing judgment, backed in the cases of the road strengthening works by measure-
ments of the in-situ strength of the pavement. They were evaluated by BCET
which found that all the works meet the economic criteria required under the
proposed Sector Loan. The results of their calculations, which seem adequate,
are summarized below, and data on the road sections are given in Annex 8:
Investment         ERR(%)
Cost     Without   Including
Length of Road             Net of Tax    Time       Time
Road            Level of               (km)           VPD       (US$      Savings    Savings
Section         Improvement      Existing  Proposed   1982    million)  Benefits   Benefits
Akoupe-         Partial Improve-   71          66        700    13.2        12.6       14.0
Abengourou     ment and
strengthening
Akoupe-          Strengthening       60        60        500     5.3        13.2       14.0
Bongouanou
Man-Issia        Strengthening      188       188        500    14.9        14.6        16.2
Mafou-Akoupe    Reconstruction    105          98      1,400    25.9        17.2        18.9
3.27      In the feasibility study, BCET assumed that the roads would be
opened to traffic in 1982 and have a life of 15 years before further
strengthening is required. The benefits considered were: vehicle operating
cost savings accruing to normal and induced traffic, diverted traffic benefits



- 28 -
applicable, maintenance cost savings, and, in the sensitivity test, time
savings to passengers.  On the roads north of Abidjan, traffic growth rates of
about 5% for heavy trucks and 4% for other traffic were adopted. On the
Man-Issia road north of San Pedro, annual growth rates of 6% for heavy trucks
and 7% for other traffic were adopted. The induced traffic was estimated at
between 8% and 13% of the private car traffic and 6% to 10% for public passen-
ger traffic. No induced traffic was expected for freight. The vehicle
operating costs net of tax calculated by SETEC in 1976 were updated to 1979
and savings from travelling on improved surface roads were computed using the
TRRL methodology developed in Kenya (Table 12). Maintenance cost savings were
computed as a function of the present and proposed road conditions and
expected levels of traffic.
3.28      For the sensitivity tests BCET computed a value for time savings due
to higher average speeds on the improved road; to each of the three categories
of passenger traffic considered--private vehicles, small buses and large
buses--it attributed about US$3.60, US$1.30 and US$3.20 per hour gained in
travel time based on (i) average hourly wages for expatriates, technicians and
unskilled workers, and (ii) the assumption that only about 15% of the trips
are directly work related and that the mixture of passengers varies for each
vehicle category. However, time savings increase the rates of return by less
than 2 percentage points. Sensitivity tests performed on the assumption of a
simultaneous increase in costs by 10% and decrease in benefits net of time
savings by 10% show that rates of return could drop to between 10-11% on the
strengthening projects. But there are no indications to confirm the hypothesis
of a drop in traffic in the area, and the construction costs used in the
feasibility study are realistic. The rates of return will be calculated again
based on final engineering cost estimates.
3.29      The Government has indicated its willingness to carefully plan
investments in the highway sector both to keep highway development in step
with overall economic and social progress and to make sure that the network is
improved and maintained in the most efficient way within the available invest-
ment resources. This derives at least in part from the increasing pressures
on financial resources during the last few years; should the pressures relax,
there is a risk that the vigor of this commitment will also be relaxed.
Further, the planning concepts are relatively new and there is a complementary
risk of strains in the Government organization as the concepts are absorbed.
However, the constraints on annual investment levels, the planning criteria,
technical assistance, and intense project supervision should make the transi-
tion easier and control the risks.
IV. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
4.01      During negotiations, the Government presented updated cost estimates
for its commitments on ongoing road works and the list of projects proposed
for inclusion in the 1981-83 draft Loi Programme and identified sub-projects
proposed for financing under the Sector Loan (paras. 3.09 and 3.10). Also the
plan of action (Annex 7) was discussed and agreed as a guideline for project
implementation (para. 3.15).



- 29 -
4.02      During negotiations, the following principal issues were discussed
and agreed upon and specified as covenants in the Loan Agreement:
(a)  the Government will continue the efforts to maintain its highway
systems in accordance to sound engineering practiLes and will
prepare appropriate maintenance productivity targets (para. 2.22);
(b)  biannual meetings between the Bank, MFPE and MTPTCU will be held to
review overall transport plans, proposed highway investment program
and progress under the Sector Loan, and to agree on highway invest-
ment ceiling and on new items, if applicable, to be financed under
the Sector Loan (para. 3.05);
(c)  only civil works complying with engineering and economic criteria
as outlined in para. 3.06 can be financed under the Sector Loan
(para 3.07);
(d)  that all road works to be undertaken, independently of financing
source, will be previously included in the Road Investment Program
(para. 3.08);
(e)  to prepare the training programs in the MTPTCU and establish the
analytical units no later than July 1981 (para 3.14 and 3.15);
(f)  all contracts for civil works will be limited in duration to 36
months;
(g)  progress reports and a project completion report will be prepared
(para. 3.18); and
(h)  the Government will finance any foreign cost balance of the project
to be approved last under the Sector Loan, or cost overruns on other
projects approved and ongoing, should the remaining uncommitted
loan funds not suffice (para. 3.22).
4.03      Also during negotiations the following issues were agreed and
recorded in the minutes of negotiation:
(a)  in 1981, all investments in the road sector will not exceed
CFAF 56 billion at current prices including taxes (para 3.08),
or 12% of the total public investment program;
(b)  for 1982 and 1983, the adequate share of investments in the
interurban roads is about 12% of the total public investment
program in each year and it is subject to review in response to
changes in economic conditions (para. 3.08).
4.04      Government gave assurances that it will discuss with the Bank the
productivity norms established for the maintenance brigades and future bud-
getary allocation (para 2.25).



- 30 -
4.05      It is recommended that the proposed Sector Loan provide retroactive
financing for technical assistance, starting March 1980 to the date of loan
signature, for not more than US$600,000 (para. 3.24).
4.06      The project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$100 million for the
Government of the Ivory Coast for a period of 17 years, including a 4 year
period of grace.



- 31 -
IVORY COAST                              ANNEX 1
Table 1
HIGHWAY SECTOR LOAN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Régie Abidjan-Niger Data, 1970-79
A.  Freight and Passenger Traffic
Year         Net Ton-Kilometers    Passenger-Kilometers
(millions)              (millions)
1970                 404                      626
1971                 443                      700
1972                 472                      778
1973                 548                      883
1974                 522                      918
1975                 432                      946
1976                 550                    1040
1977                 544                     1173
19781/               560                     1254
1979                 465                     1277
B. Rail Freight Operations
Average Train        Average Wagon      Capacity Utilization
Year        Loading (tons)        Loading (tons)           Coefficient
1970              521                 16.1                    --
1971              524                 17.3                    --
1972              533                 18.0                   0.48
1973              491                 19.1                   0.51
1974              472                 18.5                   0.49
1975              459                 19.8                   0.37
1976              470                 20.9                   0.57
1977              522                 24.4                   0.53
19781/            694                 22.9                   0.57
1979              680                 22.9                   0.52
C. Revenues
Total Receipts from Freight       Total Receipts from Passenger
Year       Traffic (millions CFAF)             Traffic (millions CFAF)
1970                  2322                              1601
1971                  2602                              1792
1972                  2718                              2115
1973                  3332                              2376
1974                  3610                              2829
1975                  3395                              3471
1976                  4496                              4490
1977                  5097                              n.a.
19781/                5709                              6930
1979                  5534                              8212
1/   Data covers 12 months starting October 1977.
Source:  DCTP, July 1979, updated August 1980.



- 32 -
ANNEX 1
Table 2
IVORY COAST
HIGHWAY SECTOR LOAN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
AbidJan and San Pedcro Port Tonnage (1968, 1971-78)
(Imports and Exports)
('000 tons)
Abidjan                                San Pedro
General   Dry     Petrol                General   Dry      Petrol
Year      Cargo    Bulk   Products   TOTAL         Cargo    Bulk   Products   TOTAL
1968      1,820   1,919      1,006    4,745                  --        -         --
1971      2,057   2,283      1,014    5,354         --        70        5         75
1972      2,247   2,320      1,358    5,925          21      829       10        860
1973      2,629   2,459      1,472    6,560          36      971      1i       1,018
1974      2,773   2,260      1,564    6,597          22      784       15        820
1975      2,742   1,779      1,516    6,039          37      882       16        934
1976      3,374   2,496      1,827    7,697          19    1,184       20      1,225
1977       --       --       1,784    7,864          72    1,264       23      1,359
1978       __--                        --           113    1,081       22      1,216
Dry Bulk       =  cement + clinker + gypsum (imported) + timber
Source: Port Authority, 1979.



- 33 -
IVOR! COAST                        ANNEX 1
Table 3
HIGRWAY SECTOR LOAN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Air Traffic Statistics, 1974-77
PASSENGERS                                FREIGHT
(thousands)                          (thousands of tons)
International Flights
Year          Domestic                                             Domestic      Inter-
/3         Long         Inter-                               national
Distance/I   African/l    Total                       /2, /3
1974            50.5           155         154          309          0.41       13.43
1975            56.7           164         181          345          0.47       14.35
1976             75.2          193         203          396          0.42       16.46
1977            88.1           231         234          465          0.42       20.95
Average
Yearly
Growth
1974-77
(%)           + 20.4        + 14.2       4 15.0       + 14.6       + 20.0     + 16.0
1/   Long-Distance Flights - Flights from Abidjan to Europe, the Middle East, the U.S.
Inter-African Flights = Flights between Abidjan and other African countries.
2/   The respective shares of freight for long-distance and trans-African flights are
known only for Air Afrique and UTA and are as follows:
Air Afrique - UTA Freight in thousands of tons
1974      1975       1976     1977
Long-Distance Flights         8.95       7.70       9.27    13.83
Trans-African Flights         2.22       2.87      4.01      4.46
Total       11.17      10.57      13.28    18.28
3/   Flights not handled by the Abidjan Airport are the following:
1974   1975   1976   1977
Domestic Traffic - Passengers ('000 pass.)          2.2    4.1    7.5    9.3
International Yamassoukro Traffic
- Passengers ('000 pass.)                        --      --     1.1    1.1
International Traffic - Freight ('000 tons)          --     --      --     1.2
Source: DCTP, 1979; ASECNA, Air Ivoire, Air Afrique



IVORY COAST
HIGHWAY SECTOR LOAN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Vehicle Registration in Ivory Coast
Type           as of:
of
Vehicle          12/31/70' 12/31/71 112/31/72 112/31/73 112/31/74 112/31/75 112/31/76 112/31/771 12/31/78
I         I     .     I       I         I                   I    _  
I         I         I         I         I         I         I         A
Motorcycles            1,940     2,530     3,035     3,455     3,760     4,106     4,671    -5,1365    6,410
I    I    A         I         I         I         I    .              I
Cars                  31,465    41,048     50,300    59,579    67,542    75,868    89,460    98,208   109,715
Buses                  1,530     1,980     2,280     2,726     3,300     3,948     4,705     5,306 ,  6,006
Pick-ups               7,447     9,749    11,892    14,090    15,976  1 17,970  1 21,589    23,544    26,041
Trucks                 5,700     7,441     9,099    10,780    12,222    13,742    16,252    20,536    22,358
Special Vehicles        186       250       285        361      441       536        616       693       765
Tractors                                          i        i         i          A         A        A
(for road use and     2,154 1  2,842      3,455     4,093     4,640     5,210     5,999      6,065     6,568
agricultural)
Trailers                     A         A          A        A         A          A         A
(for road use and       153 1    160        173       180       197       211  A    224       243        286
agricultural)                i         A          A        A         A          I         A         A
Semi-Trailers                A         A          A        A         A         A         A         A
(for road use and     1,778 1  2,082  1 2,220  1 2,486  1  2,654  1  2,895  1 3,200  1  3,250 1  3,652
agricultural)                A         A          A        A         A         A         A         A
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _,_ _I__ _. I                       I         I i                           I 
TOTAL:          52,353 1 68,082   1 82,739  A 97,750  1 110,732  1 124,486  A 146,716  162,981   181,801
I         '         I         A         I         I         I         I
Source:  DCTT, 1979



- 35 -                               ANNEX 1
Table 5
IVORY COAST
HIGHWAY SECTOR LOAN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Traffic Growth Patterns
Estimate  TrafficAnnual
Type of Traffic              Units                Estimated Traffic
1975      1982      1987      Growth
1. Passenger Traffic
1.1  Number of               Thousands        19,960    42,900   65,790        10.5
Passengers
in private vehicles          Thousands         3,150      9,760   17,120       15.2
by public transport          Thousands        16,810    33,140   48,670         9.3
1.2 Number of
Passenger/Km             Millions         2,922      6,315    9,755       10.6
in private vehicles           Millions           462      1,395    2,455       14.6
by public transport           Millions         2,460      4,920    7,300        9.5
2. Freight
2.1  Tonnage Hauled       Thousands of Tons   6,252       9,452   12,256        5.8
-  Timber           Thousands of Tons   2,194        1,588   1,344       - 4.0
-  Container        Thousands of Tons       563      1,095    1,412        8.0
Liquid
-  Other Goods      Thousands of Tons   3,495        6,769    9,500        8.7
Source:  SETEC Etude des Transports en Cote d'Ivoire, Dec. 1976



- 36 -
ANNEX 1
IVORY COAST                        Table 6
HIGHWAY SECTOR LOAN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Road Tariffs Structure
Tariffs 1976    Tariffs 1978
Type of Product                  Units
Min.   Max.      Min.     Max.
Category A
Ce.ment                               t-km            10      13      12.0      15.5
Category B
Coffee-Cacao                          t-km            17      17      20.3      20.3
Heavy Bulk                            t-km            16      19      19.1      22.7
Goods by Volume                       m3km             7      12       8.4      14.3
Miscellaneous Goods                   t-km            19      22      22.7      26.3
Empty Containers                      t-km            12      15      14.5      17.9
Category C
Chemicals and
Dangerous Products                    t-km            30      37      35.9      44.2
Category D
Oil Products up to 300 km            hl x km            2.40              2.87
- beyond 300 km          hl x km             2.16              2.58
In-town Delivery                       hl                81                97
Category E
Export Timber up to 200 km            t-km             19.20             23.0
- 200-500 km              t-km             16.00              19.1
- Beyond 500 km           t-km             14.50              17.3
Local Timber Transport                              Same as above less 10 percent.
Source:  ECET, Evaluation of Road Tariffs, Dec. 1978



- 37 -
ANNEX 1
Table 7
IVORY COAST
HIGHWAY SECTOR LOAN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Highway Design Standards
Symbol         Geometric Category of Road
Parameter                   &                               .
Unit       30         20        1°   Exceptional
Design Speed                        Vb (km/h)    60          80       100       120
Maximum Diversion                8 M (%)        7         7          7         7
Absolute Minimum
.             (at maximum            RHm         120        240       425        665
diversion SM)
X   Radius
Normal Minimum         RHm (6%)    240        425       665       1000
No            (winding road)                    (5%)       (5%)      (4%)       (4%)
Straight Road          RH'         600        900      1300       1800
Maximum Gradient                 Mm (%)         7         6          5         4
> «   x Absolute Minimum    RVm        1500       3000      6000      12000
4J     r,r4
> -   Normal Minimum            RVN         3000      6000      12000     12000
'-U    <n     Absolute Minimum       RVm'        1500      2200      3000       4200
>   r~cd      __                    __
..> «  Normal Minimum       RVN'        2200      3000       4200      6000
Vertical radius for free
movement of traffic on two       RVD(m)     6500      11000     17000      28000
or three lane roads
Souirce: SETEC Etude des Transports en Cote d'Ivoire, Dec. 1976



- 38 -
ANNEX 1
Table 8
IVORY COAST
HIGHWAY SECTOR LOAN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Standards for Road Cross-Sections
Tr =  |    !       Pavement                Shoulder
Type of Road          Formation           ITransverse                ITransverse
Width     Width  I Slope           Width     I  Slope
Express Lane                 30 m      2 x 7 m 1   3%        Right: 2.5 m 1    5%
Left:  1.5 m I
Median
Strip:       I
3 to 8 m    1   15%
2-Lane Paved Road            11 m        7 m   I   3%            2 m         3 to 5%
Unpaved A and B Roads         9 m         _                       - _
Unpaved C Roads               6m          _    I m                         I
Source:  SETEC Etude des Transports en Côte d'Ivoire, Dec. 1976.



IVORY COAST
HIGHWAY SECTOR LOAN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Analytical Accounting Results - 1977
Maintenance Costs per Km of Road
- CFAF -
c-
A - EARTH             B - EARTH        NON-CLASSIFIED EARTH           PAVED
Tasks            Unit    Expen-  .             Expen-                 Expen-                 Expen-
ditures   7    Freq-  ditures   %    Freq-  ditures   %    Freq-  ditures   7    Freq-
per Km         uency  per Km         uency  per Km          uency  per Km          uency
Cleaning of Ditches      m       8,061   6.5  48       7,606    9.4  45         798   2.7   4.7    12,676  15.3   75.5  w
Maintenance of
Drainage Works         U       8,560   6.9   0.47    6,167   7.6   0.34    2,318   7.9   0.13    8,312  10.1    0.5
New Drainage Works       U       5,335   4.3    -       8,292  10.2    -      4,899  16.8    -       7,578   9.2      -
Clearing of
Vegetation             m32    18,080  14.6  4,520   11,707  14.4  2,926    1,950   6.7    -       17,204  20.8  4,301
Patching                 m3      5,268   4.2   4.5      4,168   5.1   3.6     1,459   5.0   1.25      -       -      -
Grading               passes    68,389  55.1  12.2    39,115  48.2   7.0    15,843  54.3   2.8        -       -      -
Spot Interventions       m2                                                                         33,977  41.1   28.0
Other                           10,507   8.5            4,045   5.0           1,933   6.6            2,853   3.5
TOTAL                          124,200  100            81,100  100           29,200  100            82,600  100
Source:  DER Comptabilité Analytique de L'Entretien Routier, 1977



- 40 -
ANNEX 1
Table 10
IVORY COAST                             Page 1
HIGHWAY SECTOR LOAN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Road Investment Program, 1978-87
Invest-                                                       Millions  Year   Internai
ment                       Road Section                        CFA    Opene   Rate of
Year                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~(1975  to  etr
Year                                                         values)  Traffic  Return
1978   - End of 1976-80 investment program                     8500
1979   - Group GI Projects:
P25 - Bouake-M'Bahiakro/2-way paved roads            3272
P27 - Dimbokro-Bongouanou/2-way paved roads          3180
P43 - Aboisso-Ghana/2-way paved roads                7104
Subtotal              13556    1980      15.0%
TOTAL                 22000
1980   - Group G2 Projects:
1981     Pl - Mafou-Akoupe/road strengthened and
enlarged to 7m                    3072
"4 - Abidjan-Dabou/4-way platform and 2-way
paved                             3997
n9 - San Pedro-Bereby/2-way paved road               2107
P15- Issia-Daloa/2-way paved road                    2011
P17- Bouake-Beoumi/2-way paved road                  2056
P18- Bouake-Tieningboue/2-way paved road             3253
P22- Agnibilekrou-Bondoukou/2-way paved road         6180
P23- Bondoukou-Ghana/2-way paved road                 457
P37- Abobo-Alepe/2-way paved road                    2249
TOTAL                 25382    1982      24.8%
1982     - Group G3 Projects:
1983       P3.2 - Abidjan-Bassam/2-way paved road                3235
P8.2 - San Pedro-Pon Weygand/2-way paved road        3582
Pll  - Divo-Oume/2-way paved road                    2231
P12  - Oume-Gagnoa/2-way paved road                  2126
P13  - Gagnoa-Bouafle/2-way paved road               3625
P14  - Daloa-Guessabo/2-way paved road               2764
P28.1- Dabou-Lahou/2-way paved road                  5991
P31.4- Bouafle-Zuenoula/2-way paved road             1416
TOTAL                 24970    1984       18.3%



- 41 -
ANNEX 1
Table 10
Page 2
IVORY COAST
HIGHWAY SECTOR LOAN
S'A'k'' AeP&USAL MLURT
Road Investment Program, 1978-87, continued
Invest-                                                      Milli        Opened  Internai
ment                      Road Section                       (1975      to    Rate of
Year                                                        values)  Traffic   eturn
1984    - Group G4 Projects:
1985      P4   - Abidjan-Dabou/4-way paving                   2907
F16  - Daloa-Seguela/2-way paved road              5421
P20  - Ferke-Ouangolodoubou/2-way paved road       2200
P24  - Agnibilekrou-Ghana/2-way paved road         1243
P29  - Lahou-Pont Weygand/2-way paved road         8535
P36.2- Korhogo-Kanawolo/2-way paved road           2535
TOTAL                23841    1986      18.5%
1986    - Group G5 Projects:
1987      P2   - Agboville-Akoupe/2-way paved road            2827
P7   - Lakota-Pont Weygand/2-way paved road        5092
P21  - Ouangolodougou-Mali/2-way paved road        4388
P26  - Daoukro-Abengourou/2-way paved road          3000
P38  - Korkoho-Boundiali/2-way paved road          4483
P40  - Agboville-N'Douci/2-way paved road          2397
P41.2- Bouake-Satama Sokoro/2-way paved road       2800
TOTAL                24987    1988      13.0%
1978    Combined Program                                    121000      --      19.5%
1987
Source: SETEC, Transport Sector Survey, December 1976.



- 42 -
ANNEX 1
Table 10
Page 3
IVORY COAST
HIGHWAY SECTOR LOAN
-APPRAISAL REPORT
Road Investment Program, 1978-87
Optional Programs
Millions   Year
CFAF    Opened  Internal
Program                                (1975       to    Rate of
values)   Traffic  Return
Op_ional_P_rogrm_A_  Projects reaching a 10% internal
rate of return at the end of the
program.
P42.2 - Statma Sokoro-Tanda/2-way paved road                  8086     1987      10.6%
P19   - Mankono Tieningboue/2-way paved road                  2086     1988      10.3%
P10   - Bereby-Tabou-Liberia/2-way paved road                 4530     1987      12.0%
TOTAL               14702
ppti,nolPro.ram_B:  Projects retained for their
impact on the balanced
regional development.
P39.2 - Boundiali-Odiend/2-way paved road                     6277
P32.3 - Seguela-Mankono/non-paved road; 11-m base             1460
P34.2 - Man-Seguela/non-paved road; 7-m base                  3809
TOTAL               11546
Source: SETEC, Transport Sector Survey, December 1976



- 43 -                                    ANNEX 1
Table 11
Page 1
IVORY COAST
HIGHWAY SECTOR LOAN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
1977-79 Investments in the Road Sector-
(millions of FCFA)
1977             1978             19792/
A. National Roads
Financing
Local Funds                 9,911           17,349            6,218
Foreign Borrowing          17,113            9,331           23,298
Subtotal                     27,024           26,680           29,516
B. Regional Roads
Financing
Local Funds                   130              840              461
Foreign Borrowing           2,567            6,700           10,132
Subtotal                      2,697            7,540           10,593
C. Local Roads
Financing
Local Funds                 5,622            6,056            5,247
Foreign Borrowing             503              955            3,192
Subtotal                      6,125            7,011            8,439
Total -  Local Funds              15,663            24,245           11,926
-  Foreign Borrowing        20,183           16,986           36,622
TOTAL                    35,846           41,231           48,548
1/  Specific road paving works financed are included in the
list on the following page.
2/ Estimate.
Source: Programme des Actions de l'Etat pour les Années 1979-81.



IVORY COAST
HIGHWAY SECTOR LOAN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
1976-1980 Highway Paving Works-
(in millions CFAF)
Estimated        Local Funds                                       Loans                       Works by
Road Section        TCost     Treasury    CSSPPA tlFED              IBRD         BAD                 Suppliers   Dec. 80
Cost  Treasry    CSSPPA   Grants  ___________Credits______
Yabayo-Gagnoa              5,655       4,136                             1,519                                          Completed
Strengthening 2 Ex-
press Lanes Nzi
Singrobo                  11,096       6,112                             4,984                                          Completed
San Pedro-Issia           17,600       7,480                  1,920                              2,200       6,000      Completed
Agnibilékrou-
Bondoukou                 11,146                  11,146                                                                Completed
Abidjan-Agboville
and Adzopé Ramp           10,000       5,900                             4,100                                          Completed
Express Lane North
Abidjan-N'douci           52,521      12,521                                                                40,000      Ongoing
Man Touba Odienne         29,028       5,428      23,600                                                                Completed
Toumodi-Oume               7,357       1,376                                                                 5,981      Completed
Katiola-Ferke-Korhogo    20,880                   20,880                                                                Completed
Mossou-Bonoua              2,150                                                                             2,150      Ongoing
Samo-Assinie               1,435                                                                             1,435      Ongoing
Aboisso-Noe                8,125       4,480                  1,395                  2,250                              Ongoing
Bouake-M'bahiakro          7,255                                                                             7,255      Completed
TOTAL     184,248      47,433      55,626      3,315     10,603       2,250       2,200      62,821
%         100          26          30          2          6           1           1          34    
1/  Some works were started before and some will be completed after the 1976-80 period.                                         O ><
Source:  BCET, Preparation of the 1981-1985 Development Plan, February 1979; DCTP, August 1980.                              t',)



- 45 -
ANNEX 1
Table 12
IVORY COAST
HIGHWAY SECTOR LOAN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Vehicle Operating Costs
CFAF/km (without taxes)
Vehicle Type
Private
Passenger    Public    Pick-up                 Trailer
Surface Type             Car      Transport   Trucks    Trucks         Trucks
Paved, good              47.3        84.5       48.2       125.7       285.9
condition
Gravel, good             70.6       113.6       66.6       146.5       341.7
condition
Earth, good              70.6       114.2       66.6       147.6       343.1
condition
Earth, medium            83.5       133.0       77.1       159.5       375.8
condition
Earth, poor             101.1       157.3       91.9       186.9       446.9
condition
Source: BCET, 1981-85 Road Sector Development Plan, 1980 (under preparation)



- 46 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1
IVORY COAST
HIGHWAY SECTOR LOAN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Establishment of a Highway Data Service
in Lhe Sous-Direction des Routes
Terms of Reference
A.   OBJECTIVES
1.        It is proposed that, within the Sous-Direction des Routes of the
Direction Centrale des Travaux Publics, a Service des Donnees Routieres
(Highway Data Service) be established. Its objectives would be to collect,
process and arrange all the information required for:
-    programming of the development of the highway system and
relevant studies and works;
-    the rational operation of the system.
The Highway Data Service will work closely with the various
services and directorates, which possess and use information. Chief among
these are:
(i) The regional directorates and subdivisions, which will be
the source of most of the information to be compiled and
which will use the information to adapt their work program
in order to achieve greater efficiency;
(ii) The various departments of the DCTP: Sub-Directorate of
Programs and Investments, Directorate of Highway Maintenance,
Directorate of Periodic Highway Works;
(iii) Such central or autonomous agencies as DCTT, BCET, DCCGT,
LBTP, etc.
B.   MISSION OF THE HIGHWAY DATA SERVICE
2.        The Highway Data Service will carry out its functions in the
following fields and in particular:
(i)  Taking an inventory of highways: the classified system,
urban roads, unclassified roads and tracks;



- 47 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
(ii)  Classifing and mapping the system (at 1:200,000 or on any
more appropriate scale);
(iii) Compiling and updating a card index of roads;
(iv)  Collecting and centralizing information pertaining to
traffic flows on roads and tracks;
(v)  Recording and processing information pertaining to road
accidents;
(vi)  Following-up and recording works pertaining to the highway
system (in terms of completion and costs):  construction of
new roads, improvement of earth roads and tracks, routine
system maintenance;
(vii) Recording other information that might be obtained at
ferries and weighing stations in particular, and from other
agencies such as LBTP.
3.        Where certain data are collected systematically by other agencies,
the Highway Data Service will ensure the necessary coordination to facilitate
processing of the data and exchange of information.
4.        Many of the day-to-day data collection will be  performed by the
regional directorates and subdivisions. The Highway Data Service shall
specialize in the following tasks:
-    Centralization and standardization of information;
-    Maintenance, updating, processing and regular circula-
tion of information;
-    Training the officials in the field (regional directorates)
who will be responsible for direct data collection.
5.        In this spirit, the Highway Data Service shall:
(i) Define the amount of detail, the format and the frequency
of the information to be collected, in light of the following
factors in particular:
-    limiting factors such as the potential of the regional
directorates and subdivisions;
-    the requirements for aggregation or processing of this
information.
This task should be carried out in conjunction with the
various upstream and downstream services.



- 48 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3
(ii)  Identify the means required for on-going collection of infor-
mation, and prepare instructions laying down the relevant
procedures, in conjunction with the regional directorates
and subdivisions in particular. This section relates to
aspects pertaining to the physical characteristies of the
system, traffic flows and maintenance operations.
(iii) Compile information that has to be collected at a central
point, such as data on new works, maintenance conducted
centrally, accident statistics, etc.
(iv)  Assemble and maintain information in the most suitable format
for its later use. Define methods and techniques for
processing and maintenance.
(v) Process and circulate information regularly or as and when
required.
6.        Initially, the major effort will be focused on those areas where
insufficient information is available, namely knowledge of the system and
traffic flows.
7.        Knowledge of the system will be derived from road inventories
(two possible models of route descriptions are available, one used by
SETEC for the transport sector study, the other proposed by the Highway
Maintenance Mission). The inventories will be established by the departmental
services, in the format and using the method defined by the Highway Data
Service.
8.        Knowledge of traffic flows is currently derived exclusively from
road counts undertaken by the Sous-Direction des Routes This system has a
number of shortcomings due mainly to its being totally centralized in the
Sous-Direction des Routes, with the result that:
(i) The number of counting points is currently about 100 and
is insufficient to cover all primary and secondary roads;
(ii)  The method used is virtually the same for each of the
counting stations: manual counting 12 or 16 days a year,
spread over four periods. As a result, for certain sections
the information is felt to be inadequate while for others
it seems overly generous.
The objectives to be reached are:
-    decentralization of counting operations to the regional
level, if not the departmental level;
-    extension of the counting system:
-   initially, to all primary and secondary roads;



- 49 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4
-   subsequently, to the tertiary roads network.
It will be necessary to modify the methods employed according tc the type
of road, by making changes both in the duration of counting and in its
frequency. Consideration could also be given to introducing automatic
counting at selected places, even if initially only on an experimental
basis.
9.        Another field in which the Highway Data Service could usefully
operate is the weighing stations about to be established throughout the
Ivory Coast. Apart from the interest in knowing the physical loads borne
by the road system, they would represent a potential source of statistical
information: heavy vehicle traffic; and origin/destination flows of goods
carried by road.
These points should be explored in conjunction with BCET, LBTP and DTT.
C.   STAFF REQUIRED
10.       The means discussed in the following paragraphs relate solely to
the supervisory personnel. Other means required (technicians, administrative
personnel, supplies and operating outlays) will be the subject of later
evaluations. An evaluation is given below of the personnel that will be
needed when the project is operational ("Ivorian Component"), and also of
the supplementary means that will be required for implementation ("Technical
Assistance").
11.       Ivorian Staff.  At headquarters, a minimum of three graduate
engineers or teclnical assistants will be required full time:
-    1 public-works engineer to head the Highway Data
Service, responsible for managing and coordinating
all the tasks performed by the Service.
-    1 highway engineer--ingenieur des routier--
or technical assistant with training in public works
who will be responsible for all the tasks relating
to the system, roadworks, etc.
-    1 traffic survey specialist or technical assistant
possibly with training in statistics who will be
responsible for all non-technical aspects: traffic,
accident statistics, etc.
At the regional level there will be need for a field systems engineer or
technical assistant full time to be responsible for collecting information
This official will report to an engineer attached to the regional director,
who will act solely in a supervisory capacity a very small part of his
time.



- 50 -
ANNEX 2
Page 5
12.       Technical Assistance.  The mission entrusted to consultants could
comprise approximately 32 man-months spread over roughly two years according
to the provisional schedule below:
Month                                 _
Function  1t    2 3 4 5i    u         1112t3145 b6ea17 m18 19120121 n22 123124    Man-montht
A.Project        2eh i
Leader                                                                             2.
B. Traffic                                                                            6.5
S urvey
Spclst.
C.                    Shighway                                                        35
Fngireer
D. Conisult.                                                                          2.0
to the                           on
Regions   -     - -_____________
The tasks ta be carried out by each member of the consulting team, together
with each expert's recommended background, are as follows:
Project Leader who will:
-    See ta the establishment of the Highway Data Service and ta
the training of the JIvorian counterpart personnel;
-    Draw up a work program and implement it in accordance with
title B of the present terms of reference:
-    Ensure operation of the Service until it is completely taken
over by the Ivorian component.
This require a generalist.  He will be either a highway engineer with sound
experience in statistics and economics; or an economist with a sound
knowledge of civil engineering techniques.
He must have good experience in the establishment and/or use of similar
information systems pertaining, in particular, general highway data, road
traffic and other statistical fields mentioned in title B, and maintenance
and roadworks.



- 51 -
ANNEX 2
Page 6
Survey Specialist who will:
-    Assist the project leader in defining programs for counting
road traffic and compiling traffic data at other points
(weighing stations, in particular);
-    Ensure that the counting system becomes operational and see
to the training of the requisite Ivorian personnel.
He must have very extensive experience in the conducting of surveys
and road counts, in particular in conditions comparable to those found in
Ivory Coast.
Highway Engineer who will assist the project leader in the following:
-    establishing road inventories;
-    launching data collection operations and training Ivorian
staff;
-    finalizating of the overall record system.
Hle should be a highway engineer with good experience in the implementation
and/or use of similar systems.
Data Systems Consultant who will assist the project leader in defining
the format of the data system, data collection methods, and ways and means of
maintaining and processing the information.
He should be a highly skilled graduate engineer, with great experience in
the effective management of similar information systems.



- 52 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1
IVORY COAST
HIGHWAY SECTOR LOAN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Technical Assistance to Establish an Analytical Unit in the
Sous-Direction des Transports Terrestres of DCTT
Terms of Reference
A.    Objectives
1.        Technical assistance in the form of consultant services would be
provided to DCTT to:
-   contribute to the definition and execution of the work required to
prepare highway transport policy recommendations;
-   analyze the road transport market;
-   prepare technical and economic studies on tariffs and road user taxes,
traffic flows and transport capacity, and organize training for truck
drivers and owners; and
-   train the Ivorian engineers and technicians who will gradually take
charge of the Sub-Directorate of Highway Transportation Organization.
B.    Functions of the Sub-Directorate
2.        The Sub-Directorate should be responsible for the following (see
diagram on the next page):
(i)   Setting up a system to gather data on:
-   the demand for transportation (origin and destination);
-   supply of transportation (composition of fleet, utilization coefficient,
structure of the sector by vehicle ownership);
-   vehicle operating practices; operating costs of vehicles and tariffs
charged; road user taxes.



- 53 -                                    ANNEX 3
page 2
DIAGRAM OF FUNCTIONS ASSIGNED TO THE SUB DIRECTORATE OF HIGHWAY TRANSPORTATION
ORGANIZATION
OBSERVATION OF TRANSPORTATION MARKET
Analysis of demand                         Analysis of supply
-  Volumes of freight in the various       -  Work force and composition of
categories and passenger flows             fleet
-  Prospects for growth                    -  Characteristics of operations
. Organization of the sector
. Vehicle activity
. Economic costs
. Tariffs charged
SUMMARIES                                  EXTERNAL ASPECTS
-  Supply/demand equilibrium               -  General economic growth
(freight)
- Transportation infrastructure
- Passenger transportation
plan                                    - Links with other modes of
transportation
- Suitability of regulations
and tariffs                             -  Income growth
-  Road user taxes                         -  International environment
PROPOSALS FOR STATE INTERVENTION IN THE TRANSPORTATION MARKET
Supply                                     Demand
-  General regulatory function             -  User and consumer information
-  Available haulage capacity              -  Evaluation of projects likely
to increase demand for trans-
. Public/private                           portation
. Lines/freight categories
- Various promotional measures
-  Tariffs/taxes
- Training



- 54 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3
(ii)    Analyzing and summarizing these data, in a format to permit:
-    periodic evaluation of the supply/demand equilibrium with respect
to freight haulage;
-    establishing and keeping up-to-date passenger transport programs;
-    evaluating the extent to which the transport regulations, including
tariffs and taxation policy, are in line with the national policy
objectives.
(iii)    Making recommendations for the Government's policy of intervention
in the transport market, in particular the issuance of transport licenses and
tariff matters.
3.         Knowledge of supply in terms of volume can be obtained by comparing
data originating in the DCTT with other possible sources such as:
-    sales of automobile and tax records;
-    revenues from licenses;
-    records of technical inspections by SICTA; and
-    data obtained from insurers.
It is likely that at the start a substantial effort will be required to
analyze the data from the various sources, in order to devise subsequently a
reliable procedure for cross-checking. As regards vehicle productivity, the
information required could be obtained:
-    from an itemized examination of CNBF's consignment notes;
-    by introducing systematic mileage readings during technical
inspections;
-    by a direct survey of transport companies and operators; and
-    from standardized questionnaires to be answered by weighing station
attendants.
A review of these various possibilities should lead to the definition of the
procedures likely to supply the most reliable information.



- 55 -
ANNEX 3
Page 4
4.         Equilibrium of supply and demand in the area of freight haulage
shall be evaLluated by direct comparison of the supply with the demand for
transport. In the area of passenger transport, demand is far from being
independent of supply, whether in terms of quantity (existence of links,
frequency) or in terms of quality (price, rapidity, regularity and reliability).
When supply on any particular route is inadequate, either quantitatively or
qualitatively, part of the demand is not satisfied, and this is difficult to
evaluate directly. For this reason, the organization of passenger transport
must be based on a detailed analysis of existing supply to ascertain any
imbalance between links where supply seems abundant and those where it seems
inadequate.  The recommendations should then take account of such normative
criteria such as:
-    the definition of links between sub-prefectures and prefectures;
and villages and sub-prefectures;
-    a definition of the frequency of service, as a function of the
importance of the link and the volumes of population affected.
This information could be adapted gradually in the light of the results
obtained.
5.         During the first year of activities the analytical unit work program
should foeus on the following topics:
(i)    Analysis of the Road Transport Industry:  own-account trucks,
for-hire trucks and bus services with emphasis on the following:
-    number of companies, localization, internal organization, terminal
facilities;
-    type of vehicles utilized, average utilization of the fleet and
institutional factors affecting the industry's operations;
-    analysis of the public transport for passenger services along
the same lines as for the freight transport services described above.
This analysis should include questioning of major customers and the
assessment of the type, quality and availability of transport services for
both passenger and freight throughout the country.
(ii)    Analysis of the Road Transport Regulations and Their Impact on the
Sector: assess how the regulation is presently applied and what
are the effects on the transport sector, including a detailed account
of the existing mechanism to obtain transport licensing.
(iii)    Analysis of Road Users Taxation:  detailed account of the effects of
existing taxation on the transport sector. Special attention should
be given to the pricing policy of the petroleum products and its
effect on the transport sector.



- 56 -
ANNEX 3
Page 5
(iv)    Recommend in Operating Details a Reliable Vehicle Registration
System
6.         The Sub-Directorate will not itself be the originator of most of the
information but will work with the departments and directorates that either
record or use the information, for instance, other DCTT sub-directorates;
the Highway Transport Regional Units (Sections Regionales des Transport Routiers);
BCET's Economic Studies Department; CNBF and SICTA; Departments of the Ministry of
of the Economy, Finance and Planning, in particular: Taxes (licenses),
Registration (automobile tax records); and Transport organization: shippers
and insurance companies.
7.         Thus, the Highway Transport Sub-Directorate Organization will:
(i)    define the substance, form and frequency of the data to be gathered;
(ii)    identify the resources needed for a permanent data gathering system,
and prepare instructions defining the corresponding procedures;
(iii)    assemble and file information in the most appropriate manner, to
process and circulate information regularly and as needed, and, in
particular, to produce any summaries required.
C.    Staff Needed
8.         These needs are stated only in terms of the necessary supervisory
staff. The needs for additional technical staff, supplies and operating
expenses will be evaluated at the time the technical assistance is in place.
Ivorian Contribution
9.         The Sub-Directorate is not directly responsible for most of the data
gathering work. Its structure will be designed mainly to handle the methodo-
logical aspects of information gathering and summarizing. It will thus have
very few staff, namely:
-    1 public works engineer, who will be in charge of the
Sub-Directorate, responsible for directing and coordinating
all its functions; he will also be responsible for most of the
summarizing work;
-    2 industrial engineers (ingenieurs des techniques) or technical
assistants, trained either in public works or in statistical
economics, who will be in charge of direct monitoring of the
gathering and presentation of data.
Their tasks will be distributed as follows:
-    1 industrial engineer, or technical assistant, who would be
responsible in particular for handling aspects relating to supply:
work force and fleet composition, structure of the highway



- 57 -
ANNEX 3
Page 6
transport sector, relations with transport companies and
operators;
1 transport economist or technical assistant, who would be
responsible for monitoring of costs, vehicle productivity,
tariffs.
Technical Assistance
10.   It is still too early to anticipate the extent of the tasks to be
undertaken. During the first year of operation certain major physical tasks
may prove necessary, such as:
-    the manual checking of records other than those of DCTT:  SICTA,
automobile tax stickers;
-    surveys to obtain a more exact knowledge of supply, especially
for passenger transport, such as:
surveys of transporters, to be undertaken at terminals;
*     user surveys on the road or at terminals.
For this reason it is planned to divide the technical assistance into two
parts:
-    a "firm" part, that could be limited to the activity of a
consultant project chief (consultant chef de projet) for
approximately two years (24 man-months) assuming that the Ivorian
staff are already on board at the outset;
-    an "optional" part, comprising the activity of a specialist in
surveys and statistical work. The actual need for this activity
(approximate budgeting: 6 man-months) and its exact duration
could be reviewed once the project chief and the Ivorians have
established more exactly their work program.
11.   The tasks to be undertaken by the project chief are as follows:
-    starting up the service and training of counterpart Ivorian staff;
-    definition of a work program and its implementation in line with
sections 5 and 7 of the present terms of reference;
-    operation of the service until it is fully taken over by the
Ivorians.



- 58 -
ANNEX 3
Page 7
He will need to be a transport economics engineer.   He should have consi-
derable experience in the organizaton of highway transport regulations and
tariffs and transport statistics and economics. It would need additional
effective experience in participation in the operations of a Government
office and personnel training.
The specialist in surveys and statistical work should have considerable
experience in the area of highway transport: highway surveys, statistical
surveys and în a context similar to that of the Ivory Coast.



- 59 -                          ANNEX 4
page i
IVORY COAST
HIGHWAY SECTOR LOAN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Study of a Driver Training Program
Terms of Reference
A.        Background
The Government of the Ivory Coast realizes that not only must the
country's infrastructure be developed, but that it must be used more efficiently.
Contacts have been established with the Conseil de l'Entente, which has been
concerned since 1976 with the training problems of the trucking industries of
its member countries. The MTPTCU and the World Bank received from the Conseil
de l'Entente copies of the report of the April-May 1977 mission of Mr. Calla-
mand, Director of CESTRAL at AFT, and a summary of the mission's conclusions,
prepared in October 1977, by Mr. Mialet, Assistant to the Director of AFT.
The results of a pilot program financed by FAC in 1977-78 should also be
available. On the basis of the information available, the Conseil found that
its member countries need the following:
(W)     training for truck owners and drivers in three areas:
the truckers' driving skills; basic vehicle maintenance
skills; and accounting and management techniques geared
to the needs of small trucking firms;
(ii)    identification of the size of the target groups on a regional
level;
(iii)   methods of training truckers suitable to all member countries.
B.        The objectives of the study are to:
(i)     analyze small trucking firms in Ivory Coast including
determination of number of firms by size; and
(ii)    propose a training program to promote:
- safe driving skills;
- good vehicle maintenance practices; and
- sound accounting and management techniques for trucking
firms.



- 60 -                                 ANNEX 4
page 2
C.        Terms of Reference for the Consultant:
(i)     The consultant will prepare a detailed training program for
truckers and owners of small trucking firms in the areas
listed in B.2.
(ii)    The consultant will therefore have to identify the size
and the training needs of the target groups in Ivory Coast
and will determine:
- the number of truckers engaged in public transport,
categorized by type of vehicle and competence of driver;
categories will be based upon the training needed;
- the number of trucking firms, categorized by size of
firm and level of training of owners and employees (in
order to determine number of persons who could be
affected by the program);
- based on the above data, a detailed program for training
all levels, including requirements in teaching personnel,
training materials, and training locations; cost of the
program; and a schedule for the program; and
- the possibility of establishing mobile training teams,
if needed, and their working relationship with the
training center and the way they would be used.
Any proposed program should take into account the availability of
adequate training centers in the Ivory Coast. Wherever such centers are found
to be underutilized, a proposal for their taking part in the project should be
presented.
The consultants will prepare a schedule for transfer of their
responsibilities to Ivorians who have received on-the-job training and who
will continue the program after the end of the project. Means by which Ivorians
will assume financing of the program at the end of World Bank participation
should also be discussed.
The consultants will need to be in constant communication with the
ministries involved and with the institutions financing the project.
Preparation of the training program will require one man-month.
Another three years will be required to carry out the program, including the
period needed for gradual replacement of the consultants by trained Ivorians.



- 61 -
ANNEX 5
IVORY COAST
HIGHWAY SECTOR LOAN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Equipment to be Procured for
Laboratoire du Bâtiment et Travaux Publics
Estimated Cost
(US$ Thousand)
(1979 prices)
l Bump integrator                                 26.0
i Skid resistance tester                           5.0
2 Electric Benkelman beams                        10.0
1 Core cutting machine                             6.o
1 Road surface permeameter                         7.5
1 Pneumatic chisel and compressor                 20.0
i Mobile testing laboratory                       92.0
2 Traffic analyzers                               28.5
1 Pavement temperature measuring device            7.5
TOTAL             202.5



-    -                           ANNEX 6
Page 1
IVORY COAST
HIGHWAY SECTOR LOAN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance for Training of Maintenance Staff
I.          Objectives
1.          The Ministry of Public Works, Transport, Construction and Urbanism
(MTPTCU) intends to carry out a training program over 1981-83 for road maintenance
field personnel, in particular road foremen, mechanics, chief mechanics and
equipment operators and drivers, and for instructors to carry on the program.
Towards this end, it wants to hire the services of technical assistants, first,
to analyze the needs and propose a specific training program, and in a second
phase, to implement the program that will have been agreed.
2.          It is envisaged to utilize, as possible, existing training facilities
of the MTPTCU, i.e., the Direction Centrale de la Formation Professionnelle and
the Centre d'Application des Travaux Publics, strengthened or enlarged if and as
required. However, the training should mostly be on-the-job, in maintenance
brigades.
il.         First Phase Technical Assistance, Preparation
A. Objectives
3.          The specific objectives of the first phase technical assistance are:
(a) review the manpower requirements for road maintenance over
1981-86, including routine, periodic and betterment works;
(b) ascertain manpower availability, both current and future
expected from ongoing training programs, retirement and attrition;
(c) comparing (a) and (b), determine training needs by type of
skills, and eventually recruitment needs;
(d) design a program for on-the-job training over 1981-84, to meet
the priority needs in the various skills and of instructors.
Given that the various constraints will not enable training
of all staff needed over 1981-84, it is suggested that the
training program cost not more than about $5 million. The
proposal should clearly indicate: (i) technical assistance,
brigade equipment, workshop and other inputs needed for its



- 63 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2
implementation, and a total, local and foreign, cost estimate;
(ii) numbers of people to be trained in each category, recruit-
ment needs and phasing; and (iii) proposed implementation,
type of brigades, centralized or in the regions, work program,
timing, type of instruction, use of existing facilities and
equipment, training abroad, and any other relevant data;
(e)  initiate procurement of goods required for the program and not
available in DCTP, and propose candidates for identified
technical assistance jobs, once the program will have been
agreed.
B. Scope and Services
4.          The technical assistance, first phase, would consist of a training
advisor/coordinator to be posted in Ivory Coast before the arrival of the technical
assistance team. The program definition should be completed so as to be discussed
with Government and enable implementation to start no later than July 1, 1981.
The training advisor will closely coordinate his activities with the Direction
Centrale des Travaux Publics, Direction Centrale du Matériel, Direction de
l'Entretien Routier, Direction des Travaux Routiers Périodiques, the seven
Directions Régionales, and the existing training units, such as the Centre
d'Application des Travaux Publics, and vocational training programs under the
Ministry of Education. He will be assigned an Ivorian counterpart, and in
day-to-day business will report to (to be designated); his final proposal/program
will be discussed with the Minister of Travaux Publics. In the proposal, existing
equipment should be envisaged as much as feasible for the training so that
procurement delays do not postpone the start of the program.
5.          The training advisor/coordinator should:
(a) be a road maintenance specialist, preferably an engineer with
at least five years experience in managing training activities,
particularly in establishing and executing programs, and organizing
facilities. He should be able to: (i) organize a comprehensive
staff development program through on-the-job training; (ii) take
part in active training, conduct seminars and field demonstrations
on specific road maintenance problems; and (iii) review and
recommend changes in existing personnel policies;
(b) have working experience in African countries; and
(c) be fluent in French.
III.        Second Phase Technical Assistance, Implementation
6.          The training advisor/coordinator under the First Phase would stay as
chief for implementation of the training program previously agreed. The required
technical assistance team will be defined in Phase 1, but based on existing informa-
tion it is expected to include about 3 specialized mechanics and 2 senior instruc-
tors for machine operators and drivers as outlined in the Appendix. The training
program would start no later than July 1, 1981, and be complete by about December



- 64 -
ANNEX 6
Page 3
1983. Each of the experts will train an Ivorian counterpart, and instructors.
7.          The technical assistance team will implement the training program,
and assist in the selection of counterparts and instructors to be trained; these
should be in their assignments by July 1981. The Ivorian instructors should start
taking over not later than September 1982. During implementation, the program
coordinator would also discuss broader issues as:
(a) review existing training procedures and facilities and recommend
the necessary long-term training policy for mid-level maintenance
personnel to become specialized in handling training program
equipment and operating environment;
(b) define in concordance with the Minister of MTPTCU and the Ministry
of Finance, Planning and Economy, MFPE) a policy regarding
recruitment, career development and remuneration of maintenance
personnel in the MTPTCU with emphasis on incentives for upgrading
skills and productivity norms which grant promotion from one
employment category to the next.
IV.         Schedule for Reporting
8.          The technical assistance team will be responsible for preparing the
following reports in French:
(a) an initial report no later than March 1981, detailing training
needs and recommendations for a three-year program to meet these
needs, including policy measures and detailed cost estimates
broken down in foreign and local costs for training equipment
and facilities needed to implement the program. The first
chapter of the report will present a summary of the content and
specify the recommendations;
(b) quarterly progress reports describing the work carried out during
the previous three months and the work program specifying per-
formance targets (number of trainees recruited, expected numbers
to complete each training phase and expected productivity norms)
for the following three months; the reports will identify antici-
pated difficulties and suggest remedies to insure performance
under the program;
(c) a brief report on personnel policy recommendations not later
than December 1981;
(d) three months prior to the program coordinator's completion of
service, a draft final report summarizing (i) work performed;
(ii) progress made; (iii) benefits from training program;
(iv) areas where progress has been unsatisfactory; and
(v) recommendations for further action;



- 65 -
ANNEX 6
Page 4
(e) a final report within one month of receipt of comments on the
draft fînal report from the Government; and
(f) other reports as may be reasonably requested by the Government.
Two copies of all reports will be sent to the Bank as soon as issued for
information.
V.          Government Contribution
9.          The MTPTCU will:
(a) provide the training advisor/coordinator with available infor-
mation on staff, training needs and programs, and on-the-job
maintenance program;
(b) appoint a road engineer, senior instructors and mechanics to
work as counterparts to the technical assistants and to take
over the training functions upon retirement of the expatriate
technical assistance. Assignment of the expatriate experts
will be contingent upon the appointment of deputy instructors;
(c)  appoint suitable personnel from MTPTCU, as recommended by
the program coordinator, to be trained as instructors;
(d) make adequate arrangements for releasing staff, in a timely
fashion, to undertake agreed training;
(e) provide the necessary funds to finance local costs for adapting,
if necessary,existing facilities and to finance recurrent
costs of the training program.



- 66 -
Annex 6
APPENDIX
Page 1
Outline of Job Description for Chief of Training Brigade
1.  Title:                     Chief of Training Brigade
2.  Duration of Assignment:   24 months
3.  Duty Station:              Training Brigade sites in the Ivory Coast
4.  Qualifications and Experience
(a) a good general and technical education up to university level or
equivalent; Road Engineer and Senior Road Construction/Maintenance
Superintendent;
(b)  effective training and extensive field experience in road construction
and maintenance;
(c) experience in developing and implementing on-the-job productive training
in road construction and maintenance at supervisory level;
(d) capacity to plan, organize and control work activities, and maintain a
team spirit;
(e)  working experience in African countries; and
(f)  fluency in French.
5. Responsibilities
(a) planning, organizing and implementing on-the-job training of DCTP
personnel, as well as rehabilitation/maintenance works to be carried
out while training takes place; during the last quarter of his service
he will have only an advisory role with an Ivorian staff who will
manage the PTB;
(b) providing on-the-job training to road foremen, overseers, equipment
operators, drivers and certain levels of mechanics, and ensuring that
their instruction in theory is adequate for the level of work performed;
(c) supervising the activities of the chief equipment operator and chief
mechanic assigned to the brigade;
(d)  ensuring an adequate supply system to enable the PTB to be properly
stocked with fuel, lubricants, spare parts, etc;
(e) ensuring appropriate use of all equipment and other resources
allocated to the PTB; and
(f) training an Ivorian counterpart and supervising the training of counterparts
to chief mechanics as well as other instructors assigned to the brigade.
6. In discharging his duties the chief of PTB will report to the Director of the
DCFP through the Training Program Coordinator.



- 67 -                         Annex 6
APPENDIX
Page 2
Outline of Job Description for Senior Instructor - Mechanics (3)
1.  Title:                     Senior Instructor (Mechanics)
2.  Duration of Assignment:   36 months
3.  Duty Station:              CATP, Abidjan, and other regional workshops when
needed.
4. Qualified Experience
(a) a good general and technical education up to technician level or
equivalent - Mechanical Superintendent or Senior Workshop Foreman;
(b) sound practical training and subsequent extensive practical experience in
the maintenance and repair of heavy road construction/maintenance equiqment,
dump trucks and other road vehicles; institutional training experience
necessary;
(c) experience in developing and implementing on-the-job production programs
in maintenance and repair of road equipment;
(d) capacity to plan, organize and control activities of others, while
maintaining a team spirit;
(e) working experience in African countries; and
(f)  fluency in French.
5. Responsibilities
(a) planning, organizing and implementing basic and upgrading training of
mechanics assigned to the brigades as well as to the regional workshops;
(b) developing, in collaboration with the Training Program Coordinator and the
Director of the DCFP, basic training materials to be used for trainees
in basic theory courses;
(c) ensuring an adequate and timely supply of spare parts to carry out
on-the-job training while repairing existing broken down equipment;
(d) ensuring appropriate use of all training equipment and materials and
other resources allocated to the workshop - training section; and
(e) training Ivorian counterparts and other instructors assigned to the
workshops - training section.
6. In discharging his duties the Senior Mechanic Instructors will report to
the Director of the DCFP through the Training Program Coordinator.



- 68 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1
IVORY COAST
HIGHWAY SECTOR LOAN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Draft Plan of Action for the Sector Loan Implementation
I.   Road Maintenance
A.          During the semi-annual meetings the DCTP shall discuss the work
program for road maintenance and rehabilitation and shall agree on measures to
be taken to ensure the applications of adequate productivity norms.
B.          Throughout the Sector Loan implementation the DCTP shall consult with
the Bank on the maintenance budget level and distribution of funds among major
items. Any major changes in the following 1981-84 road maintenance budget pro-
posed by the DCTP should be discussed with the Bank during the semi-annual meetings
as required by the Sector Loan implementation procedures:
Millions CFAF - 1980 values
1981        1982         1983
Annual Budget Allocation to Maintenance.I/       19,804       19,936       23,521
II.   Technical Assistance and Training Programs
A.          Establishment of a Highway Data Service in the Sous-Direction des Routes
1.  Action:           Establish one manual traffic counting brigade
in each Regional Directorate and deploy the
traffic counting equipment, no later than July
1, 1981.
Responsibility:  DCTP.
2.  Action:           Purchase and installation of vehicle weighing
bridges.
- Preparation of bid documents
- Bank approval
- Calling for bids
- Bid evaluation and Bank agreement
- Delivery and installation
1/   Includes financing renewal of maintenance equipment and reconstruction of
drainage works on major roads as well as training and technical assistance to
the Directorate of Road Maintenance in the DCTP.



- 69 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2
Responsibility: DCTP/BCET/LBTP
3.  Action:          Technical assistance to the Sous-Direction
des Routes.
- Technical assistance in place no later
than July 1, 1981
- Counterpart to the technical assistance
in place
- Discuss with the Bank and agree on the
technical assistance work program
based on TOR in Annex 2
- Review and discuss with the Bank the
available data and the preliminary re-
sults of traffic counting and road
inventory activities.
- Set in place the system for continuous
update of road inventory and traffic
on major primary and secondary roads
- DCTP in collaboration with BCET provides
a detailed analysis of primary and
secondary road conditions, associated
traffic and maintenance costs, and makes
investment recommendations for specific
links in the network
- Agreement between the Government and the
Bank on a priority program for upgrading
secondary roads throughout the network.
Responsibility:      DCTP/BCET
B.          Establishment of an Analytical Unit in the DCTT
1.  Action:          Technical assistance to the DCTT
- Technical assistance in place no later
than July 1, 1981
- Counterpart to the technical assistance
in place
- Discuss with the Bank and agree on the
technical assistance work program based
on TOR in Annex 3
- Review and discuss with the Bank the
available data and the preliminary results
of the analysis of traffic movements,
update of the vehicle size and composition
and vehicle utilization practices
- DCTT prepares in collaboration with BCET
a preliminary report containing specific
information on:



- 70 -
ANNEX 7
Page 3
(a) update of vehicle operating costs
(b) analysis of taxes perceived in the
road transport sector
(c) analysis of the road transport industry
and the adequacy of tariffs practiced in
the sector, and recommendations concerning
transport capacity, public passenger
routes, and road users taxation policy
- Government and the Bank discuss the report
and its recommendations and agreement reached
for the implementation of transport policy
recommendations
Responsibility: DCTT/BCET
C.          Define and Discuss with the Bank the Detailed Proposal for a Program
to Train Drivers, following the AFT Consultant Recommendations
Responsibility: DCTT.
D.          Define and Implement a Program for On-the-Job Training of
Maintenance Personnel
-  Discuss with the Bank and agree on terms
of reference as proposed in Annex 6 for
the consultancy at negotiations
-  Request for proposals from consultants
-  Proposal evaluation and Bank agreement
-  Program coordinator in place
-  Technical assistance in place
-  Training program starts no later than
July 1, 1981
Responsibility: DCTP/DCFP.



- 71 -
ANNEX 8
IVORY COAST
HIGHWAY SECTOR LOAN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Description of Roads to Be Financed Under the Proposed Sector Loan
1.       Mafou-Akoupe (about 98 km).  This road forms part of the main road
network connecting Abidjan with the country's northeast. It carries some 1,300
vpd, about 40% of which are commercial. It follows a tortuous alignment with
short sight distances and bearing all the marks of its origin as an old track.
It traverses 10 villages and the town of Adzope.  The pavement is 6 m wide and
is badly cracked and potholed. There are some two dozen small bridges, several
of which have carriageways 3.5 m wide. Complete reconstruction to 7 m paved
standards is proposed, mostly on a new alignment which will, where possible, bypass
the towns and villages, with connecting roads provided. Where the new road does
traverse villages, provision will be made on the approaches to segregate pedestrians
from the fast-moving vehicular traffic.
2.       Akoupe-Abengourou (66 km).  This main paved road stretches northeast from
Akoupe, crossing the Comoe river and its flood plain. Currently, it carries some
700 vpd, of which 40% are commercial. It also bears the marks of its origins as
an old track in its ground-hugging alignment with sharp curves, particularly towards
each extremity of the road. The pavement is 6 m wide and is extensively cracked
with occasional potholes. The road's most serious faults in alignment will be
corrected and the pavement will be repaired and strengthened and widened to 7 m.
3.       Akoupe-Bongouanou (60 km).  This main paved road passes northwest from
Akoupe. It currently carries about 500 vpd. It, too, originated as a track but,
traversing more open country than the previous two roads, it has a less tortuous
layout. The pavement is 6 m wide and is extensively cracked with occasional pot-
holes. The works will be confined to repairing and strengthening the existing
pavement at its existing width.
4.       Man-Issia (188 km).  This is a comparatively new paved road, having been
constructed between 1972 and 1975 as part of the Second Highway Project. Current
traffic is some 500 vpd, about 55% of which are commercial. The form of pavement
construction employed--crushed stone base with bituminous surface dressing--is
comparatively light, as was judged appropriate for the projected traffic. Traffic
growth, particularly commercial traffic, has been higher than predicted. The pave-
ment surface is irregular in places and shows signs of stress. A relatively light
strengthening of the 7-m pavement is proposed to correct the riding quality and to
prevent the rapid deterioration which would otherwise occur under the rapidly
increasing traffic.
5.       Adzope-Betie (100 km) serves the Third Ivory Coast Rubber Project (Ln.
1633-IVC). Presently the project area is served by a dirt track and the MTPTCU
was required to upgrade the existing road to an earth road in good condition. The
level of improvement wîll be decided following the preliminary feasibility studies.






IVORY COAST
MINISTERE DES TRAVAUX PUBLICS DES TRANSPORTS DE LA CONSTRUCTION ET DE L'URBANISME
(M.T.P.T.C.U.)
ORGANISATION
MINISTRE
ET
SON CABINET
| INSPECTEUR   l|                                     CENTRE       l
DES DIRECTIONS                  .|D
ET DES SERVICES                                   DOCUMENTATION
DIRECTIONS REGIONALES                                   DIRECTION             DIRECTION CENTRALE                        DIRECTION DE
DES TRAVAUX PUBLICS        D.UICONT LEN DE .            CENTRALE          D'APPROVISIONNEMENT EN                       L'ADMINISTRA-
CONSTRUCTION ET                                    DES TRANSPORTS   |       EAU ET DU SYSTEME                        TION ET DES
(7) URBANISME            GRANDSTRAVAUX             TERRESTRES                  D'EGOUTS                              FINANCES
CELLULE DE LA PLANI-       u                                              I                     DIRECTION CENTRALE
I1!oY:TION ET COORDINATION     DIRECTION CENTRALE       DIRECTION CENTRALE        '                    DE L'AVIATION
DES TRANSPORT                DU MATERIEL          DES TRAVAUX PUBLICS                 l                3 iCIVILE
INTERURBAINS
Infrastructure, routes
et aérodromes                                         _
UrbaismeINVSTISSEMEINT LDNREIE
ILA PROGRAMMATION DES        DIRECTION DE                     DIRECTION CENTRALE
LAPRGRMMTINDE          LENRWI                              DES AFFAIRES
-|    Urbanisme  |                     INVESTISSEMENTS             ROUTIER                              URBAINES
Architecture
DIRECTION DES              DIRECTION CENTRALE
I 1: 13| 1|;11i11-   h;;VAUX .?IeIIXiI4;1:       DE PLANIFICATION
PERIODIQUES                     URBAINE
Topograph7|e                                                                                             DIRECTION CENTRALE
Topographie         |u   1. Those Directorates & Bureaus of direct concern                                  DES BATIMENTS
to the project are shown in heavy outline                                PUBLICS
2. The Bureau Central des Etudes Techniques (BCET)
and the Laboratoire du Batrment et des Travaux                        L                  F
Publics (LBTP) are separately financed quasi-govern-                   DE LA FORMATION
ment organisations which undertake work for other                       PROFESSIONELLE
Ministries and organisations on request.
September 1979                                                                                                                             World Bank - 20979






IVORY COAST
HIGHWAY SECTOR LOAN
Investment Planning Process for the
Implementation of the Sector Loan 1/
MINISTERE DES TRAVAI)X
A  PI nnrng Instl o                                                                       _ tjaTi»o.tCw._
---                                                                             DE LA CONSTRUCTION… -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -BCET                                                                                             blPFE
|                                                                                ET DE L'URBANISME
I ABORATOIRE NATIONAL |              RECTIOtS CENTRAlE                                   DIRECTION DE                                E r     DIRECTION CENTRALE                                                        CELULLE DE LA PLANIFiCATION
DES RATIMENTS ET DES               DU CONTIIOI E DE S                                   L'ENTRETIENR                                    ALES                        TRAVA  X                DES RANSPORT                  ET DE
TRAVAL SP  A  CS    I   U~RANDS TRAVAUJX                                        RiOUTIER                                                            DESTRVUDETRNOTSTDEC RIATNDS
TRAVALJX P IJ S                           TRAVA_                                                                                                                Pu   ICS                   TERRESTRES                 TRANSPORTS INTERURbAINS
masdnreRnatss                   ment detssanstandards      |        HÛIR                  i                               nltcltclnig             1      Iaactttitt                          oiismSogtSrt
SOUIS DIRECTIOIN DE LA                                                              j       Aotir oddt
Iafîtorca    ~            ontetrîc Onat pane           PROGRAMMATION DES                SOUS-DIRECTION                  I., I                           '11
11-IP,              14G INVSTISSEMENTS               DSRITS                 aapîa  contgotbîle  nlrtnplce
-d-t- ..d~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~dnIîattn  aa.
| - cnnrdînat,nn ana    l                                                 oonrd.netîon ni data  |-  etaluCteSrtAna
'l         |     InvtthtOrv tttttic    |                       |               |~~~~~~~~~~~ - doletemntion   At se           |Att tt*ll zn ernwtlt
l  l                             |      ct unts and compo   |                         |               |  | - dttto~~~~~~~~~~~~        ~      ~ ~~~maitnancon costafl          a  nd ganenratea trattînc
I  I                          I                          t                        E      | ttttttlons for upardmg   I               I                                  I                                        I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iettatonA
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t .   ,           ,c
I                  I  i    ~~~~~~~Dttesmanne tnt tact,                          PrEpta rns.mstment                                                                                 e f seebtasires dlata bRef i 
| Deveîopt pavrtment                 an evestntent etApAsal                             raconnmendatîntti   An  ||o   /   rf   lt                                                                                  l*
ettactran alterntnate                             ar road tiîtwoaadhat                                                                               tneiecttaîdense.   s     |            N =         
__ | VOC nd lZrift tréchtaî. tîcet
_dt ..d    -d ~ aapa. edasdee
VOCd |n thtlt                                                                   n*tcV-rre
10ll litAoOtti prnPOsed thave an ecnnoman tata nI tetAra Ai  129 ot mot.|                                                                                                lds|                                         xtlrort
b  Aareed ctietrla tnt îatntect anciusasn mn the L oi Prodtrettrie IProiect desian resitecta tie i)rancaple Xi Cnest cnat constttAtinn alternative| 
Iptînrrtn Atolactt artt plrased 'n sn st tA nteet toceontnconnneac anale mithir tire sarllairîn iineeciaîretoutces
Il tRis rharI once sots neaetisarin rntliecst tha  dnzinaist,ar oe haorarOhy ol h lit llat  annreoX+. are plannings|RtdTanpr  tco
f., -h ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~ ~       ~    ~ ~       ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~nî  eI    00






LU<
LU              T00
-                                                o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
F- >                ?m~~~        d> 
<       if !      o            N.t-
r-o                Ï5     c                                          r~
J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1    0 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  
_    I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
_              h ~~~~~~~~~~ !~~~






IBRD 14698R
Ï                                                                                                               A.  ;J0 É%
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
r N i _UNDIR_I t\ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ERKESSEDGUGOU \,. r A.sh
G U I N E A    ; , , , ; s   \   '- j   -   /   > ?   -   o d e u g   ]   t f i r é   >                      : 5 2 : t W ' ' ' , : ' ' '   ré   d
onra~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
N,c o ~ ~ ~   ~     ~     ~    ~     Tnd 
A NOI, 4                                                                      nde~~~~~~~~~~~G k  A
A      '-h-I I ti         >       E)\t   J   ~    >   J \)                                                                                           /e    W ,, ym 
) 2\té \ lahrCSandUCJUl  ~\> ~ \8X r°15-Di          4BtXJAi-rN                                                                 * U.!^:,i 
uk,                               A/V'Vb       1,ékvOu
DA     /n a                                                                    ..r,            U    i     So T  
b          kbo                           DMLBOffAi  C O A S TBKR
(  9 To/4tanSL                                                 AiEnU  rp .S  E h1    s    A 0um
f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~y<4o                                                                          Z Sfa  DMOR EGg> 0 U|S;0 UHFri.
i7 \   L 1 S E   é, .1. A         *                                    SikouPe \ ;*:A  __jA
Grabo          SSANDRA~~~                                                               OCEN' 
m  -; A X DEbf.UC -0 A    S,Jc T'
O     20   40   6 0   8 0   f0 0 /D  K
r                                                                                                                          or O,t,' ,r?  r!  G KlLOneTEPS  OCf /'et   <   AK Ea L nn
i    E_   84  O                                    f                                                 Ir,.    C,t./f ef Guneo  0O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0



