Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY              FILE  COPY
Report No. P-2884-IVC
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF THE IVORY COAST
FOR A
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
October 15, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit        =       CFAF Franc (CFAF) 1/
US$1.00              =       CFAF 210
CFAF 1                      US$0.00476
CFAF1,OOO            =       US$4.761
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCET    -   Bureau Central des Etudes Techniques
DCCGT   -   Direction Centrale du Controle des Crands Travaux
DCMTP   -   Direction Centrale  i-i 'Iateriel des Travaux Publics
DCTP    -   Direction Centrale des Travaux Publics
DER     -   Direction de 1'Entretien Routier
LBTP    -   Laboratoire du Batiment et des Travaux Publics
MEFP    -   Ministere de l'Economie des Finances, et du Plan
MTPTCU  -   Ministere des TravaxLK Publics, du Transport, de
la Construction et de l'ilrbanisme
RAN     -   Regie de Chemin de Fer Abidjan-Niger
MEASURES
1 kilometer (km)            =    0.62 mile
1 square kilometer (kin2)   =    0.39 square mile
1 square meter (m2)         =   10.76 square feet
1/   The CFA Franc is tied to the French Franc in the ratio of 1 French
Franc to 50 CFAF. The French Franc is currently floating.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IVORY COAST
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower           Republic of the Ivory Coast
Amount             US$100 million equivalent
Terms              Repayable in 17 years, including four years of grace, at
an interest rate of 9.25 per annum.
Project            The proposed loan would assist the Government in its
Description     policy of restrained investments, improved sector
planning and coordination and improved road maintenance
operations, by financing part of the 1981-83 highway
investment program and relevant technical assistance and
training. Project benefits would accrue to the economy
at large in the form of savings in vehicle operating
costs; institutional strengthening would also be a major
benefit. The project does not face special risks.
Estimated
Cost        :                Foreign         Local          Taxes         Total
--------------------…US$ million-----------------
Civil Works    94            19              46            159
Technical
Assistance
and Training   6             0.5             0.5            7
100           19.5            46.5          166
Financing          The proposed loan would finance the foreign costs of the
project and the Government would finance local costs and
taxes.
Estimated
Disbursements      Fiscal Year                Annual                Cumulative
--------------------(US$ Million)--------------
81                       28.0                     28.0
82                       30.0                     58.0
83                       30.0                     88.0
84                       12.0                    100.0
Rate of Return: Highway subprojects would be economically justified with
a minimum rate of return of 12 percent. Rates of return
for the projects already identified range from 12.6 to
19 percent.
Staff Appraisal
Report         : No. 2792a-IVC dated October 16, 1980.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their ofimcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE IVORY COAST
FOR A HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of the Ivory Coast for the equivalent of US$100.0 million
to help finance a highway sector project. The loan would have a term of 17
years, including four years of grace, with interest at 9.25 percent per
annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.          The Report No. 1147b-IVC "Ivory Coast:  A Basic Economic Report"
was circulated to the Executive Directors in May 1977. Its principal
findings and conclusions, updated by Bank missions which visited the Ivory
Coast in 1978, 1979, and 1980, are incorporated in the following paragraphs.
Annex I provides basic country data.
Past Performance
3.          Throughout the 1960's Gross Domestic Product (GDP) grew at a
high annual rate of about 8.3 percent; however, during 1971-75, economic
growth slowed to an average of 5.6 percent per annum partly because of the
effects of adverse climatic conditions in the early years of the period, the
impact of worldwide recession, and partly for structural reasons. In 1979,
per capita GNP reached US$1,060, one of the highest in Africa. The good
overall performance of the Ivorian economy over the last 17 years has
resulted from a combination of the following factors: large agricultural
potential and early identification by the Ivorian Government of the best
opportunities for developing this potential; liberal government policies
vis-a-vis foreign private investment as well as importation of foreign labor
and managerial talent; and generally adequate public finance performance and
availability of external aid.
4.          Favorable ecological conditions in the southern region give the
Ivory Coast comparative advantages in the cultivation of tree crops (par-
ticularly cocoa and coffee) and in the exploitation of timber resources.
1/     Substantially identical with Part I of the President's Report No.
P-2858-IVC for a First Power Project, dated June 30, 1980.



- 2 -
From the early years of independence, the efforts of the Government were
concentrated on the agricultural and forestry sectors. Large investments
were made in transport infrastructure to open up new forestry and agricul-
tural areas, and in agricultural research progtaIms. Adequate guaranteed
producer prices and other incentives were introduced to which a dynamic
smallholder subsector has responded well. Government-owned large-scale
plantations with outgrower components were developed for oil and coconut
palm. Rapid growth has been achieved in the production of cotton, pine-
apple, palm, and coconut oil, cocoa and coffee. For the last two years,
Ivory Coast has been the world's largest producer of cocoa and the third
largest producer of coffee.
5.          A long period of political stability, combined with the free
transferability of profits and capital, has created an aura of confidence
abroad which assured access to foreign capital. However, the necessary
technical skills to foster the planned development were lacking in the
country, and the Ivorian community welcomed the wide variety of foreign
managerial and technical assistance which rapid growth required. A member
of the franc area and a strong supporter of monetary and economic coopera-
tion, the Ivory Coast has always been willing to welcome new regional
institutions; it joined the Economic Community of West African States
(ECOWAS), and has helped promote the CIMAO project, which is the first
regional industrial undertaking involving both French and English speaking
countries in West Africa. An important feature of this cooperation with
neighboring countries, which has been beneficial to all parties concerned,
is the large influx of unskilled labor from less well endowed Sahelian
countries, particularly Upper Volta and Mali. In 1976, the foreign popula-
tion of the Ivory Coast (mainly non-Ivorian Africans) was 1.5 million, i.e.
about 25 percent of the country-s total population.
6.          The factors mentioned above have enabled the external sector
to grow rapidly, and the value of exports and imports increased more than
six times from 1960 to 1975 and subsequently doubled from 1975 to 1979.
The trade balance during this period was positive and amounted to 14 percent
of export earnings. However, the deficit on nonfactor services, workers
remittances and direct investment income has never allowed a surplus on the
current account. Export earnings are still dependent to a high degree on
coffee and cocoa prices, both of which have been subject to substantial
variation since 1975. Price increases for coffee of 250 percent from 1975
to 1977, and for cocoa, of 100 percent, enabled export receipts to double
from 1975 to 1977. Prices for these products remained relatively stable in
1978 and 1979, but declined by about 50 percent in 1980. Thus, export
receipts have increased by only 10 percent per year from 1977 to 1979 when
they reached approximately $3.3 billion. With the increased import require-
ments of the expanded public investment program, imports increased by 45
percent from 1975 to 1977 when they reached $2.8 billion, and by a further
35 percent in 1978 to approximately $3.8 billion. The deficit on services
and transfers has also increased, amounting to $850 million in 1977 and
approximately $1 billion in 1978 and 1979. Net capital inflows increased
from $500 million in 1977 to $850 million in 1978 and remained at approxi-
mately the same level in 1979. This reflected disbursements from foreign
borrowing to finance the public investment program. Foreign exchange
reserves increased from $174 million in 1977 to $425 million at end



- 3 -
1978, then declined to $107 million at end 1979. This reserve drawdown
reflected declining cocoa/coffee prices and a government decision to with-
hold cocoa from the world market. These cocoa stocks were subsequently sold
in June 1980.
7.          The success of the Ivorian economy is to a substantial extent
attributable to generally sound government policies regarding public finance
and external aid.  The public sector generated savings which, after debt
service, financed about 50 percent of the public investment program. The
level of public investment is projected in the five-year plans and imple-
mented through a series of rolling three-year investment programs and annual
investment budgets. The 1976-80 Plan called for public investment of about
US$5 billion, the equivalent of about 30 percent of projected GDP (compared
to 23 percent during 1971-75). The main objectives stated in the Plan were
to further increase production in developed regions, develop agriculture in
poor Savannah areas, accelerate the opening up of the southwest, and sub-
stantially increase social services. Since 1977, however, public investment
has increased substantially beyond what was envisaged in the Plan as funds
became available from coffee and cocoa export receipts and as the country
borrowed extensively abroad. New investments were programmed to expand
education and other social services, to develop sugar production into a
major industry, and for a variety of projects in transportation, energy and
other fields. State enterprises have played a substantial role in this
expansion, especially in that portion financed by external credit. The
increased reliance on external capital is reflected in total external debt
(disbursed and undisbursed) which stood at US$1.5 billion at end 1975,
US$2.2 billion at end 1976, and US$3.6 billion at end 1977, and $4.2 billion
at end 1978, and $5.2 billion at end 1979. The implications of the sharp
rise in external public debt are discussed below (paras. 13 through 16).
Recent Development Issues
8.          To maintain the momentum of recent years and help broaden the
access to the benefits derived from it, the Government will need to perse-
vere in existing policies designed to diversify the economic base, improve
income distribution, increase the participation of Ivorian nationals in the
management of the economy, and maintain a public investment program of
appropriate dimensions. Current government policies are directed with some
success to protecting the export-oriented economy against fluctuations in
world market prices and to promoting more balanced regional development.
Agriculture remains the most important sector, but the share of manufac-
turing in GDP has increased from 4 percent in 1960 to 13 percent in 1976.
Within agriculture, the production of new crops such as bananas, pineapples,
rubber, cotton, coconut and palm oil has been encouraged, resulting in a
decline of the share of cocoa and coffee in agricultural exports from 72
percent in 1960 to 51 percent in 1976. In 1977 and 1978, years of very high
coffee and cocoa prices, these commodities share of exports rose to over 60
percent. As part of a more balanced regional development policy, large
infrastructure investments are underway in the southwest in an effort to
develop access to that potentially rich region.



9.          Better income-earnings opportunities are being provided for
the population in poor rural areas in the north following the identification
and cultivation of improved varieties of cotton, and the promotion of
ox-drawn methods of farming. Income distribution is being further improved
by increa.C3 in agricultural producer prices, implementation of wage poli-
cies which favor the urban poor, and execution of regional investment
programs. As a result, income inequality has diminished in recent years,
with the poorest 40 percent of the population currently receiving about 20
percent of total income.
10.         Progress in the Ivorianization of capital and labor remains
limited. While agriculture is almost entirely in Ivorian hands, foreign
ownership is still important in forestry, industry, and modern commerce.
However, education and training are given very high priority in the alloca-
tion of government resources; increasing recognition is given to the employ-
ment potential of the informal sector and the Government is sponsoring a
variety of programs designed to promote the development of small-scale
industrial and commercial enterprises.
11.       These new policy directions are being implemented at some cost.
The development of new products, new sectors, and new regions yields de-
creasing returns on investments. For example, agricultural diversification
is being extended to crops with lower comparative advantage; reforestation
programs have to be implemented in order to avoid a complete depletion
of the reserves by the end of the century; the best opportunities for import
substitution in industrial development are becoming exhausted; heavy infra-
structure and productive investments in the potentially rich but sparsely
populated southwest yield initially low returns; large programs to improve
living conditions in the north and other poor rural areas involve long
gestation periods. Finally, the direct and indirect costs of foreign
production factors are increasing.
12.       The financial burden of the expanded public investment program
has also increased despite the funding of a large proportion from the
exceptionally large surpluses accumulated in 1976 and 1977 in the stabili-
zation fund (equivalent to about US$1.5 billion). Thus, the program still
relies on external credit for 40 percent of its funding, about 85 percent of
which comes from private banks and suppliers. This represents a large
increase from previous years. The overall terms and conditions of external
public debt are hardening, reflecting increased reliance on commercial
credit, and the grant element of public and private lending to the public
sector declined from 29 percent in 1969 to 10 percent in 1978. The in-
creased costs of development, the larger scale of investment now being
undertaken and envisaged for the future and the heavy reliance on foreign
commercial credit to fund a major portion of investment point to the neces-
sity of measures to ensure that the limits of absorptive capacity are not
exceeded and that repayment capacity is not strained. The substantial
decrease in external borrowing during 1978, is an encouraging sign that the
Government of Ivory Coast is aware of the situation. Other recent measures
include a much stronger control by the Caisse Autonome dAmortissement (CAA)
over the state enterprises borrowing and investment programs.



-5-
Prospects
13.       Provided the Government becomes more selective in determining
investment priorities and limits external borrowing to prudent levels,
the medium- and long-term prospects of the Ivorian economy remain favorable
and an annual rate of growth of about 6 percent is a feasible objective
for the eighties.
14.       The economy has considerable potential for further development
of traditional export crops. Moreover, after large initial investments
have been made, output of new products and development of new regions will
start to yield substantial benefits and can later be expanded at reasonable
economic cost. The Government is planning to review the system of protec-
tion and tax holidays which has encouraged some marginal import-substitution
industries, and there is scope for expansion of export oriented processing
of local raw materials. Many aspects of the country's policies of income
distribution (preference for the family-size farm, programs to increase
agriculture productivity in the poorer north, and the promotion of the
informal sector, small-scale industrial and commercial enterprise) are fully
compatible with sustained economic growth. A possible additional source of
income and exports is petroleum. Discoveries at some reserves were an-
nounced in 1978 and larger amounts in 1980. It is, however, too early to
quantify the potential impact of petroleum development, but more precise
information should be available by early 1981.
15.       Prices for coffee and cocoa are decreasing and export earnings
will probably be considerably less buoyant in the near future than in past
years despite some mitigating effects of diversification into export pro-
ducts such as rubber, pineapples and industrial products. Imports, however,
have increased substantially and the large deficit on services will remain
as long as the country relies heavily on foreign factors of production.
Thus pressures on the balance of payments will remain. The size and fi-
nancing of the public investment program will be a key element in deter-
mining the extent of these pressures. The decreases in cocoa-coffee prices
over the next five years combined with high debt service are also expected
to put pressure on public savings. Their contribution to the financing of
the public investments is expected to substantially decline from a high 60
percent in 1978.
16.       The authorities are therefore engaged in a review of new public
investments in relation to available public savings, official development
assistance and longer term commercial borrowing.  The aim is to carry out as
much as possible of high priority targets while achieving an external debt
structure consistent with the medium term balance of payments prospects of
the economy. By these means it should be possible to keep the debt service
at about 25% and to maintain creditworthiness for borrowing on IBRD terms.
17.       Of the total external public debt outstanding at the end of
1978, 15 percent was provided bilaterally by governments, 16 percent by
international organizations (of which 66 percent by the Bank Group), and 52
percent by private banks and bond issues, while 17 percent came in the form



- 6 -
of suppliers' credit. About half of the total capital not supplied by
international organizations came from four countries; France (23 percent),
USA (9 percent), Lebanon (8 percent), and the Federal Republic of Germany
(5 percent). France and the European Communities remain the principal
source of development assistance in grant form, accounting for about 2
percent of the flow of foreign assistance to the public sector.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE IVORY COAST
18.       Since 1968, when Bank Group operations in the Ivory Coast started,
lending has expanded rapidly and now includes thirty-nine loans totalling
US$559.8 million (including US$14 million from the Third Window) and an
IDA credit of US$7.5 million. Fourteen of these thirty-nine operations have
been for agriculture, supporting cotton, cocoa, rubber, oil palm and coconut
development; another US$9.4 million loan for a North-East Savannah Rural
Development project has been approved by the Executive Directors in March,
1980. There were six road projects. The remaining eighteen loans were for
education, telecommunications, the Abidjan sewerage and drainage system,
water supply, urban development, power distribution, tourism development,
small- and medium-scale enterprises, a regional cement project and a re-
gional railway project. IFC's involvement includes participation in the
Banque Ivoirienne de Developpement Industriel amounting to US$423,500; a 10
percent equity investment, equivalent to about US$880,000, in Etablissement
R. Gonfreville (ERG), the largest textile plant in the country; and a US$6.4
million investment in Societe Ivoirienne dEngrais S.A. (Siveng) to double
the company-s fertilizer plant capacity to 120,000 tons per year; on March
1980, IFC Board of Directors approved an equity investment of US$446,600 and
a US$2.9 million loan for MSO, a flour milling company. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank Group operations and notes on the execution of
ongoing projects, with particular reference to those which are encountering
problems in execution and giving rise to delays in disbursements.
19.       Bank operations in agriculture have been in support of the Govern-
ment-s policy of crop diversification and promotion of exports, and have
followed the evolution of this policy towards giving more emphasis to
developing smallholder production. A smallholder rubber project was ap-
proved by the Board in October, 1978, and a rural development project for
the North-East in March 1980. The Bank is presently helping in the prepara-
tion of two pilot projects aimed at strengthening the agencies in charge of
rural development in the Center and the Southern regions, and is associated
with the preparation of a mechanization study and pilot scheme, carried out
by the French CCCE, to determine the feasibility of introducing mechanized
farming. In June 1979 the Executive Directors approved the first Bank
forestry project in the Ivory Coast which consists of a 20,000 ha plantation
program of short and medium rotation hardwood species.
20.       Another important sector for the Bank is transportation.  The
Bank operations in this sector are briefly discussed under Part III below.



21.       The Bank has been closely associated with the Government's efforts
to modernize the education system, in particular, at the primary, secondary
and vocational levels, through two education projects. A third education
project covering primary teacher training, vocational training and informal
education in rural areas was approved by the Executive Directors in December
1979.
22.       The Abidjan sewerage and drainage project, approved in FY75,
covers the first phase of a ten-year government program to improve sani-
tation in Abidjan. The Board approved, in FY78, a second project which
includes the second phase of the program and studies for the third. An
urban development project, whose primary aim is to help meet some of
Abidjan's low income housing and transport needs, was signed in December
1976; a follow-up project concentrating in the urban transport needs of
Abidjan and studies and pilot investments in secondary cities is being
appraised. With respect to the smaller towns, the Board approved in FY78 a
secondary centers water supply project and another project for water supply
in secondary centers and rural villages is being appraised.
23.       In the energy sector, a first power project was approved in
July 1980 to finance power distribution facilities in rural areas, technical
assistance and the preparation of a hydropower project which the Bank may
consider financing. An energy sector review will be undertaken during 1981
its main purpose being to help the Government to formulate a coherent energy
investment policy and program.
24.       In view of the predominance of foreign ownership and management
in the private sector of the Ivorian economy, the Government is placing
high priority on strengthening local entrepreneurship. In support of this
policy the Bank extended a loan for the promotion of small-scale enterprises
in FY76, which has been followed up by an artisans, small- and medium-scale
project approved in March 1979. The Bank Group also provided support for
medium-scale enterprises through another local development finance company
and two lines of credit for hotel financing and technical assistance in the
tourism sector. In June 1976 the Bank extended a loan to the Ivory Coast in
support of the CIMAO project which is sponsored jointly by the Governments
of Ghana, Ivory Coast, and Togo. CIMAO will utilize limestone deposits in
Togo for the production of clinker for the cement market of the three
countries.
25.       The Bank Group's lending in the Ivory Coast has increased steadily
from a yearly average of below US$20 million during the early years to
an average of US$74.2 million annually in the 1975-79 period. The average
annual lending rate is expected to continue to grow substantially over the
next few years. The Bank Group's share of the Ivory Coast's external debt
at the end of 1978, stood at approximately 10.1 percent (including undis-
bursed). Its portion of external debt disbursed is expected to rise from
the present 6.4 percent to about 10 percent in the next ten years; its share
of total debt service, at present 4.2 percent, is expected to go up to about
7.0 percent in the early 1980's.



- 8 -
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
26.       Since independence in 1960, the transport sector in the Ivory
Coast has b 'en a priority sector absorbing from 30 percent of total public
investments in the early sixties to 20 percent in recent years. These
investments have been mostly directed to stimulate overall economic develop-
ment and have resulted in a generally adequate transport system centered
around Abidjan. The seaport of Abidjan is served by the only railway line
in the country, which runs north into Upper Volta up to Ouagadougou, and by
trunk roads radiating in all directions. The port of San Pedro was opened
in 1971 in the Southwest and, after an initial period of little movement,
has become the secondary focal point of the system.
The Transport System
27.       Ivory Coast has an extensive road network of over 45,000 km of
which over 3,000 km will be paved by 1981; about 3,500 km of unpaved main
trunk and secondary roads are in good condition, while the remaining roads
are being improved at the rate of 3,000 km per year. The vehicle fleet
comprises an estimated 131,000 units, or 1 per 57 inhabitants; trucks
account for about 28 percent of the fleet and carry about 80 percent of the
domestic freight. Because of traffic increasing at about 11 percent per
annum, there is a continuing need to strengthen pavements on the main roads
and to improve gravel and earth roads.
28.       The railway line from Abidjan to Ouagadougou (1,150 km of single-
track line of which 630 km in the Ivory Coast), is operated by the Regie des
Chemins de Fer Abidjan-Niger (RAN), a bi-national, financially autonomous
agency.  The RAN is a major element in the regional transport system; it
handles about 80 percent of Upper Volta exports and imports, substantial
amounts of Malian international traffic, and some 20 percent of the Ivorian
freight traffic. Railway passenger traffic is also important and accounts
for about half of RAN's revenues.
29.       The Ivory Coast has two deep-water ports, in Abidjan and San
Pedro. The port of Abidjan is considered the most efficient in West Africa
and ranks second after Lagos in terms of cargo handled (over 7.5 million
tons per year). It serves most of the country's international traffic, all
of Upper Volta's and a steadily increasing share of Mali's; occasionally, it
also handles imports for western Niger. Exports are slightly higher than
imports, a unique relation among the ports in the region. From 1970 until
recently, exports grew by 11 percent per annum and imports by 6 percent per
annum. Further, the port of Abidjan handles the largest container traffic
in West Africa, almost one million tons p.a. The port is managed by the
Port Authority of Abidjan, an autonomous agency, which entrusts the handling
operations to well-equipped and well-managed private companies. The port
capacity is reaching saturation, though, and expansion plans are at an
advance stage of preparation. The port of San Pedro includes 6 mooring
buoys for log traffic and two general cargo berths. This port, also managed
by an autonomous agency, started operations in 1971 and by 1978 was handling



- 9 -
1.5 million tons, of which 86 percent was logs. Initially, traffic growth
was slow because of inadequate hinterland infrastructure, but it accelerated
as such infrastructure was built. Two additional general cargo berths are
under construction and Government expects traffic to reach 3.5 million tons
in the 1980's.
30.       The country has three airports of international standards, in
Abidjan, Yamoussoukro and Bouake, and 25 other airfields of which 12 are
able to handle DC3-type aircraft. The Abidjan airport is by far the busiest,
handling nearly 1 million passengers per year, of which about 85 percent are
international travelers on business trips. Passenger traffic in Abidjan is
growing at about 15 percent per annum. Air cargo is limited. Domestic air
traffic is handled by Air Ivoire, a Government-owned corporation.
Transport Investment, Policy, Planning and Coordination
31.       Until 1978, in the context of the country's rapid prosperity, the
Government's transport investment policy emphasized rapid up-grading of its
main infrastructure to high international standards, expansion of its
transit role to its neighboring countries and the carrying out of proper
maintenance. More recently, partly because of the public investment demands
from other sectors, the self-imposed limits on external borrowing and the
shifting emphasis towards balanced regional development and diversification
of the economy, a stricter scrutiny of investments is being carried out to
ensure that projects support these objectives and are consistent with the
availability of investment resources.
32.       Government policy is translated by the Ministry of Economy Fi-
nance, and Plan (MEFP) into five-year public investment plan targets for
each sector and further defined in annual, three-year revolving programs
(Loi Programme des Investissements Publics). These "Lois Programmes"
emanate from yearly updated submissions by the various Government agencies,
which are reviewed and screened by the M4EFP in the context of the nation's
economic policies, the sector priorities and the availability of funds. The
recently-increased authority invested in the MEFP with respect to the
approval of these submissions, has no doubt made the planning process more
meaningful. The proposed project would provide an opportunity for the Bank
to discuss and review periodically with the Mlinistry of Public Works and the
Ministry of Finance, the transport sector program in the context of overall
economic trends in the country.
33.       Actual investments in roads have been considerable, about CFAF
36 billion in 1977, CFAF 41 billion in 1978, CFAF 48 billion in 1979, and an
estimated CFAF 50 billion in 1980. Foreign borrowing covered about 46 per-
cent of the expenditures, including about 6 percent of Bank group financing.
Most of the foreign borrowings were in the form of suppliers credits, but
since 1979 the government has restricted the resource to such credits which
tended to increase substantially unit construction costs.



- 10 -
Highway Investment Planning
34.       The highway subsector is under the responsibility of the Ministry
of Public Works, Transport, Construction and Urbanism (MTPTCU), which has
four central directorates and seven regional directorates directly concerned
with roads and road transport. MTPTCU is also supported by two autonomous
agencies, the Bureau Central des Etudes Techniques (BCET) and the Labora-
toire des Batiments et des Travaux Publics (LBTP).
35.       A Ten-Year (1978-87) Highway Development Plan was prepared by
consultants financed under the Fifth Highway Project (Loan No. 1161-IVC).
This plan, which focusses on main roads and constitutes the basis for road
investment proposals, was based on detailed road inventory and traffic
surveys and reasonable assumptions concerning growth rates for each region
in accordance with their economic profile and development plans.  Specific
highway investment proposals, mostly derived from the Ten-Year Highway
Development Plan, are based on data from the regions on road inventory and
traffic counts and elaborated by the Sous-Direction de la Programmation des
Investissements and the Direction de l'Entretien Routier (DER). Such
proposals are submitted by the Direction Centrale des Travaux Publics (DCTP)
to BCET for economic evaluation and are ultimately submitted to MEFP for
inclusion in the Loi Programme. For the approved proposals, BCET undertakes
economic feasibility and detailed engineering studies. BCET's role is
crucial to the highway investment planning process as a center for coordi-
nating data collection and analyzing intermodal traffic distribution,
as a liaison center between research and investment programming and as a
bureau in charge of economic analysis of proposed projects. The strength-
ening of these institutions that has taken place in the last few years,
in part as a result of the relationship established with the Bank through
our project financing, has been a major step in increasing the planning and
investment capability in the sector.
36.       The institutional framework for national road planning, as des-
cribed above, is adequate but it is handicapped by insufficient up-to-date
data base on road use and on current condition of the gravel and earth road
network. Under the proposed Sector Loan the necessary assistance would be
provided to make these institutions fully effective.
Road Maintenance
37.       Road maintenance organization and operations in the Ivory Coast are
generally adequate. On the average, maintenance expenditures represent about
20 percent of annual road expenditures and about 25 percent of revenues from
road user taxes. The main constraint in the execution of road maintenance,
which lowers productivity, is the shortage of trained and experienced staff.
Although the needs for engineers and highly trained technicians should soon
be met as a result of public investments in education, there will still be a
considerable need for specialist training of technicians, particularly
foremen, mechanics and equipment operators, despite ongoing programs. The
proposed Sector Loan would provide technical assistance for on-the-job
training of maintenance personnel and the extension of the technical assist-
ance provided under previous loans until the proposed training program is in



- 11 -
place. This is expected to improve road maintenance productivity for which
the Government has agreed to establish productivity targets consistent with
sound engineering practices and to discuss with the Bank such targets in
conjunction with future budgetary allocations for road maintenance (Draft Loan
Agreement, Section 4.04).
Highway Design and Construction
38.       Excessive geometric standards were a major issue during implemen-
tation of earlier Bank projects. However, a more realistic attitude pre-
vails now and increasingly the standards, which are based on French prac-
tice, are being adjusted to local conditions and traffic. This trend is
parallel to the increasing participation of Ivorian institutions in the
design and supervision of major road works. Construction, improvement and
strengthening of main roads are undertaken by contractors, while construc-
tion and improvement of earth and gravel roads are carried out by force
account. There is a potential for the development of small domestic con-
tractors, which is being studied. During the implementation of the proposed
Sector Loan, the Bank and the Government will prepare a sub-project for
technical assistance to train Ivorian contractors if their potential for
undertaking roadworks is proven. This would be complemented by the Small
Scale Enterprises Project (Loan No. 1663-IVC).
Road Transport Regulation and Safety
39.       Road transport is loosely regulated in the Ivory Coast.  Large
foreign firms carry the most remunerative products (petroleum, cocoa,
coffee, etc.) in their specialized vehicles, while the smaller unspecialized
firms are suffering from fierce competition and price-cutting in their
domain, usually general cargo and passengers in rural areas. The Direction
Centrale des Transports Terrestres (DCTT), which is responsible for road
transport regulations, intends, with the technical assistance provided under
the proposed sector loan, to improve its data base for more effective
policy formulation. As part of this fact finding effort, DCTT is planning
a thorough re-evaluation of road user tax incidence and its relation with
expenditures in the sector, following-up on the 1976 study (carried out by
consultants SETEC) which concluded that the level of taxes was sufficient
and alerted the Ivorian authorities to possible indirect subsidizations of
truck traffic by private passenger traffic. Also, DCTT is carrying out a
driver training and vehicle maintenance program, the implementation of which
would be aided by the proposed Sector Loan; the program is expected to
improve the performance of small truckers and to have a positive effect on
road safety which needs improvement.
Past Bank Group Assistance to the Transport Sector
40.       Over the past 10 years the Bank Group's direct lending to the
sector totalled US$123.3 million for the highway sub-sector and US$29
million to the railway (complemented with an IDA credit of US$5.2 million to
the Government of Upper Volta). Loans and credits in the sector account for
27 percent of all Bank Group lending to the country. As a result of the
Bank's lending operations in the highway sub-sector, some 600 km of roads



- 12 -
have been improved to paved standards or strengthened; about 1,600 km of
main trunk and regional roads have been upgraded to good gravel standard;
and 3,600 km of local roads are being upgraded. Bank-financed agricultural
projects account for the building, rehabilitation and maintenance of some
6,000 km , unclassified roads serving agricultural communities. The
highway projects also assisted in building up capacity for road maintenance
and in creating planning institutions in the MTPTCU. The regional railway
project focused on the improvement of the Bouake-Petionara section of the
line, renewal of rolling stock, technical assistance and training. A second
railway project to complete the rehabilitation from Petionara to Tafire is
being appraised.
41.       Construction works for the first four highway projects were
satisfactorily completed. The audit report on the First Highway Project
recommended, inter alia, that more emphasis should be given to road mainte-
nance. This had been picked up in the Third and subsequent Highway Projects.
The Fifth Highway Project (Ln. 1161-IVC, US$43.0 million, 1975) and the
Feeder Roads and Highway Maintenance Project (Ln.1501-IVC, US$29.0 million,
1977) are proceeding satisfactorily.
42.       During implementation of the First Highway Project, an important
step was taken in transport investment planning with the UNDP-financed
Transport Sector Survey Study undertaken by consultants SETEC, France
(1968-72) and the Bank as executing agency. This survey, which was updated
by SETEC in 1976, with Bank financing under the Fifth Highway Project (see
para. 35), called for an extensive program to upgrade primary roads and to
improve the capacity to plan and execute road maintenace. It provided the
context for subsequent Bank highway projects, and has given the Government
an opportunity to develop its in-house capacity for transport planning
through BCET.
43.       Overall, the highway sector in the Ivory Coast is managed ade-
quately, but there are some areas where improvements are needed. These
sectoral issues, as discussed above, would be addressed in the proposed
Sector Loan by providing assistance to organize a road data unit in DCTP to
increase the effectiveness of the highway investment planning institutions,
support to the training program for Ivorians to become small contractors and
thus helping to foster a domestic contracting industry, support to the
implementation of programs to train truck drivers, as an effort to improve
road safety conditions, and to improve the data base of DCTT for more
effective road transport policy formulation, and finally, on-the-job
training for road maintenance personnel to increase its productivity and
improve road maintenance operations. This broad front of activities would
be carried out in accordance with a Plan of Action which would guide
the executing units in carrying out their programs and serve as a monitoring
tool during their implementation.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
44.       The proposed Highway Sector project would finance a substantial
percentage of the foreign exchange costs of the 1981-83 highway investment



- 13 -
program. It was identified in late 1978 and appraised in July 1979, with
short follow-up missions afterwards. Loan negotiations were held in Abidjan
in August 18-20, 1980; the Ivorian delegation was led by Mr. Coulibaly,
Director of the Caisse Autonome dAmortissement, and included Mr. Siransi,
Central Director of Public Works, from the Ministry of Public Works.
The project is described in detail in Staff Appraisal Report No. 2792a-IVC,
dated October 16, 1980, which is being circulated separately to the Execu-
tive Directors. Supplementary data on the project is to be found in Annex
III.
Project Concept and Objectives
45.       The general economic situation of the country, as described in
Part I of the report, calls for restraint in the investment program and for
careful management of the external debt. In the highway sector, which
represents about 10 to 12 percent of the overall investment, these guide-
lines have been translated in a reduction in real terms of the 1981-83
investment program, as compared with investments in 1977-79, and in efforts
to improve the terms of the debt associated with it by replacing suppliers
financing with longer term debt. In this context, and given the sound
investment planning institutional framework already in existence in the
sector, the proposed Sector Loan has emerged as the most appropriate means
to support the Government's efforts. The main objectives of the proposed
sector loan would be:
(a) to assist Government in its policy of restrained investments
by evaluating its absorptive capacity, establishing realistic
investment levels for the road sector, and ensuring that only high
priority projects are undertaken,
(b) to further improve highway sector planning and coordination,
including the adoption of sound engineering and economic criteria
for project selection;
(c) to finance the foreign exchange cost of priority investments to
be included in the road investment program; and
(d) to reinforce maintenance operations and increase productivity
of the equipment and allocated budget through further training.
46.       To reach these objectives the proposed Sector Loan would provide
financing for the foreign exchange component of civil works (roads construc-
tion, reconstruction and pavement strengthening), technical assistance and
training for various directorates of the Ministry of Public Works, road
equipment for training maintenance brigades and laboratory equipment. Some
of the civil works and technical assistance needs to be financed by the
proposed loan have been already identified and are being prepared by Govern-
ment; others would be identified in the future, in accordance with project
selection criteria agreed to by the Government and the Bank, as the road
investment program is reviewed yearly. (see para. 48).



- 14 -
Highway Investment Program
47.       Sectoral investment levels were discussed with the Government in
the context of the overall investment program in the Ivory Coast and on the
country's capacity of further foreign debt contracting. I> the context of
the proposed Sector Loan the highway investment program was discussed in
greater detail, taking into account past allocations to the highway sector,
and resources expected to become available for the next few years. As a
result of these discussions it was agreed that an investment ceiling for the
highway sector of about CFAF 56 billion (or about 12 percent of the expected
overall investment program) was appropriate for 1981. It was also agreed
that each year the Government and the Bank will discuss and review, in
response to the development of economic conditions, highway investment
ceilings for the following year (Section 4.06 of the draft Loan Agreement).
In 1981, commitments carried over from previous years will amount to about
CFAF 44 billion at current prices. To this a volume of new works will be
added under the proposed Sector Loan financing up to a total investment
level of CFAF 56 billion during the year; the proposed Sector Loan financing
being an alternative to contractor financing arrangements. New components
proposed for the 1981-82 road investment program include construction to
paved standards of the Mafou-Akoupe road, and strengthening of about 314 km
of main paved roads (Akoupe-Abengourou, Akoupe-Bougouanu and Man-Issia).
Other projects are being identified and prepared by the Ivorian authorities
for inclusion in the program in 1982 and 1983.
48.       Sound economic and engineering criteria have been used for the
selection and inclusion of these projects in the road investment program. It
was agreed with the Government that all road projects to be included in the
three-year investment program will be evaluated according to sound economic
and technical criteria and the majority of them will have an estimated minimum
12% economic rate of return, based on preliminary engineering cost estimates,
projected vehicle operating cost savings, eventual road maintenance savings
and eventual intermodal effects. Furthermore, for each project selected,
alternate lay-outs and cross sections, in line with MTPTCU standards, will be
investigated and the detailed engineering should aim at the least total cost
solution after careful evaluation of alternatives (Section 3.05(a) of the
draft Loan Agreement). The economic rate of return, based on detailed
engineering cost estimates will be at least 12 percent to proceed with the
works under Sector Loan financing.
49.       Identification and preparation of projects would be the responsi-
bility of the Government, the Bank's role being limited to ensure that
projects to be included in the road investment program conform to the above
criteria. It has been agreed that Bank representatives would meet twice a
year with representatives of the Ministries of Finance and Public Works to
review the selection of new items, or approve firm submissions for financing
under the sector loan, review project implementation during the past year,
review progress in intermodal transport planning and proposed transport
sector investment program, and to review proposed highway investment ceilings
(Section 3.05(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 15 -
50.       Overall, the 1981-83 road investment program, as established now,
responds to the country's needs for investments in the sector; the timing of
the investments has been determined taking due account of economic priorities
and presents a balanced resource allocation between road pavement strengthen-
ing and new construction, which is within the investment capacity of the
country.
Technical Assistance and Training
51.       So far 137 man-months have been clearly defined for the various
directorates of MTPTCU, while the training program for mid-level road
maintenance technicians and eventually for training of domestic contractors
and heavy vehicle drivers is in the initial stages of preparation. The
program includes:
(a) 72 man-month extension of the technical assistance under the.
Feeder Roads and Highway Maintenance Project from March to
December 1980, to bridge the gap until the training program
included under the proposed Sector Loan ((f) below) is opera-
tional;
(b) 32 man-months to assist in the organization of a data unit,
and training of Ivorians in preparing and updating road in-
ventories and traffic counts in DCTP;
(c) 32 man-months to assist in organizing and training Ivorian
personnel in road transport planning in DCTT;
(d) 1 man-month to assist in preparing a training program for drivers
of heavy trucks, eventually to be implemented with additional
technical assistance;
(e) fellowships and research equipment for LBTP, the national soils
laboratory;
(f) an on-the-job training program, including technical assistance,
teaching materials and equipment, for mechanics and equipment
operators in DCM, DER, DTRP and the regional directorates; and
(g) eventually, training of domestic contractors.
52.       Terms of reference for the first four items of the above program
have been discussed and agreed upon; for the remainder, agreement on the
scope of the training program as well as on a schedule for formulating
specific proposals and for carrying it out, was reached during negotiations
(Section 3.06 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Costs and Financing
53.       $94.0 million of the proposed sector loan would finance the
foreign exchange costs of a total of about $160.0 million of investment in



- 16 -
civil works. This $160.0 million represents about 15 percent of the program
in 1981-83, depending on the actual rate of investment over that period, and $6.0
million of the proposed loan would be allocated to technical assistance and
training, including related equipment purchases (about $800,000) and pur-
chase of road laboratory equipment ($200,000). Local costs for projects
financed under the Sector Loan would be financed by Government.
54.       The cost estimates for the identified technical assistance are
based on the latest contracts signed by the MTPCTU for similar services of
foreign experts and amount to about US$11,000 per man-month including
over-head cost, transport, housing and other benefits and reimbursable
expenditures. The training program is tentatively estimated at US$5.8
million, considering that about 15 man-years of technical assistance and
equipment for the training brigades may be needed.
Procurement and Disbursement
55.       Civil works and equipment eligible for financing under the pro-
posed Sector Loan will be procured through international competitive bidding
in accordance with the Bank guidelines for procurement. Contracts for
equipment, materials, and supplies costing less than US$100,000, e.g.,
research equipment, teaching materials and road maintenance equipment for
training, may be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding using
procedures acceptable to the Bank up to a total of about US$600,000. The
Government has agreed that during Loan implementation all contracts for
civil works will be limited in duration to 36 months, or three dry seasons,
in order to curb the effects of price escalation clauses (Schedule 4 of the
draft Loan Agreement). The terms of reference, qualifications and expe-
rience of the experts for the technical assistance and training programs
would be approved by the Bank (Section 3.07 of the draft Loan Agreement).
56.       The proposed loan would be disbursed to cover the total estimated
foreign exchange component of projects submitted to and approved by the
Bank, until no funds remain. The Government is aware that the last year of
execution of the project might require more foreign exchange than will
remain uncommitted under the proposed Sector Loan and is prepared to finance
the balance. The loan would be disbursed on the following basis:
(a) 59 percent of total contract expenditures, including taxes,
for approved projects;
(b) 100 percent of c.i.f. cost for imported equipment, materials
and supplies; and
(c) 68 percent of expenditures for technical assistance and training.
57.       Disbursements under the loan are expected to start in FY81 and be
completed in FY84; retroactive financing for technical assistance to conti-
nue the maintenance program and to start project implementation is recom-
mended for an amount not exceeding US$600,000.



- 17 -
Project Justification and Risks
58.       The realization of the country's development objectives will
depend, inter alia, on the continued availability of a reliable and effi-
cient highway system. The project would help to implement a sound highway
investment program that takes into account the financial constraints of the
Ivory Coast and gives special emphasis to the strengthening of pavements of
existing roads and to effective utilization of the road maintenance equip-
ment and resources.
59.       Benefits from highway expenditures would accrue to the economy at
large in the form of savings in vehicle operating costs. Also, timely
pavement strengthening and more efficient highway maintenance would result
in savings in future reconstruction requirements. The overall highway
program would support the Government policy of reducing regional imbalance
by providing better and less costly access to all the country's regions.
60.       As all the civil works to be financed under the Sector Loan
would have an estimated rate of return of at least 12 percent, based on
detailed engineering cost estimates, and would represent the highest prio-
rity investment for the main roadwork, the economic viability of the project
does not present particular risks. Economic evaluations on the basis of
preliminary engineering for works so far identified for the 1981-83 road
investment program, show rates of return ranging from 12.6 to 17.2 percent
and from 14 to 19 percent if time savings benefits are taken into account.
61.       The Government has indicated its willingness to further improve
its capacity to plan investments in the highway sector both to keep highway
development in step with overall economic and social progress and to make
sure that the network is improved and maintained in the most efficient way
within the available investment resources. This derives at least in part
from the increasing pressures on financial resources during the last few
years; should the pressures relax, there is a risk that the vigor of this
commitment would also be relaxed. Further, the planning concepts are
relatively new and some difficulties may be expected in their adoption by
the agencies concerned. However, the constraints on annual investment
levels, the planning criteria, technical assistance, and frequent project
supervision should make the transition easier and temper the risks.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
62.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of the Ivory Coast
and the Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately. Special conditions of the project are
listed in Section III of Annex III.
63.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.



- 18 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
64.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
October 15, 1980



- 19 -                                               ANNEX I
Page 1
IVORY COAST - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
IVORY COAST                     REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AAVEPAES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SO. KM.)                                                          - 1OST REeNT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL            322.5
AGRICULTURAL     171.6                                 MDST RECENT          MDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 lb ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
GN? PER CAPITA (US$)                  230.0       450.0     840.0                 726.2                   1384.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      76.0        228.0     357.0                699.4                   1055.9
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YER (MILLIONS)        3.5         5.0       7.8
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 19.3         27.6      35.6                  2B.9                    63.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       14.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         37.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2130
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        11.0        16.0      24.0                 61.7                     28.1
PER SQ. RM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      21.0        30.0      45.0                 126.0                    81.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         43.2         42.5      44.1                  45.5                    41.4
15-64 YRS.                         54.0         54.8      53.9                 51.6                     54.7
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   2.8          2.7       2.0                  2.8                      3.9
P0PULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.1         3.7/c     5.6/c                 2.7                     2.7
URBAN                                ..         7.3       9.2                   4.9                     4.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      50.0        49.0      50.0                  46.8                    34.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      27.0        22.0      19.0                  16.4                     8.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.2/d       3.1       3.3                   3.2                     2.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPrORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..           ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          99.0         98.0     105.0                 94.0                    106.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   90.0        122.0     105.0                  92.7                   107.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          42.0         59.0      51.0                  53.0                    65.6
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        11.0        15.0      15.0                  15.6                    33.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      41.0        32.0      27.0                  21.3                     B.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    37.0         42.0      46.0                  50.1                    63.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                              ..          ..        ..                    ..                    66. 5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..           ..      19.0                  31.0                    65.9
URBAN                               ..           ..      50.0                  66.8                    80.4
RURAL                               ..           ..       5.0                    ..                    44.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..          5.0      25.0                    ..                    62.3
URBAN                                .         23.0      33.0                    ..                    79.4
RURAL                                .           ..      22.0                   ..                     29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         23277.0/e   14085.0   15220.0                14508.2                  1849.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     2920.0       2880.O0f  2368.01f              3279.5                  1227.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            679.0        784.0        ..                1141.5                   480.3
GRBAN                                ..       382.0
RURAL                                .       1348.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL RED                       ..               ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..           ..
GRBAN                               ..           ..
RUtRAL                              ..           ..       6.0
AVEEAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..           ..
URBAN                               25f_         ..        *
RURAL                               ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               I . o/       ..        .
URBAN                                ..          ..
RURAL                                ..          ..



-20 -                                        ANNEX I
Page 2
TABLE 3A
IVORY COAST - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
IVMRY COAST                     REFERENCE CROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE  S08
- MOST RECEJT ESTIMA,TE1)
MOST RECENT          MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OP SASAJA  LATIN AMEICA 6 CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 46.0         76.0      92.0                  61.7                     9.7
MALE                  68.0        97.0      115.0                  69.2                    101.0
FEMALE                24.0        55.0       69.0                  51.4                     99.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  2.0         11.0      17.0                  20.6                     34.4
MALE                   4.0        17.0       26.0                  29.2                     33.5
FEMALE                 1.0         5.0        8.0                  14.7                     34.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)  13.0           7.0      13.0                   7.0                     38.2
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            41.0         45.0      44.0                  36.6                     30.5
SECONDARY                            ..         21.0        ..                  24.3                     14.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          5.0/h      20.0         ..                   ..                      76.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          3.0         10.0      12.0                  38.8                     43.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         16.0         17.0     120.0                  83.5                    245.3
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.4          5.3      51.3                    ..                     84.2
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   2.0         10.0       7.2                  24.2                     63.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            ..        1.5                  0.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      1857.9       2657.7    3899.7
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   44.0         43.8      42.0                  38.1                     22.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              88.8         84.5      81.0                  54.3                     37.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  2.1          2.6       3.0                  17.8                     23.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                55.6         53.4      51.6                  38.8                     31.5
MALE                                 61.4         59.4      57.7                  48.4                     48.9
FEMALE                               49.6         47.3      45.5                  29.4                     14.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               0.8          0.9       0.9                   1.3                      1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   30. 9/i
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  51.8Li          ..      50.0/.
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.6Li          ..       9.O/i
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   16.5Li          ..      20.0/i
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     274.0
RURAL                                ..           ..      96.0                    ..                    190.8
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     487.0                    ..                    474.0
RURAL                                ..           ..     244.0                    ..                    332.5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOIE LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..
RURAL                                ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
anong the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year becween 1959 and 1961; for 1970 between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   Due to immigration population growth rate is higher than rate of natural increase;  /d 1957-58, African
population only; /e 1963; /f Government personnel only; /g 1956-57; /h 1962; /i Population.
April, 1980



- 21 -                                                                        NEXI1
Page 3
DEPINITIOOS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Ha-e:  Although the data are drta- feot sore  generally judged the mesa sathertittive   ed reliable, it shauld else be acted that they  -y ta  heb aar
aet.n.ellyusparule he.at.c .f the lath of stunderdised  d                        .na sscd .....epte used hy 4iff.rta.  n-tri.e  in to.lieote,  ate date.  rto  dea.      rnt   or-
the1mes, us..u  to  ec t    theoders 0t aucitude, indirtst tvssds, and rhcrea.teales retals sain  diffete.tne  hetwe- counttrIe.
TAn.   fr,   r  ru.se  I   h    a  tounIry grou.p nf the sohjn't oso-tr  sad (2) a  -cetry grep eita saeehet higher.. -rnge  t-nu  tf,- the .ontry ogcIp
nI ea ubjce  conr  (uet fnr .Cpt te1 Surplus Oil fEpectter" getup wh-r  "Middle Ienam   NertbArc   Med Mddle East" is uh..s. b...uar of st-gar
euct-c.. ar..    afiniies . I  tha reftreats itoup date the arree    espapalerIee waighee  erthtmsic scn   far ..anh iadltor-  sd stein  only .th- et
Inset hal  of the untrm          nagou   e   aefrthee  ndinetan.  II-,s the ......cg  aInutis                          egthe lediauartd..t..           o  the  -iolehil ty of
data end'is  c  uni'for.rutoes   aa nedi  reaing  -vsrgss  f ass indScet-  en senahse.  These  -re-ges are only usrfol toI                                      'p,   utfioo
Of ate indi.tan   at 5 tIes a-..g the roaniry  ed -sfeven.s greupe.
LAND AMI  (ihausead sqk.h.)                                                                        ...alatiot a- Physitotee- X tapteru  dictsa  bp ru-a  of prataotr.g~ pry-
Totel - Intel eutau  ara_ amrl Inglad ante aed inleti aerene.                                     ealn          qeItted loa  a. neitel school at a_ioerty Irue...
Agti-uItucel - in.timatetf egrtiutet-l  rse  -ed t-ep--eily at parsnsLly                          seesnaer   arIPA pansue.   Papulaiuj Adided  ho oute  cI practIcIng
far crops, peere, market erd Aisohen gerdene   at.i lie Sel11e; 1907 date,                      male etd femal   _rdnatencss  P_t Ii_utr,  n                            .aa tet  .ur.s..
Faralatias ret ausnite   Be     stl   -rtat rI e1-Pploo                        crl
GSP PER CAPITA (IS$)   GNIP Pen  -its estimates at curet market pr ias, a1-                          uhe,edntl  divided hy' ahic  -ePecti'    ..he  of h-apiLc1 teds
nularad bysm  u         -rnina method ea World Bath Atlee (197h-78 basis);  9606,                 acieisi   ubi   e  pies                  se Ia:t-deetlsd        hopital asS T-
9O70, ad l9PS dote.hhbiliaita   es'eimsaeeehiesta saettpetuffsd
by at leat see physIit-a E.t.blihebest   Prtridiag pri-cipelly canI:ind
ENERGY COSUMIPTION PEE CAPITA -  uuAl ...       sapt Of Scamrn            teegy(ne                   tar  are met imeladed.  Rural hospitals, heance, ittiuds heslth ted   edie
a'd lignite, petroleum. catora  get and hydrn..-, . nulea  end gestherml elsa-                    renters eat psemtetly steffed by s physicter (hat by e medirel e.seltent.
trinity) It kilegram   ef -neal        - equoau  pen capita; 1960, 19075  5td lops8nn, midwife.  ter.) which affer it-petiet  -ca-adtio  end p-avide
dete.                                                                                             limited rugs of medital fenilitiee.  Fait statistical yP-P.s ocher hoepi-
PSFSLATIOO AND VITAl. STATISTICS                                          ~~~~tele ienlade WHO. primnipa1 gePtet1 ad epelalis-d huspitais, sa  rural 
POPULATION A.0 VITAL STATISTICS                                           ~~~~~~hespitele  Ine ...  rural- h.epitals erA medira1 td maternity renters.
Tatal Popaletio..  Mid-test (.illli...    heu  July i; 1960. 1000, sad 1078                     A"mi, -ssse  ast..ite1 Be  - fatal nuber aS edmiseias tu on di-h-gr-
dete.Samhsitele  diraded by tha tmb-r at hind.
brh-              'Peto   Itinerat uPttel) -Rsie of arhe   in total papaleties;
different de1fintineofutr  ra  may  ffHnt ...mpe-hility ef data                            gou"InG
among: n...atee; 1960, 1970, and 1975 date.                                                    At-rs  Sims .e         . Scbeld (esteems  -e  heasehnld) - itet _.u-bn..edrrl
Peaeao    asi_eteA hameebld oses. ee a.t  af gra.P at imdliVda1  etc th.ne living quettets
Pasalatint Is year 2000 - Cur-et  .poplatina prajentiom   ass ha..ed as 1990                    she thir melt meal.  A bsa-de- at ledger say at may ant h  i-nudd it
crlpopuletiet by ag. ad  e  et   hi    e'aiped   mettilityr-tee.                          the h-.eed   e   ttitnlpupsa
Prjoitpnses0o    atel.ty rate   nmis af theme 1ecele a5u-                                  Asrn   abr  feaa    e   em-                  intl  urban, end rural - A-ergs  s-.
tag11 linrPerse..Y at birth innait   ith  _Teaty's Pet aepita  -nse                          hre   een    e  raoI   l   rss   n  ra                   cuidcnacna
ler1l  and femal  lIIIe  apeateny stebillicig at 77.5 ysr. .Th. pera-                         dwellieg, respestireip.   D.ellin,ge maclds ma-psre-tetst truateattd
ma-,c See fetliyrte alma hers thre   lrels esemie   denies issm apie   Paste.
fertility  eceadingt  i-oam  linte  ad pat fatly planing asSe me                            ac   EsSciiicfean    f dallita) - ite.t.   urhar. ard ntal-I
tatE:   utyi  itemt aeelgad em  atshines nice nabimatlns of mactelity                          uvninldeltewt,lnrct   nlvt    uresa   erttg
sd f-rtility esd           for prjatia   p-rpee.                                             a  sed      rbe,ad rural d-ellietgeeprta
strtienay reraiatiea - In a steanty-   pepuietia  then  ien  eeitb ele
the birth rtet Is equal to  .h  deah rtst, and else the age strataet-                    EDUCATION
males  .n.rn. tt Thie Is achievd aely st-e  fertility rate delm     e                       decdE ellaset Stiee
the  elnmn   ee f  .it net repredansie  tets, ehs- eab gemerattee                            P1e   Ese             E.mt   n   em.e-lnsirl    aeed(al
nf wam     epleos  ite.lf seR.n-ly.  The etetie-aypplEe    inwserllesa   l   gee   h    reayPlemP                                                  c  etntrgeeofrepsutire
esimtd em the bamie of theP. ptt)eid thretetleitice  efi thepepeltiac                       piey  use-eappltieth; ptermy  i1-                    dechlrnagd11
is the peer 2000, ecd the roeofdcine of fertility rtet to  mle                                  pFeac bar  djatcd far diffs-     lengths  fi primary eda...tiat  Son
meat leve.t.                                                                                                                                                          1   P.. 
Tear  tstie..ay oup.ietina Is teat bed - Th. Ysr when etati."r  papalaiiam                         ise   sm    uith        ar dea ..n shvti     seftilshol.5
Per s. kas. - Mid-peat pepulatiin   per  qoars ktilnnnte  (150 hsatarcs.)  f                      psadeei.  ..i. eeslvnt-Pa,o   etertane                    ntucit   o    ai
Per so. ke.                1-iutue   ed - Cenyprtd as share ftrcioletlledasely aS 12 tn 17 yeere of age; aeepndusuarn    r  graerl1Y
Sti-It.t.1 I..d slhed.d
only.                                                                Fsaas~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..  icu1 eserllmst  (  reret Pf ...c.d-on) - V .catiara1 institutions
PncPlii teeA.  Hit-ntnr. (ecr)-Children  (0-li year), -tktig-age  (10-                               include teobenel.tindac~trl  rether pregren   which oPeratn  irdepa-
64 yeat), and retired (go peace en  .r...  apecnasof mid-pes  pope-                               dently aredepartments af s_ndety icetitatinac.d
a.it; 1060," 970. and 1078  aa                                                                  Prlrenertin  - rtimv  aed~ ceea-   - Tnial  -rudnrsrclsdin
Facale.tin. t inth Hr   ptnt  -                  Aorl -Acua  gruth terse Of tntm1 mid-               piaysdesdrpesedividd by camber.ftup  taher tthe
pear papalarieme f or195-6, 1960-70, end 1970-78.nerpsdglvl.
Paltacie   Ora,wah Ruts (rercet) - oaken - An.o.lIgruath rtes. ef urbe papa-                      Adul gt -,     tf, litmna.as(enc)- turrts  adults   tlr no teed aed anite)
Oeti..s f or 1950-0 191tl60-, en   007.asaprere  a   eo    dl papaletia- teed15 yrs eud  -0cr.
Cctd  Siab   ate(pe  thusmd) - Anu..lIlive bIrths per thaumnd of mid-pest
onpaletian; 1960, 1970, nod 1078 deta..CONSUMPTION
Cradi Dea.th Ets  Pne  thousand) - Aor...  matteh  pen theases.d af aid-per                      eueaseCatsr  (sr thsusande            ltin   -. -amaa  cr   op iteero
pualtls  1960, 1070,..ed lops dat.                                                            arecig  scte   egtptnn;ncat d                           utulonta, hearses end
Cre  ceadati        t    Av,ag   authe  of deaghtartanma    ill beet Iemiitr   vehicles.th                                 ih      .
heracua  -eprud-trir   par ind IfIb   aestsprsa  as-pt                       ifictn-          Rudie R.i --irr   (ret thauederastr  - All cypse uS  -eoi-scefur -A
t7lit,y  mane; usualIly fire-ya  avrgsading in 1960. 19.70, aed 1977.                                        ..eoat   to .s....pali  pen.housnd o  popuatlr;tn rdmauri
Faiy   laits -Ac.. tspi _n AOunuol frhoaand) -         -AIa nube  of e.oeptats              te-d raIVete  Is  mactries end in years whe  regietn'tia   uP radioe
.f, birpth-costrol daciosa under... atplus  f t nainl fenily ple...Img progeef.                  tmI   fet   aeEeren    et   a   a                       aprbemnstc
Panly  laaim-f sor  (ne--a  uf sunnd une) -   ..ruetige at marind                             na..ari.s  abeliehd littenelag
toe 'ofthild-b-ie, i g au  (15-44 -rear) choe.  binth-rntr1 dealersr                      oEsevr tns  thusadaelai) -    rci -r   u  bro-dra  toI
allntied noman in sam   age .P               grop.gsse  pu 1blic pet thuu-sh  pepulatiun   alde eaIcrcdT   eet
LOOD ANDNUTRITIONJ. ....~~~~~~~~~~i  actriem  mad Ia peat when regierrati-m  of TV macetu i   f er
POOP 1041 tOITIOTIIS                                                      aeca~N. re. ...ircaltier (eo  hosad       1eeltin) - Stat  the  -cetge tiaral-
Iadna of Fund pnoductlnu per fits (19609- f 1-00)- lde    t pet o. pit  anul                       rs .uf "de~iy g.....a-  intret ...p.r"   efnd   spertadic-l Fb-
pduro of"aIoo  ioa tidte.  Ptnd-niioaanulude ..n..d and feed and                         liertim  dec-td primarily to r-utding  gmales.It Ia  -cideand
is ot,nlna ygtr ~1hasta.  ueodttles   ue   rmr   od  (e.g.sgent                                 ta be "deily" if it appeas.a,e.            tfta   Is,aeb
luaea   of moer  ntraeelladro-taicatoi   (m.ofw    n                                           Iasm   Anal Attecie..e ce- fnite re- Yea-Bessd' onthe oeab-er
cnaat  solded).  Agg-egur  p-do-tion of each cc...try is tae u.. dichts s-id durin  th. year, ietladtaf admissions no drive-ic. dances
raloa avecui producer prIce _ihts; 1961-65, 1970, oud 1907 dmta..dbii i
Percrr-apoo   aois(otn   frrisets) - fampTed Irtm                                                a    eieuis
muargyqoaltc  of ar f oo           .op .e scilt   in I ountry Perot pita                 ILABORc FORCE
pet icy        Arial  suplie  coaprce dannatt  productina   importe  es                    Ttl  ao           r I...h   Tuad)   - -tonoicelly a-tiva  p-rat, l-cdiofto
eap-rsa, und rhuafem  ic  --ok.  Net upplira   -1tlde animal feed,  ead,                      mndfre   m   nmlyed hut _erldirg  h.n.a.aiVns, stodear, nrc.
quaccnstd   afodpreumo,  n  lsai                      iatihtion      sqim               eftirinn   e   vn          ..ct -ecuaeniserOoato-ca-blu   1960, 1970 ard
I.a a.car  emtluatd hr PAF     ae    cphysiolgilneds far   -Jae  anI-                       1078 da.te.
itty and troUt tho...ldrritgeotnana   tep            baua, dy weights, age                  a e(rtet    Female labor foon  as p-rentage of total luhor force.
en1961icniutd     onpplto,udalotgI   ecn   o teetat                                 n    .icutr  (nercent) - -bu- forte in f ieg, f.r.a..y   hoatieg aod
ho..ehold teo1; l0t 7t 07, en  107  data.                                                ceita   ecaeto   oe   e                     en;1060, 1070 an  1970 dta.
cttply of food Per day.  Set supply of food ta defiamd as ahae.  R.-                      anIcrcip    se   edgea   rretf   f  oa   eo   force  1060.
qorcorafo     lteatrn i       artlshn  t bl      Apovd    u  miui-u                      1070 ead 1978 date.
ellouoc   ol 60  -cc  of tota  yrnrPre day and 20 gran  uf aniialan                         fnrtioipti- Rune (percen.t) -  otl,tle, mad f..male -Puric-perlc-
polar p_ctrie, ot ahirt 10 ac-o  hbaid b, narel   p..ant.  Tb.enemad-                         aericityraaesa raco-pated  ctal  tae,an  Ir-de la1bor fo-cra
arda   .I . ore o tchat thoan of 71  rnse    .torah     - proIa ucd 23 gra    f                ecn           f atotl, sale eud taealr PnPu1atiu- 0t all a9- -esroper
anteal pro ti. ama-do-ge tot ott -nid. proynurd ty FAO In the Third                           16,27,.d17    ..                      h.     -IO.If.t~
W-o1d Food Surve; 1961-65, 1970 end 1977 dar.t16,17,am.05dr.    SemamIlsprtieinAiurflet
ir.tei.   pply  f  ..d d    matem, are ro  a-tinnlaucm
tIrd   ro  aoaam   ci  alsmic g-an  Pm  day; 1961-65, 1070 and 1077 itta.    E.nanaic B.td-esy aetin  - Rato of  .paplattn  cade-  17 nod 65 aciuv
Cildtl  fa  1-S   torhoy -        n  ta   hoasd   - Ano-a1 deaths P pthr.raad in                    nteitllbnfrs
ogr grou.P 1-f. pasts, to children in chio aga group; tot mot drelr.imgc...o-
cocr- data derni-  tro  lifa tahlma; 1960, 1970 and 1977 dar.t                              INCOME DISTRIBUITONOB. i.   y  ih
lily   nretonya  Olt  (nra              AVsc-gf cuahr uf  eera af life temeiotg                    Of h-hn,nibe   0  ecc,  ecc  2 dcct   u    ooet'O   et
it birth, 1960. 1970  r  1976 dote.
blunt Mjtrutltytc   ptcrhou.and)  A- hn    deaths u    .....t under ens pear    POVERTYf TuARCT GOOOPS
ofauPn  thoutani lItbintha.                                                               Ea,it.mrd Ah-nlote Pa-aty Ino-m  level (11i preala)-ora  cdrua 
ouoruha   ra  fe  potonihorols  aoig,  ndanieynl)am                              ltrimte  tn idsqitn Pove ty PIncom   leurti(5)pe  onptfcd -qcu..- d  rura .-I
perecPap  ofthIraap       _tr  ppaacom.Ito  _rt                           ntersotpdblio        tdrleacv    ceryiomelclItoethr     avr0    encp
...arcole   cca  coul  ituly thatIto  hcotalf   oeabnef tha hau..mehld                     tlafimreditpetlttioo  Btslue Abalulte P-vaty,Incoelvlfrmt                         td
doar  tur00upada   _hacotoeu-te  part of the day it fetching the                          n  tuu   -Prco  a   apltlr  _ahnad  ua)tu   r   arloepo"
Ia'llf '      P,aou "reo                                                                    ____-____1-_ Pl- 
cu yl ar hocad   -et   caleto     -ud do-p-at. oIl ch o  och-nct-eu...                                                   Etamrfoltaad Pr-f-tinca  Dnp--rts
ef hom..aIc-e"aI'dtac-cr  tyrtr-on    yteta  or theses   f                                 .April., 19Sf
plc  otia__aa  steei an iiesclaoc _ -



22 -                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Page 4
EUCtOIIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
(A-imts in million  of U.0. dol11rs)
1965-        1975-        1978-         1985-
1965        1975        1976(s)         1980        1995        1990         1975         1979         0995          1990         1965          1978         1995
9ATiCOt6L ACCOUNTS
1977 flies. -dn Ithac. Asia                                        A-a. A--maI lesth Rats.                            A. Psr-t of GUY
Cross D-tesio Prod-c                    2854        5369        7387            8047       10136       13030          6.5         11.2           4.6          5.2        109.4         107.5        113.5
Gains fro   Term  of Toads. 1*           2 21      -1163         -313           -783       -10         -94.-8.4                                                                         -LI5        -13.5
Gros  Do-ssij  Iocom2633                            4206        6874            7266        8929       11066          4.8         17.9           39'          4.4        100.0         100.0        100.0
"opoll "I'l ',f0)                        663        15902       2642            2639        3278        4059          9.1         19.4           3.1          4.4         25.2          38.4         36.7
tororts   "  7i.poot-p.oity)     -1158       -1549       -55             -2492       -3437       -4190          3.0         16.3          4.2           4.0         44.0          37.5         38.5
Resoor-  Gap                             493         -41                        1I6         -139         -131                                     I                       16.9           0.9          1.0
Consmpriro Eopsodit-ro                  1728        3352        4310            4932        6393        9319          7.5          6.3           5.6          5.2         05.6          65.6         73.9
Innaet             (fool, snoks)         409         995        2297            2166        2179        2678          9.3         32.2         -0.1           4.2         15.0          33.4         24.4.
lonesnir Oaring.              ~~~~~905     851        2082            1970        2195        2679        -0.1          34.7          0.8           4.1         34.4         30.3          24.6
Naioa  Osonga                        450         573         1525           1307        1633         2106         2.4         39.6           1.0          5.2         17.1          22.2         18.3
800C562t0150 TPADE                                        Aco1 lItn  as Car~t Pein.s            .                                                                               As Percent of Total
Capitol goods                           61         333         799             935        1206        1963        19.5          33.9          6.1          10.3         23.9         34.4          23.2
Ioer.elnrgod  (nd    uso)               5          311         446             627        1149        2010        19.1          12.8         14.5          11.8         23.1         19.2          22.1
usssd rltd oreal                   13         157          219            396         924         1439        29.3         11.7          22.6          9.3           5.1          9.5         17.0
of ohio   Peteleo                   4          146    . 171               396          924        14,39       43.2          5.4          27.3          9.3           1.6          7.4          17 0
llCsurlooos122                                     364        .154            1111        1920        308Z         11.6         32.9         12.2          10.0         47.6          36.9         36.9
Total Merch. lngTorts (.if)           235         1160        2317            2969        5199        9901        16.4          25.9         12.2          10.3        100.0        100.0         100.3
Poloar  peodurto(en    fools)         246         1019        2324            2792        4766        7929        13.3          32.6          7.4         10.7          86.0         90.1          80.4
Fools and related eter-ala              -           67          96             120         612           0                       8 .7        32.3            .-2.6                                 10.3
of  hmith;  Petroleu                              6 7         86             120         612           0          .            8.7         32.3           .-2.6                                  10.3
tgsnfa-t-rd  -oda                       40         155         169             239         569        1197        1441           2.7         10.4          [4.7         14.0          639.3
Tota  Meroh. toports  fob)             206        1241        2379            3130        5927        9116        15.8          27.6         14.2           9.0        100.0        100.0         100.0
M-Erchadtae TrsdIdice                                          Averte  1977   100
oPort Pi Indeo                        22           48          95             11          151         182
leport Pr Icelde                   .   49           97         117             132         218         300
Terms of Trsde lodno   45           49          9~      ~      ~~~        ~~ ~~1 73  69  61
toport  Volum  loden                    54         100         114             119         164         210
VALUE ADDE0 Of IOCTOR
A.n       at   t1977 Pricas and Enolsas  Rtsses-                                 . Aess    ..oo     Groth Ratea              An fru-r  of Tota
Agricultur                            1027        1519        1596            131         2102        2505          4.0          1.            .             .           5.9         23.0          22.
lodunir  sod Mioing                    491         933        1499            1614        2007        2515         6.7          16.9          4.4          4.6          17.1         71.6          21.')
9ervlte                    ~~~~~       ~~~~1346  2933  3917         4249        5446         7211         9.1I          9.2          5.2          5.9         47.           55.'.        37.0-
TotI                                  206-4       53-69       6891            7594        9555       12301         6.5           9.7          4.9           5.1        100.5        100.0         lOT 01
PU_BLIC 716ANC2
(CotaI-ror -,o)                                                                                                                                                           Au P-oneo  of TDP
Torrent Receipts            ~~~~~572     926        1244            1350        1550         1950         4.9         10.3           3.2          2.9         20.0          10.1         l.
Curret tEso-ditur-                     410         769         959            1030        1130        1350          6.3          7.6          2.4           3.3         14.6         13.9          12.0
Budgetar  S_vigs                       154         152         299             300         400         590         0.2         02.0           5.0           4.6          5.4          4.1           4.2
Other Pohlt~ Secto                      1,5        501        1273            1200        1430        1700        44.1          29.9          1.9           3.2          0.5         10.5          15.2
Public Secto  Iroot-n                  139         738        1559            1500        1850        2200        19.2          29.3          2.5           3.5          4.9         22.6          19.4
CVR00062  IPNDITOOE BETAILi                     Actual               E.isti -n                                DETAIL ON                                                        LIS 0 nilIlo-
As %of Tota  Currs   E cp.                0965    1975    1970        1979      1900                        PUBLIC BECTOR                                                AL end 1977 P and TER
fdu..t...                                 17.9    33.9    31.7        29.5      29.6                        flUiSSlflT PROGRAM1                                                 11976-800
Other Soia .Ori-e                         10.4    14.1    01.0        11.3      11.9                        Sooia  Soecora                                               2014               32
Agricultur                                 4.6      3.2      2.3       2.5       2.6                        Agrioolt-r                                                   1822               29
Onher tr-nric Serotcea18.5    23.5    23.6                            23.9      22.0                        Indoanry and Mining                                           124                2
Adc   -ca itad Defens                     32.0    22.0    22.2        22.0      21.3                        Pos-                                                          300                0
other                                     13.6      2.6      7.0      11.9      12.6                        Tenprainsd C-,i-alot.                                        1303               21
oT-I Curren  Epeodi tuce                 100.0   100.0   100.0    100.0    100.0                            Oh_s                                                          418                0
________________________________________________________________________________Tt Ttal.pnpdndi ess                                             6242              15
SEl.OCTD INDICATR                           1960-   1965-   0970-    1905-                                    FINANJCING
(Caloulated true 3-pyoa  -rer9gd d.ta)  196.5    1970    1975           1960                                      Poblic Secto  Savings                                                       37
AcerSe WCOO                                   1.9      2.:6    3.0       3.7                                      Progr-  Aid Co.nte-p-et--
Caport, Ei-oatity                            0.6      14       1.7       1.)                                      Forige P-ejert Aid                                        --43
Osagical Domesti  S-ioge fate                0.10    0.22    0.40    -0.90                                        Total Finanin                                            6242              700
Mlargio,l National S-ioge l.Ist              0.12    0.16    0.34        -.70
TotoI LaSer Forca                                            V.Ioe Added Per Woekat (1.967-89 Prices A Bochan3g6e5 Rate
LABOR FORiCEAN hi                         I  million               t of Total              1965-73                  to 0.5. Dllars            PFrct ofA-eags             196-7
OUnTPT PoER WttiORE                     1965         1973        1965          1973       Grosth Oats                1965        1973           1945         1973       Gro-tb Rate
Agi-ultu-e                              1743         2093         95.7         82.9            3.2                    209         215           40.4         30.6            0.3
Iedoeirp                                 143          234         7.6           9.2           6.4                    1210        1513         234.0         215.2          -.
Seri                                     127           20          6.7          90             5.9                   3963        4835         764.6         697.8           2.6
Tota                                    2013         2529       100.0         100.0           3.7                     517         703         100.0         100.0           3.9
po ,aplicable       - nil or ngligible



ANNEX 1
P.ge 5
BALANCE OF PAYM8NTS. EXTEERAL ASSISTAANNCE AAD DUET
(ounts in millions of U.S. dollor11       t crent prices)
A-nngo A.noa
Actual                1          Etiftd4          _                             ProJect-d                                        Groonh Rta
TM74         1975          1976           1977         1978           1979         1980        1981            82         1983        1985               1978-
1985
SUYYIIRY bALANCE OF PA   TSXY7
Euponta (incl  SF0)                  1428         1480           1935          2768         3006           3322         3766        4657          5229         5853        7413
Imnorte (incl  XPS)                  1306         1591           1973          2310         3084           3542         3968        4702          5169         5744        7049
Recouren Balance (X-H)                122         -111            -38           458          -75           -220         -202          -45           60          109          364
Inneue-t                              -38           586           -66          -104         -201           -259         -286        -329          -380         -423        -515
Direct Investment Inco                -53          -83            -60           -56          -88            -80          -83          -87          -90          -94        -101
Elorke   Remittance                  -139         -163           -170          -357         -420           -476         -509         -545         -572         -601        -662
Currennt Trnsfers (net)                47           27             40          -331            33            39           45           50           55           59           78
belance on Current Ancunts            -61         -384           -249          -390         -720           -957        -1019         -844         -900         -918        _1064
Prtivst  Direct Inve-tnt               33           81             37             3            26            30           32           34           32           39           63
D       1finial Capital De mte         15           19             17            20            21            22           23           25           "I           29           35
Public  aLT Lmps
Disburseent                       218           326           355            888          996           1007         1477        1495          1618         1821        2038
-ReDesments                        -81           -90          -109           -163         -223          -368          -481        -565          -690         -804       -1063
Net Di,.ents                       137          236            246           725          773            639          996         930           928         1017         975
Other &LT Io.ns 1/
Disburasennat
-monumnts_                                        __
Net Diebuesementa                                              ..             ..            ..            ..            0           0             0            0           0
Capital Trane-ctione n.e 1             28           51             -3          -276            32
Change in Net Reeer. s                -61           93            -30           -82         -132                                               1974      A1t7        l 97                    1978
08r825  AND t0mB  CiU11b411915                                                                               DEBT AND DEBT SDRVICE
Uffiisi Demonts sed Ornst-like         19           17            20                                       Public Debt Out. & Disbursed        686         916       1167       1962         2818
Publin M&LT Loans                                                                                            Interest us Public Debt             38         56         66        104          201
IBRD                               28           134            48             88           61            Rtpsy-nt  on Public Debt            77          76        109        184          223
IDA                                 0            0              0              0            0             Tntel Public Dbt Service          115        132         175        288          424
Other                                                                                                     Othe  Debt Service (not)             2          3          0          0
Otb r   ultil.tnrsl                34             6            28             49           38             total Debt S-rvice  (-t)          117         135        175        288          424
iouern ntn                         47            51           121            203           40
Suppliers                          89           169           169            357           90           Eurden  on Eupore U-sninne (t)    7.9          8.8         8.8       10.4         14.0
Fin-nial Institution              131            87           484           851           446
Bond-                               0             0             0              0            0             Public Debt Ser-iu                 7.9       8.8         8.8       10.4         14.0
Public loe_ n _24.                             .                a             j Dl                        Tetel Debt Senvice                7.9        8.8         8.8       10.4         14.0
total Public o&LT Loans               329          447           850           1548          667             TDS+Di-ant Invet. Inc.           11.5        14.2       16.1       12.4         16.9
Actual Dbt Outetandin on Dec. 31. 1978                       AfeeEs. Tn-me nf Public Dlbt
okifhi.L DEIT                                  Disburs-d Only                      P-enn.t
Would Bank                                       175                               6                        Int. as   Prior Yean D06D          5.2        5.8        5.6 8    8.            10 3
IDA                                                8                               0                        Asort. as t Prio  Ye-r DOD   10.5           8.4         9.2       15.9         11.5
ftner tsultilsisrel                              175                               6
U -veona nns                                     437                              16                     InnD Debt Oun  b Disbursed
S. plier                                         410                              15                           an    Public Debt 0bD          6.7        7.7         7.5        7.3          6.2
Pinan-ial Institution-                          1593                              56                           a    PDblin Debt S.eins        2.8        4.2         4.8        3.6          4.0
Bonds                                             20                               1
Public Debt, net                                   0                                                      IDA Debt Ott. & Diabuo-ed
Tot.1 Public M&LT Debt                          2818                             1                         n  n     Public Debt 08D             -        0 2         0.3        0.2          0.3
"a  7 Publin Debt Service        -          -         0.1        0.0           0.0
Obnr o&LT Deb.t
Shobe-te- Debt (disb. only)
not spplinabla             I'  included in Public Y&tT Lo-as
not avgilgble
-nil or ueglcgible



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 7
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE IVORY COAST
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits
(As of August 31, 1980)
US$ Millions
Loan or     Fiscal                                       (less cancellations)
Credit No.   Year   Borrower          Purpose          Bank     IDA      Undisbursed
One          Credit Fully Disbursed                              7.5
Fifteen      Loans  Fully Disbursed                    98.8
837-IVC      1972   Ivory Coast       Highways III    17.5                   0.9
981-IVC      1974   Ivory Coast       Telecom-         17.4                  9.9
munications
1069-IVC     1975   Ivory Coast       Cocoa II         20.0                  5.8
1077-IVC     1975   Ivory Coast       Cotton           31.0                 10.7
1124-IVC     1975   Ivory Coast       Tourism           9.7                  3.2
1125-IVC     1975   Ivory Coast       Education II      5.0                  0.1
1161-IVC     1976   Ivory Coast       Highways V       43.0                  7.9
1162-IVC     1976   CCI               DFC               5.6                  2.4
1177-IVC     1976   BIDI              DFC               8.0                  6.0
1347-IVC     1977   Ivory Coast       Urban Dev.       30.0                 11.2
1348-T-IVC   1977   Ivory Coast       Urban Dev.       14.0                  5.2
1382-IVC     1977   SODEPALM          Oil Palm &
Coconut         20.0                 20.0
1484-IVC     1978   Ivory Coast       Water Supply    16.0                   6.7
1490-IVC     1978   RAN               Railway          23.0                  5.9
1501-IVC     1978   Ivory Coast       Feeder Roads    29.0                  16.1
1575-IVC     1978   Ivory Coast       Rubber II        20.0                 20.0
1577-IVC     1978   Ivory Coast       Abidjan
Sewerage II     33.0                 30.4
1633-IVC     1979   Ivory Coast       Rubber III        7.6                  6.7
1663-IVC     1979   Ivory Coast       CCI-Artisans    12.6                  12.3
1698-IVC     1979   Ivory Coast       Tourism II       14.2                 14.2
1738-IVC     1980   Ivory Coast       Forestry         18.0                 18.0
1777-IVC     1980   Ivory Coast       Education III   24.0                  23.5
1827-IVC/1   1980   Ivory Coast       Rural Dev.        9.4                  9.4
1896-IVC/1   1981   EECI              Power            33.0                 33.0
TOTAL                                       559.8     7.5        279.5
of which has been repaid              24.7       -
TOTAL now outstanding                       535.1     7.5
Amount sold                         5.1
of which has been repaid       4.8      0.3       -
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA              534.8     7.5
TOTAL UNDISBURSED                           279.5     0.0        279.5
/1   Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
- 25 -                        Page 2 of 7
B. Statement of IFC Investments
(As of August 31, 1980) 1/
US$ -000
Type of
Year     Obligator                   Business        Loan       Equity      Total
1965     Banque Ivoirienne           Industrial        -         204.0      204.0
de Developpement         Development
Industriel               Bank
1978     do.                         do.               -         219.5      219.5
1977     Ets R. Gonfreville, S.A.  Textiles                     884.7       884.7
1980     Societe Ivoirienne          Fertilizers  5,120.0    1,272.0    6,392.0
d Engrais
Total gross commitments                  5,120.0    2,580.2    7,700.2
Less cancellation, sold
or repaid                                  -          -         -
Total commitments now
held by IFC                            5,120.0    2,580.2    7,700.2
1/   On March 27, 1980, an equity participation of US$446,600 and a US$2.9
million Loan for MSO, a flour milling company, was approved by IFC
Board of Directors, and signed on June 25, 1980, but has not been
disbursed yet.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 7
C. Projects in Execution 1/
Ln. No. 837           Third Highway Project:  US$17.5 million Loan of June 23,
1972; Effectiveness Date: May 4, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
The project was the first Bank's involvement in highway maintenance in the
Ivory Coast. The maintenance and betterment programs were successfully
completed in May 1977. The training and technical assistance programs were
being carried out under the Feeder Roads and Maintenance Project (Loan No.
1501), which continues the maintenance program undertaken under this project.
Ln. No. 981           Telecommunications Project:  US$25 million Loan of
May 3, 1974; Effectiveness Date: January 31, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The project has experienced a two-year slippage due mainly to management
and organizational changes and delays in appointing engineering consultants.
After the Government awarded the contract for switching equipment to other
than the lowest evaluated bidder, the amount earmarked under the loan to
finance the equipment (US$7.6 million, including contingencies) was can-
celled as of March 31, 1977 (R77-128). A 50 percent tariff increase for
telecommunication services, effective January 1, 1978, is expected to generate
the cash necessary for the Postal and Telecommunication Office to carry out
its expanded investment program, although at a lower pace than anticipated.
Ln. No. 1069          Second Cocoa Project:  US$20 million Loan of January 10,
1975; Effectiveness Date: September 30, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
The project includes: establishing of 26,500 ha of high yielding cocoa planta-
tion, of which 9,500 ha would be planted in 76 blocks composed of individual
plots; providing technical assistance and credit to farmers; constructing
wells; constructing or rehabilitating access roads; and strengthening the
management. The project physical target has been met and SATMACI management
is satisfactory. The problem of quality of cocoa has been closely followed
and decisive progress in fermentation and drying techniques of cocoa have been
achieved. The financial situation of SATMACI is unsatisfactory as a result of
administrative delays in the payment of Government-s contributions. Ways to
improve the situation have been recently discussed with SATMACI and the Min-
istry of Agriculture.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of the projects in execution and, in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



-27 -                         ANNEX II
Page 4 of 7
Ln. No. 1077          Cotton Areas Rural Development Project:  US$31 million
Loan of January 17, 1975; Effectiveness Date: June 4,
1975; Closing Date: March 31, 1982.
Initial delays in starting the feeder roads and the village water supply
programs have been made up. The development of cotton production is far ahead
of the appraisal estimates (36 percent). Improved food crop production is,
however, stagnating because of marketing problems. Some financial difficulties
are experienced this year because of depressed world market prices for cotton.
Disbursements are behind schedule due to the re-organization of CIDT's account-
ing system and the administration's slowness in processing the withdrawal
applications.  Discussions between the Government and RMWA on these various
issues are underway.
Ln. No. 1124          Tourism Development Project:  US$9.7 million Loan of
June 11, 1975; Effectiveness Date: January 19, 1976;
Closing Date: September 30, 1981.
Project execution is progressing satisfactorily. The loan has been fully
committed.
Ln. No. 1125          Second Education Project:  US$5 million Loan of June 11,
1975; Effectiveness Date: September 9, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
The project is almost completed.
Ln. No. 1161          Fifth Highway Project:  US$43 million Loan of September 5,
1975; Effectiveness Date: November 4, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
The pavement strengthening program was completed mid-1978 on schedule.
Construction work has been substantially delayed because of technical and
management difficulties. Consultants have started the engineering studies
provided for under the project. UNDP was originally to finance the updating
of the transport survey but cannot do so due to lack of funds. The Government
has agreed to amend the Loan Agreement to include financing of the survey in
this loan.



- 28 -                        ANNEX II
Page 5 of 7
Ln. No. 1162          Small-Scale Enterprises Project:  US$5.6 million Loan of
September 5, 1975; Effectiveness Date: February 2, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily. The loan is now fully
committed.
Ln. No. 1177          BIDI DFC Project:  US$8 million Loan of December 12,
1975; Effectiveness Date: September 10, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980.
Over 80 percent of the loan amount has been committed.
Ln. No. 1347          Urban Development Project:  US$44 million.  Loans
and 1348-T            (US$30.0 million and US$14 million on Bank and Third
Window terms respectively) of December 15, 1976;
Effectiveness Date: March 9, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
The execution of the project is progressing satisfactorily with regard to the
urban transport and sites components. The shelter component is still delayed
mostly because of slow administrative procedures in on-lending the proceeds of
the loan to the executing agencies. The matter is being reviewed in detail in
connection with the appraisal of a second urban development project.
Ln. No. 1382          Fourth Oil Palm Project:  US$20 million Loan of March 30,
1977; Effectiveness Date:  October    1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
Because of a reorganization of the sector which involved liquidation of the
borrower and subsequent delays in formalizing the legal statues of the succes-
sor institutions, the Bank was unable to negotiate substitution agreements un-
til recently. Execution of the project, nevertheless, proceeded under the
supervision of Bank staff and it is nearing completion. The substitution
agreement was submitted to the Executive Directors for approval on September
4, 1980 (R80-266) and signed on September 18, 1980. The loan then became
effective on                     . Pending disbursements for about $19 million
are expected to take place within the next weeks.
Ln. No. 1484          Secondary Centers Water Supply Project:  US$16 million
Loan of September 9, 1977; Effectiveness Date: June 9,
1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1981.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily on schedule.
Ln. No. 1490          Regional Railway Project:  US$23 million Loan of
November 14, 1977; Effectiveness Date: December 20, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Procurement is well advanced and the project is expected to be completed on
schedule.



ANNEX II
- 29 -                        Page 6 of 6
Ln. No. 1501          Feeder Roads and Highway Maintenance Project:  US$29
million Loan of December 22, 1977; Effectiveness Date:
October 17, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1575          Second Grand Bereby Rubber Project:  US$20 million
Loan of June 9, 1978; Effectiveness Date: September 15,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Because of the establishment of a separate entity to manage the Grand Bereby
rubber plantations, (SO.G.B.) the structure of the legal documents for this
project had to be amended. Execution of the project, nevertheless, proceeded
satisfactorily under Bank staff supervision. On July 17, 1980, the new agree-
ments to substitute for the original ones were submitted for approval to the
Executive Directors (R80-213) and signed on August 6, 1980. They became effec-
tive on September 15, 1980, and US$10.4 million have been disbursed to date.
Ln. No. 1577          Second Abidjan Sewerage and Drainage Project:  US$33
million Loan of June 1978: Effectiveness Date: Septem-
ber 14, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily.
SAPH Rubber Project: US$7.6 million loan of November 30,
1978; Effectiveness Date: October 2, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1663          Artisans, Small and Medium Scale Enterprises Project:
US$12.6 million Loan of June 15, 1979; Effectiveness
Date: November 28, 1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1698          Second Tourism Development Project:  US$14.2 million;
Loan of June 15, 1979; Effectiveness Date: May 9, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1735          Forestry Project:  US$18 million Loan of August 2, 1979;
Effectiveness Date: January 14, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily.



- 30 -                        ANNEX II
Page 7 of 7
Ln. No. 1777          Third Education Project:  US$24 Million Loan of
December 28, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1827 1/       North-East Savannah Rural Development Project:  US$9.4
million Loan of May 27, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1985.
Ln. No. 1981 1/       First Power Project:  US$33 million loan of September 11,
1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
1/   Not yet effective.



- 31 -                       ANNEX III
IVORY COAST
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Project identification            :  September 1978
(b)  First Bank mission                : November 1978
(c)  Appraisal mission                 : June-July 1979
(d)  Post-appraisal mission            : August-September 1979
(e)  Negotiations                      : April and August 1980
(f)  Expected date of effectiveness  : January 1981
II. Special Bank Implementation Actions
Semi-annual reviews of the transport sector investment program,
intermodal transport planning, highway investment ceilings, loan im-
plementation, and sub-project proposals (para. 49).
III. Special Conditions
(a)  A ceiling of FCFA 56 billion for all highway investments has
been agreed upon for 1981 and ceilings for 1982 and 1983 will
be reviewed each year (para. 47).
(b)  Sub-projects to be submitted to the Bank should have an esti-
mated economic rate of return of at least 12 percent, on the
basis of detailed engineering studies to be carried out to
agreed standards (para. 48).
(c)  The Borrower will prepare a plan of action providing appro-
priate road maintenance productivity targets (para. 37).
(d)  Road work contracts will be limited to 3 years or 3 dry season
execution periods (para. 55).
(e)  Retroactive financing for expenditures for technical assis-
tance for an amount not exceeding $500,000 is envisaged
(para. 57).






*   "~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0  .. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 14697R
..t. ,, g r _)                                   ...........................  |           FEBRLARY 1980
4                                  '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AA
~/               .{ .T                                                                                                                    I V VORYACOVST
p                      so                                    .                                 HIG~~~~~~~HWAY SECTOR LOAN   0
:7.;             t  ?MARY AND SECONDARY GRAVEL~ ROADS BETTERMENT
Madnri  ~ ~       ~          ~         ~         ~        o                                .       PROGRAM 19769198-3
Qr-,nU1,NEA::,  tjv                ,                                  rro&e.&       Tha   2   \   l2W0dtXtdu   fltr4T                       . X   /   >'=   'Ait          eiterment works41974 1980
Erha    gravel iro~ads
/>                 \ @           2 (    -K  >    kar3\(X                                                                       /                                BetAf;;  tete;(ert worksprogrammred 19811}983
TOUB                                              cia                                                     (io   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Notional Capitdil
, rl2:, ',' *rA4J :20'; 9 1 t'GUELAS fM:none 2                               4 %               \               / r BONDOUJ    .  0  Other 4oiss
Si fi                                                                                            *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Itrnational orpart
4Ag seANKOtMA                                                                                                       r                         Othe aieports
N':;;      @           r, PAK JM              K0            ,1        e             7                                            |      ¢.'  ';. ,    .           4.    Poirts 
t o        D      teANANEo'kr                            /             ''  t   1-.  iA.-; InUA L : _; ternaWtionat boundaries
DANANE         Aet 
..   AN   ;,ugz;  IIUX  r  ........................... t t.C4 \\ ;Dsoukro Qtnkilah-ou ! A                             he ep tas heae rppsaetfy te t4eet har' v taffaoooataiy fr tre soseoeos
X J  U ? . . s k ,,_t,, , ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o ~                                                      fi/erpot r wnS rs tastr,Te eos ea!e:  se or h
D ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~AZP
ob,  ABENG8URM                                                        t Aot A
i~~~~~~~~~Subr                                      GL45             ~iii                     K      Azct    ,-'' 5     ("N.E                                     SU \.  fir- J-...K   j   EM  A  rUR1 rAN A1l 
G  .;     .        r  G  /                                            sEk+..G HRO
Anysms    tg  ABOSSO            Mj>rt~~~~bompeGAt'lao h   w  f/f  mfxl.~l    h
p    i                               a                                                                                                            Ott [ QgOd  W  -hidh itis  tw*oo    Me  itf .da  t,Ftsoo  eA'  U  T  , /
Q: Q Q ;  f                                       u X n e c                           O  i§O  40   4  S oO  i2           A (IEANC hrERA~    CO4   AbX ST__-
S'  It       if P. / t hoZ    Rnes   0"  J
lo  Iwen _~wio  Yed'et






IBRD1]4698R
~~OAA
Madnni ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    ~      zWr&&ka
GUINtA                                  iko         f re~~~~~~~Skns        zgu6S                                                          jM        L
Am~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~j
0 ~        ~         A
n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~eu
I  mgo. ~ ~  ~       ~       ~       ~       ~      ~       <U    E
Ka                                                                                             C ~~~~~~~~~e~
TOUB~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-5. -S                      VOY gGMAA
Ei-~~~~~~~~~~~~2 0   00 *   AELTI                                                                CAT
no~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CCAAdo kz' 
nda~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
t.                                      4.                                                            0ff   Cvrn.a    r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P~ :



