OFFICIAL       LOAN NUMBER 1914 IVC
DOCUMENTS
Loan Agreement
(Highway Sector Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF THE IVORY COAST
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated        ,A 1981


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1914 IVC
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated    44   Lftv                , 1981, between
REPUBLIC OF THE IVORY COAST (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (here-
inafter called the Bank).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions),
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)  "MTPTCU" means the Borrower's Ministry of Public Works,
Transport, Construction and Urbanism;
(b)   "MEFP" means the Borrower's Ministry of Economy,
Finance and Planning;
(c)   "DCTP" means MTPTCU's Central Directorate of Public
Works;
(d)   "DCTT" means MTPTCU's Central Directorate of Land
Transportation; and
(e)   "Sub-project" means an investment in the Borrower's
highway investment program which the Borrower and the Bank have
agreed to include in Part A of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement for purposes of financing out of the proceeds of
the Loan.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Ban  agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
one hundred million dollars ($100,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures in respect of Category (1) of Schedule 1 of this
Agreement made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) for
the purpose of Sub-projects, and for expenditures in respect of
other categories in Schedule 1 to this Agreement made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1984
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of nine and one-fourth per cent (9-1/4%) per annum on the prin-
cipal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.


﻿-3-
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through MTPTCU with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financing and engineering prac-
tices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facili-
ties, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, all goods
and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be used exclusively for the Project until its completion and
thereafter for the further development of the highway sector.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facili-
ties and construction sites included in the Project and to examine
the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any rele-
vant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank at
regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure


﻿of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall, through MTPTCU and
MEFP, prepare highway investments as part of the Borrower's
highway investment programs in accordance with road engineering
and economic practices satisfactory to the Bank, including but not
limited to the following:
(i) such highway investments shall, for the most part,
have an estimated economic rate of return of not
less than twelve per cent (12%) based on the cost
of the investment as estimated on the basis of
detailed engineering and the benefits to be derived
from the investment;
(ii) in the preparation of each highway investment,
alter4ative lay-outs and cross-sections in line
with MTPTCU standards shall be investigated, if and
when applicable; and
(iii) detailed engineering shall aim at the least cost
solution after careful consideration of alterna-
tives.
(b) The Borrower shall prepare the following supporting
documentation, in accordance with the criteria and practices
referred to in sub-paragraph (a) of this Section, when preparing
Sub-projects:


﻿-5-
(i) a detailed description of the works to be carried
out under the proposed Sub--project, including
detailed engineering plans, drawings and specifica-
tions;
(ii) cost estimates for such works (including costs of
ancillary works) identified per major items and
including all available information on the foreign
and local components of such costs (including taxes
and duties, if any), as well as a financing plan;
and
(iii) estimated work and disbursement schedules.
(c) The Borrower shall review with the Bank, twice each
calendar year until Project completion, the implementation of
the Project during the past semester and shall furnish to the
Bank, as part of such semi-annual review or at such other time as
shall be agreed upon between the Borrower and the Bank, the list
of investments for financing as Sub-projects, if any, selected
from the Borrower's approved highway investment programs, together
with adequate information on the cost and timing of each proposed
Sub-project. In addition, the Bank may request to be furnished
with other information, including the supporting documentation
prepared in accordance with sub-paragraph (b) of this Section.
(d) The Bank shall notify the Borrower of its concurrence in
the financing of an investment as Sub-project and che Borrower
shall thereupon carry out such Sub-project in accordance with the
provisions set forth or referred to in this Agreement.
Section 3.06. Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall:
(a) establish a highway data unit within DCTP by July
1981;
(b) establish a transport planning unit within DCTT by July
1981;
(c) prepare, through DCTT, a training program for drivers
of heavy trucks by January 1981; and
(d) prepare an on-the-job training program for DCTP road
maintenance personnel by July 1981.


﻿-6-
Section 3.07. In order to assist the Borrower in preparing
and implementing the training and technical assistance program
under Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall, if and when
needed and after consultation between the Borrower and the Bank,
employ consultants whose terms of reference, qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Bank.
Section 3.08. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Section 3.03 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall provide to the
Bank (i) periodic progress reports on the training and technical
assistance program under Part B of the Project; and (ii) such
special reports on a part or parts of said program as shall be
reasonably requested from time to time by the Bank.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution
of foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit
of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on
any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for
any external debt, which will or might result in a priority for
the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the alloca-
tion, realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien
shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no
cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower,
in creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot
be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent
lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such


﻿-7-
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any
such subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets
held by any institution performing the functions of a central bank
or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower; provided, however, that for the purposes of this Section
the term "entity" shall not apply to Ivory Coast State Companies
which are organized as business corporations in accordance with
laws and regulations applicable to private companies and whose
activities are not reflected in the Borrower's budget, except that
the provisions of this Section shall apply to any such entities to
the extent that it would hold gold or any foreign exchange assets
on behalf of the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance witb consis-
tently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
directorates or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause workshops, road
maintenance equipment and related facilities to be operated and
adequately maintained and all necessary repairs and replacements
thereof to be made in accordance with approporiate engineering
practices.
Section 4.04. The Borrower: (i) shall cause its highway
system to be reasonably maintained and promptly repaired in
accordance with sound engineering practices, and shall provide or
cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the foregoing; and (ii)
for this purpose, shall inter alia prepare a plan of action
providing appropriate road maintenance productivity targets.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall take reasonable measures
to enforce its traffic laws including axle load control on paved
roads and vehicle inspection requirements, and shall inform the
Bank from time to time on the actions taken and proposed to be
taken in this connection.


﻿-8-
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall review and discuss with
the Bank and thereafter establish, in each calendar year during
Project execution and at the time of the semi-annual reviews
referred to in Section 3.05 of this Agreement, intermodal trans-
port planning and the total highway investment program, including
an investment ceiling, for the next calendar year. In determining
said investment ceilings in such highway investment programs, the
Borrower shall allocate to the highway sector a reasonable share
of its overall public investment programs, consistent with prudent
economic and financial policies.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall include all highway works to
be undertaken by MTPTCU during Project execution under the invest-
ment ceilings referred to in Section 4.06 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date      st oAe         I   , is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Ministre de l'Economie, des Finances et du
Plan of the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere de l'Economie,
des Finances et du Plan
B. P. 1766
Abidjan
Ivory Coast
Cable address:                      Telex:
MINIFIN                            MINIFIN 747
Abidjan                            Abidjan


﻿-9-
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cab>, address:                       Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF THE IVORY COAST
By ISf rL44       4      p'&L      w em
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By         L~tSG4
I  A  Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expen-
ditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil works                 93,000,000          59%
(2) Equipment                    1,000,000          100% of for-
eign expendi-
tures
(3) Technical Assistance         5,000,000          68%
and Training
(4) Unallocated                  1,000,000
TOTAL        100,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Borrower; provided,
however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of
another country from the territory of which goods or services are
supplied, expenitures in such' currency for such goods or services
shall be deemed to be "foreign expenditures".
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied


﻿- 11 -
on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice
to the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with
the aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement except that with-
drawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $600,000 may be made in respect of Category (3) on account of
payments made for such expenditures before that date but after
July 1, 1980.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insuffi-
cient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower reallocate to
such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower
in implementing its highway investment programs during 1981-83,
ensuring to the extent possible optimum standards and lowest total
costs for each Sub-project; to further improve highway sector
planning and intermodal coordination; and to increase productivity
of allocated equipment and the budget for road maintenance.
The Project cousists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Civil Works
Sub-projects including main road construction, reconstruction
and pavement strengthening, and possibly secondary or feeder road
construction, all to be selected from the Borrower's highway
investment programs.
Part B:   Training and Technical Assistance Program
A training and technical assistance program for the Bor-
rower's highway sector which may include, but is not to be limited
to, the following:
(i) organization, within DCTP, of a data unit, and train-
ing of local staff in preparing and updating road
inventories and traffic counts;
(ii) organization and training of local DCTT staff in road
transport planning;
(iii) assistance to MTPTCU for its road maintenance opera-
tions, in order to continue on-going assistance, to
define an on-the-job training program for foremen,
mechanics, operators, drivers and others as required,
and to implement such training program;
(iv) preparation by DCTT of a training program for drivers of
heavy trucks, and initiation of such program;
(v) a program to train and assist small- and medium-scale
domestic civil works contractors;
(vi) fellowships for training of the staff of the Laboratoire
du BStiment et des Travaux Publics; and


﻿- 13 -
(vii) provision of equipment for the Laboratoire du Batiment
et des Travaux Publics and possibly for road maintenance
brigades under an on-the-job training program.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1984.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 1 and September 1
beginning March 1, 1985
through   March 1, 1997                    3,845,000
On September 1, 1997                            3,875,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.04), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 15 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b)
oi the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years                        1.65%
before maturity
More than three years but not                    3.25%
more than six years before
maturity
More than six years but not                      6.00%
more than eleven years
before maturity
More than elei7en years but not                  8.15%
more than fifteen years
before maturity
More than fifteen years                          9.25%
before maturity


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements
of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare
and forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publication of
such notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and works in
question The Borrover shall provide the necess-ry information
to update such notice annually so long as any goods or works
remain to be procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
3.   All contracts for civil works shall be limited in duration
to 36 months.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.


﻿- 17 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
the Republic of the Ivory Coast (for the purpose of this Schedule
hereinafter referred to as "Ivory Coast") may be granted a margin
of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Ivory Coast if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in Ivory Coast equal to at least 20%
of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eva-
luated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the nmount of customs


﻿- 18 -
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts for equipment, materials and supplies estimated
to cost less than $100,000 equivalent may be awarded on the basis
of local advertising in accordance with procurement procedures
acceptable to the Bank; provided, however, that the aggregate
amount of all contracts to be so awarded shall not exceed $600,000
equivalent.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works, and with
respect to all contracts for equipment, materials and supplies
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines


﻿- 19 -
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  / 9  Lday of tiM      , 198  .
FOR SECRETARY


