(. ;23                           FILE COPY
C 0 N F I D E N T I A L
Report No. PTR-54a
To be returned to GENERAL FILES immediately after use.
This report is available only to those members of the staff to whose work it relates.
Any further release must be authorized by the department head concerned.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY PROJECT
NEPAL
October 27, 1970
Transportation Projects Department



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit                  -  Nepalese Rupee (NRs)
US$ 1                          -  NRs 10.125
NRs 1                          -  US$0.099
NRs 1 million                  -  US$98,765
Fiscal Year
July 15 or 16 - July 14 or 15
System of Weights and Measures: Metric
Metric: British/US Equivalents
1 kilometer (km)               -  0.62 miles (mi)
1 meter (m)                    -  3.28 feet (ft)
1 square kilometer (Nm2)       -  0.386 square miles (sq. mi)
1 metric ton (m ton)           -  0.98 lg. ton
1 metric ton (a ton)           -  1.1 US short ton
' maund                        -  37.5 kg - 82.7 lb
Abbreviations
MPW                            -  Ministry of Public Works, Transport
and Communications
DCA                            -  Department of Civil Aviation
TCN                            -  Transport Corporation of Nepal
UNDP                           -  United Nations Development Programme
ADT                            -  Average Daily Traffic
RNAC                           -  Royal Nepal Airlines Corporation
O/D                            -  Origin and Destination
ICAO                           -  International Civil Aviation
Organization
ADB                            -  Asian Development Bank



NEPAL
APPRAISAL OF A HIGHWAY PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY ........................................
1.        INTRODUCTION ...................................1
2.        BACKGROUND ....................................1
A.  The Country and its Economy ,.1
B. Transport Sector .                 .                  2
C. Transport Coordination           .       .            4
3.        THE HIGHWAY SECTOR ............................ .            5
A.  The Highway Network and Trails ..........            5
B. Characteristics and Growth of Road
Traffic .................................            6
C.  Highway Administration and Management ...            6
D.  Highway Planning and Financing ..........            7
E.  Highway Design and Construction .........            8
F.  Highway Maintenance .....................            9
4.        THE PROJECT ....................................             9
A.  Description .............................            9
B.  Road Bridges ............................           10
C.  Pedestrian Suspension Bridges ...........           10
D. A Four Year Maintenance Expansion
and Improvement Program .11
E.  Bridge Engineering Services .12
F.  Technical Assistance ....................           12
G.  Project Execution and Timing                        13
H.  Project Cost and Financing .14
5.        ECONOMIC EVALUATION ..    ....................              17
A. General   . .17
B.  Road Bridges ............................           17
C.  Pedestrian Suspension Bridges ...........           19
D. Maintenance Equipment and Workshop
Facilities               . .                        19
6.        RECOMMENDATIONS ................................            21
This report was prepared by Messrs. M.W. Dickerson (engineer) and H. Hansen
(economist) and was edited by Miss R. Mayes.



Table of Contents - continued
TABLES
1. National Highway Network
2. Motor Vehicle Statistics
3. Expenditure on Highways, 1965-70
4. Project Road Bridges
5. Project Pedestrian Suspension Bridges
6. Maintenance Equipment and Workslhop Facilities to
be Procured
7. Planned Expenditure under Four Year Maintenance
Program
8. Bilateral Aid Road Construction Program
9. Traffic over Kathmandu Project Road Bridges
10. Traffic Growth on Project Road Bridges
11. Annual Traffic Volumes with Costs and Savings
12. Vehicle Operating Costs
ANNEX: Economic Evaluation of Pedestrian Suspension Bridges
CHART: Roads Department Organizatior
MAP:    Nepal - Highway Project
PLATES 1 AND 2: Photographs of Existing Bridgc-.



NEPAL
APPRAISAL OF A HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUMMARY
i.        Nepal, a land-locked country under conscious isolation until 1951,
is among the least developed countries in the world. Population is estimated
at 11 million with economic development in recent years only keeping pace
with population growth. Gross domestic product is currently estimated at
US$45-65 per capita, roughly three-quarters that of India. The principal
economic activity is agriculture; however, due primarily to poor internal com-
munications, the economy is not fully integrated. The Government s strategy
is now to give investment priority to agriculture and transportation. In the
transportation sector, roads will be the principal mode, and development of a
basic network is essential to the Government's goal of expanding and integra-
ting the economy.
id.       The country's extremely difficult terrain, which includes the
highest mountains in the world, is a natural obstacle to road construction,
and up to 1953, there were no motorable roads outside the Kathmandu Valley.
Considerable foreign aid in recent years, however, has made possible some
progress in constructing a basic main road network, which now totals about
1,300 km. The Government's highway plans provide for the completion of the
East-West Highway running the entire length of the southern part of the
country, and a program of north-south feeder roads to complement the main
road system. Replacement of several narrow and unsafe bridges on existing
roads is also an important part of the plan.
iii.      Although expansion of the road network is the primary task, the
Governinent is keenly aware of the economic and social importance of the
porter trail system in the Himalayas and foothills. To reduce transport
costs andl foster a spirit of national unity, the Government is assisting
village councils with porter trail improvement and wishes to step up the
program for erecting modern pedestrian suspension bridges to replace dan-
gerous canoe ferries and existing primitive and unsafe bridges.
iv.       Difficulties in maintaining communications during heavy rains and
melting sno-ws ara not confined to hill trails, and blockage of the main
roads is a regular occurence. A significant portion of maintenance resources
have been used in keeping main roads open to traffic, and routine road main-
tenance activities have, as a consequence, been somewhat neglected. Wich the
expansion of the road network and the growth of road traffic, there is now
an urgent need to build up both physical resources and the expertise neces-
sary to naintain Nepal's highway system.



- ii -
V.        The proposed project will cover the following prin)rity require-
ments:  (i)  the replacement of five narrow understrength roar. brIdges; (4i)
the supplv and erec tlon of five pedestrian suspension bridges for pcrter
traffic; (iii)  thte implementation of a four-year maintenance program  i-
cluding the supply of road maintenance equi-pmrnt and workshop faci25.ties:
(iv) consulting services to the Roads Department to complete )rildge desin&'
and tender documents; and (v) technical assistance to assist in procurement
and supervision works under the project, and also to provide advisory serv-
ices to the Roads Department. At Government' , recfuest, the UTNM)yT has agreed
to finance the technical assistance, Lterm (v).
vi.       This would be the first lending operation by the Bank Group in the
transportation sector in Nepal. In 1964, the Bank made a technical assist-
ance grant to finance a transport survey, and some of the survey recommen-
dations, particularly those relating to road maintenance, have been incor-
porated into the pr.posed oroject.
vii.      The total project costs amount to US$3.4 million equivalent, in-
cluding contingencies. The proposed credit of US$2.5 million would cover
73% of the total p,cliect cost, being equal to the estimated foreign exchange
component of all  tunis except technical assistance.  Contracts would be
awarded on the basis or inteniational conpetitive bidding, except for the
erection of the suspension bridges and workshops which would be carried
out by local contractors; remote location of some suspension bridges may
however require *4rit ion by the Roads Department.
viii.     The principal economic benefits deriving from the project are re-
ductions in transportation costs.  These result from the replacement of weak
road and pedestrian bridges, and from improved road maintenance. The rates
of return for the different project elements range from 14% to over 30% with
a weighted average for the project of about 20%.
ix.       The project provides a suitable basis for an IDA credit of US$2.5
million to His Majesty's Government of Nepal.



NEPAL
APPRAISAL OF A HIGHWAY PROJECT
1.   INTRODUCTION
1.01      His Majesty's Government of Nepal has asked the Association to as-
sist in financing a highway project comprising the following elements: (i)
the replacement of five understrength road bridges; (ii) the supply and e-
rection of five pedestrian suspension bridges for porter traffic; (iii) im-
plementation of a four-year maintenance program concentrating on the three
divisions of Kathmandu, Hitaura and Pokhara including the supply of road
maintenance equipment and the provision of workshop facilities; (iv) consult-
ing services to the Roads Department (Department) to complete bridge designs
and tender documents; and (v) technical assistance to assist in project exe-
cution and carry out general advisory duties (para. 4.14). The cost of the
project is estimated at US$3.4 million equivalent; the proposed credit of
USS2.5 million equivalent would cover the foreign exchange costs of elements
(i) thru (iv) with the technical assistance (v) being financed by the United
Nations Development Programme (UNDP).
i.02      This would be the first lending operation by the Bank Group in the
transportation sector in Nepal. However, as background to the proposed pro -
ect, the Bank in 1964 financed a Transport Survey (the Survev) in Nepal wr_ch
-incLuded the pri.paration of a five-year transport sector investment plan.
So,n.e of the Survey recommendaticas, particularly relating to road maintenance.
have been incorporated into the proposed project.
1.03      This report was prepared by Messrs. M. W. Dickerson (engineer) and
Hi. Hansen (economist) on the basis of: (i) project preparation work done by
the Norwegian consulting firm of Norconsult (the Consultants) and the Gov-
ernment; and (ii) the findings of the appraisal mission to Nepal in November-
December 1969.
2.   BACKGROUND
A_ The Counzrv and its Econoiny
2.01      The Kingdom of Nepal ib a land-locked country bordering on Tibet
' n the norch and india, Its main trading partner, in the east, south and
desL (see YIap). .Nepal. roughly 800 km long and 170 km wide (about the same
total size as Greece), is civided into three distinct physici] regions ex-
tending in an east-west direction for the length of the country: (i) the
relativelv fertile Terai plains in the south; (ii) the hi1l. country of cen-
tral Nepal, including the important Kathmandu Valley; and (iii) the Himala-
yas, thte world's highest mountains, in the north. The central and northern



regions are dissected by deep valleys running generally from the north tc
south.
2.02      The population of Nepal is estimatee at about 11 million fl968C  of
which about one-third lives in the Terai, 3% in the Kathmandu Valley and the
remainder largely in the hills of central Nepal.  The annual population
growth is believed to be aoout 2%.  Gross domestic nroduct (GDP) per capita
is estimated at about US$45-63 equivalent, or roughly three-quarters that of
India. In recent vears economic growth has about kept pace with the growth
in population.
2.03      For more than a century prior to 1951 Nepal was isolated from the
rest of the world. Contacts with other countries were severely limited by
the Government. Partly as a result of this and also of the poor internal
communications, Nepal is still in the first stages of economic development;
it consists of many loosely linked minor valley economies rather than one
integrated economy. Over 80% of the population is engaged in agriculture
(primarily rice, maize, milk and vegetables), which accounts for about 65%
of GDP, the remaining 35% coming primarily from cottage industries, con-
struction and trade. Agricultural cash crops come mainly from the fertile
eastern Terai. Efforts to develop industry have been largely concentrated
in the eastern and central Terai near the Indian border and in the Kathmandu
Valley. Most of Nepal's foreign trade (about 90%) is with India. In addi-
tion, almost all trade with other countries, except for Mainland China, goes
through India. Exports consist principally of food grains, timber, mustard
seed, ghee and jute. Imports are largely manufactured goods and primary pro-
ducts.
2.04      The Government is now formulating its Fourth Five-Year Plan, cov-
ering the period 1970/71 to 1974/75. The basic strategy is to concentrate
efforts in a few selected regions and investment priorities will be given
to agriculture and transportation. The Bank Group assisted the Government
by reviewing and commenting on the draft Plan in mid-1970.
B. The Transport Sector
2.05      General:  Historically, transport in Nepal has been by means of
porters and, to a smaller extent, by pack animals and bullock carts in the
Terai. These means of transport are still of great importance, especially
in the hills of central Nepal where the majority of the population lives
(para. 2.02).
2.06      Topographic and climatic conditions are major obstacles to reli-
able, inexpensive transport. The rugged terrain and the large number of
rivers and streams, together with heavy monsoon rains create great difficul-
ties in the development of the transport system, particularly the construc-
tion of roads and all-weather aircraft landing facilities.
2.07      The transport demand is largely concentrated in the north-south
direction and is associated with foreign trade and also movements between
rural areas and villages.



- 3 -
2.08      Highways:  The construction of roads for motor vehicles outside
the Kathmandu Valley was only started in 1953, and Nepal still has one of
the smallest road networks, either in relation to surface area or to popula-
tion, of any country in the world. The network consists of about 2,700 km
of road, 660 km of which are paved. In 1968, total motor vehicle registra-
tion was about 8,000 units, of which half were jeeps or passenger cars. The
highway system is described in more detail in Chapter 3.
2.09      Railways : The Government-owned Transport Corporation of Nepal
(TCN), in addition to operating the ropeway (para. 2.10) and some trucks,
operates two short railway lines from the Indian border. These run from
Raxaul to Birganj (about 10 kma) and from Jaynagar to Bizalpura (about 53
km). Both are extensions of the Indian railway network and do not play a
significant role in the overall transport system of Nepal.
2.10      Ropeway:  The TCN also operates the 41 km long Hitaura - Kathmandu
ropeway which was built in 1964. in 1968/69 the ropeway carried some 35,000
tons of food grains and some 270 tons of construction materials, almost all
in the direction up from Hitatira to Kathmandu. TCN estimates that the rope-
way now can op,-?rate about 280 days a year, giving an annual capacity up to
Kathmandu of about 70,000 tons. Rstes on the ropeway are lower than compar-
able trucking .-ates between Fltaura and Katlhmandu (roughly NRs 2.00 per
maund (37.5 kg) for foodstuffs on the ropeway as compared with NRs 3.00 by
truck). There are no plans for expanding the present facilities.
2.11      Air Transpor2:  Air transoort started in 1950 and the Government-
owned Royal Nepal Airlines Corporation (RNAC) now serves 15 airports in
Nepal and four abroad (New Delhi, Calcutta, Patna and filacca). The volume
of domestic passenger traffic, which reached 164,090 passengers in 1969, in-
creased by almost 30% annually during the previous three years. In 1969,
some 84,000 passengers arrived in or left Nepal on international flights and
these services are expanding. Freight carried by RNAC totalled some 3,000
tons in 1969. Although the tonnage has fluctuated from year to year, there
hias been no significant change in the overall annual tonnage during the last
six years.
2.12      AccordJng to a recently completed study b'  the International
Civi. AviaticAn Organisation and the Asian Development bank (ICA0/ADB), ef-
.ectr-ve operatiorss of domestic air transport have: been handicapped by obso-
lete equ-pmnent, izne hign cost of flight oDerations inadequate and unreli-
ahie rav gational aids anr  conrurunations, lack of airport facilities and
che insufficient availabilii'y of trained staff.  The Government is aware
of these problems and has taken steps to improve air transport. In August
1969, the Government signed  aa agreement with Australia for assistance in
imnrovang- navigazional aids and communications.  In December 1969, the
.overnaent also obtained a loan of USS6.36 million equivalent from the ADB
rorA  (i) imarovir.g the airports at Kathmandu, Pokiara, Blhairawa, Simra and
i :-tna t   ra  (ii) navigational aids and communicaticn o azclities; (-iii) work-
Thi;c cqatL3entr. passeng er buses, a pilot navigatioisal trainer; and (iv)
rechnical assistance to .(NAC and the Department of C-ivil Aviation (DCA).



- 4-
2.13      Waterways:  rhe use of waterways within Nepal is limited.  Rivers
are used for some movement of rice and mrchandise to and from India during
the wet season and for f1oatin, logs froma the hWll_s wn central Nepal.  Canoe
ferry operations also exist at many nlaces aJonq the riv?rs, but these are
partially or completely interrupted during the wet seslson.
C.  Transport Coorfi nation
2.14      In order to obtain a proper basis for the development of a real-
istic and integrated transport system. the Government in 1964 asked the Bank
for assistance in organizing and financing. a Transport Survey. Tne Survey
report was submitted in June 1965 and included a review of the existing
transport system, a 30-year transport development plan and a more detailed
five-year transport investment progran for inclusion in the Third Five-Year
Plan of Nepal, 1965/66 - 1969/70. The Survey concluded that the lack cf
adequate transport was a limiting factor to econor.ic development in Nepal
and that transport investment should receive bigh priority.  The Survey
also concluded that roads would provide the lowest cost of transport in
Nepal and should, therefore, be the prime mode.  The report also recommended
that air transport should be developed.  The nroposed five-year investment
program totalled NRs 517 million (US$68 million equiv ,ent' )         .iCh NRs 424
million was for roads, NRs 84 million for air and NRs 9 militL.n for railways.
2.15      Most development expenditures including investment in transport
have in recent years been financed almost wholly by bilateral assistance
from Mainland China, India, U.S.S.R., the United Kingdom and the United
States. Although this bilateral assistance has been essential for the
development of thie infrastructure, it has made the preparation and imple-
mentation of coordinated and consistent investment plans more difficult.
2.16      All matters relating to transport policy and operations are the
responsibility of the Ministry of Public Works, Transport and Communications
(MPW). However, transport planning has, in the past, been weak and dispersed
amongst several separate agencies within the MPW.  The Government is anxious
to improve this planning and the preparation and execution of projects. In
addition to the technical assistance for aviation (para. 2.12), the Govern-
ment asked the UNDP for financial assistance for feasibility studies of about
1,000 km of roads with primary emphasis on north-south feeder roads. These
studies commenced in mid-1970. Also with financial assistance from the UNDP,
the Government, in mid-1970, obtained the services of a transport economist.
This expert is reviewing the present organization, responsibilities and func-
tions of the various agencies concerned with transport with a view to improv-
ing coordination, planning and policies for transport development.



- 5 -
3.   THE HIGHWAY SECTOR
A. The Highway Network and Trails
3.01      Highway Network (Table 1 and Map):  The highway network in Nepal
is limited in extent. The main artery of the country is the 128 km road
from the Indian border to Kathmandu which was completed in 1956 by the Indian
Government. It is paved and carries all road traffic from India to the cap-
tal. In the Kathmandu Valley, there is also a picturesque but limited net-
work of roads connecting the smaller satellite towns with the capital. Other
principal roads are shown on the Map.
3.02      The present road system consists of about 2,700 km of road divided
into four classes - international routes, trunk routes, local roads and feed-
er roads. The international and trunk routes (paved and gravelled) and the
local roads (principally in the Kathmandu Valley) comprise the national sys-
tem which is under the authority of the Department, while the feeder roads
are looked after by the village councils (panchayats). With a coverage of
1 km of road per 4,000 people (and 1 km per 50 kim2), Nepal is poorly served
compared with countries having a similar per capita income; the same ratio
for Afghanistan is 1 km per 1,000 people (and 1 km per 38 km2) and for Malawi
1 km per 400 people (and 1 km per 12 km2).
3.03      The network is, however, expanding rapidly.  International and
trunk routes are under construction by bilateral agencies with village self-
help schemes tackling the minor roads. The East-West Highway planned for
the whole length of the country is currently under construction by three bi-
lateral agencies (India, U.S.S.R. and the U.K.). The total length of this
road (1,040 kn) is scheduled for completion by l985 with the eastern two-
thirds expected to be fully open for traffic by 1975. Also, within the next
2 years, the UNDP feasibility studies (para. 2.16) will identify a first
priority group of north-south feeder roads for early construction.
3.04      Trails:  The Himalayas and its foothills, which cover two-thirds of
Nepal, are laced with narrow steep trails used by porters and animals laden
w'th the neers and products of isolated valleys and villages. These trails
not only "ink the many minor valley economies but also play a vital role
in unifying the country. The total length of Nepal's trails has been put at
a6out 10,000 k, and several small but interesting studies have indicated that
up to 40,000 tons per year may pass over the more important routes.  The ter-
rain is rugged resulting in steep trails winding down to rivers of melting
snow, the main obstacle in .his system of trails. The Department is taking
an active interest in trail improvement, both by widening existing trails and
also by a progran for the supply of modern suspension bridges. These bridges
will replace either small dangerous canoe ferries or existing primitive sus-
pension bridges. That transport in the hills over porter trails will conti-
nue for decades to come is certain, and the Government, therefore, plans to
step up its panchayat assistance program to improve this historic system.
The proposed project will help in this respect (paras. 4.04 to 4.05).



-- 6-
B. Characteristics and Growth of Road Traffic
3.05      Data on present road traffic in Nepal are scarce and even less in-
formation exists on past trends. Total vehicle registration as of 1968 was
about 8,200 (5,120 light vehicles-62%, 2,520 trucks-31% and 560 buses-7%).
Of these, about 65% were registered in the Kathmandu Valley (Table 2). The
gross annual increase in vehicle registration was 20% during 1964-1968.
Information on scrapped vehicles is not available, hence the present fleet
and net growth are not known. However, even on the basis of gross vehicle
registration there would be about 1,350 persons per vehicle as comDared
with about 700 in India, 500 in Afghanistan and 250 in Malawi.
3.06      Past traffic data are available from one check point on the impor-
tant Indian border-Kathmandu road. Traffic here increased by about 13% an-
nually since 1963/64 and in, 1968/69 reached about 230 vehicles per day, al-
most all trucks. The Department in 1969 recognized the need for traffic in-
formation and started additional traffic counts on some of the more imnor-
tant highways.  It is expected that the UNDP financed transport economist
(para. 2.16) will assist the Department in expanding the present counting
program. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Government
will prepare and implement a program of regular traffic counts and improve
the collection of traffic data generally. Traffic iegulat'.ons limiting ve-
hicle weights and dimensions, which are inadequately enforced, requrre re-
vision. During negotiations assurances were obtained that revised vehicle
size and weight regulations consistent with the capacity of the road net-
work would be introduced and that these regulations would be enforced.
C. Highwa  Administration and Management (see Chart
3.07      Responsibility for the national road network lies with the Roads
Department of the MPW. A Chief Roads Engineer is in charge of the Department
with senior engineers heading each section. The present headquarters organi-
zation evolved from a merger of three independent highway offices and, having
been reorganized on lines recommended by both the Bank Survey (in 1965) and
UNDP advisors, is now generally satisfactory. In the field, however, a
separation of the buildings and roads departments left the latter with only
one field divisional office at Hitaura, and liaison offices on bilateral
projects. Due to the lack of adequate field facilities road maintenance has
suffered.
3.08      The Department recognized these administrative weaknesses and has
embarked on a strengthening of the field organization and an expansion of
facilities. A separate division was created in 1969 to maintain the roads
in the Kathmandu Valley and the Department has now proposed a tentative
long-range plan to expand the maintenance organization to three regional
offices (Eastern, Central and Western), each controlling three divisions.
This program is geared to the anticipated hand-over of aid constructed roads.
Several buildings are expected to be transferred from the bilateral agencies
and will be incorporated into the future organization.



- 7 -
3.09      As part of the reorganization program, a new division will be
created at Pokhara in 1971 when the Department takes over responsibility of
the Indian constructed Pokhara-Sunauli road. This division, situated as it
is near the Annapurna mountain range, will also maintain light construction
equipment used by the Department and the village panchayats to improve hill
trails. Similarly, a small road maintenance depot will be built on the
Kodari road after hand-over by the Mainland Chinese construction agency.
3.10      The Department staff of 23 senior engineers, 70 assistant engineers
and 109 overseers, is adequate for the immediate expansion plans. Many of
the staff are gaining experience on bilateral projects, but there is, at pre-
sent, a shortage of foremen and trained artisans. This shortage should be
relieved by the Vocational Training Scheme to be conducted by the Engineering
Institute of Nepal, in conjunction with the UNDP (para. 4.14).
D. Highway Planning and Financing
3.11      Planning is the responsibility of the Department Planning Section,
but the establishment of construction priorities has not always been based
on economic criteria. Priorities have been influenced by the offers of the
several bilateral aid programs in Ncpal, and attem.pts to coordinate and
standardize these programs have not always been successful.
3.12      A five-year road plan waE first produced in 1964 but was not pro-
mulgated by the Government.  rn 1965, ti,e Bank Survey recommended a 30-7ea-
plan designed to provide the country with a basic road network. The Govern-
ment, however, wanted a faster rate of network expansion and modified the
Survey recommendations to form the present 20-year Plan (1966-1985). Most
items included in the first five-year period of this Plan were projects al-
ready committed under foreign aid. The Government, however, recognized
that comprehensive feasibility studies are required to reassess relative
priorities, and therefore asked the UNDP for assistance to carry out these
studies. This two-year study, from which further projects suitable for Bank
Group financing might emerge, comrmenced in mid-1970.
3.13      Hig.hway investments are met largely from foreign aid.  This aid
is provided ini the form of foreign staffed construction units and donated con-
sumer goods subsequently soid locally by the Nepalese Government.  The total
aannual value of Investment in road constructfor4 has increased from about
NRs 24 million to NRs 110 miliion in the last five years.  As can be seen
frormi Table 3, the planned investment by Government (including foreign aid)
for FY 1970 of NRs 217 million (0S%$21 million equivalent) represents a
s?ectacular Jump over previotu  years and is supportea by the roticeable in-
crease in bilateral road conszruction (by the British, USA and Mainland
Chinese). T.he total investment for the current five year highways plan
(1966-1970) will be about NRs 534 million (about US$53 million) with a
tenLatively planned investment for the next five years (1971-1.976) of NRs 820
million (about US$81 million).



3.14      For FY 1970, revenue from road user charges (license fees together
with import duties and surcharges on fuel, vehicles and spare parts) is es-
timated at about NRs 30 million compared with estimated Government expendi-
tures on roads (both capital and recurrent but excluding foreign aid) of
NRs 25 million. The recurrent maintenance budget, although having increased
over the past six years, has not kept pace with the expanding road network.
There has also been a tendency not to provide adequate funds for equipment
replacement and repair. However, on the basis of the Department's mainte-
nance improvement plan (para. 4.06), the Government intends tc increase mi.n-
tenance allocations (para. 4.25).
E. highway Design and Construction
3.15      The Department includes two sections which are responsible for
design and construction. The Design Section has an able and experienced
engineer in charge but with a staff of only 6-8 junior engineers. The road
and bridge design standards used by this Section come from different sources
and, although generally satisfootory, require review and consolidation. Un-
der the proposed UNDP technical assistance project (para. 4.14), these stan-
dards, together with the Section's organization will be studied and appro-
priate recommendations made.
3.16      Contract supervision is the responsibility of the Construction
Section of the Department. Contracts are supervised by resident engineers
trained on bilateral aid projects, who are also responsible for the quality
control of the works. There is, however, a serious shortage in the Depart-
ment of the materials testing equipment necessary to control construction
works. This shortage will be remedied by equipment to be supplied by the
Economic Commission for Asia and the Far East (ECAFE) and under the project
bridge contracts.
3.17      The local contracting industry is small and engaged on building and
some civil works. In addition, a Government-owned contracting firm has re-
cently carried out some moderate sized road and bridge contracts in the
Kathmandu Valley. In other parts of the country, Indian firms are undertak-
ing works on contract to the Indian aid agencv.
3.18      At present, Government contracts are awarded on a competitive
basis or by negotiation with a single contractor. Due to the small scale
of Government works being carried out by contract, the Department's experi-
ence in contract administration is limited. Following preparatory work
carried out by the Consultants, the Department is now revising its contract
procedures together with associated documents.



-9-
F. Highway Maintenance
3.19      Maintenance of the national highways is the responsibility of the
Maintenance Section of the Department with, at present, 862 km of road under
its authority. In addition, there are presently 433 km of national highway
being maintained by bilateral construction agencies and an estimated 1,400
km of feeder and minor roads under partial maintenance by panchayats. All bi-
lateral financed roads, both completed and under construction, and also some
panchayat roads will eventually be transferred to the Department for mainte-
nance. The Government estimates that by 1976 the Department will be maintain-
ing about 3,000 km of road - an increase of about 250% in 6 years.
3.20      Due principally to the weak field organization and lack of suit-
able equipment, the maintenance of existing roads is not satisfactory.
Maintenance Section staff require training in modern techniques, and there
is a shortage of foremen and artisans in the field. Little planning of
maintenance operations has taken place and work has been concentrated on
keeping mountainous road sections, which are prone to landslides, open during
the rainy season. This emphasis on emergency work has meant that routine
and periodic maintenance activities have been somewhat neglected.
3.21      Funds for road maintenance are presently inadequate.  Requests for
increased funds have not been supported by maintenance plans nor by up-to-
date accounts of actual expenditure. Similarly, cost accounting is not e-"-
ployed to measure the efficiency of maintenance operations. The Government
is understandably reluctanc to meet the demands for increased funds until
a system of road maintenance planning, programming and cost accounting is
adopted by the Department.
3.22      The Department is aware of these deficiencies both in organiza-
tion and operations and has drawn up a tentative expansion and improvement
program to meet the needs of the present and future road network. The pro-
gram covers, among other items, the improvement and expansion of workshop
facilities, participation in UNDP and other training schemes and the purchase
of necessary road maintenance equipment. Implementation of the program
will require financinl and technical assistance, and is the basis of the
maintenance element of the proposed credit.
4. ThE PROJECT
A. Descrtptipn
4.01      The project consists of five elements:
(i, replacement of five narrow understrength road bridges;
(ii) bupply and erection of five pedestrian suspension bridges
for port2r traffic;



- 10 -
(iii)  a four-year maintenance progran concentrating on the three
divisions of Kathmandu, Hitaura and Pokhara including the
purchase of road maintenance equipment and the provision of
workshop facilities;
(iv)  consulting services to complete bridge designs and tender
documents; and
(v)  technical assistance in the execution of items (i) through
(iii) above and ir highwav admiristration, pianninr e"^
maintenance.
B. Road Bridges
4.02      There are three single lane steel bridges on the Indian border to
Kathmandu road (Nos. 3, 4 and 5 in Table 4 and on the Map) which the Con-
sultants considered to be unsafe even for current tratfic. Under the project,
these bridges will be replaced by modern two-lane structures and the approach
roads will be improved.
4.03      The two existing timber bridges in the Kathmandu Valley vb½Ch are
proposed for replacement (numbered 1 and 2 in Table a nrd on the Yan-' are
situated on the outskirts of the capital. Thev  are I'n poor corditiou, and
unsafe for present bus and truck traUf4c.  UnC"r the prcjecl t.i  <1l   be
replaced by two lane, reinforced concrcte bridges with r2ie  a.id i..mproved
approach roads. Both the approaches and tht bridges will have wide foot-
paths to cater for the substantial pedestrian traffic.
C. Pedestrian Suspension Bridges
4.04      In 1965, the Government embarked on a program to erect about 90
urgently needed suspension bridges at critical sites in the hills but, due
to the high cost of transporting materials and limited funds, only 13
bridges have been constructed in the last five years. Five priority bridge
sites have been chosen for inclusion in the proposed project (see Map). At
sites No. 6 and 7 in the east, there are existing primitive suspension bridges
which have been declared structually unsafe by the Consultants. Canoe fer-
ries operate on sites Nos. 8, 9 and 10 but, during the four month flood sea-
son, the service is unreliable and dangerous. Site No. 9, which is served by
ferry, will require a bridge of a 150 meter span. The spans of the other
four proposed bridges vary between 70 and 100 meters.
4.05      The suspension bridges to be supplied under the project will con-
sist of the normal system of anchored cables and suspended traveled way and
will be designed to carry pedestrian traffic and domestic animals only. As
all materials for bridge construction have to be carried to the sites by
porter and pack animal, the structures will be designed with lightness in
mind.



- 11 -
D. A Four-Year Maintenance Expansion and Improvement Program
4.06      The Government intends to improve the present standard of road
maintenance and to expand the Department's organization to meet the re-
quirements of the rapidly growing road network. A long range maintenance
improvement program has been drawn up which includes the needs of roads
constructed under bilateral aid. This program provides for the eventual
expansion of the field organization into nine divisions covering the whole
country, and controlling a network of sub-divisions and road-side depots.
The program will take about 8 years to implement fully; in the meanwhile,
there is an immediate need for improvement in the maintenance of existing
roads, as well as roads to be taken over within the next year or two.
4.07      The four-year maintenance program proposed as part of this project
fits into the framework of the Department's long range plan and will be con-
centrated on the divisions of Kathmandu, Hitaura and the new division of
Pokhara.  At present, the two existing divisions are responsible for about
90% of the road system. The creation of the Pokhara division will coincide
with the completion of the road from Kathmandu to Pokhara, constructed by
Mainland China and the hand-over of the road from Sunauli to Pokhara, con-
structed by India.
4.08      In particular, tne four-year program will provide for:
(i) strengthening of the Department's field organization;
(ii) supply of road maintenance equipment to make up the
needs of the selected divisions;
(iii) rehabilitation of suitable items of existing maintenance
equipment; and
(iv) construction of a new workshop at Kathmandu, the extension
of facilities at Hitaura and Pokhara and the construction
of a depot on the Kathmandu-Kodari road, together with the
sunPJ.y of appropriate workshop equipment.
4.09      Under the project, new facilities will be created beginning with
the separation of the Katlhmandu field division into two sub-divisions. One
will he responisible for the roads in the Valley while the other will be re-
sponsible for those in Kathmandu and neighboring Patan.  Part of the duties
of this latter sub-division wiil be to train city panchayat staff in highway
maintenance so that a municipal engineers' department may eventually be es-
tablished. At Hitaura, road maintenace yard and offices will be separated
from the Mechanical Engineering Section and, at Pokhara, a new division
will be created using existing facilities which will be extended under the
project.



- 12 -
4.10      Under the four-yeax maintenanice program the Department would pur-
chase certain major items of road maintenance equipment. rhe present equip-
ment fleet consists mainly of heavv construction equipment (a legacy from
bilateral aid proJects) most of which is unserviceable. Although under the
project, the Department proposes to rehabilitate selected items of this ex-
isting equipment, additional equipment is required to achieve an adequate
level of maintenance. The additional equipment, consisting principally of
graders, loaders, trucks and bituminous resealing units, will be assigned
to roads in the three divisions of Kathmandu, Hitaura and Pokhara. Some
light construction equipment, which is also included in the project, will
be based at Pokhara to assist with the erection of project suspension
bridges and to continue the commendable work of porter trail improvement
presently being undertaken by the Department.
4.11      Workshop facilities for the repair of road maintenance equipment
exist at two centers but are inadequate for the iLnreased equipment holding
proposed under the project. One center, located withIn Kathmandu, is cramped
and possibilities for expansion are limited.  Under the project a new work-
shop will be constructed outside the confines of the city and equipped with
modern maintenance and major repair facilities. At the other center, Hitaura,
the project would provide for the construction of some new buildings and the
supply of the necessary workshop equipment. At Pokhara, a smaller workshop
will be constructed and equipped with workshop machinery.
4.12      The Department intends that stra   wii   cc paiticipate in proposed
UNDP (para. 4.14) and bilateral tra4sln cLertew      ensure that an adequate
supply of trained personnel wi}l be available to implement the improvement
program.
E.   Bridge Engineering Services
4.13      To assist with project preparation, the Association employed the
Consultants (Norconsult) from September 1969 to March 1970 and also met the
cost (about US$20,000) of their services. In April 1970, the Government
retained the services of two of the Consultants' bridge engineers to com-
plete the preparation of detailed engineering, cost estimates and bidding
documents. The foreign exchange cost of these services from April 1970
(about US$30,000) is included in the credit and would be financed retroac-
tively.
F.   Technical Assistance
4.14      Technical assistance required in connection with the project will
be provided to the Department by the UNDP. This will include assistance,
not only for carrying out the project elements, but also for strengthening
the Department organization. The assistance element mentioned below forms
an essential part of the proposed project; a second vocational training
scheme to be run by the Engineering Institute of Nepal (financed by the
UNDP with the International Labor Organization as Executing Agency), will
complement the project by providing a supply of trained artisans and fore-
men.



- 13 -
4.15      Over a period of two years, the 6-man technical assistance team,
which includes the already appointed UNDP feasibility studies project man-
ager, will provide expert services in bridge and highway engineering, road
maintenance planning and training, cost accounting, mechanical engineering,
and workshop practice. The bridge engineer will assist with the supervi-
sion of project bridge construction and will also review and advise on the
organization of the Department's Design Section (para. 3.15). The highway
engineer will similarly assist with highway design and construction. A
road maintenance engineer will advise and assist with planning, the execu-
tion of road maintenance programs, setting up of a maintenance costing sys-
tem in collaboration with the Department's Accounts Section, and will ad-
vise on improving existing maintenance techniques. The mechanical engineer,
who previously held a UNDP OPEX post with the Roads Department, has now been
appointed to the team. He and a superintendent will assist the Mechanical
Engineering Section with the acquisition of road maintenance equipment, the
expansion of facilities, the creation of a spare parts inventory control
system, workshop cost accounting (also in collaboration with the Accounts
Section), in-service training of operators and workshop staff and improving
the system of equipment and spare parts procurement. The Association has
agreed to the team appointments already made and during negotiations, assur-
ances were received from the Government that the Association will also be
consulted regarding the selection and terms of reference of the remaining
team members. Assurances were also received that, after consultation with
the Association, the teams agreed recommendations will be implemented ac-
cording to an acceptable timetable, and that, after com    iof the tts.
tw-e rnment  in consultation wib. tthAs-Aciati4n
will review progress and assess the need for any further technical assistance.
G.   Project Execution and Timing
4.16      The Department will be responsible for the execution of the proj-
ect with advice and assistance to be provided by the UNDP technical assis-
tance team (para. 4.14). International Competitive bidding will apply to
all procurement except the erection of the suspension bridges and the con-
strtuction of workshop buildings. These works would not be attractive to
foreign firms because of the remoteness of the bridge sites and small
amount of workshop construction.  Workshop construction will therefore be
carried out by local contractors after competitive bidding. Suspension
bridg2e erection will also be carried out by local contractors but some of
the more inaccessible bridges may be erected by the Roads Department.
4.17      For the road bridges, bids will be invited separately for the con-
struction of each bridge to encourage the domestic contracting industry.
However, to attract foreign firms, contractors will also be given the option
of bidding for the bridges in two lots: one contract for the two bridges in
the Kathmandu Valley and the other for the three bridges in the plains.
Only minor additional right-of-way is required for project bridge construc-
tion and no delays are expected.



- 14 -
4.18      The Department has specifications and basic designs for pedestrian
suspension bridges. However, as all parts of the bridge have to be trans-
ported to the site by porter, savings can be achieved if the bridges are
fabricated using for example, high tensile steel or lightweight alloys. Ac-
cordingly, bidders will be invited to submit bids based on their own designs
but incorporating the Department's loading specifications. An item for the
supply of erection equipment has been included in bridge cost estimates.
4.19      The road maintenance equipment and workshop machinery will be pro-
cured through separate contracts for each type or for each group of similar
types.  Contracts will be awarded on the basis of the lowest evaluated bids
with the advantages of standardization being taken into account.
4.20      It is anticipated that bids for the road bridge replacement con-
tracts will be invited in early 1971, with award of the contracts in the
middle of the year. These works should be completed in 1973. Similarly,
bids for the suspension bridges will be invited in early 1971 and, with
sufficient time allowed for the submission of bids based on bidders de-
signs, a contract should be awarded in 1971. These bridges will probably
arrive in Nepal in early 1972 and erection should be complete in early
1973. Supervision of the project bridges will be undertaken by the Depart-
ment's Construction Section with the advice and assistance of the UNDP team.
Procurement of maintenance equipment should be complete by early 1973, and
the project phase of the maintenance program in 1974. A project period of
four years would therefore be appropriate.
4.21      During credit negotiations assurances were received that bidding
documents will be submitted to the Association for review prior to calling
for bids. The timing and procedure of project execution was also discussed
and agreed.
H.   Project Cost and Financing
4.22      The total cost of the project including allowance for contingencies,
is estimated as follows:



- 15 -
NRs (thousands)      US$(thousands) equiv.  % Foreign
Item         Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Local   Exchange
1. Replacement of
five road bridges 3,550    5,100  8,650   350         500      850       60 /1
2. Supply and erec-
tion of five pe-
destrian suspen-
sion bridges       1,320    2,260    580   130        220      350       60
Sub-total          4,870    7,360 12,230   480        720   1,200
Contingencies
(Physical about
10%, Price about
6%)                  810    1,320  2,130    80        130      210
3. Road maintenance
and light con-
struction equip-
ment and workshop       l.2                   7}   1              /3
facilities           71    16,400 17,110 -3 7t }-- 1,h       1,69'9
4. Consulting
Services             100       300    400    10         30      40       75
5. Technical
Assistance           610    2 020  9 630    60         200     260       75
Total              7,100   27 400 34 500   700    2 700   3,400
-                __  .  .._= ... 
/1   On the basis of about half the works being awarded to local contractors
and the remainder to foreign firms.
12   This item. does not include any duties or sales tax in connection with
the importation of the road maintenance equipment. It includes about
1% of CIF cost for local handling and the local cost of workshop con-
struction.
13   Including provision for contingencies (Table 6).



- 16 -
4.23      The cost estimates for road bridge replacement have been based on
local costs for similar work in Nepal and comparable work elsewhere. The
cost estimates for the supply of suspension bridges have been based on re-
cent quotations for similar work. Transportation and erection costs for
the suspension bridges are supported by prevailing porter rates and by the
Consultants' estimates. Highway and workshop equipment cost estimates have
been based on preliminary quotations received fror equipment manufacturers.
Cost estimates for workshop construction and extensions have been based on
local building costs. An appropriate contingency allowance for civil works
is considered about 10% for variation in physical quantities and about 6%
for price escalation during the project period. The cost of t'e Association
financed consulting services is based otn an agreement existing between the
Gover-nent and the consulting firm (para. 4.13).  The cost estimates shown
for the UNDP financed element is based on prevailing UNDP rates. During ne-
gotiations final cost estimates were reviewed and confirmed.
4.24      The foreign exchange component of the project would be financed
jointly by the Association and the UNDP. Total proJect financing would be
as follows:
JS$ (thousands) equivalent
Item (para. 4.22)                              Govt.   IDA   UNDP   Total
1 thru 4 (Bridgeworks, equipment and
consulting services)                  640   2,500    -    3,140
5 (Technical Assistance)                          60      -    200      260
Total                   700   2,500   200   3 400
Government has indicated that it will meet the local costs of capital ex-
penditure and an assurance on this point was received during negotiations.
4.25      The maintenance program would require a substantial increase in
the annual level of maintenance expenditure (Table 7), not only to improve
the level of maintenance on the existing network but also to provide ade-
quate maintenance on roads to be taken over from bilateral agencies (Table
1). In addition to its contribution to cover the local costs of capital
expenditure, the Government has already agreed to consider the Association's
recommendations for an increase in annual maintenance expenditures and an
initial increase of about 15% has been granted for FY 1970/71. A financial
program was discussed and agreed with the Government during negotiations and
an assurance was received that adequate increases in recurrent maintenance
expenditures will be allocated according to the expected increase in road
length and on recommendations to be made by the UNDP technical assistance
team (para. 4.14).
4.26      Disbursements:  Estimated annual requirements of foreign exchange
for the project would be as follows (US$ millions)



- 17 -
IDA Fiscal Year  1970/71  1971/72  1972/73  1973/74  Total
IDA                                  0.1       1.3       0.8       0.3     2.5
UNDP                                  0.1      0.1        -         -       0.2
Disbursements of the proceeds of the credit would cover:
(i) 60% of civil works construction contracts;
(ii) the CIF cost of imported materials and equipment; and
(iii) the foreign exchange cost of consultants services.
Consideration should be given by the Association to applying any estimated
savings from the credit to financing the purchase of additional similar
types of maintenance equipment.
5.   ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. General
5.01      The objectives of the proposed project are to reduce the cost of
transport on the major portions of Nepal's highway network and on some im-
portant porter trails. Roads and porter trails are the dominating modes
of transport in Nepal, and low costs of such transport are therefore of
importance for the country's economy. The execution of the project will
also help strengthen the Roads Department.
B. Road Bridges
5.02      General:  The five road bridges proposed for replacement are all
50-60 year oid; single lane bridges without pedestrian sidewalks, on some
of the most hkicavily trafficked roads in Nepal.  The Consultants' bridge en-
gineer concluded that all five were unsafe for the heavier traffic using
the bridges (t-rucks and buses) and should therefore be replaced as soon as
possible.
5.03      3ridge No._1:  This bridge is located on the main highway leading
from Kathmandu city to the rapidly growing area of Gaushala and also to the
airport and satellite town of Bhaktapur. With traffic volumes of about
2,600 ADT (of which about 20% is heavy traffic) the existing single lane
bridge is congested, with traffic frequently having to wait to cross. Some
of the existing traffic on the bridge will, however, be diverted to the new
road presently being built with Mainland Chinese assistance from Kathmandu
to Bhaktapur, including a spur to the airport. This new road is expected
to be completed by l192, and although data are limited, it is reasonable to



18 -
assume that all traffic to Bhaktapur and beyond and about 75% of the traf-
fic to the airport will divert to the new road leaving an adjusted traffic
level on the bridge of about 1,300 ADT (Table 9).
5.04      The quantifiable economic benefits from replacing the bridge are
the savings in vehicle operating costs bv avoiding the need for heavy traf-
fic to detour to the nearest full-strength bridge. Based on the savings to
heavy traffic alone and estimated traffic growth over 20 years (Table 10),
the investment would yielcd a rate of return of 17%. In view of the uncer-
tainty of the future traffic growth, the economic justification of the bridge
replacement was tested under the assumption of a 20% lower traffic growth
rate, resulting in a rate of return of 14Z. Since no account was taken of
the benefits from reduced congestion, increased safety for pedestrians
(some 4,000 daily) and increased maintenance costs on the detour, the above
rates of return are conservative and indicate that the replacement of bridge
No. 1 is economically justified.
5.05      Bridge No. 2:  This bridge is located on the main road from
Kathmandu to the industria] dlstricts or Balaju and beyond to Trisuli.  The
present traffic level is ab!ut 450 AlDT (of whlch about 25% is heavy vehicles).
In view of the possibility that a new ring road may be constructed on the
west side of the Bishnumati river whic-h would then affect tile traffic on
bridge No. 2, the Government undertook an origin and destination (O/D) sur-
vey of the heavy traffic. For the economic analysis, it has been assumed
conservatively that the ring road will be constructed by 1973, and from the
results of the O/D survey, that 35% of the existing truck traffic would di-
vert to this ring road.
5.06      The quantifiable economic benefits from replacing this bridge are
again the savings in vehicle operating costs by avoiding the need for heavy
traffic to detour to the nearest ful3l strength bridge. Based on the sav-
ings to heavy traffic alone and the estimated traffic growth over 20 years
(Table 10), the investment would yield a rate of return of 14%. In view of
the uncertainty of the future traffic growth, the economic justification of
the bridge replacement was tested under an assumption of a 20% lower traf-
fic growth rate, giving a rate of return of 11%. Since no account was tak-
en of the benefits from reduced congestion and increased safety for pedes-
trians (some 4,400 daily), the above rates of return indicate that the re-
placement of bridge No. 2 is justified.
5.07      Bridges 3, 4 and 5:  These bridges are located on the important
road between the Indian border to Hitaura and Kathmandu. The three bridges
are located between Raxaul (on the Indian border) and Hitaura (the starting
point of the ropeway to Kathmandu - para. 2.10). Present regulations limit
the carrying capacity of trucks to a maximum of 5 tons. If these bridges
were replaced this weight limit on the road to Hitaura could be raised to
at least 8 tons, thus allowing full use of existing 8-ton capacity trucks.
During negotiations it was confirmed to the satisfaction of the Association
that, after completion of the project bridges, the Government will raise the
existing weight limit on this section.



- 19 -
5.08      The quantifiable economic benefits from replacing these three
bridges would be lower vehicle operating costs per ton-km. Since the road
between Hitaura and Kathmandu would still have a 5-ton weight limit, the
lower vehicle operating costs per ton-km have only been applied to truck
transport serving the ropeway at Hitaura. As indicated in par. 2.10, the
ropeway in 1968/1969 carried about 35,000 tons between Hitaura and Kathmandu.
Based on the savings in vehicle operating costs and estimated traffic growth
up to the present capacity of the ropeway (Table 10), the investment would
yield a rate of return of 20%. On the basis of a 20% lower traffic growth
the rate of return would fall to 18%. No benefit has been taken on the non-
ropeway traffic. Moreover, it is likely that during the life of the bridges,
the road between Hitaura and Kathmandu will be upgraded or relocated to
higher design standards. The above rates of return therefore understate
the economic benefits from this investment and the replacement of bridges
3, 4 and 5 is justified.
C. Pedestrian Suspension Bridges
5.09      Communications in the hills and mountains of Nepal are still rudi-
mentary. Isolated valleys depend on steep and winding trails for their con-
tact with the outside world. All essential supplies such as salt and kero-
sene have to be carried on foot and six day walks are not uncommon. On
most trail routes swiftly flowing rivers have to be crossed; some by canoe
ferry and others by locally made suspension bridge of doubtful strength.
During the flood season ferry operations are interrupted causing some villages
to be cut-off for several months. When ferries can operate, the risk to life
is great and people often prefer to detour to suspension bridges, one or two
days distant.
5.10      Under these difficult conditions porter rates are high, averaging
about NRs 12 per day or about NRs 15 (US$1.50) per ton-km. This compares with
about NRs 10 per ton-km for air transport and about NRs 0.60 by truck. Re-
duction in distance, therefore, can substantially reduce transportation costs
bringing down the price of essential goods in the villages. Shorter distances
may also encourage the movement of surplus produce to markets. On certain
trails these distance savings can be achieved by the construction of sus-
pension bridges. In addition to reducing transportation costs these bridges
will assist in opening up the country and furthering the Governments objec-
tives of national unification. Five high priority suspension bridges (yield-
ing rates of return between 18% and 33%) have been included in the project. 1/
1). Maintenance Equipment and W'orkshop Facilities
5.11      General:  If highway maintenance continued at its present level in
Nepal road transport costs would markedly increase. The objectives of the
1/   For more information on these suspension bridges and for a simplified
economic justification see Annex.



- 20 -
project maintenance element are not only to reduce the present cost of road
transport but to avoid any future increases.
5.12      Network and Traffic:  The road network included in the present proj-
ect consists of the existing network in the Kathmandu, Hitaura and Pokhara
regions as well as roads presently under construction in these areas. These
include virtually all important roads in Nepal at the present time. Based
on past traffic trends (para. 3.05) and on estimates made by the Consultants,
it has been assumed that light traffic (cars, jeeps, vans) will increase by 8%
annually during the life of the maintenance equipment (8 years) and that
heavy traffic will increase by 6% annually. These growth rates were used in
the economic analysis (Table 11).
5.13      Benefits:  The implementation of the maintenance program will re-
sult in improvements in the present condition of the paved, gravel and earth
roads and thus reduce vehicle operating costs. The program will also pre-
vent further deterioration of the roads which would have resulted in an in-
crease in vehicle operating costs. Benefits which have not been quantified,
due to the lack of sufficient data, are savings in or deferment of recon-
struction costs resulting from the lengthening of the economic life of the
roads, and time savings due to better riding conditions.
5.14      There has been no study of the effects of improved road mainte-
nance on vehicle operating costs in Nepal. The analysis therefore is based
on findings of studies that have been carried out elsewhere and on assump-
tions comparable with those used in other recent Bank/IDA maintenance proj-
ects. The pattern of vehicle operating costs is shown in Table 12 while
Table 11 sumarizes the data used for calculating the rate of return.
5.15      Results of Economic Analysis:  With the above assumptions and using
base traffic figures resulting from recent counts, the economic rate of re-
turn on an incremental basis for the maintenance program would be 23%. 1/
In view of the uncertainties about future traffic growth and the effect of
different road maintenance levels on vehicle operating costs, the economic
evaluation of the maintenance element was tested under more conservative
assumptions. If traffic growth on the project road network was reduced by
20%, the rate of return would be 20%. If the estimated savings in vehicle
operating costs were reduced by 20% the rate of return would be 15%. Final-
ly, with both reductions the rate of return would still be 12%. The mainte-
nance equipment and workshop facilities are therefore economically justified.
1/   As an alternative approach the present value of vehicle operating cost
savings was compared with the present value of the combined capital
outlays and additional recurrent costs, using a discounting rate of 12%.
The benefit/cost ratio thus obtained was 1.37.



- 21 -
6. RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During credit negotiations, assurances were received from the Gov-
ernment that:
(i) after completion of the UNDP-financed technical team's
two-year assignment, the Government, in consultation with
the Association, will review progress and assess the need
for any further technical assistance (para. 4.15); and
(ii) adequate increases in recurrent maintenance expenditures
will be allocated according to the expected increases in
road length and on recommendations to be made by the UNDP-
financed technical assistance team (para. 4.25).
6.02      The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA cred-
it of US$2.5 million equivalent.






TABLE 1
NEPAL
HIGHWAY PROJECT
The Highway Network
Total Network 1/
Year           Paved            Gravel            Earth            Total
1965            289              147              1390             1826
1967            536              344              1551             2431
1969            661              408              1611             2680
Network Under Responsibility
of The Roads Department 2/
Year           Paved            Gravel            Earth            Total
1969             344             156               362              862
1970            679              377               186             1242
1971             715             472               206             1393
1972             965             492               186             1643
1973           1215              656               166             2037
1974           1385              834               154             2373
1975           1530              980               150             2660
1976           1680             1130               150             2960
I/  Under maintenance by the Roads Department, bi-lateral
agencies and Panchayats.
2/  Estimates 1970 - 1974 based principally on planned takeover
of roads under eonstruction by bi-lateral agenoies. 1975 -
1976 based on planned construction.
Source: Roads Department



TABLE 2
NEPAL
HIGHWAY PROJECT
Motor Vehicle Statistics-
A.    Total Nepal
Jeeps &                                          Motor
Year       Cars          Taxi  Trucks  Buses  Sub-Total  G7cle    Total
up to     1964       2,077          285   1,352    290      4,O0h    1,089    5,093
1966      3,078          683   1,83L    426      6,021       )449    6,)_7c
II It     1967       3,600          811   2,150    097      7,058       56L    7,622
1968      4.62           980   2,53k    561       8,237      675    8,912
Gross
Annual
Iease%
1964 - 68          1c           36      17     18         20       (13)      15
1966 - 68          16          20       18     15         17        22       17
1967 - 68          i6          21       19     13         17        20       17
B.    Kathmandu VaUley
up to     1964             2,l15I           757    211      3,122       n.a.    n.a.
U1 fo     1966             3,041          1,092    280      4,413       310    4,723
if1967           3,385         1,146    312      4,83        345    5,188
:1968            3,798         1,23h    349      5,381       377    5,758
Gross
Annual
Increase%
1964 - 68                15             13     13         15      n.a.    n.a.
1966 - 68                12              7     12         10       10        10
1967 - 68                12              8     12         12        9        12
Table shows the total number of vehicles registered up to the respective year.
Statistics on scrapped vehicles are not available, hence the size of the present
fleet is not known.
Source: Roads Department



TABLE, 3
N E P A L
HIGHWAY PROJECT
Approximate Expenditure on Highways
(NRs Million)
A. By Government
F I S C A L   Y E A R S                   1/
Item           1965        1966       1967        1968       1969        1970
2/
Maintenance     1.2         1.4        3.0         3.0        2.5         3.5
Administration  1.7         2.5        4.1         4.1        2.6         2.6
3/
New CorAtruwtion 4.0        6.8        5.0         7.2        8.8        18.3
6.9       10.7       12.1        14.3       13.9        24.4
B. By Bi-lateral Agencies
Item           1965        1966       1967        1968       1969      1970
New Construction 17.0      41.8       73.5        77.6       96.5       198.3
1/ Estimated from budget
2/  Excludes equipment purchases and major repairs.  Government has accounted
for these items under development budget (New Construction)
3/ Includes Rs 1 million for equipment purchases in 1970
Source: Roads Department



TABIE 4
N E P A L
HIGHWAY PROJECT
Road Bridges
Length       NRs (thousands)          US$ (thousands)
Bride No.   Bridge Name         (m)    Local Foreign  Total   Local Foreign  Totl,
"L        Dhobi  hola       45      1,060     910   1,970     105       90     195
2         Bishnumati        60      1,020     870   1,890     101       84     185
(Balaju)
3        Amlekganj No. 2   92         760   1,580   2,340      75      155     230
4         Amlekganj No. 1   62        460   1,170   1,630      45      115     160
5         Pawanipur         36        250     570     820      24       56      80
Total Road Bridges        3,550   5,100   8,650     350      500     850
Sowore: Norconsult (Consultants),
Roads Departient and
Mission estimates.



TABLE 5
N E P A L
HIGHWY PROJECT
Pedestrian Suspension Bridges
Length      NRs (thousands)            US$ (thousands)
Bridge No.     Location        (m)    Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total
6        Kabeli River      70      320      300      620       32      29        61
(near Phidim)
7        Tamor River      100       420     440      860       41      42        83
(near Taplejung)
8        Kali Gandaki      80      130      51o      640       13      5°        63
River (near
Purtigbat)
9        Kali Gandaki    153       210      530      740       21      52        73
River (near
Ranighat)
10        Ulli Khola       100      240      480      720       23      47        70
River (near
GulJid)
Total Suspension Bridges    1,320   2,260    3,580       130      220      350
=              =
Source: Norconsult (Consultants),
Roads Department and
Mission estimates.



TABLE 6
RIGKWAI P?lOJC T
Road Wmilemo   mdight  inmtI    0              a$ ?A oliUtis te boe Procured under ProJect
SAJU   13                           irgS  I  llnS I/   Ea=          COST (IIS$ gIvNr
ITEM                          _I*SO
A. Major Equipment
Air Compressor                                             7                  10             3                6,500              19,500
Air Compressor, prtable (complete with tools)             -                    6             6                 2,000              12,000
Bitumen heater, 1000 gallons                               2                   6                               1 4,500            18,000
Bitumen Distributor, 1000 gallons                         --                   2             2               12,000              24,000
Bitumen Transfer Pump                                                          1             1                 1,20D               1,200
Concrete mixers                                            7                  10             3                 3,000               9,000
Concrete vibrator                                          4                   8            4                   600               2,400
Culvert mould (sets of three)                             --                   6            6                 1,500               9,000
Crane, mobile 5 ton                                       _                    1             1               30,000              30,000
Fuel Tank, skid mounted                                    1                   5             4                  750               3,000
0ritter attachment                                        __                   6             6                   600               3,600
Gritters, towed                                           --                   2             2                 1,000               2,000
Grader, medium (110-115 h.p.)                              5                  10             5                25,000             125,000
Pick-up truck                                              3                   9             6                10,000             24,000
Pump, non clog type 2r                                                         4             4                   750               3,000
Pump, non clog type 14                                    --                   2             2                 1,500               3,000
Road roller, 3 wheel, 6/8 ton                             10                  14             4                 9,000              36,000
Road roller, pneumstic self propelled                     --                   2             2                18,000             36,000
Road roller, vibratig hand onatrol                        --                   4             4                 2,500              10,000
Stone crusher (approximately 25 too/ hr)                   k                   6            2                20.000              40,000
Stone granulator 30" x 6"                                  2                   6             4                14,000              56,000
Rock drill, hosws, fitmats, ete.                           2                  14            12                  600                7,200
Rook drill, portable                                      -                   12            12                 1,000              12,000
Station wagon, Jee  type                                   7                   8             1                4,000               41000
Lowloading trailer                                        __                   3             3                 7,500             22,500
Truck, tipping, 5 ton                                     20                  44           24                 9,000             216,000
Front and loader 1li ou.yds, tracked                                           2            2                25,000              50,000
Front end loader 1½ cu.yds, wAeled (with doser
attachment)                                             4                   8            4                27,000             108,000
Tractor industrial                                         2                   5            3                 6,300              18,900
Water Truck                                                1                   4             3                10,000             30,000
Water tank, towed                                          2                   7             5                 2,000              10.000
9145,300
B. Spare Parts
For new equipment                                                                                                                160,000
For rehabilitation of existijig equipment                                                                                        154 700
314,700
C. Workshops and Equipment
KRIS                                   US$
PLACE                                        LOCAL        P             TOTAL       LOCMA        PMM=       TOTAL
Kathmandu                                   220,000      1,050,000     1,270,000    22,0D0       104,000    126,000
Hitaura                                     220,000        9S0,000     1,210,000    22,000        98,000    120,000
Pokhara                                      40 000        29),000       290,000    41 000        25,000     29,000
Kodari                                       6Q0(00         2       0.0Xo           6.0Qt          2.000     8.0oo
Sub-Total                               51i02000     2,310           02, 5       ,000 ,ooo   22900      283,
Physical Contingencies                       60.000        220.000       280.000     6.000        21,000     27.000
(about 10%)
TOTAL                                       600,000      2,530,000    3,130,000    60,000        250,000   310,000  250,000
D. Item to include an initial stock of imprted mterial (bitu_mn, ceent, eWloeives, *te.,) and to cover price contingencies          110.000
GRAND TOTAL (A,B,C AND D)       1,620,000
1/ Includes equipment to be rehabilitated undur project.
Z/ To be assigned to the followidg tiree divions:
Kathrsndu (Valley and Urban)
Hitaura
Pokhara
3/ CIF value only; costs dc not include ta"e and duties (about 12% of CIT) no local freight
and handlirg charges (about 2% of CIF)
Source: Roads Department



NEP0AL
nT0IIWTERO.TFc.
Planned Erpenditpre under Four rear Taiitentnce Proursm
Fisc-I Years
1971                             1972                            1973                             19714                                        Totals
Governsnot        DA               Go eronmt                       Q GoVernnt    mA                Goversnent       mA               Oosormsent MAA                Gocersnent and t Db
A. Capital Expenditure                                                       US$US$                          US$                              US$           N$Re     2R2 055 *RJ                                US$ 855
It"                                                   (thousands)                      (thousands)                    (thousands)                     (thousands)                       (thousands)                    (thornasds)
~tanu
Maintenance qsipswt                                       In        1          20             71      7       500            21        2      400           -          -      25             102      10        945               955
Spare parts for -    quip_t                                         _           3                     -        80             -                74           _                  3                -      -        160               160
parts for *quipment rehabilitation                                            1 -  12          -      -        80                      -       60           _          _       3              -        -        155               155
Workshop buildings                                        30        3           8            404     40        90           153       15       42          21           2       -             600     60        1bO                200
Workeshop ehnlenr                                          -        -           2             -      -         50            -       -         48          -            -      10               -      -        110                110
rnitIal stock materials                                   -         -           5                             -                                             -                  5                + ,                               110
Totals                   .0        4          50          14         7       8. X0L                 17       66           21         2       416                     7*    1620               1,690
Fiscal Iears
1971                             1972                            1973                             19]7S
Yds (milltons)
B. Recsrrent  p.nditgtre                                local    Fgreig    Total             Local  Foreign Total           Local   Foreign Totl            Loce       nig   Total           Local For.ia   *ia
1. Administration                                         0.9        -        0.9             0.9       -     0.9             1.9 n            1.9            1.2       -      1.2              4.0     -      4.0
2. Labor                                                  1.5        -        1.5             2.1       -      2.1            2.3       -      2.3            2.9       -      2.9              8.8            8.8
3. Materlals                                              0.6       1.0       1.6             0.9    1.3      2.2             1.4     2.e      3.h            1.5      2.3     3.8              4 .    6.6   11.0
4. hqulpnt operation                                      0.4        1.5      1.9             0.5    2.2       2.7           n07      2.9      3.6             . 8     3.0     3.8              2.4    9.6   12.0
5. Equipamnt repairs                                      0.1       0.3       0.1             0.1    0.5      0.6             0.1     n.5       . 6           0.2      0.6     0.8              0.5    1.9    2.1
Totals                  3.5        2.8       6.3             4.5    4.0      8.5             5.5     5.4    10.'             6.6      5.9    12.5            20.1   18.1   38.2
Total 2,3 and 4                              5.0                                                               .3                            10.5                            31.8
1/  This figure co.pares with the  ralotenacce item f0,- in T,lt]  3
SOrne!  RIoads Department sod qission estLnut..



TABLE 8
N E P A L
HIGf{AY PROJECT
Bilateral Aid Road Constrnction Program
Road Length (kI)
Planned or
under
Agency                             Completed      Construction      Total
India                                377             673            1,050
Mainland China                       192             100              292
U.S.S.R.                              30              87              117
U.S.A.2/                             107             123              230
U.K.2/                                55             117              172
U.S.A.and    3/
India jointly-                       20               -               204
Totals                    965           1,100            2,o65
1/ Present best estimate.
2/ ,PFitn linancial  )articipation by Government of Nepal.
3/ Jo-nt work was discontinued in 1963.
:;ouree: Roads Yiepartment



TABLE 9
NEPAL
HIGHWAY PROJECT
Traffic Over Kathmandu Road Bridges 1969
Cars, Taxis
A.  Bridge No. 1 (Lhobi Khola)                 jeeps, vans      Trucks      Buses      Total
a. Present Traffic
Traffic to and from Airport                   1,016            24          32     1,072
Traffic to and from Bhaktapur and beyond        154           145         187       486
Traffic to and from Baneswar                    190            24         -         214
Traffic to and from Gaushala and beyond         700            27          81        808
2,060           220        300      2,580
b. Adjusted Traffic
Traffic to and from Airport/                    250             6           8       264
Traffic to and from Baneswar                    190            24         -         214
Traffic to and from Gaushala and beyond         700            27          81        808
1,140            57         89      1,286
B. Bridge No. 2 (Bishnumati/Balaju)
a.  Present Traffic                             342            70          41       453
b.  Adjusted Traffic-                           225            46          41        312
Part of traffic to or from Airport (and all traffic to or from Bhaktapur and beyond)
will divert to the new Kathmandu-Bhaktapur road which is presently being constructed
and expected to be completed in 1973. No O/D survey has been taken for the traffic
to and from the Airport, but as the new road will start from the southern part of
Kathmandu it has been assumed that 25% of the present traffic to and from the Airport
will remain on the existing road. This is believed to be a conservative assumption.
The Government is presently discussing with China the construction of the ring road,
For the economic analysis it has been assumed that this will be constructed by 1973.
Based on O/D survey of truck and bus traffic, it is estimated that about 2/3 of pre-
sent truck traffic and all bus traffic would continue to use the present route even
if the ring road was constructed. No O/D survey was made of the light traffic and
this figure is, therefore, notional only.
Source: Roads Department



TABLE 10
N E P A L
HTGHWAY ROJECT
Traffic Growth on Project Road 3ridges
Growth Rates (, p.a.
Period                                   Trucks    Buses
A. Bridge No. 1
1969 - 1972                                 8.0    1o.0
1973 - 1977                                 7.0       8.0
1978 - 1982                                 6.0       6.0
1983 - 1987                                 5.o       5.o
1988 - 1992                                   .0o     h.o
B. Bridge No. 2
1969 - 1972                                10.0      10.0
1973 - 1977                                 8.0       8.o
1978 - 1932                                 6.0       6.o
1983 - 1987                                 5.o       5.o
1988 - 1992                                 4.0       h.0
1/
C. Bridges Nos. 3, L and 5-
1969 - 1972                                15.0       n.a.
1973 - 1973                                10.0       n.a.
1974 - 1992                                  0        n.a.
1/ Ropeway Traffic only
Source: Mission estimates



NEPAL
HIGHlAY PROJECT
Anual Traff'ic Voluwae  with Costs and 9
1972      1973      1974     1975       1976      1977        1978       1979
I.   Annual Traffic Vol-omes
(million annual vehicle -n.)
a)  Fisting Roads
Paved - cars, jeeps             21.83      23.58     25.47    27.50      29.70     32.08       34.65       37.41
trucks                  22.45      23.80     25.23    26.74      28.35     30.05       31.85      33.76
buses                    3.87       4.10      4.34     4.61       4.88      5.17        5.48       5.81
Gravel--cars, jeeps              2.21       2.38      2.58     2.78       3.00      3.24        3.50       3.78
trucks                   1.10       1.17      1.24     1.31       1.39      1.47        1.56       1.66
buses                    o.68       0.72      0.76     0.81       0.85      0.90        0.96       1.02
Earth - cars, jeeps              1.94       2.09      2.26      2.44      2.63       2.85       3.07        3.32
trucks                   0.44       0.46      0.49     0.52       o.55      0.58        0.62       0.65
buses                    o.44       o.46      0.49     0.52       0.55      0.58        0.62       0.65
b) New Roads
Paved - cars, jeeps               0.53      0.58      0.62      0.67      0.73       0.78       0.85        0.92
trucks                   5.48       5.80      6.15     6.52       6.91      7.33        7.77       8.23
buses                    0. 47      0.50      0.53     0.56       o.59      0.63        o.66       0.70
Gravel- cars, jeeps               5.21      5.63      6.o8      6.57      7.09       7.66       8.27        8.93
trucks                   3.56       3.77      4.00     4.24       4.49      4.76        5.05       5.35
buses                    1.39       1.47      1.56     1.66       1.76      1.86        1.97        2.09
Total           71.60     76.51      81.80    87.45      93.47     9192.9     106.888
II. Additional Recurrent Road Mainte-
nane~ (million N Rs)                  2.14      2.34       2.94     2.97      3.00       3.03       3.06        3.10
III. Vehicle Operating Cost Savings
(million N Rs.)                       1.85      5.00      7,o4     8.33       9.74     11.30       13.05       14.95
Source:  Norconsult (consultants)
Roads Department and
Mission estinates



HI G H 1 A   PRO J EC T
Vukizl Opeesti3  Cots
(in as per km, nat of ta--  and cutom duties)
1969               1972                1973                 1974                1975                1976                1977                1978                1979
Ca"  T ruce         C        ksBR                                    os BW,s   0a ra  Trucks    r                 racks  C             es  Cars  Trucks  Ba.e.   Cr, Trocks   uas,
1. Exisin ig FAd
a) Pavd Road0
Without Project      o0h6  1.13  0.96t  0.47  1.16  0.97   0.48  1.18  0.98   0.48  1.19  0.99   0.49  1.20  1.0L   0.49  1.21  1.01   0.5  1.22   1.02   0.50  1.24  1.02   0.51  1.25   1.03
With Project         0 46  1.13       0     46  1.12  0.93   0 4(  1.07  0.89   o.43  1 06  o Be   2, 1.06 0.88   0.43              1.06  0.88   o.43  1.06  0.U    04   1.06  0.88   043  1.06  0.88
Saving per a          --    --           0.01  00   00    0.04  0.11  0.09   0.05  0.13  0.12   0.06  0.14  0.12   0.06  0.15  0.13   0.07  0.16  0.16              0.07  0.18   0.14   0.08  0.19  0.15
b) Gravel Boa.
Without Project      0.62  1.90  1.40   o.64  1.96  1.44   o.64  1.98  1.146   o.65  2.00  1.147   0.66  2.02   .14S   0.66  2.04  1.50   0.67   2.06  1.52   0.68  2.08  1.53   0.69  2.10  1.55
With Project         0.62  1.90  1.40   0 61  1.87  1        0.56  1.73  1.27   0 53  1.62  1.19 V    .5   1.62  1.19   0.5   1.62  1.19            1.62 j    2, O      1.62 L2       0.532  i62  1 19
32.vir per k          --    --    --    0.03  0.09  0.06   0.08  0.25  0.19   0.12  0.38  0.28   0.131  0.40  0.30   0.14  0.42  0.31   0.a4  o.44  0.33   0.15  o.A6  o.34   0.16  0.48  0.36
c ) Brt. Roade
Without Project       0.C   2.45  1.81   0.82  2.52  1.86   0.83  2.55  1.8    0.84  2.57  1.90   0.85  2.60  1.92   0J    2.63  1.9    0.87  2.65  1.S    0.87  2.68  1.98   0.8   2.71  2.00
With Project         0 o          R1    0.S 2.  4.2  1.80   0.73  2.20  lh4  0.68  2.08 (         1         0                  2.08  1       0.68   2.0B  1.    o06    2.60   1      0.68  2.5 21.0
Saving p-r a                              o0.03  o.1o  o.o6   o.lo  0.35  o.24   0.16  o.49  o.036   0.17  0.52  0.38   o.1a  0.55  0.k0   0.19  0.57  0.42   0.19  0.60  0..4   0.20  0.63  0.46
II. 'New Roads
a) Pased Rede
Without Project                           0.43  1.06  o.88   0.44  1.07  0.89   0.44  1.08  0.90   0.44  1.09  0.91   0.45  1.10  0.92   0.45  1.1i  0.93   0.45  1.12  0.93   0.46  1.14  0.9S
With Project                              0.43  1.06  0.88   0.43  1.06  0 88   0.43  1.06  0 88   0.43  1.06  0.8    0.43  1 06  o.ee   °1jL  1.06  0.8    0 _!    L06  oa88   0.13  1.06  ..-
Saving per Ik                   --                           0.01  0.01  0.01   0.01  0.02  0.02   0.01  0.03  0.03   0.02  0.04  0.04   GA02  0.05  0.05   0.02  0.06  0.05   0.03  0.08  0.06
b) Gravel Roads
Without Project                          0.53  1.62  1.19   0.54  1.64  1.20   0.54  1.65  1.21   0.55  1.67   1.23   0.55  1.68  1.24   0.56  1.70  1.25   0.56  1.72   1.26   0.57  1.73  1.28
With Project                              0.53  1.62  1.19   0.53  1.62  1.19   0..3 1.62  1119         5   1.62  1.19   0.53  1.62  1.19   0.53  1.62  1.19   053  1.62  l.V    0.53  1.62  1.19
Saving per k                               --    --    --    0.01  0.02  0.01   0.01  0.03  0.02   0.02  0.05  0.04   0.02  0.06  0.05   0.03  0.08  0.06   0.03  0.10  0.07   0.04  0.11  0.09
(1) Includes passenger cars, Jeeps and vans
(2) Average size truck (5 tons)
(3) Average size bue (35 Seat,)
Source: Norcossult (Consultants) and Mission estimates



ANNEX
NEPAL
HIGHWAY PROJECT
ECONOMIC EVALUATION OF PEDESTRIAN SUSPENSION BRIDGES
A. General
1.        Chapter 5 of this appraisal report includes a brief descriptive
justification of the five pedestrian suspension bridges in the project. The
purpose of this annex is to provide more information concerning these bridges
and to indicate the results of a simplified rate of return analysis.
B. Bridge No. 9
2.        The proposed bridge will be on an important trail connecting the
village of Tansen on the Sunauli-Pokhara road with the villages of Baglung
and Kusma in central Nepal and would replace the existing canoe ferry service.
This service becomes dangerous to operate and is sometimes interrupted during
the four month rainy season. The difficult crossing during this season is
reflected in the sharp increase in ferry fares (from NRs 0.25 to NRs 1.00
for non-porters and NRs 0.50 to NRs 1.50 for porters and their loads) and al-
so in the sharp drop in traffic (by about 90% for non-porters and 50% for
porters) as part of the traffic prefers to make a one-day detour to the near-
est suspension bridge. In one recent accident in 1968 four persons were
killed. During the dry season, traffic on the present ferry is about 300
persons per day, which includes about 130 porters. In the rainy season, how-
ever, traffic falls to only 80 persons per day with about 65 porters. The
porters using the ferry carry an estimated 1,500 tons annually.
3.        The economic benefits from the proposed bridge are:
(i) the eliminated cost of operating the present ferry (the
ferry operator pays a concession fee to the Panchayat
which is considered as a tax and therefore not included
in the operating costs);
(ii) savings in transport cost (NRa 12 per day) for the goods
carried by porters who, during the rainy season, detour
to the nearest suspension bridge;
(iii) benefits to non-porter traffic presently detouring to
the nearest suspension bridge during the rainy season;
(iv) increased economic activity by the traffic generated
from the introduction of a safe and free all-year-round
crossing; and



ANNEX
Page 2
(v) benefits to traffic on a second ferry some 5 km downstream,
part or all of which will divert to the proposed bridge
during the rainy season.
Only benefits (i) and (ii) above have been quantified because of the limited
data available and conceptional difficulties with non-porter traffic.
4.        Taking into account only the quantified benefits and assuming a
5% annual traffic growth, the investment would yield a rate of return of
18% over 20 years. The sensitivity of the rate of return to variations in
the basic assumptions such as (i) a 3% annual traffic growth and (ii) a 10
year life only has been examined; even under this combination of unfavorable
assumptions, the proposed bridge would yield a rate of return of 8%. These
rates of return clearly understate the total economic benefits from the in-
vestment as they do not include the benefits from items (iii), (iv), and (v)
above. The investment in bridge No. 9 is therefore considered justified.
C. Bridges Nos. 6 and 7
5.        Generally similar conditions prevail at the sites of these bridges;
the new bridges would replace two facilities which, according to the Con-
sultants' bridge engineer, are unsafe for pedestrian traffic. They are lo-
cated in the eastern part of Nepal on one of the main trails leading from
the south to the Taplejung district. Traffic on bridge No. 6 is about 650
persons per day, including about 50 porters. On bridge No. 7, traffic is
about 400 persons daily, including about 140 porters. The mountainous na-
ture of the terrain and the rapid river current make crossing by foot or
ferry dangerous during four months of the year. Detours to the nearest sus-
pension bridges are one day (bridge 6) and half-a-day (bridge 7) respectively.
6.        Based only on savings in transport cost as a result of porter traf-
fic not having to make a detour to the nearest suspension bridge, the re-
placement of bridge No. 6 would yield a rate of return of about 22% with the
5% annual traffic growth estimated by the Consultants. With a 3% annual
traffic growth and 10-year life, the investment would yield a rate of return
of about 13%. For bridge No. 7 the rates of return would be about 23% and
14% respectively. The replacements of bridge Nos. 6 and 7 are therefore con-
sidered justified.
D. Bridges Nos. 8 and 10
7.        As in the case of bridge No. 9 these proposed bridges would replace
existing canoe ferries and would result in savings in transport costs as
porters would not have to detour during the rainy season. Daily traffic vol-
umes on each bridge are about 400 persons, including about 200 porters.
During the four mDnth flood period about half of the porter traffic detours
to the nearest suspension bridge to avoid the dangerous ferry crossings. As
a result of the higher porter traffic rates of return on the investment in
these bridges would be slightly higher than for the other bridges (25% and
16% in the case of bridge No. 8 and 33% and 25% in the case of bridge No. 10).



NE PAL
HIGHWAY PROJECT
ROADS DEPARTMENT ORGANIZATION
MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS,
TRANSPORT AND COMMUNICATIONS
............................   ......................
CHIEF ENGINEER
ROADS DEPARTMENT
ACCOUNTS       L                                          ADMINISTRATION
SECTION                                                   SECTION
PLANNING          MAINTENANCE            DESIGN                MECHANICAL         CONSTRUCTION            NCHAYAT
SECTION           SECTION               SECTION               SECTION             SECTION              ASSISTANCE
FIELD DIVISIONS                                           WORKSHOPS
I   2/                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2/
KATHNDU                  +R A
VALLEY &UBNI            HITAURA.         OK  R               KATHMANDUPKHR
HITAURA
1/ THE MINISTRY IS PRESENTLY STUDYING A PROPOSAL TO
TRANSFER THE PANCHAYAT ASSISTANCE TO MAINTENANCE
AND THE PROJECTS SECTION TO CONSTRUCTION.
2/ EXISTING SUB-DIVISION TO BE UPGRADED TO DIVISION STATUS.
IBRD - 4847(R)






v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ;c~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~                                                                                                                                   I N 'D~.CIN                                                                                               s. n w
T--~
~-wi.j-                      ri                                                              Wi                                      IDIA AL>'-                                                                         IlaWA    PIBJEC
0  HE THE   IV  -T ATOHE                                                -                                                                                                 [oct40~~~~~~~~~~TW 
A  VITO  OVA  A                                                   #DVAE                                           .                                                   .                                            I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V
APRIL   T970                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               IBRL)  2876 R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1






PLATE 1: Typical Existing
Road Bridge
(Project Bridge No.2)
PLATE 2
An early type
pedestrian suspension bridge



