CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 223 NEP
Development Credit
Agreement
(Highway Project)
BETWEEN
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED DECEMBER 21, 1970


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 223 NEP
Development Credit
Agreement
(Highway Project)
BETWEEN
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED DECEMBER 21, 1970


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 21, 1970, between KINGDOM OF NEPAL
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Section 5.01 thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE 11
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to two million five hundred thousand
dollars ($2,500,000).
Section 2.02. Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
agree, the amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures
made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed under the
Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that no withdrawal shall be
made on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is not
a member of the Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services
supplied from, such territories.


﻿4
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1975 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.05. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on March 15
and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account in semi-annual installments payable on each
March 15 and September 15 commencing March 15, 198 1 and ending
September 15, 2020, each installment to and including the installment payable
on September 15, 1990 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%)
of such principal amount.
Section 2.07. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with sound administrative, financial and
engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. In carrying out Part D of the Project, the Borrower shall employ
engineering consultants mutually acceptable to the Borrower and the Association
upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, (i) the
goods and services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured on the
basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank
in August 1969, and in accordance with such other procedures as shall be agreed
between the Association and the Borrower, and (ii) contracts for the procurement
of all goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
be subject to the prior approval of the Association.


﻿5
(b)   The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate provision for
insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
against marine, transit and other hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(c)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, contract documents, construction
schedules and work schedules for the Project, and any material modifications or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclo7e the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's representatives to inspect the
Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit ani any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information
*        as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall collect and record, in accordance with
appropriate statistical methods and procedures, such information concerning road
traffic, road construction and road maintenance costs as shall be reasonably required
for proper planning of maintenance, improvements and extensions of its public
roads system.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall take all measures required to introduce
revised regulations limiting the size and weight of vehicles to those consistent with
the capacity of its road network and to ensure that such regulations are effectively
enforced.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall: (i) cause the roads, bridges and other road
structures under the jurisdiction of the Roads Department of the Borrower's


﻿6
A
Ministry of Works, Tra.nsport and Communications within the regions of B:gmati,
Narayani, Gandaki and Lumbini to be adequately maintained and shall cause all
necessary repairs thereof to be made promptly, all in accordance with sound
engineering practices; and (ii) make all necessary arrangements, satisfactory to the
Association, for the timely provision of funds, facilities, services, equipment and
other resources required for that purpose.
Section 4.04. (a) In order to assist in the carrying out of Parts A, B and
C of the Project, the Borrower shall engage the services of the technical assistance
team of qualified and experienced experts described in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement, as such Schedule may be modified by agreement between the Borrower
and the Association. The terms and conditions of employment of such experts
shall be mutually satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association.
(b)   The Borrower shall furnish or cause the Association to be furnished
with the reports and recommendations of the experts referred to in paragraph (a)
of this Section, and shall determine in consultation with the Association the
recommendations to be implemented and the timetable for their implementation.
(c)   Upon completion of the services of the technical assistance team of
experts referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section or by December 31, 1972,
whichever shall be the earlier, the Borrower shall consult with the Association in
order to review the work of the said technical assistance team and to assess the
Borrower's requirements for additional technical assistance services.
ARTICLE V
Consultation and Information
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the administration, operations and financial condition, in respect of
the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof, and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such


﻿7
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained
records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound
accounting practices the operations and financial condition, in respect of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof; and shall furnish or cause to be furnished
to the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the operations and financial condition, in respect of the Project, of
such departments or agencies.
(b)   The Borrower shall promptly inform the Association of any condition
which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service thereof, or the performance
by the Borrower of its other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement.
(c)   The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for accredited
representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories of the Borrower
for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein set forth, then at


﻿8
any subsequent time during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its option,
may by notice to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then outstanding
to be due and payable immediately together with the service charges thereon and
upon any such declaration such principal and service charges shall become due
and payable immediately, anything to the contrary in the Development Credit
Agreement notwithstanding.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The date   April   1,   1971 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 3.04 (b), 4.01,
4.02, 4.03 and 5.02 (a) of this Agreement shall terminate on the date on which
the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty years after
the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Secretary to the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretary to the Ministry of Finance
Singha Durbar
Kathmandu, Nepal
Cable address:
Artha
Kathmandu


﻿9
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
By /s/ Kul Shekhar Sharma
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ J. Burke Knapp
Vice President


﻿10
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
(Expressed in          % of Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)         to be Financed
I.    The replacement of five        500,000            60% of total expendi-
road bridges under                                tures (representing
Part A of the Project                             the estimated foreign
expenditure component)
II.   Equipment and materials        220,000            100% of foreign
for erection of five                              expenditures
pedestrian suspension
bridges under Part B
of the Project
III.  Materials for workshops,      1,550,000           100% of foreign
road maintenance and                              expenditures
workshop equipment, and
provision of workshops,
under Part C of the
Project
IV.   Consulting services             30,000            100% of foreign
under Part D of the                               expenditures
Project
V.    Unallocated                    200,000
TOTAL        2,500,000


﻿11
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term   "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any member of the Bank (other than the Borrower) or of Switzerland;
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower, or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territories
of the Borrower; and
(c)   the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign and local
expenditures.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals may be made in respect of Category IV on account of expenditures
incurred after March 1, 1970; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed by the Borrower or any of its political
subdivisions on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement
*         or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by the percentage
set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph 1 above would exceed
the amount payable net of all such taxes, such percentage shall be reduced to
ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will be withdrawn on account of payments
for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,


﻿12
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above, if the estimate of expenditures under any Category shall
increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available for reallocation to such
Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the percentage
then applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿13
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts A, B, C and D.
Part A.    The replacement of the following five road bridges:
1.   the Dhobi Khola bridge, located on the road between Kathmandu City
and the City airport;
2.    the Bishnumati (Balaju) bridge, located on the road between
Kathmandu and Trisuli; and
3.    the Amlekhganj No. I bridge, the Amlekhganj No. 2 bridge and the
Parwanipur bridge, all located on the road between Birganj and Hitaura.
All road bridges will be designed to Nepal Class A loading (28 ton trucks
with two 14 ton trailers).
Part B.    The supply and erection of five pedestrian suspension bridges at the
following locations:
1.   the Kabeli river, near Phidim village;
2.    the Tamor river, near the town of Taplejung;
3.    the Kali Gandaki river, near Purtighat village;
4.    the Kali Gandaki river, near Ranighat village; and
5.    the Ulli Khola river, near Gulmi village.
The suspension bridges, which will be for the use of pedestrians and domestic
animals only, will be designed for a live load of 400 kg/m2.
Part C. A Four-Year Road Maintenance Program concentrating on the three
divisions of Kathmandu, Hitaura and Pokhara. The Program will include the
improvement of maintenance operations; the acquisition of road maintenance
equipment, together with spare parts for new and existing equipment; and the
construction and extension of workshops, together with the acquisition of workshop
machinery.


﻿14
Part D.    Provision of engineering services to complete detailed engineering, cost
estimates and bidding documents for Parts A and B above.
T  P                                        *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1974.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 3
Technical Assistance Team
Technical assistance will be provided by a team of six experts retained for
an initial period of two years to advise and assist the Borrower in the execution
of Parts A, B and C of the Project. The team will be composed of the following:
(i)        Project Manager
(ii)       Bridge Engineer
(iii)      Highway Engineer
(iv)       Road Maintenance Engineer
(v)        Mechanical Engineer
(vi)       Mechanical Technician


