Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
L/d. o&Z7% AC
Repon No. P-3984-CR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALJENT TO US$ 80.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA
March 5, 1985
Tbis docment has a restricted distributio ad may be used by recipiets only in the pedonarmce o
deir official duties. Its contents may not odtrwise be discosed withu World Bak _auhation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Colon (C)
About 1 percent of transactions are conducted at the official exchange rate of
Colon 20 per US$1.00. All other transactions are conducted at the interbank
rate, which equalled Colon 48.70 per US$1.00, as of March 1, 1985.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
ALUNASA   -  Aluminios Nacionales, S.A.
(National Aluminum Corporation)
BCCR      -  Banco Central de Costa Rica
(Central Bank of Costa Rica)
CACM      -  Central American Common Market
CAT       - Certificado de Abono Tributario
(Export Tax Credit Certificate)
CATSA     - Central Azucarera Tempisque, S.A.
(Tempisque Sugar Mill)
CCSS      - Caja Costarricense de Seguro S cial
(Costa Rican Social Securit, Fund)
CEMPA     - Cementos del Pacifico, S.A.
(Pacific Cement Corporation)
CENPRO    - Centro para la Promocion de las Exportaciones y de las Inversiones
(Export and Investment Promotion Center)
CIEX      -  Certificado de Incremento de las Exportaciones
(Certificate of Increase in Exports)
CNP       - Consejo Nacional de Produccion (National Production Council)
CODESA    -  Corporacion Costarricense de Desarrollo
(Costa Rican Development Corporation)
FECOSA    -  Ferrocarriles de Costa Rica (Costa Rican Railways)
FERTICA   - Fertilizantes de Centroamerica, S.A.
(Fertilizer of Central America)
FOPEX     - Fondo para el Financiamiento de las Exportaciones
(Export Financing Fund)
ICAA      -  Instituto Costarricense de Acueductos y Alcantarillados
(Costa Rican Institute for Water and Sewerage)
ICE       -  Instituto Costarricense de Electricidad
(Costa Rican Electricity Institute)
INFUCOOP  -  Instituto de Fomento Cooperativo
(Cooperative Development Institute)
INS       -  Instituto Nacional de Seguros
(National Institute of Insurance)
RECOPE    -  Refineria Costarricense de Petroleo
(State Oil Refinery)



FOR OMCIAL UE ONLY
COSTA RICA - STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT WAN (SAL)
PRESIDENT'S REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Loan Summary
I.    THE ECONOMY                                                              1
A. Background                                                            1
B. Economic Developments in the Early 1980's                             2
C. Adjustment Efforts and Current Economic Trends                        3
D.  Principal Constraints on Growth                                      7
II.   THE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM                                        9
A. Structural Adjustment Strategy and Key Objectives                     9
B. The Government's Structural Adjustment Program Under SAL I           11
I.   The Export Sector:  Markets, Prospects and Trade Policies       11
II.   Improved Management of the Public Sector and Concrol of
Public Spending                                                 21
III.   External Debt Management and Improved Creditworthiness          29
C. Second Phase of the Structural Adjustment Program                    30
D. Technical Assistance Support for the Structural
Adjustment Program                                                  33
E.  Matrix Summarizing Structural Adjustment Program                    35
III.  PROSPECTS OF THE COSTA RICAN ECONOMY AND
EFFECTS OF THE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM                            40
A. Economic Recovery Prospects Under the
Structural Adjustment Program                                       40
B.  "With and Without- Comparison                                       41
C.  Benefits and Risks of the Structural Adjustment Program             43
IV.   THE PROPOSED LOAN                                                       44
V.    BANK GROUP OPERATIONS                                                   49
VI.   LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY                                         50
VII.  RECOMMENDATION                                                          50
ANNEXES
I.    Social and Economic Data                                                51
II.   Status of Bank Group Operations                                         56
III,  Supplementary Project Data Sheet                                        58
IV.   Development Policy Statement                                            59
Ti                       b         beudosed by ripi Wdd e ntsoyin  theperonmaceor
fth ordxiW duties. its cotts may not oderwioebe dsjkmd without World Bank authoriztiL



COSTA RICA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN (SAL)
Loan Summary
Borrower:       Republic of Costa Rica.
Loan Amount:    US$80.0 million equivalent in various currencies.
Terms:          17 years, including 4 years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Description:    The proposed loan would support the Government's Structural
Adjustment and Economic Recovery Program, the principal
objective of which is to promote a vigorous recovery of the
economy through renewed export-led growth, with particular
emphasis on expanding exports to third markets outside the
Central American Common Market (CACK). The main areas
covered by the first phase of the Goverrnent's medium-term
program include: (a) initial changes in the trade regime as
part of a process to reduce effective protection and provide
increased incentives to exports; and (b) steps to curtail
further growth of the public sector and improve the
efficiency of public sector institutiors and programs.
Subsequent phases of the Structural Adjustment Program would
concentrate on further reducing effective protection,
improving the efficiency of the banking system, and
strengthening the policy and incentive framework in
agriculture. The loan would finance all imports, with the
exception of luxury items and military goods.
Benefits        The Structural Adjustment Program is expected to result in
and Risks:      higher levels of economic growth,-employment and export
earnings while also enhancing the country's ability to
withstand future external economic shocks by diversifying
its productive structure and exports. The projected growth
and improved balance of payments performance will also
strengthen Costa Rica's creditworthiness and facilitate
additional external financial assistance.
The principal risks arise from uncertainties in both the
external and internal enviroment. Adverse developments in
commodity prices and difficulties in expanding into new
markets are the main external uncertainties, while the
country's dispersion of political power and high degree of
consensus politics are internal factors that could delay the
pace of reform and restrict the scope of institutional
change.



- ii -
Estimated            The proceeds of the loan would be disbursed in two
Disbursements:       tranches, US$40 million equivalent upon effectiveness, and
the remaining US$40 million equivalent after a performance
review to be held within six months of effectiveness. The
full loan amount is expected to be disbursed within nine
months of effectiveness.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan to
the Republic of Costa Rica for the equivalent of US$80.0 million, in support of
its Structural Adjustment Program. The loan would have a term of 17 years,
including four years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
I.  THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report entitled, "Costa Ricar-Curreut Economic Position
and Prospects' (No. 3193-CR) and a special report entitled "Costa Rica: Trade
Incentives and Export Diversification" (No. 3195-CR) were distributed to the
Executive Directors on November 3 and 5, 1980, respectively. Since then, Bank
missions have visited Costa Rica frequently, and detailed economic work has been
undertaken in connection with preparation of the proposed Structural Adjustment
Loan. The main findings of these missions are summarized below. Country data
sheets are attached as Annex I.
A. Background
3.        Costa Rica's economy relies largely on exports of agricultural
commodities (about two-thirds of total exports), and is heavily dependent on
imports of intermediate and capital goods, as well as some essential food items
(especially wheat). This dependence on commodity exports makes the economy
vulnerable to sharp fluctuations in the terms of trade. As a result, GDP
growth, the balance of payments, and the country's fiscal position are subject
to frequent crises. Despite this, the long-term growth performance has been
satisfactory, with Costa Rica enjoying growth rates of close to 6 percent a year
during the 60s and 70s. Both agriculture and industry played important roles in
this expansion, with agriculture growing at an average 4.2 percent per annum and
industry at 8.8 percent per annum. Coffee, the main export crop, benefitted
from a substantial productivity increase; banana production trebled between 1967
and 1973 and became the second export crop. Manufacturing, in particular,
expanded from a small base to become one of the largest sectors in the economy
with the strong boost provided by the Central American Common Market (CACH).
4.        Although the country suffered periodic downturns in export prices
during the 1960s and 1970s, these were usually offset by monetary and fiscal
actions focused on temporarily maintaining employment and incomes. Major
devaluations and the application of more careful demand management policies to
restore equilibrium to the balance of payments were in large part avoided
because export prices usually recovered in time.



5.        As private sector activitias expanded rapidly, the Govermnent of this
small (2.4 million population), middle-income country focused mainly on
providing infrastructure and meeting social needs. Economic growth was
accompanied by substantial progress in the health ard social sectors; for
example, waterborne diseases were controlled and extensive social welfare
programs and medical care facilities were established, with widespread social
security coverage. The education system also expanded rapidly, with enrollment
ratios reachirg about 100 percent for primary education, over 40 percent for
secondary education, and about 20 percent for universities. Consequently, the
country now possesses one of the best educated work forces and most equitable
income distributions in Latin America. These social and economic achievements,
coupled with Costa Rica's stroig demoeratic tradition, have been key factors in
the country's ability to maintain social and political stability, despite the
serious deterioration in the economy and in the overall standard of living that
has taken place since 1980.
B. Economic Developments in the Early 1980s
6.        During 1980-82, the Costa Rican economy and finances deteriorated
sharply. GDP grew only 0.8 percent in 1980, and declined by about 2.3 percent
and 7.5 percent in 1981 and 1982, respectively, with real per capita GNP fallirg
from about US$1,560 in 1979 to about US$1,280 in 1982.1/ Inflation, as
measured by the consumer price index, speeded up from Th8 percent in 1980 to
37 percent in 1981, and to 90 percent in 1982. Real average wages declined by
about 30 percent during 1980-82, to less than the 1976 level. Open unemployment
increased from 6 percent *in 1980 to 9 percent in 1982.
7.        The slowdown in economic activity resulted in part from the
deterioration in Costa Rica's terms of trade-which began when coffee prices
fell in 1978 and continued when petroleum prices increased in 1979-coupled with
diminishing demand for its exports, particularly in the CACM. However, the main
cause of the crisis was heavy reliance on expansionary demand management
policies. Faced with losses in real income, the Government initially responded
by expanding public expenditures. The overall deficit of the non-financial
public sector averaged 13 percent of GDP durirng 1979-81, with close to one-half
of this originating with the public enterprises.  The Goverment absorbed
increasing proportions of domestic credit and borrowed heavily abroad to cover
both the fiscal and balance of payments deficits. The debt service burden
climbed accordingly. At the same time, as international inflation slowed in
1980-81, domestic prices rose sharply, and the Colon became overvalued.  The
Colon exchange rate, fixed at Colon 8.6 per US$1.00 for many years, was finally
allowed to float late in 1980. Capital flight was massive and a black market
1/ World Bank Atlas Methodology; base 1980-82.



emerged. Both imports and exports contracted and arrears on private payments
grew significantly. A rapid devaluation followed during 1981, and by 1982 the
average rate was Colon 38.5 per US$1.00, a devaluation of about 350 percent.2/
Despite the seriousness of the situation, the Government failed three times
(between March 1980 and December 1981) to reach a lasting agreement with the
IMF, mainly because of its inability to control public expenditures.
8.        Costa Rica's public and publicly guaranteed, external medium- and
long-term debt, outstanding and disbursed, and repayable in foreign currency,
increased sharply from about US$1 billion in 1978 to US$2.5 billion in 1982,
including foreign commercial bank debt, which increased from US$388 million in
1978 to US$1.3 billion at the end of 1982. As a consequence, the public debt
service ratio, which averaged 10 percent of exports of goods and services during
1970-77, increased to about 23 percent in 1979, and to 32 percent in 1980. The
cost of servicirg this debt became unmanageable, and Costa Rica accumulated
arrears in 1980 and early 1981, until it suspended most of its principal and
interest payments to other than multilateral institutions in August 1981. By
end-19 81 arrears totaled US$359 million. Actual debt payments reached only 21
percent and 15 percent of total exports of goods and services in 1981 and 1982.
These would have been 51 and 54 percent, respectively, if payments had remained
current. Net international reserves declined by US$470 million in 1981, similar
to the loss experienced in 1980.
C. Adjustment Efforts and Current Economic Trends
Initial Stabilization Efforts, 1982-83
9.        Confronted with the country's worst economic crisis since the 1930s,
the Morge administration, which took office in May 1982, undertook a series
of fiscal and other measures needed to stabilize the economy, with the overall
objectives of containing inflationary pressures and resuming foreign public debt
service payments. As a major part of this effort, the Government introduced new
taxes, adopted a flexible excharge rate policy, raised tariffs for public
utilities substantially and increased the price of petroleum derivatives. The
Govermnent also confirmed its commitment to honor its foreign debt, and partial
payments of interest on its commercial debt were resumed in July 1982. Based
largely on these initiatives, the IMF approved a one-year Stand-by on December
20, 1982 in the amount of SDR92.25 million.
10.       In addition to embarking on a short-term stabilization and austerity
program, the Goverment also reached agreement with both its commercial and
bilateral creditors in an initial round of debt reschedulirgs. With regard to
2/ In November 1983, the interbank rate, determined by the Central Bank, and
the free market rate, which applied mainly to tourism and non-priority
imports, were unified at the level of the free market rate, which stood at
Colon 48.70 per US$1.00, as of March 1, 1985.



-4-
bilateral debt, the Paris Club agreed in January 1983 to reschedule on favorable
terms 85 percent of arrears plus payment of interest and principal through 1983,
with about US$120 million of the total bilateral debt eligible for
restructuring. An agreement with commercial bank creditors was reached in
September 1983. It provides for a rescheduling of US$573 million, consisting of
all principal falling due in 1983 and 1984, plus arrears on amortization and
interest, with the banks extending new trade credits (to be utilized over a
three-year period) equal to 50 percent of the interest in arrears (US$390
million). Largely as a result of these arrangements, almost all external debt
arrears were eliminated by the end of 1983.
11.       An improvement in the economic situation took place during 1983,
reflecting the corrective measures initiated by the Govermnent. GDP grew by 2.4
percent, compared with a drop of 7.5 percent in 1982.  Inflation was reduced to
about 33 percent, compared with 90 percent in 1982. The free market and banking
rates were unified by the end of 1983 at the higher free market rate; the
foreign trade balance improved substantially (from a negative US$527 million in
1980 to a negative US$25 million in 1982, although worsening to a negative
USS121 million in 1983); and the overall deficit of the non-financial public
sector fell from 14.3 percent of GDP in 1981 to 9.0 percent in 1982, and to
3.4 percent in 1983. In addition, there was some repatriation of private
capital from abroad and the net international reserves position of the Central
Bank improved.
12.       Despite the progress made during 1983, serious problems persisted.
Open unemployment remained at about 9 percent; exports remained stagnant; the
current account of the balance of payments weakened with respect to 1982;
domestic credit to the public sector was higher than targeted; and power tariff
increases were partially rescinded in June 1983, as a result of intense popular
pressures. Furthermore, the Central Bank aceumulated heavy losses from paying
most of the expenses originating in the direct interest costs and exchange
losses associated with the rescheduling agreement with foreign commercial banks,
particularly since public sector agencies did not fully provide the counterpart
in Colones needed to service their debt obligations. Central Bank losses
equalled about 5.6 percent of GDP in 1982 and 4.6 percent in 1983. This, in
fact, represented additional Central Bank credit to the public sector, which
delayed the necessary adjustment of the economy to a level of domestic demand
more consistent with the country's reduced national income.
Performance in 1984
13.       Although export earnings rose slightly, mainly because of higher
coffee prices, Costa Rica's overall fiscal, monetary and balance of payments
performance deteriorated in the first half of 1984. This reflected: (i) a
rapid expansion of bank credit to the private sector without the necessary
growth in deposits; (ii) a more expansionary fiscal policy marked by a one-third
increase (at current prices) in Central Goverment expenditures; and
(iii) delays in obtaining additional external assistance owing mainly to
difficulties in securing rapid legislative approval of key measures needed to
trigger such assistance. As a consequence, the country's already limited net



-5-
international reserves declined sharply, and a foreign exchange liquidity crisis
developed in mid-1984. These developments also made inoperable a stabilization
program prepared in March 1984. The immediate crisis was temporarily resolved
through a standstill arrangement with foreign commercial banks reached in
mid-June and disbursement of additional U.S. bilateral assistance durinRg July
and August 1984.
14.       In view of these difficulties, the Government took additional fiscal
and balance of payment actions in mid-1984. These included new tax measures
comprising increases in the rates of selective consumption taxes, a 10 percent
tax on imports previously exempted from import duties, a modification of the
corporate income tax, and a 0.5 percent administration charge on tax revenues
collected by the Government on behalf of other public entities. As a result of
this tax package and other measures introduced earlier in 1984, tax revenues are
expected to increase from 17.3 percent of GDP in 1983 to 20.5 percent in 1985.
The Central Bank also raised the basic deposit rate applied to six-month time
deposits from 18 to 20 percent; increased reserve requirements through the
establishment of a marginal reserve requirement of 50 percent; and raised local
currency deposit requirements for all requests for foreign exchange from 50 to
100 percent. As a result of these measures, some improvement in performance
took place during the second half of 1984. GDP growth is expected to be about
3.4 percent, and inflation about 13 percent. Exports increased significantly,
mostly owing to better coffee prices and some improvement in non-traditional
exports. Private investment also showed some signs of recovery.
Stabilization Program for 1985
15.       Based in part on the above actions, the Government reached agreement
with the IMF in January 1985 on a 13-month Stand-by arrangement (from March 1985
through March 1986) in an amount equivalent to SDR54 million. This package is
expected to be approved by the IMF Board in March 1985. The main objective of
the program is to brirg about a significant reduction in the current account
balance of payments deficit and a replenishment of the foreign exchange reserves
of the Central Bank. The targets for 1985 are: (i) a reduction of the annual
average inflation rate to 11 percent; (ii) a reduction of the current account
balance of payments deficit (excluding official transfers) to 9.0 percent of
GDP; and (iii) a nonrfinancial public sector savings of 6.5 percent of GDP and
reduction of the overall deficit to 1.5 percent of GDP. Net losses of the
Central Bank are being reduced to 4.5 percent of GDP. The overall public sector
deficit, including Central Bank losses, would be reduced from 8.0 percent of GDP
in 1983 to 5.8 percent in 1985.
16.       To support its stabilization and structural adjustment efforts, the
Government has secured substantial additional external financing, most of which
is expected to be disbursed during 1985. This includes US$75.0 million from
foreign commercial banks (coupled with a rescheduling of 1985 and 1986
maturities, see para.18), and US$190 million in further USAID assistance. These
inflows, together with the IMF program and the proposed Structural Adjustment
Loan would bring the total financial package to about US$400 million.



- 6-
External Debt and Creditworthiness
17.       Costa Rica's mediumr and long-term external public debt (outstanding
and disbursed) repayable in foreign currency as of December 31, 1983 was US$3.3
billion, US$4.2 billion if undisbursed commitments are included. The Bank Group
held 6.3 percent of the outstanding and disbursed debt repayable in foreign
currency. Of the other major lenders, IDB held 7.5 percent; CAREI, 2.7 percent;
Venezuela, 7.8 percent; the U.S. Government, 9.2 percent; and suppliers, bond
holders and private banks, 56.7 percent. Other bilateral debt made up the
balance.
18.       As a result of the reschedulings agreed in 1983, Costa Rica's debt
servicing difficulties eased temporarily. However, as analyzed in Part III,
further debt relief is essential if the debt situation is to become manageable.
On the assumption that the economy will perform as projected, Costa Rica needs,
as a minimum, to roll over commercial bank and bilateral amortizations averaging
about US$300 million per annum during 1985-90, with longer grace and maturities
that previously received. As a first step towards this objective, Costa Rica
reached agreement in January 1985 with its commercial bank creditors on a
rescheduling of maturities falling due in 1985 and 1986. This agreement, which
the banks have linked to satisfactory progress under the IMF Program and
Structural Adjustment Program, provides for longer maturities and lower interest
rates than previously agreed, with a term of 10 years, including 3 grace, and
interest payable at 1 5/8 over LIBOR or over an adjusted US domestic CD rate.
With respect to bilateral debt, the Government intends to return to the Paris
Club in 1985, once the Stand-by arrangement has been approved by the IMF Board.
19.       Taking into account the rescheduling arrangements already agreed, and
assuming continued rollovers of amortization payments with commercial banks and
bilateral donors throughout the rest of the decade, Costa Rica's debt service
would be sustainable at about 37 percent of exports of goods and services in
1985 and 29 percent in 1990, provided that the country continues to receive
significant bilateral assistance on concessional terms. Substantial capital
inflows from donor countries and international financial institutions are also
needed during the 1980s to support the balance of payments and ensure adequate
resources for renewed growth. Assuming implementation of the Structural
Adjustment Program, gross capital inflows for the 1985-90 period from official
lenders, are expected to average US$330 million a year, including transfers
(grants) averaging US$100 million a year. On a net basis, official lending
would average US$200 million per annum, with an estimated US$100 million coming
from bilateral sources, largely the United States. This compares with an
average net official lending of US$154 million per year during 1982-83, with
grants averaging US$24 million per year for the same period. Additional capital
requirements would be met largely through direct private investment, which is
expected to average US$48 million per year for the 1985-90 period (See Annex I,
page 5). Costa Rica would also be expecced to maintain an active IMF program.



D. Principal Constraints on Growth
20.       Although Costa Rica's economic difficulties result in part from
external factors beyond the country's control, as noted earlier, the principal
impedinents to restoring renewed growth are found in several key areas of public
policy. First, the anti-export bias of the trade regime has promoted high cost
import substitution manufacturing activities for the regional and domestic
markets at the expense of fostering exports to markets outside the region. This
has created an industrial sector which is highly import-intensive, anI one which
is poorly equipped to compete effectively in international markets.
?urthermore, the limited managerial skills and marketing experience of local
firms also constrains the ability of the industrial sector to rapidly expand
production for new markets. Second, the extensive size of the public sector and
lack of effective control over public expenditures has adversely affected
private savings, and increasingly restricted the resources available to the
private sector to expand production and develop new sources of growth. Third,
the country's extremely high debt service requirements will absorb a substantial
share of domestic savings in the years to come, thus further limiting the
resources available for new production and growth. These principal constraints
on growrh are compounded by an inefficient public banking system which further
limits the availability of resources for private productive activities. In
addition, the performance of agriculture, which remains a key productive sector
and an essential element for any successful export drive, has been
unsatisfactory during the last few years. This results largely from the policy
and incentive framework embodied in the trade regime, as well as from a complex
system of state subsidies and controls on agricultural production, which has
hampered its growth as well as productivity increases.
21.       Trade Regime.  Prospects for sustained economic recovery are closely
linked to the adequacy of the trade regime and policies to promote export
growth. Since traditioual export agriculture and manufacturing exports to the
CACM can no longer provide a sufficient stimulus to growth, future growth and a
healthier balance of payments will depend largely on the country's ability to
increase exports of non-traditional goods to markets outside the region, while
ensurirg that the share of traditional exports in export markets is at least
maintained, if not expanded, depending on market conditions.
22.       In order to achieve this objective, Costa Rica needs to:  (i) shift
the orientation of its trade and incentive regime-currently heavily biased in
favor of the domestic and regional markets--so that it no longer encourages
production for these markets at the expense of exporting to third markets
outside the region, including actions to reduce the existing high effective
protection provided by the CACH framework, and better utilize the exchange rate
as an instrument for export promotion; (ii) minimize the negative impact of
other public policies which have tended to reduce the profitability and
competitiveness of the export sector, such as high export and payroll taxes;
(iii) assist industries to modernize and upgrade their managerial capacity,
improve the quality of export products, and strengthen their marketing know-how;
and (iv) attract foreign investment in export industries. All of these elements



- 8 -
require close attention if Costa Rica is to improve the profitability of the
export sector, stimulate locaL and foreign entrepreneurs, and expand exports of
non-traditional goods to third markets.
23.       Public Sector Role in the Economy.  The secord major rorstraint on
renewed growth arises from the large size of the public sector, which absorbs a
significant share of the country's limited resources. Over the past 30 years,
Costa Rica has created a complex array of public sector institutions and
programs, with public sector employment expanding from 13 percent of the labor
force in 1963 to about 19 percent in the early 1980s. These efforts have
produced a commendable level of public services, including a well developed
physical and social infrastructure, but have resulted in an administrative and
bureaucratic structure which is now far beyond the capacity of the country to
finance-especially given its large debt service needs-or manage in a
cost-effective manner, given existing managerial capacity and control
mechanisms. Extensive earmarking of revenues has contributed to the problem of
controlling public expenditures. Overall general goverunent expenditures now
account for 31 percent of GDP, excluding public enterprises and financial
institutions.   The public sector's disproportionate use of resources in the
economy severely constrains efforts to revitalize the private sector and
increase production and exports.
24.       Servicing of the External Debt.  The third mejor constraint is the
country's high debt service requirements, with debt service ratios as a share of
domestic savings and exports remaining high during the coming decade, given the
size and maturity structure of the public external debt. Servicing of this debt
will require a large share of domestic savings, which will act as a major
constraint on growth. To alleviate this constraint, the country will need
additional reschedulings and the continued inflow of substantial external
resources on concessional terms.
25.       Access to Credit.  Costa Rica's growth potential has been further
constrained by the use of monetary and credit policies to accommodate the
expansion of the public sector tbrough virtually unrestricted access to domestic
credit, to the detriment of private sector activities. This problem has become
more acute since 1981, given the substantial losses accumulated by the Central
Bank (see para. 12). While credit to the private sector represented about
two-thirds of net domestic assets of the banking system in 1978, this fell to
about one-fifth in 1984. Not much change is foreseen for 1985, even though
Improved access to credit by the private sector is essential to the reactivation
of productive activities and export growth. This, combined with the inefficient
and cumbersome banking practices followed by the public banks, further impedes
private sector access to timely and adequate credit. Moreover, the public banks
face serious arrearage problems brought on largely by inadequate collection
policies, which severely limits the availability of new credit, particularly to
new producers. Since the small, often family-oriented local entrepreneur, has
in the past been accustomed to obtaining credit from the public banks on a
subsidized basis, with minimal penalties for nonrpayment, the entrepreneur has
been, and is reluctant, to risk his own capital resources. Credit scarcity
therefore becomes a more important impediment to growth.



- 9 -
26.       Agriculture Incentives.  The incentive system as applied up to now has
favored manufacturing over agriculture. This discrimination favored a
transfer of productive resources from agriculture to manufacturing and forced
the Goverrnment to intervene in domestic markets for agricultural commodities and
factors of production. Investment in agriculture deelined. Beef, sugar and
cacao production showed marked inefficiencies. Price setting for basic
commodities in order to provide cheap food to consumers and remunerate farmers
adequately, resulted in high administrative costs and fiscal losses. In this
context, the basic problem in agriculture is one of undoing the negative effects
of the incentive system and Government interventions in the market place. This,
together with increased credit and more adequate extension and research, is
essential to promote new agricultural exports, an area in which the country has
a particular comparative advantage.
II. THE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
A. Structural Adjustment Strategy and Key Objectives
27.       Strategy and Objectives.  As indicated by the constraints noted above,
economic growth in Costa Rica has faltered because its traditional growth model
has lost its momentum, and because further expansionary public policies would
only aggravate existing financial and balance of payments imbalances. The
current situation is therefore not a repetition of previous cycles in the
economy, but a deeper crisis which calls for major changes in approach and
innovative solutions requiring difficult political decisions.
28.       Recognizing that the country's continued heavy reliance on its
traditional commodity exports, as well as growth of manufacturing within the
CACH framework, is no longer sufficient to sustain a satisfactory rate of
growth, and that new public sector programs can no lorger be utilized to
stimulate the economy and ease economic difficulties, the Govermnent has
designed a new development strategy oriented towards: (i) developing new
exports of agricultural and manufactured products, with emphasis on products
with higher domestic value added; (ii) strengthenirg private sector initiatives
and entrepreneurial capacity to increase domestic production; and (iii)
achieving a reduction in the relative size of the public sector and a better
balance in the use of resources between the public and private sectors. Given
its reliance on private sector activities, implementation of this strategy
requires the establishment of a satisfactory incentive framework through lowered
tariff protection, strengthened export incentives for manufactured and
agricultural products and an improved banking system to better allocate
resources between the public and private sectors and within productive sectors.
It also requires an intensified effort to curtail growth in public expenditures
and improve the cost effectiveness of public institutions and programs.



- 10 -
29.       While export-oriented growth is not new, the effort to expand exports
that is now required must be considerably more intensive than in the past if the
economy is to be set on a path towards recovery, thus enabling import capacity
to be expanded, and the severe constraints imposed by the high external debt
service burden to be gradually eased. In addition to establishing the correct
policy framework, the effort must also be accompanied by an equally strong
effort on the part of private entrepreneurs, with Government support, to find
and open up new markets, develop or improve products, modernize and restructure
plant and equipment, and improve management and operations.
30.        Length of Recovery Period.  Given the severity of the crisis, the
recovery process will initially be slow, especially taking into account the
time needed to make firms more competitive and outward-oriented, as well as the
difficulties associated with penetrating into and expanding export markets, and
the high debt service burden. The process of change will also take place in the
context of Costa Rica's democratic political system, which, given the open
nature of society and the importance of consensus politics, may slow down the
speed with which changes can be introduced, especially if social costs are to be
kept within reasonable bounds. As a consequence, even with the extensive policy
and institutional changes to be introduced, and the active participation of the
private sector in expanding productive activities, only a modest recovery can be
expected in the initial years of the Structural Adjustment Program. More
substantive results should not be expected until the late 1980s, when the new
economic structure is firmly in place. During this transition period, Costa
Rica will continue to need substantial external support, including further
rescheduling of its external debt on reasonable terms (see para. 18). Without
this support and a determined and timely effort on the part of Costa Rica to
remove the key constraints to growth detailed earlier (paras. 20-26), the
recovery process will take much longer.
31.       Phasing and Timing.  To carry out the strategy summarized above, the
Government has prepared a Structural Adjustment Program, as set forth in the
Statement of Development Policy attached as Annex IV to this report. The
Structural Adjustment Program program constitutes a major departure from the
strategies and policies pursued by Costa Rican governments over the past 30
years. As such, it addresses a broad range of policy issues and key constraints
on growth, which the Government is committed to resolving through the execution
of a phased program of reform over the medium term.
32.       The first phase of the Structural Adjustment Program, being supported
by the proposed Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL I), concentrates primarily on
actions in three key areas. First, the measures necessary to establish an
incentive system favoring exports and to eliminate constraints impeding their
more rapid growth. Second, the steps needed to control the size of the public
sector, improve its efficiency and gradually reduce its claim on the country's
limited resources. These actions are essential if the private sector is to
receive the resources needed for stimulating renewed growth and exports on a
continuing basis. Third, taking the actions needed to ensure a continuing
inflow of external resources to support the Structural Adjustment Program,
including compliance with agreements already reached for bilateral, commercial
bank and multilateral support during 1985.



- 11 -
33.       The second and following phases of the Government's Structural
Adjustment Program, which it hopes will be supported by subsequent Bank SALs,
will concentrate on three other areas of major concern, namely the banking
system, the policy framework in agriculture, and the cost-effectiveness of
social security, health and education programs, while continuing actions
initiated under Phase I. In these areas, the Government has already taken some
limited action but it needs more time to develop specific measures and
programs. The proposed Technical Assistance Loan, being submitted concurrently
with the proposed SAL, will provide additional support to the Government in
preparing specific measures and further analysis for this purpose.
34.       The details of the Structural Adjustment Program being implemented
under the proposed SAL are given below in Part B. Part C describes the
additional actions needed and being prepared for subsequent phases of the
Structural Adjustment Program. Part D outlines the technical assistance being
provided to support the program, and Part E provides a summary of the Structural
Adjustment Program.
B. The Government's Structural Adjustment Program Under SAL I
35.       Within the three key areas noted above (para. 32), the proposed SAL I
would concentrate on supporting essential Government actions with respect to:
i) export promotion, competitiveness of the export sector, import tariff and
industrial sector Policies; (ii) controlling the size and improving management
of the public sector, including better programming of Public sector investments
and increased mobilization of resources; and (iii) improved external debt
management and creditworthiness.  While implementing these actions, the
Government is also committed to minimizing the economic and social impact of key
adjustment measures through the development of specific Programs to ease the
transition, including assistance in restructuring the industrial sector and
retraining of workers.
I. The Export Sector: Markets, Prospects and Trade Policies
36.       The first phase of the Government's Structural Adjustment Program in
the trade sector, concentrates on revamping the trade policy framework in order
to shift the bias of the trade regime away from the domestic and regional
context and encourage growth of exports outside the region. Background on Costa
Rica's agricultural and manufacturing exports is provided in paras. 37 to 44
below, with the principal impediments to export growth indicated in para. 45.
The main elements of the adjustment effort in the Export Sector are given in
paras. 46 to 62 below.
37.       Agriculture Exports.  Exports of goods and services in 1983 accounted
for about two-fifths of GDP. The bulk of this trade continues to be based on
agricultural exports, which make up about two-thirds of total exports, with
bananas and coffee contributing over one-balf of exports. The remaining
agriculture exports consist of other traditional exports-beef, sugar and cacao,
accounting for 6 percent of exports--followed by a variety of non-traditional
agricultural exports, including rice, flowers, macadamia nuts, and a variety of



- 12 -
fruits and vegetables, as well as fish and seafood, which account for another 6
percent of exports. The principal markets for Costa Rica's major primary
conmodities are almost entirely in the United States and Europe, with the bulk
of coffee exports going to Europe, especially Germany and the bulk of banana
exports and much smaller, beef, sugar, and cacao exports, going to the United
States. The market for nonr-traditional agricultural exports, mainly fruits and
vegetables, flowers, and seafood items, is also primarily the United States,
with some exports going to Europe as well.
38.       Exports of traditional agricultural commodities will continue to
constitute the bulk of Costa Rican exports, although their growth prospects in
the next few years are limited, owing mainly to international market constraints
and increasing alternative sources of supply, as well as difficulties, in some
cases, in rapidly increasing production. For coffee, the main concern is
surplus production, given high yields and limitations on sales under
international quota arrangements. For bananas, only limited growth can be
expected depending on market conditions. Prospects for sugar and beef exports
are also limited. For sugar, Costa Rica should be able to continue filling the
United States quota and exporting to the world market, as it did in 1983, but
low world prices will likely discourage any further increase in production. For
beef, US prices are now lower than Costa Rican internal prices, but production
can be expanded; this depends on adequate credit to expand herds and efforts to
Improve herd and pasture management. For cacao, increased production and
exports depend mainly on progress in disease control, coupled with
Implementation of a program to rehabilitate and expand existing plantations.
39.       With respect to non-traditional agricultural exports, important
increases have occurred in recent years in exporting various seafood items,
vegetables and fruits to the United States and Europe. In particular, macadamia
nuts, citrus fruit, pineapple, yucca, flowers/plants and chayote are already
important while melons, papaya, palm hearts and tomatoes offer good export
possibilities. Future growth will require substantial improvement in
organization and management, perhaps with the involvement of foreign investors,
as well as further improvements in quality control and marketing. Although
prospects for these commodities are reasonably good, their contribution to total
export earnings will remain small for some time, given their present limited
base and the time needed to bring some of the tree crops into full production.
40.       Manufactured Exports.  The Costa Rican economy underwent a fundamental
structural change during the last two decades, as manufacturing became the
largest productive sector. When Costa Rica joined the CACM in 1963, there was
little production in many industries. By 1980, however, imports were only
supplying about 10-15 percent of total domestic needs for the following: food
products, beverages, tobacco, clothing, wood products and furniture, with little
scope for further import substitution. The structure of production has also
changed considerably. While food products, beverages, and tobacco, together
with textiles, leather, and wood products, accounted for over four-fifths of
total manufacturing production in 1960, they accounted for only about two-thirds
in 1982. The sectors that expanded the most were chemicals, rubber and plastics
products and metal-mechanic industries, which accounted for one-fifth of total



- 13 -
manufacturing production by 1982. Growth of these industries increased the
average import intensity of manufacturing and introduced greater rigidity in the
balance of payments. As a consequence, compressiqg imports entails depressing
the level of manufacturing activity and employment.
41.       Manufacturing production is oriented basically for the domestic Costa
Rican market, which now absorbs about four-fifths of the gross valuje of
production. About one-fifth is exported, accounting for about one-third of
total exports. These exports, including both industrial and processed
agricultural goods, have grown at a high rate during the last 20 years,
averaging 20 percent per annum in real terms during 1962-1982. Their
participation in total exports jumped from less than 5 percent during the early
1960s to 22 percent at the end of the decade, reaching US$342 million in 1981.
42.       Although manufactured exports (excluding sugar and beef) were about
equally divided between Central America and the rest of the world in 1983,
Central America remains the major single market for manufactured exports.
Chemicals are the most important export to CACM countries, followed by machinery
and equipment, textiles, garments and leather. The total value of manufactured
exports to the CACM reached US$270 million in 1980. Since then, however, the
total value of this trade has declined, totalling only about US$187 million in
1983. This reflects the increasing economic difficulties and payment
constraints in the region. In this context, prospects for regional trade are
likely to remain limited over the medium term.
43.       Manufactured exports to third countries remained small, through the
1960s and 1970s. Recently, however, development of these exports has
accelerated, reaching an estimated US$130 million in 1983. Chemicals, garments
and leather goods, and food products dominate this market. On the basis of the
Structural Adjustment Program, total manufactured exports to third countries are
expected to reach about US$270 million at current prices by 1990. This assumes
a well coordinated and consistent effort by Costa Rican entrepreneurs to develop
new products and open up new markets, the availability of adequate levels of
financing both in foreign and local currency, and the maintenance of a
satisfactory package of incentives, including a realistic exchange rate and a
significant reduction of effective protection.
44.       Costa Rica's manufactured exports are concentrated in a few key
sectors rather than being spread over a variety of industries (See Table 1
below). The main exporting groups are: (i) foodstuffs, beverages, and tobacco
(27 percent of manufactured exports); (±i) chemical, rubber, and plastic
products (24 percent): (iii) metal mechanic products (16 percent); and (iv)
textiles, clothing, and leather goods (12 percent). These sectors are expected
to provide the bulk of new exports for new markets, partially through a
reorientation of existing plants and partially through new investments, both
local and foreign, particularly in agro-industries.



- 14 -
Table 1: COSTA RICA: MANUFACTURED EXPORTS BY DESTINATION, 1982
(Percentage Distribution)
CENTRAL     REST OF THE
AMERICA        WORLD        TOTAL
Foodstuffs, beverages, and tobacco                 7            46          27
Textiles, clothing, leather goods                 17             8          12
Wood and furniture                                 3             4           3
Paper and printing                                 7            2            4
Chemicals, rubber and plastics                    33            14          24
Non-metallic minerals                              3            4            4
Basic metals                                       1             1            1
Metallic products, machinery and equipment        19            13          16
Other                                             10            8            9
Total                                 100           100          100
45.       Principal Impediments to Export Growth.  The main obstacles impeding
the rapid development of new exports to third markets include: (i) a policy
framework which biases the incentive system (exchange rate, tariff regime,
export taxes, etc.), towards regional import substitution, where markets are
better known and quality controls are less stringent; (ii) the small size of
locally owned industries, which are mainly operated by family oriented
entrepreneurs who tend to avoid risking their own funds and have limited
marketing skills for a successful export drive; (iii) the fact that many large
firms have significant transnational participation, which may cause difficulties
in exporting outside the region, depending on the policies of the parent
corporation and the existence of sister plants in the importing countries;
(iv) the weak financial position of firms affected by the traumatic events of
1980-82; and (v) the higher freight costs and delivery delays associated with
the lack of direct sea freight services to markets outside the region.
46.       The actions being taken under the Structural Adjustment Program in the
trade sector focus on the following key areas: (i) the exchange rate; (ii) the
tariff regime; (iii) export taxation; and (iv, other incentives and export
promotion measures. The country has no quantitative restrictions on imports,
and the Government has confirmed that it has n intention of introducing any
such restrictions in the future. The first phase of the Structural Adjustment
Program also initiates actions to promote investment in, and growth of small and
medium size firms which have potential for export development, mainly through
the provision of assistance in improving managerial skills, market development
and upgrading technology, coupled with adequate financial support. This effort



- 15 -
is essential in order to begin addressing the much more difficult and long-term
problems associated with transforming Costa Rica's private sector firms into
successful exporters outside the region. It will need to be continued under
subsequent phases of the Structural Adjustment Program. The Structural
Adjustment Program makes no special effort to assist the large, transnational
firms, except to the extent they would benefit from the revised incentive
framework. With respect to high transport costs for export of nonrtraditional
products to third markets, there is little that can be done initially, until
larger export volumes open the way for developing less costly and more direct
transport links.
(a) Exchange Rate Policy
47.       Traditionally, Costa Rica has not utilized the exchange rate as an
instrument for export promotion. Devaluations took place only under the
pressure of grave balance of payments problems and financial difficulties, as
was the case during 1981 and 1982. However, the present Govertment has
committed itself, with the DMF, to a flexible exchange rate policy which will
help to ensure export competitiveness. Such a policy is also essential to
carrying out a program to reduce domestic consumption expenditures and imports.
Action Program
48.       As part of its Structural Adjustment Program, the Gover ment will
maintain its flexible exchange rate policy, with the Colon being adjusted as
needed to achieve the objective of improving export competitiveness. Periodic
adjustments of the Colon took place during 1984 and early 1985. Further
adjustments are called for in 1985 in the context of the INF Stand-by program.
The Bank will also monitor the competitiveness of exports.
(b) Tariff Regime
49.       The tariff regime and the agreement on fiscal incentives of the
CACM are the most important instruments providing protection to domestic and
regional manufacturing, and therefore the principal elements fostering an
inward-looking orientation to the pattern of production. The tariff regime
consists of: (i) the common external tariff (CET) of the CACH, which was
formally accepted by Costa Rica after it joined the Common Market in July 1962,
and which includes specific and ad valorem elements for each individual tariff;
(ii) the 30 percent surcharge on the CET imposed by the 1968 San Jose Protocol,
initially to correct temporary balance of payments problems; and (iii) ad
valorem import surcharges based on the CIF value of imports, which are mainly
applied to a variety of consumer goods.  At the same time, the system exempts
most imported intermediates, raw materials, and capital goods used in domestic
production.  Three-fourths of total Imports in 1982 were exempted, with tariff
revenues only reaching 3 percent of the CIF import value. With tariff rates on
competing final goods ranging from about 40 percent to 220 percent, and imported
inputs exempted from almost all duties, the level of effective protection for
domestically produced finished consumer goods is extremely high, reachirg in
some cases a rate of 1,600 percent on the basis of tariffs actually paid. In



- 16 -
view of this, the existing trade regime encourages high import intensity of
production, and, in general, the promotion of high cost, inefficient industries,
and regional or domestic import substitution at the expense of exporting to
non-regional markets. In addition to exemptions from import duties, other
investment incentives are granted, such as exemption of income and net worth
taxes, both for initial periods of up to ten years. All of these benefits have
been extended several times, with some firms benefitting for up to 20 years,
thus underminirg any justification based on the "infant industry" argument.
Action Program
50.       Rationalization of the system of protection is essential to reduce the
strong regional market bias and encourage local producers to become more
competitive and increase exports to third markets. With respect to import
tariffs, the Costa Rican Goverment has taken the lead in persuading the other
CACX members to reform the tariff regime. Largely as a result of these efforts,
a new regional tariff and customs treaty agreement was signed on December 14,
1984. It was ratified by Guatemala, Nicaragua and El Salvador in January 1985,
and is expected to be approved by the Costa Rican Legislative Assembly during
March 1985. This treaty abrogates the existing regime and all additional
protocols and provides the legal framework for a new trade regime to be put into
effect by no later than October 1, 1985. In accordance with this regional
agreement, the principal elements of the new trade regime comprise: (i) the
introduction of the Brussels nomenclature and transformation of the system to an
ad valorem basis; (ii) the elimination of all exonerations on raw materials,
intermediates and capital goods; (iii) the abrogation of existing regional
investment incentives; (iv) the creation of a Central American Council for
Tariffs and Customs, with authority to establish and modify import tariffs
without the need for legislative action by individual member countries; and
(v) a commitment to expedite the negotiation of: (a) new tariffs for
intermediates, raw materials, and capital goods, with the objective of having
them in place preferably by July 1, 1985, but, in any case, by no later than
October 1, 1985; and (b) new tariffs for final consumer goods in order to put
them into effect by October 1, 1985.
51.       With respect to establishing new tariff levels for intermediates, raw
materials and capital goods, an agreement has been reached on the following
parameters at the regional level: (i) tariff levels of 20 and 30 percent for
intermediates produced in the CACM (competing), depending on the degree of
processing; and (ii) tariff levels of 5 and 10 percent on intermediates, raw
materials and capital goods produced outside the CACM (nonrcompeting). In
addition to the above, the Government has agreed to a further increase in tariff
levels for all inputs (intermediates and raw materials) and capital goods
produced outside the region (non-competing), raising them to a level of 10
percent on inputs, and 20 percent on capital goods. To the extent necessary,
these higher levels would be achieved through the imposition of additional
charges at the national level.



- 17 -
52.       Regarding tariff levels on final goods, agreement has been reached in
the region on levels of 5 and 10 percent for all finished consumer goods
produced outside the CACM (non-competing), with the lower level applied to a
limited number of goods considered essential. With respect to tariff levels on
final goods produced in the CACM (competing), the Government has agreed to
reduce the existing high nominal rates on competing final goods from a range of
40-220 percent to a range of 35 to a maximum of 70 percent, with a few
exceptions for fiscal and balance of payments purposes, principally liquor,
tobacco, and cars, including their main components.
53.       In order to implement the new tariff regime, the Govermnent has agreed
to the followlig steps, as part of its Structural Adjustment Program: First, it
will continue negotiating at the regional level the specific tariffs on final
goods on a product by product basis, with the intention of completing these
technical negotiations by July 1, 1985 or at the latest by September 1985, in
order to put the agreed tariffs into effect by no later than October 1, 1985.
Second, as of July 1, 1985, the Governuent will: (i) put into effect the
changes in nomenclature and in the ad valorem base; and (ii) introduce new
tariffs on raw materials and capital goods using Central Bank surcharges to
bring them to the levels referred to in para. 51 above. Third, by no later than
October 1, 1985, the Government will put into effect the complete new trade
regime, including the detailed tariff schedule on final goods, and eliminate all
exonerations on imported inputs and capital goods. Completion of these actions
would be a condicion for the release of the second tranche.
54.       The proposed changes are significant, particularly since they
constitute the first concrete effort to reform the CACM structure since the
Market was established over twenty years ago. The revised trade regime will
result in a substantial reduction in the level and dispersion of effective
protection rates. In this respect, and given the difficulty of reachirg
agreement in the regional context, Costa Rica's successful effort to persuade
the other CACM members to modernize the tariff regime on an accelerated basis
constitutes a major achievement. Nevertheless, the Government recognizes that
the reform is only a first step in its efforts to reduce effective protection as
part of its Structural Adjustment Program. It has thereaore agreed to take
additional steps within the regional framework, with the objective of further
reducing effective protection to a maximum level of 120 percent by 1990. The
Government expects that the new mechanism enabling tariff adjustments to be
agreed through joint executive action at the regional level, will facilitate
further tariff adjustments.   In addition, the Government has agreed, with
support under the proposed Technical Assistance Loan, to carry out a detailed
analysis of the impact of the new regime, which would also help lay the basis
for future changes. The only exception to further reductions in nominal rates
on final goods would be in cases where higher tariffs are needed to discourage
consumption of luxury goods.



- 18 -
Table 2: COSTA RICA: COMPARISON OF TARIFF RATES
PRESENT                NEW REGIME
TARIFF REGIME             NWRGM
Competing Final Goods             40-220%           35% to 70% 1/
Non-Competing Final Goods           0-80%           Essential goods, 5% 2/
Nonressential goods, 1O0
Imported Intermediates             30-60% 3/        10% for non-competing, and
20-30% for competing,
depending on degree of
processing.
Imported Raw Materials               2.5% 3/        10%
Imported Capital Goods               2.5% 3/        20%
1/   Liquor, tobacco, cars, including their main components, would have higher
duties for fiscal and balance of payments purposes.
2/   This rate applies to a limited nmber of goods considered essential, such
as basic food commodities.
3/   Rates actually applied are virtually zero because of exemptions applied to
most imported inputs.  Under the proposed new regime, there will be no
exemptions and, hence, the prospects of the tariff not being paid, as is
currently the case, will no longer exist.
(c) Export Taxes
55.       Costa Rica has traditionally relied heavily on export taxes to provide
a substantial portion of Government revenues. Such taxes contributed about
18 percent of Central Goverment revenues in 1978, increasirg to about
36 percent of Central Government revenues in 1983. The highest taxes have been
placed on major traditional agricultural commodities. In 1983, export taxes
included a progressive 4-18 percent tax on the FOB value of coffee, depending on
world prices; a 1 percent tax orn bananas, plus a flat tax of US$1.00 per box
exported; and a 1 percent tax on sugar and cacao. All other exports were
subjected to a 4 percent tax. In addition, an export tax based on the
differential between the official exchange rate (Colon 20 per US$1.00) and the
banking rate (averaging Colon 43 per US$1.00 during 1983) was applied until
end-1983, at variable rates ranging from 10 percent on coffee and bananas to
1 to 5 percent on non-tradf.tional exports to third markets.



- 19 -
Action Program
56.       Recognizing that taxes of this magnitude constituted a major
disincentive to exporters and ran counter to the Goverment's efforts to
increase exports, the Government took steps during 1983 and 1984 to eliminate
all taxes on non-traditional exports to third markets, including the tax on the
exchange rate differential which expired as of end-1983. In addition, the
Government reduced the flat rate tax on banana exports from US$1.00 to US$0.75
per box, and the tax on beef exports from 4 to 1 percent. The Goverment does
not plan to introduce new export taxes on non-traditional exports to third
markets.
(d) Export Incentives to Markets Outside the CACM
57.       During the 1970s, Costa Rica established three export incentive
instruments for trade outside the CACH. Two are compensating export subsidies:
the CAT, a tax credit of 15 percent of the FOB export value and the CIEX
(Certificados de Incremento de las Exportaciones), a tax credit based upon
export growth. Both are granted for non-traditional exports outside the CACM.
The third incentive is a duty-free import provision involving an export drawback
system. Of the three measures, the CAT has been the most important. Its use
has grown from Colon 4 million in 1973-74 to Colon 276 million in 1981-82, with
processed and non-traditional agricultural products the main beneficiaries.
With respect to the CIEX, it has proved to be relatively unimportant as an
export incentive, particularly since its availability depends in large part on
whether or not the Central Bank has sufficient funds to finance the program.
The existing drawback scheme has had only limited use up to now because the CACM
incentive scheme was easier to apply, with only a small reduction in benefits.
This is expected to change once the tariff exonerations under the existi;ng CACl
incentive scheme are eliminated.
Action Program
58.       In order to strengthen efforts to expand nor-traditional exports to
third markets, the Govermnent has put into operation an improved export
incentive program which the Assembly approved in February 1984. This scheme
includes: (i) a 100 percent income tax exemption on profits generated by
non-traditional exports, which is equivalent to a subsidy of up to 10 percent of
the FOB export value; (ii) exemptions from all import taxes on imported raw
materials, intermediates and packaging materials used in the production of
non-traditional goods for export to third market countries; and (iii) the
provision of a coordinated package of benefits under an export contract with
individual exporters, who in return for a written agreement to achieve a
specified level of exports, would be entitled to special port tariffs,
simplified export procedures, preferential access to bank credit, accelerated
depreciation, and CATs on the basis of products and markets.
59.       Within the framework of this law, the Govermuent has taken a number of
steps to expedite the provision of benefits to exporters, especially in regard



- 20 -
to the CAT scheme and drawback mechanism. With respect to the latter, any
company exporting to third markets and meeting certain minimal criteria,
principally to ensure that it is a bonafide exporter of nonr-traditional goods
nutside the Region, would be eligible to receive imported goods duty free if
required for production for export. Since no duty would be paid, no special
rebate system is needed to accelerate reimbursement of duties paid, and the
scheme should operate efficiently, except for some delays in processing goods
through customs. The proposed Technical Assistance Loan includes support to
assist in improving the operation and management of customs.
60.       With regard to the CAT scheme, the Government expects to issue new
regulations in the near future with the objective of streamlinirg the
administration and issuance of CATs. The Government has also agreed to make the
utilization of the CATs more automatic by gradually eliminating the current 12
month waiting period before the tax credit can be utilized. Since an immediate
reduction of the waiting period would mean redeeming the 1984 and 1985 CATs at
the same time, and require budget outlays beyond those programmed for 1985, the
Goverment has agreed to reduce the waiting period by three months each semester
beginning January 1986 until the waiting period is fully eliminated.
(e) Modernization of the Industrial Sector
61.       As noted earlier, many of Costa Rica's locally owned industrial firms
are unable to compete effectively in third markets owing to their weak capital
structure and financial position, limited marketing and managerial capabilities,
and the need to upgrade product quality and production facilities. These
difficulties reflect underlying problems which must be resolved over the
longer-term, if Costa Rica's private sector firms are to be transformed into
successful exporters outside the region.
Action Program
62.       In order to begin addressing these difficultie3, the Government, with
the direct involvement of private sector organizations, is preparing specific
programs to assist industries to modernize, obtain the market and other
information needed to break into new markets abroad, and strengthen marketing
arrangements and facilities. Technical assistance to support this effort is
already being provided under the Bank's Export Development Loan (Loan 2274-CR)
and by other donors, especially USAID. Completion of a detailed program of
assistance to industries, including training of personnel, is proposed as a
condition for release of the second tranche.  A special working group is being
established to address industrial sector issues and prepare the program of
assistance.  The Goverment is also seeking external financing to help expand
credit to the industrial sector for both working capital and rehabilitation and
modernization of plants. Possible support for this effort could come through a
follow-up Bank operation, now that the onr-going Bank financed Industrial Credit
Project (Loan 1599-CR) is fully committed. In addition, the Government is
making a determined effort to attract foreign investors, particularly in



- 21 -
connection with the Caribbean Basin Initiative and through development of free
zones. The Government is also undertaking a promotional campaign, with external
technical assistance and financial support.
II. Improved Hanagement of the Public Sector and Control of Public Spending
63.       Public Sector Size and Control.  Despite the contribution that public
sector expenditures have made to the country's social and economic development,
the public sector's size, its inefficiency and the share of resources that it
consumes, all constitute a major impediment to growth. Actions to limit the
growth of the public sector, reorient programs to meet new priorities, and
Improve cost effectiveness are therefore critical to the success of the
adjustment program, if more resources are to be made available over time for
productive purposes, including private sector efforts to increase exports. In
this context, although austerity measures during 1982-83 attempted to reduce
expenditures, they did not significantly affect the number of personnel or
programs. Further actions are therefore needed, some politically difficult, to
curtail current expenditures and ensure effective use of limited resources,
tvhile reducing over time the relative size of the public sector and the number
of personnel.
64.       The Executive's authority to properly monitor and control budgets and
programs, and ensure efficient use of resources, has been limited. These
control problems have been brought about by: (i) a comprehensive system of
revenue earmarking and compulsory expenditures which limits the discretionary
power of the Governnent; (ii) the rapid growth of the public sector and the
large number of constitutionally mandated programs, some operating on a
virtually autonomous basis; (iii) the lack of adequate administrative systems to
prepare and control public sector budgets in a comprehensive and coordinated
fashion; and (iv) the ease with which Governnent agencies have been able to
borrow unilaterally for investment as well as current expenditures, including
external borrowing, without taking into account overall Government priorities
and resource constraints.
65.       Actions to Limit Growth and Improve Efficiency.  To address these
issues, the first phase of the Govermnent's Structural Adjustment Program aims
to: limit the further growth of the public sector, including curtailing public
sector investments and restructuring or controlling access to credit, including
external borrowing; strengthen budget preparation, control and monitoring; and
initiate actions to improve the cost effectiveness of key loss making
institutions, especially CNP and CODESA. In addition, to reduce the overall
public sector deficit, as part of its stabilization program, the Government has
substantially increased its mobilization of resources. The Structural
Adjustment Program focuses on the following main areas: (i) limiting public
employment and wages; (ii) budgetary administration and control;
(iii) restructuring CODESA; (iv) reducing CNP's losses; (v) public sector
investment planning; (vi) public resource mobilization; and (vii) external
public debt management and improved creditworthiness.



- 22 -
%a) Public Employment and Wages
66.       In order to reduce current expenditures, the Structural Adjustment
Program aims at lowering public sector employment from about 19 percent of the
labor force in 1983 to about 17 percent over a five-year period, thus restoring
the level of the mid-1970s. In addition, it aims at reducing the non-financial
public sector wage bill share of current expenditures.
Action Program
67.       As provided for in the Law for the Financial Equilibrium of the Public
Sector approved in February 1984, the Government has: (i) imposed a freeze on
public sector employment levels for three years (1984-86) effective March 2,
1984; (ii) retired all Central Government officials 65 years or older;
(iii) authorized public institutions to pay accrued benefits to employees as a
bonus to encourage relocation to the private sector; and (iv) restricted further
wage increases to absolute changes in the cost of a basic basket of goods and
services, which will have the effect of holding wage increases below the rate of
inflation. Public sector employment levels are being monitored by the Budget
Authority and the Contraloria. The Contraloria has a register of all posts as
of March 2, 1984 when the freeze went into effect and is responsible for
controlling any new appointments to ensure that they are consistent with the Law
for the Financial Equilibrium of the Public Sector. The Government has also
agreed to strengthen the statistical and administrative mechanisms needed to
monitor public sector employment levels. Technical assistance for this purpose
is being provided to the Budget Authority, with support under the proposed
Technical Assistance Loan. In addition, the Government is preparing a special
program to assist in training former public employees to help them relocate to
the private sector. Implementation of the freeze on employment levels will be
reviewed prior to the release of the second tranche.
(b) Budgetary Administration an' Control
68.       Efforts to improve the efficiency of public sector resource use have
been handicapped by the lack of adequate budget preparation and control
mechanisms and by the excessive fragmentation of the public sector and
overlappirg institutional functions, which make it difficult to measure progress
or maintain control. The decentralized entities also have their own budgeting
systems. Control of public expenditures is further handicapped by the extensive
system of earmarking, with about half of total current revenues earmarked for
specific purposes, including social security contributions (about one-half of
earmarked revenues). In addition to revenue earmarking, some expenditures are
required by law or constitutional provision, including expenditures for the
CCSS, the judiciary, higher education and the Controllers Office. Although some
earmarking of revenues is traditional (for example, social security), the system
as practiced in Costa Rica is excessive, and has contributed to growing
inflexibility in the budgeting process and in the establishment of expenditure
priorities.



- 23 -
Action Program
69.       In order to strengthen control over budget preparation and
implementation, the Government established a Rudget Authority, by law, in late
1982, with the task of setting tniform budget preparation and expenditure
guidelines, and supervising the preparation and implementation of the public
sector budget. Further actions were taken in early 1984 with the approval of a
Law for the Financial Equilibrium of the Public Sector. This legislation
contains specific provisions to help ensure preparation of a balanced hudget,
including Controller General authority to reduce non-priority budget items and
limit Central Government access to credit from the National Banking System to 5
percent of total actual expenditures in the previous year.
70.       The above noted law also ctablishes a high level commission (the
Commission on Public Finance), chaired by the Controller General, to prepare
draft legislation needed to restructure public finances and the tax system,
including the replacement of revenue earmarking as appropriate with direct
transfers, reinforce program-based budgeting, and better ensure that
expenditures are in line with the country's development plans and priorities.
The Government expects that a technical working group will complete most of its
work by October 1985, which would enable the full commission to present its
report in early 1986. The Government's objective is to have tax reform
proposals submitted to the Legislative Assembly in mid-1986, with further
modifications of earmarking included in the 1987 Budget. Technical assistance
to support the work of the technical working group is included in che proposed
Technical Assistance Loan.
71.       In addition to the above, the Government is requesting specific
technical assistance to strengthen the Budget Authority and the buldget
preparation process. This support concentrates in particular on the development
of procedures for (i) the control of budget execution and budget revisions,
including monitoring financial and physical progress of pi grams and projects;
and (ii) the analysis of overall btdget performance to identify issues requiring
attention in subsequent budget years. In addition, an analysis of the legal and
administrative framework in which budget and expenditures matters are handled
will be carried out to determine the need for legal and other changes to further
enhance the effectiveness of the Budget Authority. Support for the Budget
Authority is included in the proposed Technical Assistance Loan.
72.       Pending completion of the report of the Commission on Public Finances
and Legislative Assembly approval of the recommended reforms, the Government is
taking interim actions to improve Central Government control over the use of
earmarked revenue.  As part of this effort, the Government reduced some
earmarking through the 1984 Law for the Financial Equilibrium of the Public
Sector. These reductions have been extended to the 1985 budget. The
Government, in its Statement of Development Policy, has also confirmed that it
will not propose new earmarkings nor approve any legislation incorporating new
earmarking.



- 24 -
(c) Restructuring the Costa Rican Development Corporation (CODESA)
73.       Established in 1972, CODESA was designed to support the development of
large enterprises which could not be developed entirely by the private sector.
Although originally expected to provide only partial financing, CODESA in fact
developed into a holdirg company with full or part ownership of a large numoer
of industries. As a result of poor management, lack of working capital and poor
capital structure, and often poor market and feasibility analysis, most of
CODESA's enterprises have operated with substantial losses, with the operations
largely financed through CODESA's easy access to Central Bank resources. Five
major subsidiaries, namely ALUNASA (aluminum), FERTICA (fertilizer), CATSA
(sugar), Cementos Del Pacifico and Cementos Del Valle (cement) make up close to
80 percent of CODESA's portfolio, and have sustained the bulk of the losses.
CODESA's operations have constituted a major drain on the public finances with
its operating deficits equalling as much as 20 percent of the total public
sector deficit in some years. In 1983, CODESA absorbed about one fifth of total
credit and about one-half of the banking system's credit to the public sector.
This is completely out of proportion with its contribution to production and
employment in the economy.
Action Program
74.       Given the above difficulties, the Govermnent has initiated efforts to
sell CODESA's enterprises to the private or cooperative sectors, within the
framework of the 1984 Law for the Financial Equilibrium of the Public Sector,
which authorizes the Executive Branch to sell all or a portion of CODESA's
shares in its enterprises. Within this framework, CODESA is moving forward with
its divestiture and restructurirg efforts. It has closed down DAISA-an
agro-industrial company--whose equipment will be sold, and two other small
enterprises--MARICULTURA and ACUACULTURA. In addition, it has sold its shares
in Sub-productos del Cafe and increased the participation of the private sector
in STABAPARI. To expedite the divestiture process, the Govermuent is
establishing a Trust Fund in colones in the Central Bank, with financirg
provided from counterpart funds generated from bilateral assistance, up to
US$140 million equivalert. This Trust Fund would i) pay off CODESA's debts and
ii) purchase al. of CODESA's remaining enterprises at sale prices established by
the Contraloria, with technical assistance for establishing such prices also
being provided by bilateral donors. The enterprises would then be sold at a
public auction or their assets liquidated if no buyer is found. The Goverment
is presently preparing a work program for carrying out the above. Completion of
this plan of action, including a timetable for the divestiture of CODESA's
enterprises during 1985, would be a condition for release of the second
tranche. oODESA's financial statements will be revised to reflect the charges
in its enterprises and the restructuring or liquidation of its debt with the
Central Bank and the Central Govermnent.   CODESA and the Central Bank's
accounts would be adjusted accordingly. CODESA is also taking a number of
actions to strengthen operational and administrative practices in the two
enterprises that will remain under its control; namely, FERTICA and Cementos Del
Pacifico, with a maximum 60 percent share. For this purpose, the Government is
prepared to enter into 10-year management contracts with firms purchasing the 40
percent minority share in these enterprises.



- 25 -
75.        In addition to taking actions regarding its present portfolio, the
Government has agreed to reorient CODESA's objectives and work program in order
to avoid a repetition of similar problems. In this context, CODESA will:
(a) limit its promotion and financing from its own resources to small
agro-industrial projects in the private sector which promote rural development,
generate foreign exchange, and are labor intensive; (b) promote investments in
other projects which will export to third markets, with financing to be provided
by foreign and private sources; and (c) adapt or reorganize its administrative
and personnel structure to fit its scaled down work program ard financial
situation.   CODESA's participation in any new project would be limited to no
more than 30 percent of total capital, and it would not provide any loans or
other financing for any new project, with the exception of the small
agro-industrial projects referred to in (a) above. CODESA would also be
prohibited from operating any of the enterprises in which it has a capital
participation of 30 percent or less. In addition, CODESA would ensure that any
new project is based on strict criteria for determining financial and economic
feasibility. CODESA would have no access to new Central Bank credit.
76.       The proposed Technical Assistance Loan includes support to CODESA to
assist in reorienting its activities ard in strengthening the management and
operations of FERTICA, as well as CATSA, to facilitate the latterts sale to the
cooperative sector.
(d) National Production Council (CNP)
77.       CNP. an autonomous government organization, sets producer prices for
rice, beans, corn and sorghum. It is also the sole impo:ter of wheat, beans,
corn and sorghum andx the sole exporter of rice. CNP sets the beef retention
quota for the domestic market, and also intervenes in wholesale and retail
markets by operating a chain of retail shops selling grains, other basic
consumption items and agricultural inputs at cost. CNP is also involved in a
wide variety of other activities, including the national liquor monopoly,
p-- niurenent and distribution of farm inputs and provision of equipment and farm
supplies. CNP has accumulated large losses, mainly as a result of Its price
support and selling practices. These losses, which represented about 40 percent
of the non-financial public sector deficit in 1984, create serious financial
problems and require Central Bank financing, thus contributing to the Central
Bank's own losses.
Action Program
78.        In order to eliminate this continuing drain on public finances and
Central Bank resources, the Goveroment has agreed to a phased program under
which CNP's losses would be reduced by 50 percent each year beginning in 1985
through appropriate policy and price adjustments. To achieve the objective of
reducing CNP's 1984 deficit of about 1.3 billion colones by one-half in 1985,
the Goverment has, as a first step, taken action to:  (i) increase consumer
prices for corn and beans while keeping support prices unchanged; and
(ii) eliminate losses from surplus rice production by restricting land under
rice cultivation, the availability of credit, and maintaining support prices



- 26 -
unchanged. Additional actions are planned to strengthen CNP's administrative
and budget practices and improve the profitability of some of its other
operations. Compliance with the goal of reducing losses by 50 percent in 1985
compared with 1984, will be reviewed as a condition for the release of the
second tranche. In addition, the proposed Technical Assistance Loan will
provide support for reviewing CNP's pricing system, subsidies, and scope of
operations.
(e) Public Sector Investment Planning
79.       In addition to inadequate budget and expenditure controls, management
of the public sector has been further handicapped by a lack of adequate
investment planning and coordination. Although Costa Rica possesses a rather
extensive planning system, headed by a Ministry of Planning and complemented by
a system of regional and sectoral units, the Planning Ministry has, until
recently, acted mainly as a compiler of project-related information. As a
result, public investment has materialized more as a product of interaction
between individual public entities and external lenders, and less as the outcome
of a coordinated overall program. Planning is often undertaken by sectoral
agencies at the request of external lenders. In view of these difficulties,
Bank staff undertook a detailed review of the 1984-86 investment program, with
the objective of helping the Planning Ministry prepare a sound program
consistent with resource constraints and other limitations, with appropriate
focus on key sectoral priorities, while also taking into account the country's
generally well-developed social and physical infrastructure. Given the
objective of reducing the size of the public sector and making better use of the
country's limited investment resources, careful monitoring of the public sector
investment program is essential.
Action Program
80.       Agreement was reached between the Bank and the Government on a revised
public sector investment program for 1984-86, consistent with the Government's
structural adjustment efforts and financial capabilities. The program covers
fixed capital investment of the Central Government and all key public sector
entities, namely RECOPE, CCSS, ICE, CNP, ICAA, and FECOSA. Under the program,
priority is being given to agricultural and industrial activities in the private
sector, with the Government limited to providing adequate credit and other
incentives. Although essential infrastructure development will continue under
the program, new infrastructure investments are being severely curtailed, with
yearly public investment expenditures limited to a maximum of C 9.4 billion, C
11.1 billion, and C 12.4 billion in 1984, 1985, and 1986 respectively, or about
6.5 percent of GDP, to ensure that the level of investment is compatible with
available resources. Implementation of the program will be monitored during
SAL I, and the Government would consult with the Bank with respect to any major
revision in the investment program. Satisfactory compliance with the investment
targets for 1985 would be a condition for release of the second tranche.
81.       There is also a clear need to strengthen the planning process through
the provision of technical assistance and traini'ng for the Planning Ministry, a
reorganization of the Ministry itself to strengthen its investment programming,



- 27 -
and project and macroeconomic analysis capability, and the establishment of
specific guidelines for the preparation and evaluation of new projects being
prepared by outside agencies. The proposed Technical Assistance Loan includes
support to the Planning Ministry in these areas.
(f) Public Resource Mobilization
82.       In view of the serious fiscal imbalances, and as part of its
stabilization efforts, the Govermnent has substantially increased revenue
generation through additional taxation and increases in public sector prices and
tariffs. In addition, the Government's Structural Adjustment Program calls for
further improvements in tax collection, while also undertakirg a major
restructuring of the tax regime to reduce the negative impact on productivity
and employment of unduly heavy taxation in certain sectors. With respect to
public enterprises, the principal objective is to ensure that tariff levels are
periodically adjusted to cover debt service requirements and operational
expenditures. The financial objectives for the Central Government and key
enterprises are shown in Table 3 below. Achievement of these objectives will be
very important to ensure sound financing of the public sector and avoid
underminirg the stabilization efforts, without which the Structural Adjustment
Program cannot succeed.
Table 3:  COSTA RICA: CONSOLIDATED FINANCES OF KEY PUBLIC SECTOR ENTITIES I/
(as share of GDP)
Preliminary        Program
1984        1985   1986
Current Savings                           4.5          6.5    6.9
Capital Revenues                          0.2          0.1    0.1
Fixed Investment                          6.5          6.5    6.5
Other Expenditures
and Net Lending                         0.5          1.2    0.7
'uerall Deficit (- - Deficit)            -2.3         -1.1   -0.2
External Financing, Net                   3.2          2.2    1.0
Internal Financing, Net                  -0.9         -1.1   -0.8
1/  Includes only the Central Govermnent ani  all key enterprises, namely RECOPE,
CCSS, ICE, CNP, ICAA and FECOSA
Source: Ministry of Finance, IMF, Bank Staff Estimates.



- 28 -
(i) Tax System and Administration
83.       Costa Rica's tax structure has been developed on a largely ad hoc
basis over the years. The principal structural problem has been a heavy
reliance on export taxes. Tax administration and controls are also inadequate,
with tax evasion as high as 60 percent in some cases.
84.       Action Program.  Duritg its first 18 months in office, the Central
Govertnent raised its taxes by about 4 percentage points of GDP, thus increasiig
its revenue/GDP ratio to 17 percent in 1983. These tax reforms have included a
modification of the property tax, increases in sales and selective consumption
taxes, approval of a temporary income tax surcharge pending approval of a new
income tax law, and a 10 percent reduction of exonerations on import, sales, and
direct taxes. At the same time, the Government has eliminated taxes on
non-traditional exports to third markets. Additional tax measures were
introduced in 1984 which will raise Central Government revenues to 20.5 percent
of GDP in 1985. These measures include increases in selective consumption
duties, a modification of the corporate income tax, and a reduction in import
duty exemptions. The Govermnent has also committed itself to a major revision
of the tax system and a specific proposal for tax reforms will be included in
the recommendations of the Commission on Public Finances. In addition to the
revenue actions noted above, the Finance Ministry is also undertaking a major
effort to improve tax collection, including the development of a computerized
tax registry. Since tax revenues as a percent of GDP are now quite high,
further actions in the tax area should concentrate on better collection of
existing taxes and improving the overall tax system, rather than resorting to
additional new taxes or rate increases to raise additional revenues.
Technical assistance to support this effort is included in the proposed
Technical Assistance Loan.
(ii) Public Sector Prices and Tariffs
85.       The failure of public sector enterprises to adjust prices and tariffs
to cover sharply increased expenditures resulting from the heavy devaluation
which took place in 1981 and 1982, was largely responsible for the significant
deterioration in public finances which took place in these years. In
particular, both the power company (ICE) and the oil company (RECOPE) suffered
majo= problems, with their combined deficits for 1981 equalling 40 percent of
the overall deficit for the non-financial public sector for that year. Since a
reduction of the public sector deficit was critical to the country's
stabilization efforts, the Government, since taking office in May 1982, has made
a concerted effort to restore and maintain the financial viability of public
sector enterprises.



- 29 -
Action Program
86.       In June 1982, domestic prices of oil derivatives were Increased 66
percent, water rates 95 percent, and electricity rates 70 percent, with an
additional 20 percent towards the end of the year. Further tariff increases of
9 percent for power, and 70 percent for water and telephone, respectively, took
place in 1984, to further strengthen the financial position of these
enterprises. Power rates were increased by an additional 12 percent in early
1985. The Government's policy is to maintain tariffs and prices of public
enterprises at a level sufficient to cover operational expenditures, debt
service requirements and a reasonable share of investment expenditures. With
respect to domestic prices for petroleum derivatives, these are currently above
international prices and would be further adjusted if necessary to reflect any
increases in the cost of petroleum imports.
III. External Debt Management and Improved Creditworthiness
87.       The rapid growth of external public debt (see para. 8) from 1978 to
early 1981 and subsequent creditworthiness problems resulted in large part from
the Govermnent's overall macro-economic policies designed to maintain growth and
employment, together with lax controls on external borrowing. As a consequence,
public sector entities contracted new debt with virtually no restrictions and
without a concerted effort by the Government to review the Impact of such
borrowing on the country's overall debt service or future debt service of the
entity concerned. Furthermore, the country's debt recording and monitoring
system was limited in scope and unable to keep track of the growing
indebtedness. In these circumstances, the Structural Adjustment Program puts
emphasis on the restoration of the country's creditworthiness and on creating
the conditions needed to help mobilize substantial and continuing inflows of
foreign financing, as well as restructure on better terms the existing public
debt with foreign commercial banks.
Action Program
88.       One of the Goverment's main obJectives under the Structural
Adjustment Program is to reduce the rate of accumulation of external public
debt, while improvirg its maturity and reducing the cost of servicing it. This
effort involves further rescheduling of the country's bilateral and commercial
bank debt as well as maximizing the amount of new debt contracted on
concessional terms. As a further step towards this objective, the Govermnent
has reached agreement on a rescheduling of its foreign commercial bank debt
covering maturities falling due in 1985 and 1986 (see para. 18), and expects to
reach agreement with the Paris Club during the first half of 1985 for a further
rescheduling of bilateral debt. In addition, based on the Structural Adjustment
Program, the Government has obtained new financing in 1985 totaling US$75.0
million from the private commercial banks. It has also mobilized substantial
additional financing (US$190.0 million in 1985) on concessional terms from the
United States, in addition to multilateral support under the IMF Program and the



- 30 -
proposed SAL. To better control new borrowing by public sector entities, the
Government is requiring prior approval of new borrowings by the Budget
Authority, the Planning Ministry, and the Controller General, such approval to
be based on an evaluation by the Budget Authority Secretariat of the debt
service implications of such new borrowings. In addition, to provide adequate
and timely data on the total debt outstanding and detailed accounting of debt
service payments, the Govermment has established a computerized accounting
system in the Central Bank. This system enables the Central Bank to keep track
of debt service payments falllng due and make provision for timely foreign
exchange allocations for this purpose. When fully operational, the system will
also have the capacity to project future debt service needs, and provide data
for rescheduling discussions.
C. Second Phase of the Structural Adjustment Program
89.       During the second and subsequent phases of its Structural Adjustment
Program, the Government intends to focus more heavily on actions in the areas
of: (i) agriculture production and exports, including further policy changes to
increase productivity, while reducing subsidies; and (ii) banking and financial
services in order to improve the access of the productive sectors to timely and
adequate credit and financial services. At the same time the program would
continue efforts to rationalize and improve the efficiency of the public sector,
with specific emphasis on improving the cost-effectiveness of education, and
health and social security expenditures, as well as taking further steps to
strengthen the export sector.
Increasing Agriculture Production
90.       Agriculture contributes about 20 percent of GDP and about 60-70
percent of the total value of exports, while employing about 29 percent of the
labor force. Given its importance, the Government's Structural Adjustment
Program includes, as one of its principal objectives, the continued revision of
the agriculture incentive system to foster increased production of export crops
through a gradual dismantling of price controls and subsidies and the provision
of better support and marketing services. Overall, the program would help to
increase production for export by: (i) supporting the rehabilitation of
traditional export crops (beef, cacao, sugar) which stagnated or declined in
recent years; (ii) promoting new agricultural exports, such as coconut oil,
citrus juices, macadamia and cashew nuts, and pineapple. In addition, the
Structural Adjustment Program also aims at increasing productivity in
agriculture, especially basic grains, with a view to reducing subsidies and
minimizing imports. This will require specific actions to expand credit
to agriculture; reduce input subsidies, especially in respect to credit,
fertilizer and crop insurance; improve extension with special emphasis on small-
and medium-size farms to raise productivity; and reorient research to support
new crops.



- 31 -
Banking and Financial Services
91.       Costa Rica's financial system is dominated by four nationalized
commercial banks, since only these institutions can receive demand deposits and
offer tax free savings accounts. The public banks' isolation from market forces
and the insufficient attention paid to their operating efficiency, portfolio
recovery, and profitability, have seriously undermined the effectiveness of the
financial system. More important, as the macroeconomic situation worsened,
especially given the impact of inflation and the massive devaluation, the
financial position of the four banks further deteriorated, as indicated by
growing arrears (equal to over 50 percent of their portfolio) and large foreign
exchange losses.
92.       Given this background, the Government recognizes the need to modernize
the operations of the public banks and make the entire financial system more
flexible to provide adequate and timely financing to increase production in
agriculture and industry, so that these sectors can more effectively expand
exports to third markets. The principal medium-term objective of the
Government's Structural Adjustment Program in the banking sector is to restore
the financial viability of the public banks; reduce their costs and increase the
efficiency of their operations; and ensure that both public and private banks
can operate effectively as part of the country 's mixed banking system. In
addition, under the Structural Adjustment Program steps will be taken to
strengthen Central Bank finances and reduce its losses arising from the heavy
external debt burden, which results in large part from the rescheduling
agreement with foreign commercial banks. These losses have further reduced the
availability of credit to the private sector (See paras. 12 and 25).
93.       As an initial step in efforts to improve the operations of the
financial system, the Government has put in place two significant changes
through amendments to the Central Bank and MoDey Laws, which were approvP- by
the Assembly in late August 1984. One of the changes will enable lending in
dollars to take place for the first time by modifying a provision in the Money
Law that previously allowed borrowers to repay foreign currency transactions in
local currency at the official rate (C 20 per USS1.00, compared to a banking
rate of C 48), thus making impossible lending in foreign currencies. The other
change, an amendment to the Central Bank Law, gives private banks access to
foreign resources made available to the Central Bank. These changes will
increase the flexibility of the banking system by creating a new source of funds
for the private banks, and removing a major obstacle to foreign lending for
commercial transactions, thus increasing the access of Costa Rican firms to new
credit, which is essential to promote private productive activities.
94.       The Government has also taken a further step towards improving the
flexibility of the financial system by eliminating the multitude of specific
sub-sectoral allocations included in the Central Bank's annual credit program.
The credit program now establishes only global limits on total credit as
required under the Stand-by program. For new credit, the only proviso is that a
minimum of 60 percent of new loans be allocated to agriculture, livestock,
industry, housing and construction, with a maximum of 40 percent provided for
commerce, services and personal credit.



- 32 -
95.        Interest rates have traditionally been used as an incentive mechanism
for promoting agriculture and industry, rather than as a tool for resource
mobilization. Preferential and subsidized interest rates for various activities
were also maintained. Furthermore, during 1981 and 1982, interest rates became
highly negative as inflation speeded up to 37 percent in 1981 and 90 percent in
1982. Recognizing the need to provide adequate encouragement to domestic
financial savings and the channelirg of these resources into domestic
activities, the Government took initial steps under its IMF supported
stabilization program to address this issue. In this context, the Government
increased the basic deposit rate to which most deposit and loan rates are tied.
It also raised preferential rates in agriculture to the level of the basic
deposit rate, leaving only credit to CNP and a very small volume of credit,
mainly for small farmers and cooperatives, at less than the rate of inflation.
Since domestic inflation has averaged about 12 percent (on an annualized basis)
starting in mid-1983, interest rates at over 20 percent, are currently positive
in real terns.
96.        The Government's Structural Adjustment Program includes a commitment
from the Central Bank to maintain the minimum rates on deposits above expected
inflation, provided these adjustments take into account interest rates on the
international market. With regard to preferential rates, the Government intends
to gradually reduce the amount of credit available to small farmers at these
rates, and drastically cut down CNP's and CODESA's domestic credit needs (see
paras. 74 and 77).
Cost Effectiveness of Social Security, Health and Educational Programs
97.        The cost of social security and health care programs is substantial,
with social security and health expenditures increasing almost fivefold since
1960 and education requiring about 30 percent of government expenditures in the
late 1970s. In view of the need to reduce the relative size of the public
sector, while still meeting future increases in demand for these services, there
is an urgent need to make these programs more cost effective, given current and
projected fiscal constraints.
98.        With regard to Social Security, CCSS has already taken steps to
improve its finances and reduce costs. Other actioms are underway to further
improve cost effectiveness, including preparation of plens to integrate CCSS and
Health Ministry services; and steps to emphasize less expensive preventive
medicine over curative schemes. To assist CCSS in analyzing its future needs,
and prepare the way for further actions under the second phase of the
Structural Adjustment Program, the proposed Technical Assistance Loan would
finance a study of the current and future costs of social security programs,
with particular emphasis on health services, to recommend how the system can be
managed and financed at the lowest possible cost.
99.        In the broad area of education management, improvements catnot be
considered without considerable preparatory work, not only to provide the
technical basis, but also to help the Government develop the political support
for proposed changes. The Government has therefore requested support for



- 33 -
carrying out several studies. First, a study of education management and
administration, with a view to recommending specific cost-effectiveness measures
and preparing a plan of action to control education expenditures, as well as to
generate new revenues and fees. Second, a detailed study of university
operations to review the effectiveness of programs and administration, and
propose specific actions to improve cost effectiveness and ensure course
offerings consistent with projected manpower requirements. These two studies
would be carried out with support under the proposed Technical Assistance Loan.
The proposed Technical Assistance Loan would also support preparation of
training programs to help retrain employees of the private and public sectors,
in accordance with the revised priorities and needs of the Structural Adjustment
Program.
D. Technical Assistance Support for the Structural Adjustment Program
100.      To assist in implementation of the first phase of the Government's
Structural Adjustment Program, as well as help in defining specific actions to
be taken during the second and subsequent phases of the program, the Government
has requested Bank support through a Technical Assistance Loan, details of which
are provided in a separate President's Report being circulated simultaneously.
with respect to the first phase of the Government's Structural Adjustment
Program, assistance would be provided to: (i) strengthen the Budget Authority
which plays a key role in ensuring an effective reduction of the relative size
of the public sector by budgeting and controlling Government expenditures and
improving the use of public resources; (ii) improve the capacity of the Planning
.Iinistry to analyze, program, and monitor investments which is essential in
controlling investment expenditures of autonomous agencies and public
enterprises; (iii) support Government efforts to Improve its tax control and
monitoring system to reduce the high level of tax evasion, (iv) improve the
management and operation of customs; and (v) assist CODESA in reorienting its
activities.
101.      With respect to the second and following phases of the Government's
Structural Adjustment Program, the proposed Technical Assistance Loan would
focus on providing support for key areas of the Structural Adjustment Program
(see para. 89). The technical assistance includes: (i) a study of Costa Rica's
social security and health care programs to analyze current and future costs and
recommend measures to ensure sound financirg in the future; (ii) three studies
to prepare specific action programs to improve the cost effectiveness of
education expenditures at the primary to secondary levels and at the university
levels, recommend alternative financing mechanisms to reduce the drain on
financial resources, as well as review the training requirements needed to help
implement the Structural Adjustment Progran; (iii) an analysis of price and
subsidy policies in the agriculture sector coupled with preparation of a program
to develop nonr-traditional agriculture exports; (iv) preparation of adult
vocational training programs to facilitate the transfer of public employees to



- 34 -
the private sector and provide the skills needed to assist in restructuring the
industrial sector; (v) preparation of specific measures to convert the banking
system into an efficient instrument for increasing production and exports;
(vi) carrying out an analysis of the existing salary and incentive policies for
the public sector and preparation of specific measures to help ensure the
Government's ability to hire and retain skilled personnel, which is essential to
the success of the Structural Adjustment Program; and (vii) an analysis of the
impact of the first phase of the import tariff reform on industry to identify
additional adjustments needed to stimulate the development of new exports to new
markets, and improve export competitiveness.



- 35 -
E. IA4RY WF OW_          S SIIUCURIL AUIE0T PIERE
First Plan ot Structurl Adjustuet Pregre
lua   end ObjectIves                           ctlion Alredy Tan                               Actins to be Taen
I. u   m             a 11m
F...-
A. EIOWfE MTP ILICY                     Maiiv devalwtIn In 1951-U, fel lowd            Periodlc adjwtuat o f hnnp rub ba d
by priodic devlmtienu, aid cmilnnt             on cgeed criteria.
to a fbxi.ib _chenge rub policy with
thu 1W, to help nsare export
caisti tiVnuse.
L  REFIT OF I~   TARIFFS                Regional egrcnat settbhlabing prlnciple        introdue releed nonciatuw  end ad
end tim-tble for putting Into effect COA      'alrum  bee, an  apply NW toriffs -n
tariff r'rie aiped In Ddeor 1984.              non oqating Inemndliat  and raw
Tin ratnem wld be ilemnted In pert by          itrnlae na0i and upital gpdu C2D).
July 1i 19S and In full by e later tt_         effective July t, 195.
October 1, 19l5. New agremunt * tif led
by El Salveckw, Outwaia and Niaraga In         Competien of reglonal technical
Januery 1915 nd Is being comidered by          die saculon  n Individual tariff It_ ad
Cota Rion Lugilatlve Asumbly In                 nplnt rumlining samlnts o new tariff
1Arch 1915.                                    regin  by no latr thn October 1, 1985.
Te be reviwed as conditli el  second
tranchs.
Undertake amlysia of iqet of toriff
retum en Cota Rican Induutry and need ftr
further tarIff adjuestnts. Study Included
In Technical Asiatens Lo.
Tab step to further reduen effective
protection with tie objective of reducIng
It to a uxlen level of 12D perent by
1990.
C.  rmw    m                            All e port tae on non-traditional
exports to third erkets eliminated.
Gevermont conJmint not b Introduce iws
taes on nontreditimnel exports b third
markets.
Tax on Exchune Rate Dif fwrntlal Cbebeen
off lcial and Interbank ra t) el lmlnted.
Flat rate tax on anes expor rt dmdu,
frmu  SS1 to UM0.75 per box.
Export tax an beef reduced fron 4 pereint
to I percent.
0. E TP INUENTiVES t0 IWRS              Amebly aprovd additional Incentives            lsme  nw regulatlion  to stremilns the
UITSIDE THE CDI                     for non-traditional xport to third             aduinietatlon and ganting of C-Vs.
nrkets, Incorporating: Ca) tax
deductkons on profits lb) ex,qtben fru         ElIminate 12nuoth waiting period for
lnport duties for allI qoted raw               utilization of CC., with waiting period to
iteriala, Input ad pechaging not               be reduced by tires mnnthu eah meter
produced In conmtry, which are ued to          beginning January 1986.
produc  nmo-traditional  ports to third
arhetet Cc) Cprovllsn of a ceordinted
package of benilta lo sexorre,
includlng preferential bank credit
accelerated depr eation; CATS on the
beal of products and narket tirough the
ebhnia of - export contracti
Cd) eatabllehant of a Natlmil Invesbnt
ComucIl to approe eert eoetractst   d
Ce) laprwvent of the drawback dnoneb,.



- 36 -
learn .od SieJtlves                        Aotlam  Alredy them                                    Atise to be Thian
E. ICE AilZTIU U                       Onnermnt, with apprl at prmb motor           Ealbhish spcial wIetg oup   b spedlb
IDUSTRI L $ECIW                    orpnilxtln  and xternal tohnalol             ompletis of erdlntad papra of
salstman   Is papring progrm  b              aseistenes b Intry. Obyltlon o
eoalt indtries tob  mrhn, including          program  lludlg pregela fo  training
strengthening thsir ability t obtain tin     of paronnl, lea conditon for reles   at
arheting and teAo-elogloal Infolatis         tib mooed trnaha.
neded to hred  into lw arvits.
Sovermet Is algo dewsloping strabgy and      Cqsleto program ud Initato
prom   to attract flrig investr,             inplmntetln.
olse with stornal hotels 1 aseletner.
mu     muawum am
usr sic 11Mum11
A. RIULIC EO TW   AM  WAif            Pubilo motor snplyont levels frozen for       Coatlnuad mitoring of plio motbr
(Principal objective Is b          tres ysrr, beginning Mard 2, 19W. Naw    awuopnt  anls by tbi ludpt Aetheri 
.-dos public metor'e reletive      appoinlnnta limited to speclal  am           ard Contralora.  leplmntotls of fresm
slure In essmy. Progrm dim         approved by Cotrallor, and not to eceed       sn al_nt lnevels to bh revisd prbr
ala at rducnlg share of wges       aloyant E1Thng.rflr staps t_e  to            to relm  Of MooWd  Atnoa.
In arrant spendibrem  of           eI lminta   ut posts, sceiarab
pneral pwarmnt.)                   retiranbt, and enoura  trenafe  to 1Ioni br iepiinnbtln of _p polosles.
prlut motor.
Cary out study of pub Ile mctor scary us
Future publc *ector age Increa_s             Incentive poliieso with upport usdr
restricted to abwlub ehn    In the cost     Teohale l Aeeistane Loan.
of a bcaIc tet oa goods -  ervlces.
L eWHT WMINISREICN -
CaUl no RECUDIZATICN tF
PUSLIC FINIMIS
1.  -flftln of                     Hlgiioeval Canucislon established by         Cwptea study of public firwen     ad l y
P= -llc Flw-s                  Asaly to ni  rscmnndtles and                racandetions by nerly On1, with
prepere daft legislatin to reorder           objective af abitting to reform
public financ  and tax system.               propoala, including change In  erarking
to Loglbietiva Asicly by mid-SM.
Law for the Finacial EquililbrIu. of the
Pubilc Sector lmitBs  Ct) Central
Gov nmat ess o credl t frrn Notinml
Besoing Syste (t9 to 5 percent of total
budgeted axpnditures for previeu yuri
asd Cli) forbids decentralized
Institution from obtualng external
credit to  ver current qperatlml conta.
2.  o!d!St 1Authrity!w             Eatubilalant of adget Authority and           -pro" oral l budget proces  throlgha
ngrt Frocrcc                   preparatl  of an I   gul delnes for         developmat of proor  for leproed
budget preperatlon.                          budget *xcrtlon and cntrol, Including
maitoring of pyalcel ad finncial
Lw for tie Finacial Equlilbria of the        progres of projects, and Imlysis of pest
Public Sector etablishes nsw cr1 tbri  for   budget perfonnance o aId In preparatlon of
budget preparation. Alr estiatad             futre budgpt. Tecticl  sistancs being
expenditures    t b  tied to an equluient    provided undar tie Tachical Asdletans
haul of rmai  as crtifled by the             La.
Centrol ber Gnar 1. Al I curfent
axpendi ture  eat be financed with  errant   Initiatl review and revisin of legl
re nu. Noupriority budget Ibme of            freawork and adalnistretIve status of
daentalizd Intitutlom  to a                  Tacencel Scretariat t lWroe
el lminatd en recoeItis of tudjpt            coodinatlon In prpeprin, lepilntlag and
Authority and approal of Controrles.         control ilng pOle metor budtb.
Technical aisetam  bln  providWd  dar
Tecimical Assistnc  Lean



- 37 -
Iaoes and Objeotlves                       Actime Already Takon                                  Stiena to be Take
3. OCtral of braked Tame           bskling of eartain bee for spacific           fovorwn  b aIt rSre of eanqrklng
md  1      P Gp-oy    rem      pmrpos  reduced In 19 61 and IN  budgets.     aekm b   laslas  re by m1i1M.
Earwrking exp_ed b be ellinatd, and
Panding Asmbly woval of refom of              replac  by sysab   of direst tmfors to
rorking eyaee, Coverweut vii 1 nV            cutnt q,prcplael.
propoe nor wprm any legIleatIon
lnorporating nw   omrklg.
C. NEC#IZATIONW W  XESA AM
8TICfMINU or ITS PITIL10
1. Olvestitur of Portfolio         ArliSbly pronvl of logislation                Coulte ubbhlishunt of Trat Fad ard
authrizaIng Emeutive Banch to ell  all        detelied Pile of Actilo and Tlmts is.
of OMEA  *stares I Its entorpriess,          C lobtIn of Plan Of Action ad thutbbs
with eneption of60 percent merehip of        wld be a endtion for relean of the
PERTICA ad Ceaitoe dSl Pacif io.              wood tbeh.
Within this fremork, NOOS he: closd           Prepratlon of atln progrm to lhprwe
DAISA ad Centos dl Vale , whos                tlk  _napnat sad mketing of IERTICA a
equlpet le being sli  mld lIrboultbrs,       atenglhin manapent of CATS. To b
Acusoulturs, and It skere  In                  erried out unr Tolmloi Acrleran
Subrproductes S1 Cafe; and Incrasd           Lan.
prIvate particip tie  In STAlWARt.
Oenremnt Ia utablashing a Trust Find
with foreip fluncing b expedito
dlmustibro.
2. Intuttiuml  a                   Agrment reachd o n-  pollcy objct Ives        Comleeta a progra. of resrgnlation ad
Poin cy lnprvmnEt              and Inatitutioe  guidellneu for COESA,        policy hmprovemnts under -  guide llau.
be reorient It actIvitie  b presto           To be srted out with tehnlcl celanc_
ail agroldutry projects and uxport           provided under the Teciulcel Aesietaner
proj cb outside tke CUO. WESLA'              Loon.
participation limited be 30 percnt of
totalt capito :'ede. No lroa or
guarantee er .brunts would be mde,
excpt for ml I agro-industry projets.
All projects abject to strict econcic
and finaelal feasibility guldellnrr.
0. NATIOHNL PRmUCrIi CUCIL             Agenwut be reduce CUs loam  by 50             iqulmnt agod atepa be redc OP lotses
COP)                               paraent weh yew beginnin  In 1985             by 50 porcnt km 19t5. Progress t be
through  prpprlate priem and polIcy          revlowed as conidtIc  of re bon  of scnd
adjusehnts. Action  be redues loes            trande.
Iron corn, bem aid rie already token.
Carry out sbedy of prie  ad  rit Ing
pollclee, including orpnlitional
structure of CP, to dfin  pollcy optbm
for r edclr  csts of eulating fr_merk
aid provide mrs effective lac  ties (bo
be crried under the Tooliel Asic
E. RJPUIC SERS ItWESTr                Agemut - public Invnebnt ceiling of           Prepare ad Iilmpnt   pan of action to
PUISRI                             6.5 pereent of eP, for Control  onrmnt        strengtlin the planing promcs, Includln
and  min public entitien during 19U14C.       the abengtkenlng of project preprtlon
and amiwtion a   taningl In No
Agemmt reacted o a revised three-ye          programming of laebnte. To be urrled
macewnt roe  (1961.6) ouqitlbiW              coto utder Technloal Aasetinc Loan.
with tin ezpe4ad amileblilty of datic
reourers, fInnclal pootlon of public           itnber cwlae with public  vings aid
enberpriemc coerned, and debt servie          invlwoat tbrget - wol - es tlafeebry
cm tra Inte.                                  luolmnbttli  of l    bnt rpgrqe
Cuqpllonce with Invebnt tergpts vilI be
rewInd as a enil tbn for rdee    of thk
secatrenh.



- 38 -
same o    Objectives                       Atims Alrady Thks                                    Atleons o be Talh_
Imat. _tI Ei SIWIE
A. TAX E                              Slum  flnlli ot el     r O urmt hi moled      Intredm  amd Irulmnt emeora lb   uas
Central Oovwmnt ruvnow  by ut 7.5            tox administratin aI rdes  aslm,
parente points of U. through                 linldlq lprwed  mntrol proudu aa
qppletim d  tffa    m  anS revision of      caqbratilens b rals eel leetlu.
eilsting hi rabe.                            Toeilleel Asalbu      La prwidea uppert
far this pirpeas.
1. FPINNCIF  OF   SMIOw               Sitiflent prle and tariff Inreses ftr        Toriff levela of pbllI *enrrprlsos to be
rIULIC MM   WITIES MC              posr, i  r, telammonlmtlenr,                 adjmbd perladliclly b a bvel ufficlent
NDNF4INMCIAL  MWRIUS               pitroli  producb and ustan trnsport put      te cean opertlml expmndlibra, Set
Iuto of *et ame  19ff.                       arvlee, an a rmasonable aire of
Ilnvueant.
If. simit                                  Dlrectives lam    rquolring antrating of  1mprwe epretlan a debt riperting qota
11I                                    r mvexfbrmI debt s lo apprwed by            and lnthl I opel ty to fmonde dSbt errinv
Planning, tih  udget Autal qy end the        prnJecttim.
Centrol ler's Offlee.
Debt reporting aSnd unbring systam
Intalled In Central SmB
Oeentralilzd agenci  anw t aettin
exterrml crodit to fiume ernt
expendi hrms.



- 39 -
mIND Pimm w eUCNJL AJmn  rcm
lomu   ad Objectlvs                        kt          Aready  T                                  Atins to be Talon
1.  i m      a  auE                       Revisio  of movral Irnentive systat           Proud with lopilenttlon of noregional
JWIU a           W                     underwy, Including actions to adjust          projects fuosd a eperte In tie Atlantk
esolpe  eto nmd refn iqort hriffq            Reglon an Cot Sw In ti South.
eoliina e xport toes - nmu-traditloaias
to third whets end reduc   x eo  bae         Prepare prqgmm to de"lop nrtraditbhnl
expots.                                      agrloultur  exports. (To he urried out
under Tecinicel Assieton  Loam.)
A. CREDIT fAN  INlUnS  RATE POLICY     Esttbhlamnt of poeltitv  rnl linbrst          Monitor Inbrort rato policy prfomme
rates ad Governent cemlbnt he               end adjut as uppr toplf.
mintala dape It rates ao  expected
IdnfItlon.                                   Furthlr rdee  modunt of erdit provided at
Ion then dapol t ret conslatnt with
gDvtinmt enni btut.
B. INIS7lU11TILWN  FR_URK              Sthdy of Natimol Baonking Syske by            Prepnrtlon of ation progrm  h lwoe
high-level ocjiaslon empietod Noveflr       perfonuc  of public bnks, Includlg p h.
19U                                          to reduce arure; es tbliaiwnt of
pirfoane   criteria regarding wreara,
Anorenlnt of MoIny Law to pensit ilnding      cute of operation, nWd loan qpral
In ftreign excngmp  and trnnfar of the       processing tim.  (Support being provided
foreign axchlng  rsk to the nitiant          anlr Tecnlucel Aesrltene onl).
borrmwr; end approval of mendnt to
Central Benk Low to pomi t direct privete    Prepare action prqgrm  to strengthn
bak accon to BCC redl scont feel iltis,      finances of Central Bank.
fitnancd with foeign fads.
El inm  tlon of credit aloation eptem bv
eub-actors.
1i * MUM ew.nnwus F
11wo 11 m _m -_
A. Sf WN'U  iHE FINMiCIC MD
ICIAGO   W OF SINL SWRITY          Social Socurii  tCC;S  ho Inplrmnted on      Carry out culpehenive altdy of future
e WELiH PCRDI6.                    action plon to  nean  revenes and             wads and finacing roquiresnto fouing
redu  coots, including peronn                on: CD curarnt ad ftutre o   cus of   lal
reduetlon. CCSS bedget for 1984 shod a       aecurily prop... coially haltiw (II)
esrpIa.                                      el trative financing mechnim  ad
ecurep and CIII) Imprwiong
coat-of fctvtlvem of heaol ther in. To
he urried out under Technical Asistance
Loan.
B.  WnvE  T-EFIC1TiY S OF              Tohehr's eplopynt level frmen for            CDuIehe abidle  of eductiebnag nt
OArnaN PCRM 6, INi INi             1984-W6 (es part of orl l frIen  on           with upport ndbr Technical Alstnc
IWmOVi  CULM  SA FPI1 OF           public sctor or*loyent).                     Loan with objoctIva of:
ICATION CONSISlE1T WITH
WNWI IECDS                                                                       (1) preprlng an action prqgrm  to imprv
eduetin _nngomnnt and edninasttatln,
Including  pelf Ic cot-of fSotvemas
wnaer  and poac lie ways to ganrats n
reveem ad fern
Cii) undertaking a ebdy of univrsity
opavtlons to revlw the ceat-ffoctivenue
of program ad adinistretion md prpare
plan of actin to eddrea  hey lesuq ad
Ciii) prepring training pregos to
faciilite  transfr of public siplyen  lo
privateo sctr and prolvde sklIb for
restructured industrial motor.



- 40 -
III. PROSPECTS OF THE COSTA RICAN ECONOMY AND EFFECTS OF THE
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
102.      Given the openness of the economy, and its heavy reliance on
agricultural exports of coffee and bananas with uncertain prospects, as well as
the import intensity of the manufacturing sector and the country's high debt
service obligation, Costa Rica's economy will remain vulnerable in the coming
years. However, appropriate stabilization and structural adjustment policies
and continued substantial external support, much of it on concessional terms,
would make the situation manageable and result in renewed growth over time.
A. Economic Recovery Prospects Under the Structural Adjustment Program
103.      On the basis of a 3 percent per year real GDP growth in OECD countries
and assuming satisfactory implementation of the Structural Adjustment Program,
coupled with adequate external support, including further reschedulings of
commercial bank and bilateral debts, growth is expected to average about
4.0 percent a year for the 1985-90 period. Compared to the long-term 6 percent
growth rate achieved in the 1960s and 1970s, this growth rate is modest.
It reflects the limited growth prospects of the country's main traditional
exports; the constraints on expanding the domestic and regional markets; the
time needed to develop new export industries; the country's high debt service
requirements even with further rescheduling, which limits savings available for
investment; and the much more restricted growth of public expenditures. Real
per capita private consumption would increase by about 1.5 percent a year
during 1985-90.
104.      All of the country's main productive sectors are expected to
participate in the recovery during 1986-90, with the exception of government
services which would represent a declining share of GtiP. Agriculture growth
would increase from about 2.4 percent in 1984 to a grcwth rate of 4 percent in
1990. Industry would recover from a 3 percent a year decline during 1980-84 to
reach a growth of about 5 percent a year in 1990.
105.      As a result of the export-oriented strategy adopted by the Government,
and assuming that the Goverzment takes further measures to strengthen incentives
for increasirg exports to markets outside the CACM, rationalize the banking
system and achieve equilibrium in public finances, as part of its continued
structural adjustment efforts in the next few years, overall balance of payments
prospects are expected to improve. Exports of manufactures and nonr-traditional
agricultural products to markets outside the CACM are expected to grow at an
average 7.6 percent a year in real terms during 1986-90 (see para. 43).
Rehabilitation programs for beef and cacao are expected to turn around present
downward trends and gradually increase the exportable surplus of these two
traditional exports. Coffee ard bananas, given price and market prospects,
however, will most likely only grow at an average 2 percent a year. Their
relatively high share of total exports limits total real export growth to about
5 percent a year.



- 41 -
106.      Merchandise imports are projected to grow at about 4.0 percent a
year in real terms, about the same rate as GDP growth. This represents a lower
import elasticity than recorded in the past, reflecting shifts in the
composition of investment and output as industries respond to the changed
incentive framework. Lower consumption and investment ratios would also result
in a slowdown in import growth.
107.      Public expenditures will not be as important in determining GDP growth
rates, as they were in the late 1970s and early 1980s, since the Goverment will
gradually reduce the relative share of public consumption and public investments
will be maintained at a relatively low level. Private investment, on the other
hand, is expected to recover in response to the more favorable incentive and
policy framework, the additional credit and technical assistance to restructure
manufacturing enterprises, and strengthened support for agriculture. However,
political developments in Central America may limit the extent of the private
investment response.
B. "With and Without" Comparison
108.      The importance of the economic reforms being undertaken by Costa Rica
are better understood if the above-noted prospects are compared with a
hypothetical scenario illustrating what would likely happen in the absence of
implementation of timely structural adjustment policies (see Table 4). Under
this scenario, GDP growth would virtually stagnate, possibly leadirg to adverse
social consequences. The level of investment and exports would be much lower in
the absence of adequate incentives and the resulting uncertainty about economic
policies. Per capita consumption in real terms would also decline. Public
investment would not increase given the limited availability of domestic and
external financing. Private investment would be lower and possibly less
efficient, with a higher incremental capital/output ratio since it would be
geared to the small domestic and regional market in which further efficient
import substitution opportunities are limited. Exports, especially manufactured
and other non-traditional agriculture exports would grow very slowly compared to
the base case. Traditional exports would also likely be lower given the greater
economic uncertainty and less appropriate incentive framework. Some official
capital inflows would continue, to the extent not directly related to an
improvement in policy performance. Net direct investment vould also be
considerably lower in the absence of a Structural Adjustment Program. These
lower inflows would necessitate a corresponding cut in import growth. The
country might be forced to apply import controls thereby introducing further
distortions into the economy. These reductions in imports would have an adverse
effect on investment, productivity and overall growth. With slow growth in GDP
and in exports, the share of external debt in GDP and the debt service ratio
would likely increase to utnanageable levels.



- 42 -
Table 4: COSTA RICA: SELECTED ECONOMIC INDICATORS UNDER ALTERNATIVE ASSUMPTIONS
(As Percentages)
PROJECTIONS
1985-1990
ITEMS                                 ACTUAL      WITH        WITHOUT
STRUCTUKAL   STRUCTURAL
1981-84   ADJUSTMENT   ADJUSTMENT
(End of Period)
Annual Growth Rates (Constant Prices)
GDP                                                    -1.1         4.5          0.5
Per Capita Private Consumption                         -1.2          1.5        -3.2
Merchandise Exports                                     0.3          5.2         2.6
Manufactured Exports to Third Markets                   5.4         10.0         2.0
Merchandise Imports                                   -10.0          4.5         0.1
Other Indicators
Total Consumption (% of GDP, End of Period)            84.4        81.7         83.6
Gross Domestic Investment
(Z of GDP, End of Period)                           18.3         17.9         11.2
Gross National Savings (X of GDP, End of Period)    11.0           13.4          8.8
Resource Balance (Z of GDP, End of Period)             -1.7         0.4          5.2
Current Acct. Balance (X of GDP/End of Period)         -7.5        -2.5          0.0
Debt Service Ratio (End of the Period) 11              37.5        29.2         35.0
Debt Outstanding 6 Disb./XGNFS (End of Period)          2.9         2.0          2.2
Interest Payments/XGNFS (X of GDP/End of Period)    29.1           18.5         20.5
1/ Assumes further debt reschedulings (see para. 18)
Source: Staff estimates.



- 43 -
C. Benefits and Risks of the Structural Adlustment Program
Benefits
109.      The main benefits of the Structural Adjustment Program are as follows:
First, the economy's capacity to withstand future external shocks will be
enhanced by diversifying Its productive structure and exports. Second, the
economy's performance should be improved through a greater market orientation of
private sector investment decisions responding to more rational and simplified
incentives. This will strengthen the country's capacity for economic growth and
social development, and provide its growing labor force with employment
opportunities while easing the external payments constraint. Third, improved
growth and balance of payments performance brought about by the Structural
Adjustment Program and the Bank's support for this strategy, will improve
significantly the country's creditworthiness. Fourth, the proposed loan itself
will provide additional foreign exchange on favorable terms and facilitate new
financing and/or refinancing on more favorable terms.
Equity Impact
110.      Although It is not possible to quantify the immediate and longer-term
equity impact of the program, the adjustments are expected to have some negative
effects on employment and income in certain productive sectors, such as
manufacturing, in the short-term, while the economy is in transition to the
higher growth and employment levels expected under the recovery program.  Since
the Government will not be in a position to expand public employment, it is
concerned that open unemployment will rise in the short term. Moreover, the
Government is also concerned that the efforts to stabilize the economy and
develop a new export sector will tend to concentrate wealth in favor of
exporters and higher Income groups. Nevertheless, since Costa Rica has one of
the most equitable income distributions in Latin America, the Structural
Adjustment Program's cost in terms of short-run sacrifices, should have less of
a negative equity impact than it might have in other countries. In addition,
the Structural Adjustment Program includes specific measures to ease the
immediate costs of the adjustment process and ameliorate the redistributive
impact (see para. 124).
Risks
111.      The Government's Structural Adjustment Program has several
interrelated major risks.  The first arises from uncertainties in international
economic conditions, which could adversely affect exports. Slower growth in
OECD countries as well as lower commodity prices would limit export growth. At
the same time increased protectionism in industrial countries could also affect
the pace of export expansion. The second risk is related to the speed with
which the Costa Rican private entrepreneur responds to changed market signals
and acquires the management and marketing skills needed for a successful export
drive.  Given the small size of many firms and their capital structure, as well
as the current inward looking orientation of local entrepreneurs, their response
could be slower than predicted, thus affecting adversely the rate of growth of



- 44 -
exports. The third risk is political in nature. Given the country's democratic
framework ani system of checks and balances as well as wide dispersion of
political power, the political campaign for the February 1986 elections, and the
impact of certain policy reforms on key groups in the society, there is a risk
that the Structural Adjustment Program may be carrled out at a slower pace than
planned. The fourth major risk arises from the difficulties in estimating the
quantitative effects of the policy reforms on the economy. Neither the
magnitude nor the timing of the longer cerm benefits, or the length and
difficulty of the transition period, can be predicted with certainty. A fifth
risk is associated with capital inflows. These may not materialize as projected
depending largely on the willingness of bilateral donors to continue high levels
of assistance. Given Costa Rica's position in Central America, its democratic
framework, and the perceived disposition at present of potential donors, who are
relying on close monitoriqg of the adjustment measures by the Bank, this risk
seems minimal at the present time. A sixth risk is associated with the
political climate in Central America, which may adversely affect prospects for
foreign investors and tourism.
IV. THE PROPOSED LOAN
112.      The proposed loan would support the Goverrment's structural adjustment-
efforts, and is being closely coordinated with assistance being provided by
other donors, especially the IMF, the United States and the private commercial
banks. Preliminary discussions on a Structural Adjustment Program were
initiated in 1981, but further substantive work was postponed until after the
election of a new goverment in 1982 and the GovFi nment had carried out initial
stabilization efforts with IMF support and reached an understanding with the
private commercial banks on a rescheduling of its debt. Discussion of the
Structural Adjustment Program intensified in 1983 and early 1984. Appraisal of
the loan was completed in December 1984, and negotiations were held in late
January and early February, 1985. The Costa Rican delegation was led by the
Minister of Planning, Juan Mantuel Villasuso. Annex III contains a supplementary
loan data sheet.
IMF Activities, the Proposed Loan, and Other External Support
113.      The new one-year stand-by arrangement, which the IMF Board is expected
to consider in early March 1985 (see para. 15), continues support for Govermuent
efforts to consolidate the gains achieved under the 1983 stabilization program,
with the overall objective of further strengthening the country's fiscal
performance and balance of payments position, thus establishing a strorger basis
for sound economic recovery. Although the short-term stabilization program is
necessarily more limited in scope and focus than the Structural Adjustment
Program, with its emphasis on restoring growth over the medium-term, the two
programs are closely linked. In addition to helping provide a more stable
environment conducive to investment and renewed growth, the 1985 IMF Program
also supports progress in a number of key areas which are important for the



- 45 -
overall success of the Structural Adjustment Program. First, the IMF progran
encompasses a number of actions related to the SAL objective of gradually
reducing the relative size of the public sector and improving its
cost-effectiveness. In particular, the stand-by constrains Central Goverment
expenditures to rise at a slower pace than inflation, limits wage adjustments in
the public sector to hold them below inflation, and aims at maintaining overall
equilibrium in the rest of the public sector (excluding Central Governnent),
with emphasis on accelerating the divestiture of CODESA and reducing CNP's
losses. Secondly, in the external sector, the program emphasizes a flexible
exchange rate policy, which will improve export competitiveness, and which is
central to achieving the Structural Adjustment Program objective of expanding
exports. The 3MF and Bank supported stabilization and structural adjustment
programs are therefore complementary. Both share the objectives of a more
limited and efficient public sector, strengthened budgetary and institutional
control, a more open and less regulated economy in the productive sectors, and
consequently improved resource allocation. Continued close collaboration
between Bank and IMF staff will be needed to ensure consistency between the
short-term stabilization objectives and the mediur-term structural changes
needed for economic recovery and growth.
114.      Since continued substantial capital inflows and further debt relief
are essential if Costa Rica is to implement its Structural Adjustment Program
and improve its creditworthiness, preparation of the program has involved a
close dialogue with USAID, the pri-_lpal bilateral donor, and the private
commercial banks. USAID, on its part, has strorgly supported actions to improve
public sector performance and the availability of financial resources needed for
private sector recovery and growth, all of which complement the Structural
Adjustment Program. The private banks, on their part, have increasingly
recognized the importance of providing further support within the context of a
medium-term adjustment program.
115.      As indicated by the above, the Government's Structural Adjustment
Program is being actively supported by other members of the international
community, Moreover, satisfactory implementation of the program and
disbursement of the proposed loan is critical to the Govermnent's ability to
ensure disbursement of already agreed external financing durlig 1985. In
particular, disbursement of US$75.0 million in new monies from the private
commercial banks has been made contingent on approval of the IMF stand-by and
disbursement of the first tranche of the proposed SAL. Similarly, satisfactory
performance under the IMF stand-by assumes full disbursement of the proposed SAL
during calendar 1985, coupled with the additional inflows expected from
bilateral donors and the private commercial banks. Although not linked directly
to the SAL or IMF programs, disbursement of USAID support assumes continued
satisfactory economic performance on the part of Costa Rica. The proposed SAL
is therefore part of a much larger financial support package for Costa Rica in
1985, totaling close to US$400 million (see para. 16).



- 46 -
The Government's Structural Adjustment Program and the Proposed Loan
116.      The proposed loan supports measures already taken by the Government
during the first phase of its Structural Adjustment Program, as well as further
actiors to be taken during 1985. The proposed accompanying Technical Assistange
Loan would assist in ic-.1ementing the program supported by SAL I, as well as lay
the groundwork for additional measures to be taken during subsequent phases of
the Structural Adjustment Program, which may be supported by further SAL or
project lending.
117.      The specific actions supported by SAL I are set out in the
Government's Statement of Development Policy, (attached as Annex IV) and
summarized in the Matrix from page 35 to 39. The principal actions already
taken by the Government are listed below, some of which have been taken in the
context of the IMF standby program, and some in the context of USAID
assistance. These are followed by the principal measures to be taken in 1985
and 1986.
Principal Actions Already Taken
1.        Export Promotion and Trade
(a) Massive devaluation in 1981-82 followed by periodic devaluations under
a flexible exchange rate policy.
(b) Establishment of a revolving Export Financing Fund in Central Bank,
elimination of export taxes on non-traditional exports to third
markets, and introduction of improved drawback mechanism.
Cc) Agreement on new regional tariff treaty to be ratified by the Costa
Rican Legislative Assembly during March 1985.
2.        Public Sector Rssource Mobilization
(a) Approval of tax reforms and revenue measures increasing current
revenues by 7.5 percentage points of GDP during 1982-85.
(b) Steep price increases in public utilities and petroleum prices.
3.        Public Sector Management and Efficiency
(a) Reduction of public sector investment expenditures from 10 percent of
GDP in 1981 to 6.4 percent in 1983 and preparation of revised 1984-86
investment program which maintains a 6.5 percent of GDP ceiling for
public investment.
(b) A freeze by law on public sector employment levels for 1984-86.
(c) Assembly authorization to sell most of CODESA's firms by executive
action. Closure of two CODESA firms and sale of three others.
(d)  Agreement with the DMF and Bank on measures to reduce CNP losses by
one-half in 1985.



- 47 -
Principal Measures to be Taken during the Proposed SAL I
118.      The principal measures and continuing actions proposed to be taken
during SAL I are summarized below:
(a) Further adjustments of the exchange rate to strengthen export
competitiveness;
(b) Complete implementatlon of new tariff regime by October 1, 1985;
(c) Preparation and initiation of a program to assist industries to
modernize, including training of employees;
(d) Complete CODESA program of divestlture, whlle taking steps to Improve
efficiency of the two enterprises (CEMPA and FERTICA) not being sold;
and
(e) Carry out measures to reduce CNP's losses by 50 percent in 1985
compared with 1984.
Loan Amount and Tranching
119.      The proposed loan of US$80.0 million would finance about 7 percent of
Costa Rica's merchandise imports and meet about 17 percent of its gross external
capital requirements for 1985. The loan would be in two equal tranches: the
first US$40.0 million would be eligible for disbursement upon effectiveness of
the Loan Agreement, and the remaining US$40.0 million equivalent, would become
available about six months later, assuming satisfactory progress in meeting the
conditions indicated in paragraph 121 below.
Monitoring
120.      Progress in implementing the Government's Structural Adjustment
Program will be closely monitored through regular supervision and exchange of
views between the Government and the Bank. To facilitate the monitoring
process, the Government will submit progress reports to the Bank from time to
time, with the first formal exchange of views to take place no later than
October 15, 1985 or such other date as may be agreed between the Borrower and
the Bank (draft Loan Agrerment, Section 3.01).
121.      In addition to monitoring the overall program, the Bank would also
monitor compliance with the specific elements proposed as conditionality for
release of the second tranche. The proposed conditionality is indicated below
and incorporated in the Loan Agreement (draft Loan Agreement Schedule 4):
(a) compliance with the freeze on public sector employment in 1985, as
required by legislarion;



- 48 -
(b) take all necessary measures to reduce in 1985 CNP's operating looses
by 50 percent with respect to 1984;
(c)  completlon of a program to assist industries to modernize, including a
detailed analysis by industrial subsector of specific needs for
upgrading plant and equipment, financial assistance, technical support
and training programs for management and labor;
(d) completion of a timetable for the divestiture of CODESA enterprises,
such divestiture to be carried out by end-1985;
(e) monitor compliance with the public sector investment program targets
established for 1985, as incorporated in the Statement of Development
Policy;
(f) monitor compliance with implementation of new duties on raw materials,
capital goods, and intermediates, adoption of Brussels nomenclature,
and change to ad valorem base; and
(g) take all necessary measures to put into effect the new tariff regime
by no later than October 1, 1985, including the detailed tariff
schedule on finai goods and the elimination of all exonerations.
Procurement and Disbursement
122.      Procurement would be in accordance with the Bank's Procurement
Guidelines. Private firms would follow normal commercial practice. Public
sector imports would be in accordance with standard government practices, which
ensure reasonable prices. All purchases exceeding US$5.0 million would be
through international competitive bidding.
123.      The loan would finance the CIF cost of eligible imports, subject to
documentary evidence that they have been paid for on or after loan signing.
Public and private sector imports would be eligible, except for military
equipmetut, petroleum products, and luxury consumer goods, as specified in the
Loan Agreement, Schedule I. The Central Bank would be responsible for the
coordination and collection of relevant documentation and preparing withdrawal
applications under the loan. The applications would be submitted to the Bank
using statements of expenditure, with the detailed documentation retained by the
Certral Bank for review by the Bank as appropriate (draft Loan Agreement,
Sections 3.04 and 3.05(a)).
Counterpart Funds
124.      The domestic funds generated by the Loan would be credited to the
Government in a Special Loan Fund Account in the Central Bank held by the
Ministry of Finance (draft Loan Agreement Section 3.02). They would be used to
support implementation of the Structural Adjustment Program. In particular, the
Government has indicated that it may wish to utilize the funds to assist in
implementation of special programs being designed to ease the burden of



- 49 -
adjustment and support production In agriculture and industry, such as support
for extension and agrarian reform, modernizing plants to improve their
competitive position, and retraining industrial workers displaced by the
restructuring of manufacturing.
V. BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
125.      Costa Rica has to date received 28 Bank loans and one IDA credit
totalling US$411.5 million net of cancellations. Of these, six were for power,
five each for telecommunications, industry and highways, three for agriculture
and one each for education, water supply, urban transport, technical assistance
for petroleum exploration, and export development. Performance audit reports
have been issued for two highways, three telecommunication projects, one
agriculture, and one power project. These reports indicate that project
objectives were generally achieved in highways, telecommunications and power,
with somewhat less success in agriculture, where appraisal targets for crop
production and exports were missed, partly due to shifts in markets and
incentives and difficulties in introducing more satisfactory investment analysis
methods into the banking system.
126.      Of the eight projects currently under execution, project start-up has
generally been slowed by delays in loan effectiveness due mainly to legislative
ratification delays. Implementation has also been delayed by local financing
constraints, although these have now been eased by reducing project scope in
some cases and adjusting implementation arrangements in others to accelerate
disbursements. As a consequence, implementation of most projects is now
generally satisfactory, with the exception of the San Jose Water Supply Project,
which encountered procurement difficulties that have only recently been
resolved, Implementation of the Export Development Loan has also been slower
than anticipated. However the Export Fund (FOPEX) has recently introduced new
procedures permitting cash sales of foreign exchange, which is expected to
improve performance. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA
credit and IFC investments as of September 30, 1984.
127.      Bank lending to Costa Rica has concentrated primarily on developing
basic infrastructure, mainly power, telecommunications and highways, with
more limited assistance being made available to support development of
agriculture and industry. In response to the growing economic crisis in the
early 1980s, the Bank's lending program was redesigned, with priority given to
helping relieve the country's pressirg balance of payments problems, improve its
export performance, and strengthen creditworthiness. The Export Development
Loan (US$25.2 million), approved in FY1983, constituted a first step in Bank
support of Government economic recovery efforts. It established a revolving
export financing fund to help finance the import requirements of export
industries. The proposed Structural Adjustment Loan of US$80 million, and
accompanying Technical Assistance Loan of US$3.5 million, continue support of
the country's economic recovery and adjustment effort. Both take into account
the long-term nature of the Costa Rican economic crisis and the importance of
providing support in the context of a phased Structural Adjustment Program.



- 50 -
128.      Future Bank lenditg La expected to be directed at:  (i) contlnuing
support for the Structural Adjustment Program; (il) promoting private sector
efforts to develop exports in industry and agriculture; and (iii) ensuring
adequate maintenance of existing basic Infrastructure. In this context, two
projects to support the Structural Adjustment Program and the productive sectors
are under preparation, namely an industrial credit operation and a project to
develop export agriculture In the Atlantic region of the country. Further
support for highway maintenance is also beirg considered.
129.      IFC has been involved in four projects in Costa Rica.  Equity and loan
investments in Productos de Concreto have been sold and fully repaid. The
expansion project of Scott Paper Company de Costa Rica, financed by a loan in
1978, is now completed. Loan and equity investments in 1979 helped finance the
integration and expansion of Maricultura, S.A., a shrimp farm on the Pacific
coast. This project's financial and management difficulties have since forced
the shrimp farm to cease operations. In August 1982, a loan of US$4.0 million
to Matas de Costa Rica, S.A., was approved by IFC's Board of Directors to help
finance the development of a new plantation for indoor ornamental plants. IFC
is also exploring other financing possibilities In the country.
VI. LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
130.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Costa Rica and the
Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed separately.
Satisfactory progress in implementing the Structural Adjustment Program and
compliance with the specific actions detailed in para. 121 would be conditions
of disbursement for the second tranche of the proposed loan. Special conditions
of the loan are listed in Section III of Annex III. Effectiveness of the
proposed Technical Assistance Loan, being submitted concurrently, would be a
special condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan.
131.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
VII. RECOMMENDATION
132.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loon.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
March 5, 1985
Washington, D. C.



ANNEX I
Page J of S
MT                   (MNT   uw  ETIMATE 
IM            MI04J   INOHM             MIUSLL:r01
1pbdb     I97dl      1CST     b    IAT. MUIUA A C                 W LOPI
au ctuD  . 0)
TOTAL                                30.7        50.7        30.7 
AORICLT1UAL                          14.0        16.6        23.6
e      m mmna C11)                     310.0       538.0      1250.0              2106.0                  2345.3
marm aa.uTn SR CAPTA
(KILOOAIS Or OIL EqUIVALINT)        208.0       579.0       392.0               993.5                  1122.6
noPAI    MD  ETL NTATIwSICE
PoPULATION,NID-TIAR (THOUSANDS)    1234.0      1727.0      2324.0
URUAN POUuLATIoN (3 or TOTAL)        36.5        39.7        U3.1                U 6.                    46.6
POPU.ATIUOI PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN lEUR 2000 (MILL)                              3.4
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                                5.4
POPULATION MOMENTUM                                         1.9                   .
POPULATION ONSITT
PER SQ. ER.                        J4.7        34.1        44.8                35.7                    62.9
P  SQ. NM. Aml. LAND               69.6        93.0        66.0                9z.4                   136.9
POPULATIW  Aug   UCTURE (C)
0-14 'N                           47.5        44-1        37.2                39.9                    31.b
1-64 YHS                           49.5       s307         59.6                St..                   01.l
bS AND AOVE                         3.0         3.2         3.8                 4.1                     7.1
POPULATION GROWTH ItSAT (R)
TOTAL                                3.5        3.2         2.5                 2.4                     1.6
URBAN                               4.1         4.0         3.2                 3.0                     3.7
CEUDE BITH RATE (PEk TROU)S          47.5        33.4        30.0                31.3                    23.4
CRUDC DEATH RATE (PEE TOUS)          8.0         6.7         3.9                 h.3                     8.S
CROSS EtPRODUCTIoN RATE               3.4         2.5         1.6                 2.0                     1.0
FAMILY LANNING
ACPTORSI ANNUAL TOSU)                 ..       19.0        20.4
usuES z or MUATED WOWU)               ..         ..        65.0                40.3
-OO an mINTRO.
INlDE  Or FOOD PRU. P  CAPITA
(199-71-100)                         63.0       100.0       100.0               114.3                   114.5
PR  CAPITA SUPPLT or
CALORES ( OP REqUIdNTS)           105.0       10L.0       113.0               110.6                   128.6
PROTEINS (CAMS PER DAT)            57.0        59.0        62.0                67.3                   39.7
OP 141ICN ANIMAL AND PULS        31.0        32.0        33.0 k              34.1                    34.5
CHILD (ACES 1-4) DEATH RATE           8.0         6.0         1.0                 5.7                     5.2
LIFP  EXPrCT. AT SIRTE (TEAS)        61.6        60.9        73.5                64.7                    67.4
IWAlls MORT. EATZ (PEE 1NOUS)        74.0        62.0        18.0               60.6                    54.2
ACCESS TO SAFE MATER (EPOP)
TOTAL                              59.0 P*   74.0          77.0 It             65.4
UR3AIM                             65.1 7iJ    96.0        93.0 7f             78.1
RURAL                              43.6        59.0        62.077              46.2
ACCESS TO EXCXETA DISPOSAL
CZ OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..        52.0        93.0 Jr             52.9
UUAN                                  ..       61.0        94.0                67.0
RURAL                                ..        43.0        93.0 A              24.5
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           2740.0      1620.0      1460.0 /h           1917.7                 1065.8
POP. PER NUINC PERS0oN              720.0       480.0       450.0 r            815.8                   7b4.4
Por. PEE HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             220.0       250.0       290.0 k             367.2                   326.3
URAN                                  *-      170.0       190.0 4c *11.5                              201.5
RURAL                                ..      4290.0          ..              2636.3
APMISSIONS PE HOSPITAL RED             ..        23.1        33.1 /c             27.3                   20.0
MOmmN
AVERAg SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                5.6 /d     5.6
UBnA                                5.4          ..              ...
RUAL                                6.o0         ..7
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                1.3 d      1.) 
URBAN                               1.37;        ..
RURAL                               1.7 7        ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (Z OrF SHLLINGS)
TOTAL                              55.0 Id       ..        59.0 J!..
tam81                              93.577        ..        67.07W Jet,           .
RURAL                              32.07o        ..        37.0/i.



ANNEX I
- 52 -
WIT            ~~(MDUT MUNgT UTINAIl) a
~~~~ ~~~REGE                  MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE
itoae      PelEk IsTIak              LAT. AsICA   A                 ECARRP
MSIUIIAI    0TAL                    tt.0        110.0       106,0               101.4                    101.1
MALE                     U7.0       111.0       10.0                104.3                    104.
FhNLI                     35.0      1o0o3        107 0               104.3                    36.7
COIIIbAe TOTAL                      I1i0        33.0         Al.0                43.2                     33.1
AILE                     20.0        27.0         M4.0                42.3                     66.9
nuALE                    21.0        23.0        11.0                 44.1                    50.6
,QATZIOAL (I OF UECONPT)             13.l         3.3        22.3                 33.6                    21.6
Pursn-an a uto
INAIT                               21.0         20.0        33.0                30.1                     25.1
5E0t31                              20.0         17.0        19.0                16.1                     20.5
AUWLT LIhEACY  ATSE (t)               34.0 d       63.'j       g0.0                79.3                     73.6
PASIEN       CAAI/11USM  P0P         12.3         22.3        35.6 ,              46.0                     54.7
PA5SO RUS EZUI/EOUUAND FOP            61.4         7533        s0.o               223.6                    1349.
TV UCEVIERS/TNOUSIAN OP                2.4         57.X       is.2                107.2                    122.6
NEIPAR  ("ALT tENEAL
NTR3I3T"   CZRCUIATZON
PER  ONOAM  POULTIOW                66.1I       102.5        70.7 ..             63.                      O's.3
CINM  AUAL ATTSUCM/CAVITA                . .         .  ..                          2.3                      * .
LABOR  g
TOTAL  AOR MCE (TNOIIN)              331.0       535.0        321.0
FEAL  (PEICUT)                      16.1         18.0        21.0                23.2                     34.3
aSRiUCLTUE (PERCEN)                 31.2         42.1        29.0                31.3                     40.7
InDUTRY (PRCENT)                    16.5        20.4         23.0                23.3                    23.3
PARTICIPATION RATS (PERCLNT)
TOTAL                               30.4        30.4         35.3                32.2                     42.9
KLE                                 50.6         49.5        55.2                49.3                     34.7
MALB                                 9.9         11.0        15.0                13.2                     31.0
ECONOIC DUECY RATIO                     1.7         1.6         1.2                 1.4                      0.3
SMI MuUu
FIRCUT WF PRIVATZ SZHCG
R IVtD  B
EIISW8Tr s    ROVUEOI       I       33.0
iaEiT 20S OF tlOUlUOLD8             38.6        54.8          ..
L1DWUS 20S or 1UOU3EIOLD             5.7          3.3
LoeED  402 OF R   WOUIEM            13.0        12.0
SpuT   TAUUT S
UTIMTD  ABSOLUTE FPOVERT  IrCOM
LEVL (U11 PER CAPITA)
11UU                                  ..           ..          ..               2U.2.
UIRAL                                 ..           ..         ..                134.0
EUTMATD RELATIVE POVERTY  Sncom
LEVL (U7  P  CAPITA)
UUA                                   ..           .-    .     .                522.8
"L                                    *-                       ..               372.4
ESTIMTED "OP. RLO  AI ftl
WJnT incoE LEvEL (X)
RURAL
MT AVAILAIL
NOT APnICAKS
NOT ES
/    The group aeragp  for each Indicator are populatIon-weighted arithetic m_us.  Coverage of countres mOng the
Indicators depeude on availability of data and is not uiform.
/k   Valeeg otbeotKa  noted. "Data for 1960' refer to an  year betwee 1959 and 1961;  Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for 'Met Recent Eatimate' between 19J0 end 1932.
Lg  1V77; Id 1963; a Percentage of duelUnip with piped water; If 1976; LL1975; /h 1979; /I Percentage of
subecrLbere; Ljf62; A 1973.
JUNE, 1934



-at53-                                                                           AN=  I
Page 3 of S
sotohibe booms   I. tn oot oP soodedbd di: ililuss old *mow. mosd Op dillfomas ossoseis  Is solloollou elm doe. to  dam  em.  Woesttoo.   bat ato
dosePRI oldols of olpfsllod. Gdings undoo. old ChortwosS .s  smelol sojor dIildlsos  btoRo  senelso.
"a waespmss  gae~po en I1) Its oe  osatry jess  oP a%s whbent instep OSA Cl) . ane11p1 sopm sin  WOssss  haggser wead  Ioashots.Iuk moVan gmso  of lbe
shjsss easeplos-oepito EPP'Ml loo   OIL Nowl-ml se5oe  oboe .110dbt  1Ia    onist Ito  ld GM Niddl et,oo  is etoso  hooo   op woSiss ooesosutosot
oCcisAIsos)  ts lb0 esieroNa jes   delKmo Itooeemo  ona5m wiseito isobothIs  eel IheSo sm  Ibe etub loAsOle old ohm  sNipV             sojorimpl ofelmo  auosr  Is a
km h   dna r Pa thor  idsol.v.  Olin too essos ofss  PinVl  osos  Si. lsdlsosou  doposo. -  tho o.salotulle  of dam  W  tos is s       IF mUses.  o   aeb  in t
ossetood is lotollcwe Oiof OP i todloo lo OS oller. Noss Gnogo ont all awfol Lo msWrisg4o en usi of a lofian mir ml aII moo sin 4macp ag
Sc(sbossod oq.Rs.)                                                                                                  PspIaelo  divided by Neite of petesloleg
5Weox  Toso acrss .co coprIobo Eaodsesorh sod bloods aesesi IUD,                                                     'mgltp~ffI?coee lo   osh-t St dOalosoOlI  WWnI.
ftU    a  mor doss.                                                                   tlieefm ii                      oone divdd Op sakeols. proollIso
ioaun~stinooogaiset   'oosed  osocele      peeso  pldiblliWiliiiuIoo.m eanI I' ss  phtsineo  sod
U    sui -Isomees, sepI  sed  ltohco goldhon o to iso 1.1t  104 811.                Nosesirs o-oill4eta.
100sdgljos.tslsoss   Oelt 0     ~                                                                                       sttoO.M 'o uep        ',Ppctaa  (Roloi
oel.o,ej rreitlstsdor tok  espeoIe4... id hospietal tode
ItjMq I~Mj± -Ol  potcopie on ons  1  sessI ete  plos                              vllishl  Is potili aed pitiss Aeoinesie a  eosilltosd thosplosi aW
ss 0  -aw ueoesla mIld  M bWitt lost ilIo (ion-MI koesll                             csmbshllia I    oaoI". OsopSiot Oss sslohiloimloA po           Ifostp f o edpo
Iosm. lo's, a  logo deco,                                                                   hF oi isoo. so  ph'oiuieo". oN.so6.hliosan   providisg parelesiposp, misldiol
use of.10 ongloldod. Roem tospitalo1 loso-ar, ioso aseith ad
Aln -wla opiesosaft  soso-p  ma .ci     ro                          dissi osseous -a1 pusose Ip osoCd bee0 plsielo  (In Opo aissiea
-,sem          s,I to.-. taost-, olloest ess ol hede-. scstaks                            Mronol ns. odeis   o)oIotocciptotooaea
a  oslkest suuspeiei Cohiioeanof .i ouivoni  .c upilm  iili.peale a tistiod eos  oPt 1aid   iset Asio.Wsgt .a dtm0
hon,old 10101 dots.                                                                   M7I*IIffLP1IJII ,PI*b1J 1940  mag  of Tact OsbI   ofi oits imR  ifdkbo
lost a.t..                                                                         '".41maggy~~~~~~~~~~~~~Io   sl ,  Nf Ins. ae .W  ish
-     ~~~~~N-0   jo Iof Ii I IS.  SI, co.  d Redi afS
t1e1--1-21 elo                                                                   S  eizese Wh  WAts.1 'R.L!toO "efloi (SosOit   M.iefilqt ..posoj. e)q W  ee
I'l Im 4.1Mroc            rNeo     sae or   uo  . t-wobldgr  psplstteld -c.oklo,win loto AlHoP .                      Wopo lSbodoolo an ic, 1 oboe   okbod qoId
roteasao . I i low.ile   Net ee  dalect.        wooilp  Fdi                            old ito*ic ssii mi.0kedro    di   o   ep  l  oisio
seqmoIes:isa   5), ct lOS dots1 .                                                   ek hesottidPoe sIntlotesi No10405
" d I , Ad  2W.; eso a     p. eeodl iss1 pucjstlt - sec toad1 osis-Mr .D.osremparo1y.thsZ1.y .I. Z                             heoTc±ed  cassemt saresate
raon.  repsatios  egoarm        rOS adotole aRous vadro  ofelulit                       de"ioos  prto..et.tbiim    sio  spue.  seooo   l
ctate. IPojolk epoeitobse Po  e osc Nas:iy   nc  ople   Psiesse                                cdprs
locs .sabsi I. sose      I.s cC..p t   .e..icuoles sIll .oclo5                    lq-OSOPicpl¶ujylseycos   dsyiglV..es)  opts.  ots. ld roust -
psreo   VW. Ito  al foosie  toe usetihlap, eoc ohsb- toss  lussbet                      s .k.a ust, ouhoi  l adcem  docilloos Royhstolacie.
0055050 duitie  is Pc-tiitsu  -orodled Os loom  tI old New  fesll,
seaisetn 5 osloRie a   PsOliSy  esodo coPr pujoo ti  woepoes.
ae, boss  1telteitoeeep esehteed OR esplooshssif tonI Iost                                niaere set.ci'o    popsac ioo thrsioslty Roldo. siblidleho 550 e-li
espeodoetlo   mctii.  is into  ppoololin, to tainbrt.cole , tosm t apsoe  he odjosd car dilcoaski"11 lostt   oP piss    odee1niem  Ic
OS0 o'.I to Ito des,oh ros  Rb.:  OR relae. is sin ossotoss  a  ItoL                      too  tasl   sisoi  dolIceeIs   l soseod-1a p0M10
see- ens is  ases. W.o stLime   popsisis" tI.s    otao   -  Ito                          .1ccOs Nat el"It.o ouskiss o oloc Rho seclulo  seold  me.
Ink. s-gopejnd  bPoelt    o                    "Ro  otol   IIV rhpiea                  Oc..oeolse     esi   l   so    al              w~sd Nos oo-A osssdouy
lose  so  hortst 0d           s  oal Iloitap ct. SocposlIc-I.                           "W HA"isos.steo 1  icooe1 mo   sooo  sepproed peincy  atestI"si
~aiotieto.rnos-to tho tod ris  cc espoiAnNo retbh to csalift                           pmaos. poesmi. osualini, or toorpuir  vlesisio  icotmtimw Pc
iiposeU til ibn  eoaPI.ross-ice  loait lt          a too boo  .." sis eair05              posis ..o Ap IF   et  to I? pears of esps ..u.oeusadlsess tessoth cMr
is, eve0 eager ito  NoS  mesrst.ie eelsto  e .   Lsood "iey.  to.                         oseoily os-idod.
esosose of5 popisat   iSi R    -t,. Is ess-rod .s o ratRs oco                   soilsy;soeIoclo   scse  -lgla   coni
oitiOl otsteee "    pspolslies  S . anessiotto  to on  ..se 3, Alotrosocooo,ltllt  qnoeestncaos
med. fign dees                                                                        i'siltseho   0 eo-oiory.R       d  sod     -Io  stodhomo tho'oild is
=M"Mos[gmoliol1I                                         INsssit,      P                   es-issele  a   osdsettlne.    bris  b  sotEasts Iotou  tod lbWt. 
MW                                                                                                                                    as theptio  pe  ose h ieae  icnc.os  u  ursotdSoono
1 c.o.eluIlsce9 Ajj       c Cbspsiyd La shoe I-u 44PPIeolect.1 1d               otpocesolM.OooItssAodst   popotoios'9   100.01 Ii poe d see.
Nalys  saw. isEl       Id  doets.
Ntcis    s  etoro (nss          - hde   (0i res-oes. soetso-o.W     fi-
phos.eitoelos ilOf. Llfe, ad  02 dccc.                                                    R                                     eeotdssoslosoe.hoses, a
eso   ln  rl   ecIe-l           - .m2 M-il   Oscst oceh "amotce    9. of Orbs              b aryd -bit Os eros    oh   e   hoot epptsolssk
S-s  y stedices be etoe5od  - acdtehck  e   hsd 1o   ld                                  oc  cisscot   asPrcotpoo erp OS   toopearlet. oli  intte
jose pooltia: ion,ImiA., a  ion dole.osseela.okilelodgtesoostoc
ted  jcot ot l.rclssd)- suPhel deto poe tk.sP.ooodahh oI sld-is                   10bscn(c    -Ze.eeo  et-I  oeco   nb50el
popd tomlc  cot  on            0 F-lo'                                                         o Nes -i le Ierl  thsodPopetoi Fl. -vcodo. stleesd44 Ii        - re te
P-, P-p           Oefs    c  ddherfoeali hose is2                                   tos revceetc Aolihd itones hseeleteo I   t.s   i  e..
ftsrPthttlp  oa: iniipPu -jo            osseou. Odlot I. 1550, lOe, pat                    CietoicRos o   dstpsoeo  be.I se           -Isopref-Ileadma       W olois
lOSt.            palm,rab.    tfh.   Nhh.il   -  1                                   .lohilustls   de.d FltolrI  le esooo           at oe.   It ho ."ices
foo i Esller   -.  asesroIfro 13oyss1 (Rhooss  - beet i..oss lope pesped                   co ho . -doRl ICi Re eepuo Oa  ten  et  tIes csob
ol bitet-cssestIselo  sOseosopiss 51eclcot rat   piPssoClse tOesi o coetds  oreni tode   -u  L.e - =ooed ocoaleo
- toces b                                                          Rid..5 sad dee of  ~ptrl  te tho peeca  iiooa W eat dsItsse   so dei-t c.
P001w   Roeo eculal ;            _I     M    et-Pesn'          s   eR                      ostils soARs..                  ISF -           Idt  t      4
puollgco   cso  eocepi :L(= :L-"   eu tod-ses   i.e. sPrI                     M ft!3WLses..It..           o
lidctPNiiWudsrtts rc          -oult  C5Oiit)O -  s    cir  01                                            e   bestcoro e   sncitf   oP- htotal. tIssl PM,
osoolpesttic  1.11   a conodits.  eoossle sslcds  sec  a           Pamla 14nzaE -1 ~        lobe1 esen is Eocoa.. Crahtes. Isi  ad
end a   is o oslodee  or tas.  Csottece ae   pries ocdo log.       P.1..5 ab  cseeos 44e4thrfruc10. 10710 ad  tOOl dota
ceocese Retold  o   s Cortleg oss dl1140 -tc o d ueofs per dss, pst.               jtffjjfepl- Lake              , Cern t  INls.  co.oacoce tIc. ab esn eftr  a
crs   odte   Iodd.    O cte.st   csta  catcnepI                                   iuel.p   oo  old La. 5   sect. oP .oo  Roo  Pa.                lb  i
held so 1 etie    osseous pesr s  peltC.haa.et cllol   ptl-e,vsm  cd. t.i.                sodm he5 pdsto-.        fsilLN-f. Z%.17   d1
does...                                                                           per..1l..d  esal  ,lh.(.%  tIrlestis , tel  Rober, .- tac   ci..a   es-Istah  as-Psilettrae se
Per pale. ssto se roLodele lesepcs c   Pedalcte)  -6 Cossto  Pee                           .cclsptee  as respld a   rtlceatf. solo  tat Pink  Robe PING a
Nca  seeo s N.  .a  Pa d oseplie oclllt   Is mac, pre aplta p.r                        ecNtenaoas o :.CosloR.  elsctCa    eptoa- .u oh1 sasS eeeseelesipm
dsp. eseilots ospptmeccosprin Pseai e prd.eels, Sossetstcee        1rime li A. odludts.To  os bad a                  d IWO ptftitaSrole
toot.a   toojo  Is ot-h. Mot eppi leo oo1eod  osioi ad,seo crPate                          ic oecs ststr  ofIopplobs                    os  t   rd
'qaeolto oNo  is Coed P-scsIfs. ad le=so  Is Ot.lgocb  Is.  Ocoeco-                       Io .-aln   ce   e   elolusrs
-taseaseioso  byCS  sod5  pps casleu  noeds c.c sore                        9--i. S.-N              P att   - Rotec  ciP".icess codhr It ov  sd c2cM   as 9
-tcvista  ad nealtal cs-sldstso  -fleocam-l  oose.so  todp eioit.to                       c6     tii .i.iP,jiia.- Itt          mEt Il-0).
ORla   ocId bevll fbi4-el. 015 o..W1long das.                                         t         rj!5flomt
Poe ree   et   i.ccl  cos ac  c  - iP.o,   octl ,c po                   ,atopc             etdcWVios scIb L e   ola    I)-Me    by cleAhot S
-   oelpi   ErodM oeds. .4neieocCa  S OlIsOa   tos   t-                                   oece  eres,it         rpt.relr t  prtntaspece0 prlOtto
sostmotse Pee oil  -eotet  cloIlotoId by line P-id. for otolse                            INhAlsod.W
ottssso  oP 00 iro   op Waso PcaIo Ill IFe ad  20 ess . sel-I old
p ofts pce.h cc chIck 15 erag hbesd to cmi- peoscslo lIsso
scodoc. ss tartls  tLos  NP Pt M,-  No tao) peasis sod 21 irn1PI9Ioitoss.cue   eclceeoss   cpct   oR.a
oPd   Est toaesote    LrRAscd,popsd sPSI .V soi                                               to t..p   .-s s -oVrol- -ht   Pet     . 1   -  yI-. 
tIled- sca trood kaer  _10-S.  lOPS had-red. doPele  .         PMRoclaus-Itb SotemRs odce Isese  cci-ml B-ert elo,   Osol-u
Poe Cde INNRsocle o.ale Pe   dli-'s  co7)d 1sle     Pees.o osppo    a                       otR    sel eEoeli  R    se                   e    c     clc      o
Ps., e  Peeocisl oldpol    imesa  c dy  tl-at. N il par              d lOP?soeic                     -`et1, dseodIt leotiot ss-la   co Stmo Is sot' 
dats.                                                                                     sli-dcllo.
Ckitd Coon 1-)Ioc  a.  otln             n - kee  a2to p., closeda Is                      Ltolees-0rol   Posset to              E os tJSorpst)-.05odns 
a sepI-cPao.o   tle .        .LE l osorri Peso.-tetg                                  oo  ecaaP-,fl  In E          sci    c-Lec  aPorea o Pcr spitsI 
ceert   does  -tocd roc itec -okteo1 iSS, 01P sod1061 d.cc.                             Pcfoeool bro  uP 1k. =nte.   lck  i-I So dortia P     tto rsesi
-~~                                                                  eseletot Pesicemo kin absiels Psoorte lone Lossi Cscrnee) - sets~~~~~tti-  Rt.-   R
flhcccnscsetorce~eches- tocpo  loecc  ROO .  ilc  ossolo             e    -ors - Perce  of popill   olssOrus)oncc   t.lt
1Nno  sreo   o Iptoe1 tbs ld   c  he  As1.   tOladAlt. doto.
acres p loP i.c. Coeres octoesiets)   ecost els,old rorsi 
eas:  SteEp (1-toldost troctd osefr  ocooccetetdte                                                                                l  Aeipet. ad Projoseassafpoteeaf
s-Stoop siLt) so stresnec opthoIr r-4Nttls posletlee.  too.
sobs  -00  0poit. foestot  al o.Nolpha I-lood ont ec  lbs lZlt once.r
Peha o bos e   tousodol  a  oseat   sooLos- oFRe
bro . Itrpl  n    oeebacs  ai`d loIF 1k.1 Rh. lsn PR 
N,n  t    torot hatopIdol Ceoat dle sonipetos - An wrt. rs old  Mso
-b ahoc La posy!.o 'h.es, ly'.o        .W..si  rodO   nu.  eeos 
porseessiul Fi Rtote usptta gpolclattos. Iteee disposot eq I-ts.
Ons aib-ota old diopsoc t, R or ciheflot trosNeit, cC hesN socesac
oth Noess-elso Br a er-tor gotesf0-a or en oof PEt pretos old
slodurto letatletloos



- 54 -
Populattami 2.4 'ttln
Or Per Capita (19R2). 81,280
OMa WIra 1Miinic iinumt
CnanrUnt prime)
Ahmnt                                                     Anal  rwth Ratoe  (I)
(M1llion UN u
Indit tor                  current                 Actual          Pr.llnSiry                            Preletad
1993               IM0      11193          1994        3995        1916        197         191        139"         1990
NAUtONAL ACCnuI
Orer llaattc Product                  3,024                 (1.8     2.4             3.4         3.0         3.0         3.5         4.0        4.2         4.5
AXrt ailcure                          628                -0.5      4.2             2.1         2.0         3.0         3.4         3.9        4.0         4.0
Industry                              6'4                 1.2      1.2            h.6          3.7         3.0         1.6         4.1        4.3         4.8
Servic.a                             ,SR32                0.9      2.4             2.3         3.0         3.0         3.5         4.n        4.2         4.5
ComunptSon                            2,40Y                -1.9    -2.1              7.2         0.4         2.0         3.2         3.7        3.i         4.n
Orms. Tnveaentnt                        632                 8.9     55.0           -1.7          1.0         1.0         4.1         4.6        4.8         5.1
Exrprts, ans                          1.345                -2.5      0.0             5.0         4.4         3.0         3.8         4.2        4.7         5.1
lports, GMS                           1,161                -2.9      5.7             9.h       -2.0          2.9         3.3         1.H        4.1         4.4
Grean Natinal S%vtn.                    331                 4.1      4.3            36.6        16.h         5.7        11.7         13.9      12.6         12.7
PIICF3I
CUP r2fl3tor - Incal currrncy (1493 - 100)                30.7   3m.0
xwntt Priep Index (1983 - M0)                            113.0    100.0            105.9       109.5       114.4       122.0       129.7      138.2       147.5
lprCt Price Index (19M3 - MO)                             84.1    IM.0             101.7       105.0       109.1       315.1       121.4      121.0       1315.1
Torm  of Trade Index (1983 - 100)                        134.4    100.0           1m3.         103.3       mO.3        308.0       3.9        1n7.9       109.1
Sbnre ot CDP At Market Priem (O)                               Average Annual bncr.me (2)
(at current prices) */
Acturl                        Prolucetd                 _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _
3060    1970    1975       1990     19R5     1q90            l980-70   1970-75   1975-90   191R 1---4   95-90
Gross Doetic Product                              100.0   lon00    300.0   0M(.        10.0    10m.0               6.5       6.4       5.4      -1.1       3.S
Agriculture                                      26.0    22.5    20.5    In.1    20.3    20.2                    5.7       3.4       1.9       1.9       3.7
Industry                                         lq.7    24.2      24J      24.4    29.1       24.2              q.4       9.6       6.2      -3.1       4.1
Servicel                                         54.3     53.3    54.7       57.5    50.6    50.4                5.7       6.1       6.2      -1.2       3.7
Cotnoptien                                         87.3    96.Z      86.2      83.7    82.9    81.7                6.3       4.3       6.h      -2.2       3.5
Gree Investment                                    17.5    20.5      21.6      26.6     17.5     17.9              7.1       6.5      1n.5    -17.4        4.4
Exports. GllS                                      21.4    28.5    30.1        26.5   3I.3    38.9                10.3       9.2       5.6       0.1       4.2
Iwport.. GIS                                      26.2    35.0      38.5      36.9    39.7    31.5               10.0       3.2      11.0    -10.6        1.8
Groan National Savinp                               12.9     13.0    10.6       9.8     30.5    13.4               4.1       4.1       2.8    -l1.5       11.3
An X ot CDP                      labor Porce in 3993            Mlilliou         )
1980         19B3        1984
NON-FINANCIAL RIJLIC SRCIM F7IAWCS
Current Revema                                               21.0          25.9        2B.8            Axriculture                       268           31
Current Expenditure                                          23.3          22.4        24.1           Induatry                           169           19
Surplus (4) or deficit t-)                                   -2.3           3.5         4.7            Serwie  awd other                 390            4
Capital Expnditure                                           11.1          6.9          7.2            Unewployed                         50            -
Overall Public Sector Deficit C-)                           -13.3         -3.4        -2.5
Foreign Financing. net                                        4.7           1.8         2.4                 Total Labor Force            877          100
Actual                              Projected
1975-80                              lq95-90
OTR IlImCA2095
(2W Ckwth Rate (X)                                                        5.2                                   4.7
CNP Per CWpita Crewth late (Z)                                            2.3                                   2.2
Marginal Sainpa wate (2)                                                  4.6                                  36.8
Iqiort Elaticityn                                                         2.1                                   1.0
*t Projectioen  in wtane 1982 Ptaice.



- 35 -
AMr T
MnTA RTCAi  AIAMNIZ 0  PAYM , PI NAL CAPTTAI. AM *-WT
(MTI.LlnM n P 1186 AT uiuuer PIIICRI)
Artuaj         Prea1tno"                                  Prolectid
wRn      1413   I      19115        19RM        1911        loan        1Q
MA1 UW PAMUWU
,iapnrtt  of  Mood A and Nm                1,225.9     1,144.9    1,230.3       I,125.7     1,444.4     1,5"6.9     1,751.9     1,947.9    2,176.2
Goods,~~~~~~~~~~~''bw                       tH.R  7n-4)  (962.7)   (1,3nM.7)   (1, 12S.4)   (1,236.3)   (1,169.4)   (1,W2.4)   (1,713.1)
Nan-factor Servtat                        (225.f)     (274.5)     (267.f)     (295.0)      (119.0)     (V4.4)      (362.3)     (421.3)    (464.J)
trports of Oondn 4 NPII                    1,6,H.1     1,161.2     1,2R4.3     1,303.3      1,396.1     1.520.1     1,663.4     1,64.9      2,0(19.4
flood., C.1.7.                          (1.527.A)     (991.2)   (1,099.6)   (1.104.4)    1,l1R1.9)   (1,288.5)   (1,412.0)   tl,551.O    (1,711.3)
Non-factor Sorvican                       (160.-)     (170.0)     (IR4.7)     (IR.9)      (214.2)     (231.6)     (251.4)     (273.4)     (296.1)
Not llxports of Cond. 4 NMl                 -462.2       -16.3      -116.9        22.4         48.3        64.H       R8.5        123.0       IhR,R
Not ractor Ine.                             -216.2      -362.5      -34R.2      -371.1      -397.n       -404.3     -3q11.1       44.9        406.9
of wdtch:  Intariat Parnntc              (-178.3)   (-356.n)    (-36h.2)    (-371.6)   (-3R9.0)   (-401.0)    (-4n.2    (-404.9)    (H4MO.9)
Not Curront Trarnftrs nd Official ltantn      14.5        M4.A       141.n        141.0      1M5.0        MA5.0       15.0        140.1       14A.n
CJ8RriT ACCIOWNt IUIWIA(Z                   -6hl.9      -313.8      -261.2      -207.7      -213.7       -204.5     -1 74.       -141.9       -QR. I
Net niriet Foreign Invuatmnt                  48.1        2n.0    n    0.n         35.0        4s.n        511.0       5n.n        50.         60.n
Net Mediii and Long-Tnnr                        A 17.1   326.3       Ih-.2       20q.5        175.4       140.        111.3        96.4        M.2
tMuhurpwnto                                472.5       41R.1       251.2       43R.1        364.5       33.5       jJ2.4        3m10.       272.0
Offtelal qo"rca                          194.7       265.3       191.4       357.0        15M.5       362.5       322.4       30n.a       272.9
Private Sourca                           277.R       M54.8        57.8        77.2          I.n         1.)       -            -           -
Amrtiu.tion Payinta                          -75.2       -91.R      -.1.0       -145.6      - Ql.I       -222.7      -171.1      -214.4      -214.7
Other Capttal 1/                            -238.1       273.5        35.0        39.2         46.1        66.7        36.0        46.n        56.n
lnNwe in Rrve  (- - incre )                  45h.6      -306.0        lR.n      -156.n        -52.R       -51.0       -f2.5       -50.5       -5i.1
M     L cwiPz. AND  11
nebt nutntandtin  ane' )isreud             1.7ml.0    3,314.6    3,4R2.R       3,772.3      3,947.7    4,nfa.z     4,239.8    4,336.2    4,374.4
Debt Service Payr ntn                        251.5       447.8       446.2       517.2        580.1       625.7       574.4       hl9.3       636.6
Dehb  Service Psynmens  . 2
of exports (0685,                           20.7        39.1        36.3        39.n         40.1        39.5        32.-S       31.R        29.2
Intereut Paywuntu as 2 of exports (G6N7)      14.5        24.6        29.5        28.0        26.9        25.4        25.0         20.6       1.5
Memnrandum Item
Anorttrntion Reacheduled                      (-)      (-155.0)    (-222.0)    (-238.0)    (-280.0)   (-325.0)    (-349.0)    (-294.0)    (-299.91
Source:  aikdt Staff  atimetea
I/  Include lllF transctionr, short-term cnpital wvevunt. and capit*l not elsewhere included.



- 56 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
TIE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COSTA RICA 1/
A.  SrATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS    (Net of cancellations)
(AJ of September 30, 1984)
Loan or
Credit   Year         Borrower              Purpose           Bank     IDA 2/  Undisburued
No.                                                                   (US$ millions)
Twenty loans and one credit fully disbursed.                 244.2     5.5
1410     1977   Government               Agriculture Credit   18.0        -          0.7
1532     1978   ICE                      Telecomwunications   10.6        -           0.5
1599     1978   Banco Central             Industrial Credit    15.0       -           4.4
1713     1979   ICE                       Power                 34.0      -           4.9
1845     1980   Government               Highways              30.0       -          20.7
1935     1981   AyA                      Water Supply           26.0      -          24.1
2019     1981   Government               Petroleum Technical   3.0        -           1.6
Assistance
2274     1983   Banco Central            Export Developuent   25.2                  20.9
Total                                                406.0      5.5
of which has been repaid                          -102.0      1.0
Total now outstanding                                304.0      4.5
Auount sold                     11.1
of which has been repaid      11.1
Total now held by Bank and IDA                       304.0      4.5
Total undisbursed                                     77.8       _         77.8
1/  The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on
all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated tvlce yearly and
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
2/ Excluding excha-ige adjustments.



- 57 -
ANNEX II
Pa p 2 of 2
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1984)
Year          Obligor                Type of Business    Loan  Equity  Total
(use millions)-
1963-76  Productos de Concreto,       Cemont & construc-  0.38   0.21    0.59
S.A.                        tion material
1978     Scott Paper Company de       Pulp & paper         2.50    -       2.50
Costa Rica, S.A.             products
1979     Maricultura, S.A.            Food & food          1.40'  0.70    2.10
processing
1982     Matas de Costa Rica, S.A.  Ornamental plants   1.52    -          1.52
.... Monom .._.
Total gross commitments                                     5.80   0.91    6.71
less cancellationes terminations,
repayuents and sales                                     3.28   0.91      -
Total commitments now held by IFC                          2.52    -       2.52
m...   mm.. ....bu
Totdl undisbursed                                                     



- 58 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 1
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
COSTA RICA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
I.    Timetable of Key Events
(a) Initial Loan request made to Bank in 1981 and renewed In 1982
followirg change of govermnent in 1982.
(b) Preparation was initlated in June 1983.
(c) Pre-Appraisal took place from January to June 1984.
(d) Appraisal Mission: July and September 1984.
(e) Post-Appraisal Missions: October and December 1984.
(f)  Completion of Negotiations:  February 1985.
(g) Planned Date of Effectiveness: May 1985.
II.   Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
III.  Special Conditions
The following conditions have been established for release of the second
tranche:
(a) compliance with implementation of new duties on raw uaterials,
capital goods and intermediates, adoption of Brussels nomenclature,
and change to ad valorem base (para. 53);
(b) Implementation of the new tariff regime (para. 53);
(c) completion of a program to assist industries to modernize, including
a training program for the industrial sector labor force (para. 62);
(d)  implementation of the freeze on public sector employment levels
(para. 67);
(e) completion of a timetable for the divestiture of CODESA enterprises
(para. 74);
(f) reduction of the 1984 operating losses of CNP by 50 percent during
1985 (para. 78); and
(g) compliance with public sector investment program and maintaining the
investment targets (pars. 80).



- 59 -
ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 23
REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA I/
February 27, 1985
Mr. A. W. Clausen
President
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (IBRD)
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Dkar Mr. Clausen:
When it took office in May 1982, the Monge Administration
confronted an extremely serious and rapidly deteriorating economic
situation. It immediately undertook a series of urgently needed and
far-reaching adjustment measures. These were designed to reestablish
economic stability and create the conditions for restoring growth in the
economy, while preserving and strengthenig our strong democratic
tradition. These actions have reversed the situation. Indeed, a
substantial improvement in the economy took place during 1983 and 1984,
particularly a sharp reduction in the rate of inflation, a decline of 11
percentage points of GDP in the overall public sector deficit, and a
unification of the foreign exchange markets.
These efforts have been supported by standby arrangements with
tbe International Monetary Fund (IMF), one approved in December 1982 and
one to be finalized soon in 1985. In addition substantial bilateral and
multilateral support has been received, including high levels of assistance
on concessional terms from the United States of America. Agreement has
also been reached with foreign commercial bank creditors on a rescheduling
of payments to these institutions through 1984, and discussions have been
initiated on further rescheduling arrangements needed for 1985 and beyond.
Moreover, an agreement was reached with the Paris Club in early 1983, and
we hope to conclude an agreement on further rescheduling in the coming
weeks.
Although we have made good progress, the Government recognizes
the continued vulnerability of Costa Rica's economy and the need for addi-
tional major structural changes to return the country to a sound loqg-term
growth path, as well as the need to strengthen the policy-making framework
to enhance the ability to respond effectively and quickly to changes in the
external economic environment. The economic recovery program concentrates
on the following priority areas: first, a major revision of trade and
1/    English translation of Spanish text.



- 60 -
ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 23
export policies to promote an expanslon of exports, especially to new
markets, which is critical for acceleratlng growth of the economy--this
includes a restructuring of Incentives, as well as a revision of commercial
relations with the other members of the Central Ame.rican Common Market
(CACM). The aim is to improve the competitiveness of local industry
through a gradual reduction in protection, while laying a basis for
revitalizing the CACM. This is being combined with the provision of new
incentives for exports to third market countries, including the elimination
of export taxes and other constraints on exporters, as well as a
strengthening of institutions supporting exporters; second, a serious
effort to promote agricultural development, which remains a principal and
vital source of growth; third, a revamping of the banking and financial
sectors, to provide greater flexibility and better support to the
productive sectors; and fourth, a rationalization of public sector
institutions and programs to make them more cost-effective.
To achieve these broad objectives, the Goverment is carrying out
the mediumrterm program described in the attached statement of economic
policy. This statement has been approved by the Cabinet in its session of
February 27, 1985. Many of the measures being taken constitute a sharp
departure from the past, but are essential for the national welfare, and to
achieve more rapid economic growth, provide more jobs, and increase
exports. Nevertheless, the expected results will only materialize over the
m.edium-term, and there will be short-term social costs involved in the
transition period. To minimize these costs and provide a more equitable
sharing of the burden of adjustment, it is critical that the changes be
phased in gradually, and that Costa Rica continue to receive high levels of
external assistance on concessionary terms to support these efforts. The
timely provision of adequate levels of external support is essential to
ensure the cohesiveness of the nation's social fabric and protect the
country's democratic system.
To help meet these needs, the Govermnent is seeking the World
Bank's support for a series of Structural Adjustment Loans over a period of
several years. In this context, I hereby request a first Structural
Adjustment Loan in an amount of US$80.0 million.
Let me take this opportunity to convey to you my highest regards.
/s/ Juan Manuel Villasuso
Minister of Planning



- 61 -
ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 23
ECONOMIC POLICY STATEMENT OF THE
GOVERNMENT OF COSTA RICA I/
I. INTRODUCTION
1.        The Costa Rican economy has been undergoing an economic crisis
since the end of the last decade. This was the result of a combination of
internal and external factors. Among the external causes was a
deterioration in the terms of trade, coupled with the difficulties
experienced by the Central American Common Market (CACM). In this context,
the previous Government decided to reduce the level of protection for a
series of goods (by reducing surcharges and selective consumption taxes),
increase interest rates, and adopt expansionary fiscal policies. This was
supported by heavy commercial external borrowing to cover both fiscal and
balance of payments deficits. Despite this, the pressure on the exchange
rate became unsustainable and it was decided to allow the colon to float.
The rapid devaluation (over 350 percent by the end of 1982) unleashed the
highest inflation ever recorded in the. country. This reached 90 percent in
1982. The country's debt service climbed sharply, forcing a suspension of
payments to commercial creditors in August 1981. All of these developments
exacerbated the economic deterioration and led to a severe crisis. GDP
declined sharply, real per capita income in 1982 decreased by about
20 percent with respect to 1979, and unemployment exceeded 10 percent.
II. INITIAL STABILIZATION AND REACTIVATION EFFORTS
2.        Faced with this bleak scenario, the Monge Administration
initiated a stabilization and recovery program in May 1982. The initial
focus was on stabilization, with the objectives of unifying and
regularizing the exchange rate, containing inflationary pressures,
restoring equilibrium to the balance of payments, and restoring relations
with foreign commercial bank creditors.  During 1982-83, the Goverment's
efforts: (i) stopped the decline in GDP; (ii) stopped the increase in
unemployment; (iii) reduced the rate of inflation to 32 percent in 1983;
(iv) reduced the non-financial public sector deficit from 13.7 percent of
GDP In 1981 to 3 percent in 1983, while the current account deficit of 3.8
percent of GDP in 1981 was turned around to a savings of 3.5 percent of GDP
in 1983; (v) decreased the relative share of credit allocated to the public
sector, which freed resources for use by the private sector; (vi) unified
the interbank and free market exchange rates at Colon 43 per dollar during
1983, and adopted a flexible exchange rate policy; (vii) improved the
resource balance of the current account balance of payments; and (viii)
rescheduled the external debt with bilateral and commercial sources. This
successful stabilization effort was supported by a one-year IMF Stand-by
arrangement. These measures resulted in an improvement in the economic
situation in 1984. Real GDP increased by about 6 percent, the rate of
inflation declined to 15 percent, and unemployment was reduced to 7.7
percent.
1/    English translation of Spanish text.



- 62 -
ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 23
3.        To consolidate these gains, the Government took additional stabi-
lization measures in 1984, including additional tax and tariff increases,
substantial budget reductions, limits on public wage increases, and reduced
public employment through a freeze on employment levels for the budgets
1984-86, and the elimination of vacant posts, except in cases of urgent
need. This reduction will be accelerated through forced retirement of
officials more than 65 years of age and through incentives to promote
voluntary departures of other public employees. These meaaures are part of
a program supported by a second standby arrangement with the IMF in 1985,
which aims at bringing down the rate of inflation to 11 percent, increasing
non-financial public savings to about 6.4 percent of GDP, further reducing
the non-financial public sector defict to about 1.5 percent of GDP and net
losses of the Central Bank to 4.3 percent of GDP, and reducing the deficit
in the current account of the balance of payments.
III.  MEDIUM-TERM ECONOMIC RECOVERY PROGRAM
4.        The stabilization and recovery measures which have been under-
taken by the Government, constitute only the beginning of efforts to
restore sustained economic growth, bring renewed prosperity, and strengthen
Costa Rican democracy. The Government has prepared, and is initiating
implementation of a comprehensive reactivation program for the medium- and
long-term. The challenge being faced is how to reactivate the productive
apparatus without destabilizing it. The development model which the
economy of Costa Rica had followed until the crisis, created a productive
apparatus highly dependent on imported intermediate and capital goods and a
demand for final goods with a high import component. As a result, whenever
the productive apparatus is reactivated, the balance of payments undergoes
a crisis. It is, therefore, necessary to develop exports, especially
non-traditional exports to third markets. This is no easy task.
Non-traditional exports to third markets now constitute only a small
proportion of the total. The industrial apparatus has specialized in
producing for the domestic market and for Central America. The kinds of
products, the technology employed, the scale of production, the
characteristics of the firms, and the capability of the entrepreneurs, make
it difficult to transform production overnight into exports to third
markets. To do so not only requires a policy of export incentives, but the
active development on the part of the Government of the internal and
external conditions which can generate these exports. Moreover, it would
be difficult to achieve these exports, in the amounts required, with the
existing productive apparatus; thus, the key to such generation of exports
must be the search for new foreign and domestic investment. All of this,
however, requires time. During this adjustment period, the existing
productive system has to be gradually transformed, without destroying what
exists, or reducing further the standard of living of the population. This
is what characterizes the present stage of transition. It is necessary to
continue to operate the existing productive apparatus, while taking the
measures needed to develop the new export sector. The recovery program
also includes a special effort to democratize the economy and alleviate the
social costs during the transition period.



- 63 -
ANNEX IV
Page 5 of 23
5.        The main areas covered by the recovery program are:  (i) a
reformulation of export, trade and industrialization policies, oriented
toward new markets and products outside the Central American region; (it)
increased efficiency and productivity of banking and financial services, to
strengthen the existing banking system; (iii) expanding agriculture
production; (iv) promoting access of new social groups to productive
property both in urban as well as rural areas; (v) support and provision of
resources to facilitate the transition of companies into new activities;
(vi) improved management of the public sector, including rationalization of
public expenditures; (vii) increased resource mobilization through tax
reforms ard adjustment of tariffs for public services, as required;
(viii) increased selectivity and better programming of public sector
investments; and (ix) tightened external debt management and control over
new borrowing.
A. Export, Trade, and Industrialization Policies
6.        One of the most important objectives of the recovery program is
to increase significantly the country's foreign exchange earnings by
expanding both traditional and non-traditional exports, especially to new
markets outside the CACM. Under the recovery program, export and
investment promotion and trade policy adjustments would focus on four
principal areas: the exchange rate, the tariff regime, export taxation,
and incentivea to promote and develop exports and investments. The country
has no quantitative restrictions on imports, and does not intend to
introduce any such restrictions in the future.
(a) Exchange Rate Policy
7.        The Government is committed to a flexible exchange rate policy.
The value of the colon will be adjusted from time to time according to the
differential between the inflation rate in Costa Rica and that of its major
trading partners in order to ensure the competitiveness of exports;
reductions in effective protection; developments in the current account and
overall balance of payments prospects; and the demand and supply of foreign
exchange. To carry out this policy, the Central Bank has established a
monitoring system, and, in accordance with the above-noted criteria,
the colon has been devalued from time to time in 1984. Further adjustments
will take place when required.
(b) Tariff Regime
8.        With respect to the tariff regime, the Govermnent's objective is
to rationalize the system of protection by reducing effective protection to
improve the allocation of resources and the competitive position of Costa
Rican exports in international markets. These reforms are intended to
promote efficient growth of agriculture and industry, within the regional
framework. As a first step, the Goverment established a Special
Commission, which prepared national proposals for a new tariff regime.
These proposals have been actively discussed with Central America during
1984. The discussions will conclude in September 1985.



- 64 -
ANN IV
Page 6 of 23
9.        As an initial result of these discussions, agreement was reaohed
on a now regional tariff treaty, which was signed December 14, 1984. This
treaty provides the framework for a new trade regime to be put into effect
by no later than October 1, 1985. The principal elements of the new tariff
regime are:
(i)    the application of a new uniform customs nomenclature for Central
America (NAIJCA II based on the NCCA) with the existing customs
tariffs expressed in ad valorem terms, by no later than July 1,
1985;
(ii)    the abrogation of the provisions of the Central American
Agreement on Fiscal Incentives for Industrial Development and its
protocols, as well as the Central American Agreement for a
Uniform Tax System on Imports and its Protocols, as of October 1,
1985;
(iii)    the elimination of exonerations on customs duties authorized
under the Central American Agreement on Fiscal Incentives for
Industrial Development and its protocols or the protection under
national laws for industrial development, as of October 1, 1985.
No new requests for exonerations will be accepted after May 1,
1985 and shipments taking place after October 1, 1985, will not
be exempt from customs duties;
(iv)    the authorization to put into effect a new tariff regime at the
national level, once each state has ratified the Regional Treaty
of December 14, 1984;
(v)    A commitment to expedite the negotiation of new tariffs for
specific intermediates, raw materials and capital goods, with the
objective of completing them preferably by no later than July 1,
1985. In such a case, the arrangements specified in (ii) and
(iii) above would go into effect as of July 1, 1985. If
agreement by this date is not possible, the establishment of the
tariffs for these items as well as for final consumer goods, will
be determined by no later than September 30, 1985; and
(vi)    the creation of the Central American Council for Tariffs and
Customs, with authority to modify import tariffs. The decisions
of this Council would be put into effect in a per-od not to
exceed 30 days, without need for legislative ratification.
10.       The new regional tariffs will be established within the following
framework:
(i)    Goods not produced in Central America will have a nominal tariff
of no less than 5 percent; those inputs not in general use and
used in the manufacture of non-essential goods, will have a
nominal tariff of 10 percent; and non-essential final goods will
have tariffs higher than 10 percent. As an exception, goods
considered of a strategic nature would be imported duty free.



- 65 -
ANNEX IV
Page 7 of 23
(11)    Intermediates produced In Central America, would have tariffs of
10, 20, and 30 percent, depending on the degree of elaboration;
(ill)    The range of effective protection for determlning nominal tariffs
for final goods produced In Central America will be 50 to 150
percent. For the calculation of effective protection, value
added is belg utilized.
11.       The Goverment of Costa Rica, on its part, is committed to put
into effect the following:
(i)    the new tariff system by no later than the first of October,
1985;
(ii)    the nomenclature NAUCA II and the transformation of the tariff to
an ad valorem base by no later than the first of July, 1985;
(iii)    a new tariff with the following characteristics:
(a)  a maximum nominal tariff and a range of protection for final
consumer goods produced in Central America, with very few
exceptions for fiscal and balance of payment purposes;
(b)  a nominal tariff for final consumer goods not produced in
Central America and considered essential and another for
those final goods classified as non-essential and no;
produced in Central America;
(c)  a range of tariffs on intermediate goods produced in the
region which takes into account the degree of elaboration;
(d)  tariffs on raw materials and intermediate products not
produced in the region which will contribute to reducing
effective protection; and
(e)  tariffs on capital goods not produced in the region which
also contribute to reducing effective protection.
12.       In order to proceed to implement the new tariff regime, the
Goverrmeut submitted the Regional Treaty to the Legislative Assembly,
together with draft legislation to introduce the Brussels nomenclature and
trarsform the tariff structure to an ad valorem base. This treaty and
accompanying legislation will be approved in March 1985. The Goverinent is
currently negotiating with its Common Market partners the specific tariffs
for Individual items, within the above framework.  These tariffs will be
approved and put into effect by the Central American Council on Tariffs and
Customs, as provided for in the Regional Treaty. With respect to imported
inputs and capital goods, Cc3ta Rica will put in effect the agreed tariff
levels as of July 1, 1985. With respect to final goods, the Government's
objective is to reach an agreement on the entire tariff regime by September
1985, to ensure that the entire regime is in full force and effect by no
later than October 1, 1985.



- 66 -
ANNEX IV
Page 8 of 23
13.       The purpose of this reform is to:  (a) substantially reduce
effective protection; (b) Incorporate a flexible mechanism into the scheme
in order to permit further adjustments if considered needed; and (c) review
tariff matters on a continuing basis. During the subsequent phase of
tariff reform, the Government is prepared to take additional actions to
reduce further the level of effective protection, especially In those areas
where the country may become competitive at the international level. The
overall objectlve, as agreed at the Regional level, Is to reduce effective
protection to a range of 50 to 150 percent. To do so, the Government
intends to actively pursue discussions with its common market partners,
with the objective of reducing the highest nominal tariffs in future years.
14.       In order to reduce the immediate impact of the new tariff and
ensure sufficient time for existirg industries to adjust to the new
conditions, the Government is developing a program of assistance, including
adequate access to credit and other support services, in order to modernize
the industries affected and enable them to improve their equipment and
enhance their capacity to compete. International financial support for
this effort will be required. Similarly, the Government will initiate
special training programs, in cooperation with the private sector, to
fa_i;i4tate labor absorption into new activities which are being expanded.
15.       The Government is terminating the present CACM incentive system
as of October 1, 1985. It will be replaced by a new national system of
fiscal incentives designed to foster efficiency, the democratization of
property, employment, and the use of national resources for new
investments. This will provide more restricted benefits in a more limited
period, conmistent with the objectives of the tariff reform and the
Goveriment's efforts to encourage exports to third markets.
(c) Export Taxes
16.       The Government took steps in 1983 and early 1984 to eliminate
taxes on non-traditional exports to third markets, and has allowed the tax
on the exchange rate differential to expire. In addition, the Government
has reduced the flat rate tax on banana exports from US$1.00 to US$0.75 per
box, to bring it more in line with taxes levied by other producers in the
region. As a result of the reduction in export taxes, the treasury lost
1,800 million colones in revenues during 1984. The Government does not
intend to introduce any new export taxes on non-traditional goods destined
for third markets.
(d) Central American Common Market
17.       The Central American Coroon Market cannot be strengthened if this
results in an accumulation of creditor balances in favor of Costa Rica.
Nevertheless, in view of the importance of the regional market for existing
industry and as a base for securing economies of scale for exporting to
third markets, all possible efforts will be made to revitalize trade in the
CACN.



- 67 -
ANNEX IV
Page 9 of 23
(e) Export Inoentives to Markets Outside the CACM
18.       To encourage exports of non-traditional goods to markets outside
the CACM, the Government has put into operation a comprehensive and
considerably strengthened export incentive scheme, vhich the Legislative
Assembly approved in early 1984. This scheme includes a 100 percent income
tax exemption for profits generated by non-traditional exports to new
markets; exemptions from import taxes on imported inputs for export; and,
improvement of the drawback mechanism. In addition, a National Investment
Council has been established to coordinate export promotion efforts and
grant special export contracts designed to provide a coherent package of
benefits to exporters, including special port tariffs, simplified export
procedures, preferential access to bank credit, accelerated depreciation,
and CATS ("Certificados de Abono Tributario") on the basis of products and
markets. The appropriate regulations were issued in July and
November 1984. In addition to the above, the Government is taking steps to
further improve the administration of CATs and the drawback mechanism to
ensure that they are applied in a fairly automatic way. With respect to
the drawback mechanism, the Government is establishing new procedures to
ensure that domestic producers of non-traditional goods for export outside
the CACM be reimbursed promptly for any tariffs actually paid on imported
inputs. The Customs Administration can declare eligible firms and their
installations in any part of the country as duty-free zones for the purpose
of importing merchandise free of all duties, taxes and other charges, for
the period of time needed to process and export the finished goods. With
respect to the CAT mechanism, the Government will introduce new regulations
making their application more uniform and automatic. The National
Investment Council will issue regulations establishing the new guidelines
for determining beneficiaries and introduce modifications to make the
provision of CATs more automatic. The Government recognizes, however, that
use of the CAT scheme should be reduced, especially, as more emphasis is
given to maintaining a competitive exchange rate.
(f) Institutional Framework
19.       Costa Rica already has an established institutional framework for
the promotion of exports and investments, which will assist and complement
the work of the National Investment Council. This includes an agency for
the promotion of exports and investments (CENPRO), an export financing
fund (FOPEX) in the Central Bank, and a special office to promote exports
and investment, operated by a small high-level staff attached to the
Presidency. In addition, the Government has designed an export insurance
mechanism, with initial support from external sources.
B. National Banking System
(a) Interest Rate Policy
20.       Interest rates have been brought in linA with market levels, and
are currently positive in real terms, since domestic inflation averaged
about 15 percent in 1984 and is expected to decline to about 11 percent in



- 68 -
ANNME IV
Page 10 of 23
1985. Preferential rates in agriculture were alao raised to the level of
the basic deposit rate, leaving only the CNP and rural cooperative rates
below the rate of inflation.
21.       The Government intends to maintain the basic deposit rate above
expected inflation, and in line with interest rates in the international
market. Government bond rates are linked to the basic rate and will be
kept competitive with other domestic financial instruments. Purthermore,
the Government has reduced credit being made available at preferential
rates for certain agricultural activities in the 1985 Credit Program.
(b) Credit Policy
22.       The 1985 credit program of the Central Bank introduced an
important change with respect to previous ones. The principal objective of
this change is to discontinue the system of credit allocation for specific
sub-sectors of the economy. The new program permits savings to be assigned
among productive activities in accordance with their profitability. For
the Commercial Departments of the state banks, the program establishes
limits only for total credit outstanding to the private sector, excluding
only programs of the Fund for the Financing of Exports (FOPEX) and the Fund
for the Development of Industry (FODEIN). The Seeciones Financieras of the
state banks are subject to a global limit on credit. The new loans made by
the Secciones Financieras, the private banks and other private finance
companies must comply with the following portfolio composition:
agriculture, livestock, industry, housing and construction, a minimum of 60
percent of the portfolio; and commerce, services and personal credit, a
maximum of 40 percent. In addition, stricter criteria have been introduced
for granting loans and achieving a reduction of the portfolio in arrears.
(c) Institutional Arrangements
23.       To increase the financial system's efficiency and flexibility, as
well as to support export development, the Legislative Assembly approved
special arrangements to permit private bank access to pre-export financing
funds. The Legislative Assembly has also approved amendments to the Money
and Central Bank Laws to permit: (i) direct private banks' access to
Central Bank resources based on funding by external sources; and (ii)
foreign currency lending to the private sector at the ongoing exchange
rate.
24.       Given the importance of a viable, efficient banking system to the
country's economic recovery effort, the Government established a special
high-level Commission to carry out a detailed analysis of the banking
system. The report of the Banking Commission, presented in October 1984,
contains recommendations designed to: (i) reinforce the technical
independence and the autonomy of the Boards of Directors of the State Banks
and the Central Bank; (ii) reduce the relative representation of the
executive branch in the Board of the Central Bank and nominate
representatives with known experience and capacity in banking and other
matters; (iii) create a Superintendencia General de Instituciones
Financieras responsible for the supervision and control of banks;



- 69 -
ANNEX IV
Pag 11 of 23
(iv) provide the State Banks with a consolidated legal statusl (v) expedite
the recovery of loans in arrears and strengthen the criteria for granting
now loans; (vi) permit credits to be syndioated; and (vii) modify the
criteria for establishing limits on now oredits to individual debtors by
basing theme limits on a ratio of new oredits to capital plus deposits,
rather than on the present ratio of new oredits to capital plus reserves.
Based on these reooomendationa, the Government will take actions to improve
the banking system.
C. Agricultural Production
25.       The agricultural sector has oonsiderable potential for expanding
exports and employment. The objective is to increase production of
traditional exports, and to promote new sources of growth, such as coconut
oil, pineapple, aitrus juioes, macadamia and cashew nuts. To achieve these
increases in agriculture production, fundamental cOanges in agricultural
policies and support institutions are needed.
26.       To increase agricultural profitability, employment, and output,
and achieve the fundamental changes required, the Government's program
includes the carrying out of key policy measures and adjustments in two
principal areas. The first involves a major revision of the system of
incentives, including a flexible exchange rate policy, an elimination of
the subsidy element in crop Insurance, a revision of tariff policies and
price controls and subsidies, with prices of agriculture products to
approximate international prices without disregarding social aspects and
national interest. The second requires changes in the role of public
institutions in agriculture with particular emphasis on marketing, credit,
extension and research. This involves: i) restructuring the agriculture
marketing agency (CNP) and modifying its policies, especially its subsidy
program and support prices (particularly for rice) with the goal of
reducing CNP losses by about 50 percent each year; ii) expanding extension
activities through adequate financial support and improved coordination of
agencies and personnel involved in extension, with the goal of expanding
coverage to at least 50 percent of farmers over a five-year period, with
special emphasis on small- and medium-size farms; and iii) orienting
research activities to support new export crops and increase the producti-
vity of production for the internal market.
27.       The Government's program also incorporates active support for
agriculture projects and programs oriented mainly towards specific export
crops. As part of this effort, in the case of basic products for
consumption, when quotas are imposed, domestic prices will be set in a way
which will not be a disincentive to production for export. At the same
time, the Government has freed the price of export quality beef.
28.       The Government is also actively supporting private sector efforts
to develop new exports and increase agriculture output by ensuring the
adequate availability of credit, storage facilities, extension and research
in specific areas of the country. The main projects planned or underway
are in the Atlantic and northern regions, and in the south in the Coto Sur



- 70 -
ANNEX IV
Page 12 of 23
area. Irrigation works are under exeoution in the Tompinque area. Theme
projects are expected to generate now export crops and expand the domestio
aupply of basic graina.
D. Demooratization of the Economy and Distribution of Inoome
29.       Since colonial times, the psaoe and soolal equilibrium of Costa
Rioa has been based on the equity of, and general acoeas to, the ownership
of productive resouroes. Neverlholeae, the economic crisis haa tended to
generate concentration of wealth. The economio policies focused on efforts
to stabilize the economy and develop a new export seotor will not be
sufficient to reverse this tendency.
30.       In view of this, a basic element of the structural adjustment
program is the democratization of the eoonomy. This means maintaining the
historical pattern and ensuring that more Costa Ricans have access to
property. The principal element in rural areas is the demooratization of
land ownership through integrated rural development. In urban areas it
involves the promotion of new enterprises controlled by workers and .efforts
to strengthen and support existing enterprises, or those being established,
through the participation of the workers.
31.       Aggregate demand will also be modified as part of the program of
structural adjustment. The demand of low income groups has a much lower
imported component than those with high incomes. A redistribution of
income in favor of the lowest strata is a structural change which is
favorable for the balance of payments and will strengthen the democratic
political system, especially if it is also oriented towards increasing
production. Examples of this are the construction of low-income housing,
which is of social interest, and agrarian reform, which if properly
designed, are productive projects, and would have a favorable impact on the
balance of payments.
E. Improved Management of the Public Sector
32.       The present Administration has undertaken efforts to reduce real
expenditures in the public sector, and has embarked on a program to improve
the cost-effectiveness of public programs and institutions, and strengthen
budgeting and other control mechanisms. The major components of the
recovery program in this area are as follows:
(a) Public Employment and Wages
33.       To promote the private sector's role as the main engine of growth
and ensure its access to adequate resources, the recovery program aims at
reducing the public sector's relative participation in the economy o-er a
period of five years. The initial reduction in the relative participation
of public employment would come first through attrition, and sece' through
the freeze on public sector employment, as mandated in the Law !or the
Financial Equilibrium of the Public Sector, approved in 1984. In addition,
the program aims at reducing the share of wages in the current expenditures
of general government. To achieve these objectives, the Government has:



- 71 -
ANNEX IV
Page 13 of 23
(1) frozen public aector employment levels for three years, beginning March
1, 1984; (il) retired all Central Government civil servants 65 years or
older; (ill) authorized public lnstitutions to pay accrued benefits to
employees to encourage their relocatlon to the private sector; and (lv)
restricted further wage increases beyond 1984, as lonRg as the preaent
difficult financial sltuation continuas, to changes in the cost of a basket
of basic goods and aervices, composed of food products, transportation,
water and electricity. These measures do not restrict the Govermnent's
ability to hire or transfer staff to meet specific requirements of the
recovery program. The National Budgetary Authority and the Contraloria
will be reaponsible for monitorlng compliance with guidelines on salaries
and hlrng levels, and technical assistance to strengthen the monitoring
system is being requested. Furthermore, the Government will establish a
training program for public employees to facilitate absorption by the
private sector.
34.       The Government proposes to develop a modern and efficient public
sector. To do this It is Important to retain those personnel that are most
highly skilled. In the case of highly qualified personnel, consideration
Is being given to providing compensatlon close to that prevalling in the
labor market. Technical assistance is being requested to evaluate the
public sector salary and incentive system.
(b) Budgetary Administration and Control
35.       In 1980, the Government took an important step towards improving
its budgeting and control mechanisms, with the establishment of a Budget
Authority (BA) and its supporting secretariat. In late 1982, with the
present Administration's support, the Assembly approved a legal and
operating framework for the BA, with respect to the issuance of annual
budget guidelines for the public sector, covering inter alia salaries,
debt, and investment; the supervision of implementation of these policies;
and the review of the effectiveness of budget execution. Since additional
efforts are needed to make more effective BA's control over the budget and
public sector expenditures and manage public sector finances on a sound
basis, the Government will: (i) strengthen the BA Secretariat; (ii) revamp
budget preparation on the basis of new manuals; and (lii) improve
expenditure controls and the budget monitoring process. These measures
represent a major departure from established practice, and will
significantly strengthen public finances and controls.
36.       The Law for the Financial Equillbrium of the Public Sector
approved early in 1984 also tightens the rules for budget preparation and
control of. public finances. To :;omply with the Legislative Assembly's
requirements, the national budget must include all expenditures and must be
in balance with expected income. Before the annual buf.gets are submitted
to the Assembly, the Controller General wlll have to certify that the
projected revemues are realistic. The Controller General's authority has
also been strengthened; the Contraloria can now reduce budget items
considered unnecessary by the Budget Authority. In addition, this same
legislation introduces strict guidelines limiting Central Government access
to credit from the National Banking System to 5 percent



- 72 -
ANNEX IV
Papg 14 of 23
of total actual expenditures in the previous year, forbida using foreign
oredit. to cover ourrent expenditures of the decentralized institutions,
and requires quarterly reporting to the Legislative Asaembly on domestic
credit from the banking system to the Government and the decentralized
inatitutions.
37.       To further support and reinforce efforts in the area of budget
and public finance, the Law for the Financial Equilibrium of the Publio
Sector, established a high-level Commission to prepare draft legislation
needed to reorganize public finances and the tax system, reinforce
program-based budgeting, and ensure that expenditures are fully consistent
with the country's development plan and Government priorities. Within this
context, the Commission's mandate requires preparation of specific draft
legislation for: (i) revamping the tax system; (ii) programming annual
foreign borrowings, taking account of debt service capacity and public
sector priorities; (iii) applying the principle of unified Treasury
acoounts and replacing the existing system of earmarking and compulsory
expenditures with direct transfers; and (iv) developing methods by which
Government programs and functions can be periodically reviewed to
rationalize public expenditures. The Commission -- which includes members
of the Legislative Assembly and representatives of the Executive Branch,
under the chairmanship of the Controller General -- is currently addressing
the above issues. In addition, based on the work of a Commission of former
Finance Ministers, the Government has already submitted to the Legislative
Assembly proposals involving changes in budgetary procedures and
institutional arrangements, and legal revisions to the revenue system. The
Government is committed to working with the Legislative Assembly to pass
the necessary legislation prepared by both Commissions.
38.       With regard to earmarking, until the Commission on Public
Finances produces its recommendations and the Legislative Assembly acts,
the aim is to improve Central Government controls over expenditures made
with already earmarked revenues, while continuing to phase down existing
earmarking. As part of this effort, the Government has already reduced
some earmarking through the Law for the Financial Equilibrium of the Public
Sector, and will not propose to the Legislative Assembly any new taxes with
these eharacteristics, with the exception of tne land tax for municipali-
ties, which will be centrally collected. In addition, it is the
Government's intention that any increase in the rates of earmarked taxes
will accrue to the Central Government. Once the National Commission on
Public Finances produces its analysis of earmarking and the corresponding
draft laws and regulations, the Government and the Legislative Assembly
will undertake an in-depth revamping of earmarking. The changes will be
incorporated in the 1987 budget. In the interim, the 1985 budget extends
and amplifies the same provisions on earmarked revenues incorporated in the
Law referred to above.
(c) Cost Effectiveness of Government Institutions and Programs
39.       In order to streamline the operations of key public entities and
programs, eliminate duplication, and provide a more solid basis for
considering managerial and other reforms, the Executive is, in accordance



~ 73 -                   ANNEX IV
Page 15 of 23
with the Assembly-approved program to restore financial equilibrium,
carrying out special evaluations of all Government programs and
institutions atarting with the following entities: ICE, CCSS, INS, Banco
Popular, RECOPE, CODESA and its subsidiaries, INFOCOOP, and the Tourism
Institute. It is expected that these evaluations will be completed during
the course of 1985.
40.       With regard to Social Security (CCSS), a detailed action program
is being implemented. It includes steps to improve CCSS's finances; a
freeze on new hirings, with the exception of some rural health posts;
actions to rationalize utilization of personnel; and strengthened identifi-
cation of beneficiaries and collection procedures to reduce tax losses and
speed up collections. CCSS is also preparing additional measures to
improve cost-effectiveness, such as: (i) further reductions in personnel
and health program costs; (ii) emphasizing less expensive preventive medi-
cine over curative sbebmes; (iii) integrating CCSS and Health Ministry
services; and (iv) incorporating independent state pension funds into
CCSS. Furthermore, as indicated above, a study is being carried out on the
cost-effectiveness of social security operations and programs. The Govern-
ment is also requesting technical assistance to analyze the future
financial needs for CCSS programs.
41.       In education, in addition to what is provided for in the Law for
the Financial Equilibrium of the Public Sector, with respect to a freeze on
any new employment of teachers, the Government is preparing a plan of
action to recommend specific cost-effectiveness measures and actions to
control overall education expenditures while improving quality, including
suggestions for a reform of the university system to eliminate unjustified
duplication and ensure relevancy of course offerings. The Government will
also propose to the universities a review of tuition charges, while
strengthening financial assistance to needy students. Furthermore, in
compliance with the Law for the Financial Equilibrium of the Public Sector,
an evaluation of the university system is to be completed by no later than
the end of 1985 as part of the review of public sector institutions and
programs.
(d) Restructuring CODESA and Its Portfolio
42.       A major effort has been undertaken to redefine CODESA's strategy
with respect to its portfolio and limit its future role in promoting new
ventures under strict finangial and economic operating guidelines, as
detailed in the attached Annex. These guidelines, which were approved by
CODESA's Board in February 1985, include a ceiling on new lending by CODESA
and limit its exposure in each project or enterprise.
43.       The Legislative Assembly has authorized the Executive Branch to
proceed with the sale of all or a portion of CODESA's shares in its
enterprises to the private or cooperative sectors. Within this framework,
CODESA and other public agencies are moving forward with divestiture and
restructuring efforts. It has closed down DAISA--an agroindustrial holding
company--and Cementos del Valle, whose equipment is being sold, and plans
are underway for closing down other firms or other unprofitable operations.



- 74 -
ANNEX IV
Page 16 of 23
In addition, CODBSA has sold MARICULTURA and ACUACULTURA and its share, in
Subproductos del Cafe and increased the participation of the private sector
in STABAPARI. It expects to sell at least one more enterprise in the near
future. In addition, the administration and operations of PERTICA and
Cementos del Pacifico are being strengthened, while selling 40 percent of
CODESA's shares in these enterprises, in accordance with the Legislative
Assembly's decision. Some private sector proposals are now under
consideration. CATSA's administration has also been strengthened and it
will be sold to the cooperative sector.
F. Public Sector Planning and Resource Mobilization
(a) Public Sector Investment Program
44.       Costa Rica's planning system is presided over by the Minister of
Planning, and includes a system of regional and sectoral planning units.
However, the Planning Ministry needs additional support to strengthen:
(i) its project evaluation capacity to screen the priority of proposed
projects, which will have to be supported by adequate social and economic
justification and financial rate of return analysis; and (ii) its economic
projection and analysis capacity to provide a stronger macro framework for
reviewing the investment program in light of fiscal constraints and debt
service implications. To support these needs, technical assistance and a
training program to strengthen the Planning Ministry's macroeconomic and
project evaluation capacity have been requested.
45.       The Government has carefully reviewed the public sector invest-
ment program for 1984-86 to ensure that the orientation of new projects is
consistent with the Government's recovery efforts, with emphasis on
increasing exports. It has also decided to limit public investment
expenditures to a maximum of 6.5 percent of GDP during 1984-86, to ensure
that the level of investment is compatible with available resources. The
revised program and financing requirements are given in detail in the
attached Annex to this policy statement.
(b) Public Resource Mobilization
46.       An overall objective of the Government's program is to increase
savings of the non-financial public sector to 6.4 percent of GDP in 1985,
in accordance with the IMF program. In the next few years the same ratio
of savings to GDP is expected to be maintained. Of these savings, 3.5
percent of GDP will be the Government contribution to financing public
investment during 1984-86.
47.       Since taking office in 1982, the present Administration has
carried out major tax reform efforts with the objective of closing the
fiscal gap and reducing the reli.ance on export taxes. Tax reforms to date
include a modificatiun of the property tax, increases in the sales and
selective consumption taxes, and approval of an income tax surcharge, which
is expected to be temporary until the new income tax law is passed by the
Legislative Assembly. At the same time, export taxes on non-traditional



- 75 -
ANNEX IV
Page 17 of 23
exports to third markets and the tax on the exchange rate differential were
abol'..hed in January 1984. In spite of the reductiona in export taxes, the
Central Government's tax reform efforts during 1982-83 have yielded new
revenues for about 4 percent of GDP, raising its revenue/GDP ratio to
17 percent. The General Government's tax collections reached over 23
percent of GDP in 1983. The tax reforms of 1984 represent an additional
3.5 percent of GDP. Neverthelei,s, the Government is committed to a
far-reaching revision of the tax system to improve its equity and promote
economic development and exports. It is expected that the Commission on
Public Finances will present it. report on tax reforms at the beginning of
1986. The Government, on its part, intends to complete its review of the
report and submit new tax proposals to the Assembly during 1986.
48.       In addition to proceeding with a major tax reform, the Finance
Ministry is also undertaking a major effort to improve tax collection, by
administrative actions, such as better data-gathering on tax liabilities of
individuals and corporations, including development of a computerized tax
registry. External technical assistance to support these efforts is being
received, and, if necessary, further support for the timely completion of
these efforts will be requested.
49.       With respect to public enterprises, tariff levels will be
periodically adjusted to cover operational expenditures, debt service
requirements and a reasonable share of investment expenditures. In 1984
power, water, and telephone rates were increased by 9, 70, and 70 percent,
respectively, or about 1.5 percent of GDP. In January 1985, power rates
vere increased an additional 12 percent. Further adjustments of these and
the ratea of other public enterprises will take place when needed.
(c) External Debt Management and Control
50.       The Government has already taken steps to strengthen its debt
management capacity. These include the introduction of a computerized
monitoring and reporting system in the Central Bank. The system is
expected to be operational by April 1985. If this deadline cannot be met,
external technical assistance will be requested to have the system fully
operational by no later than end-1985.
51.       The key objective of the Government is to strictly control the
contracting of new external public debt, while improving its composition,
maturity, and cost of servicing. For this purpose, the Government has
strengthened its control over new public borrowing by requiring approval by
the National Budgetary Authority, the Planning Ministry and the Central
Bank, such approval to be based on an evaluation of the impact of new
borrowings or reschedulings on the country's and entity's debt servicing
capacity. The Controller General will oversee compliance with legislation
concerned with the contracting of new external debt. In addition,
procedures are being established under which: (i) implementation of
investment projects requiring foreign funding would not be initiated unless
the contracting of foreign debt has been previously approved; and (ii)
annual foreign debt limits, based on an evaluation of debt servicing
capacity, would be established by the NBA and included in the annual budget
guidelines approved by the Cabinet.



- 76 -
ANNEX IV
Page 18 of 23
STATEMENT OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
CODESA
1.        The Legislative Assembly has authorized the Executive Branch to
proceed with the sale of all or a portion of OODESA's shares in its
enterprises to the private or cooperative sectors. Within this framework,
CODESA and other public agencies are moving forward with divestiture and
restructuring efforts. It has closed down DAISA-an agroindustrial holding
company--and Cementos del Valle, whose equipment is being sold, and plans
are underway for closing down other unprofitable enterprises or
operations. In addition, CODESA has sold MARICULTURA and ACUACULTURA and
its shares in Sub-productos del Cafe and increased the private sector's
participation in STABAPARI. It also expects to sell at least one more
enterprise in the near future. In addition, the administration and
operations of FERTICA and Cementos del Pacifico are being strengthened,
while selling 40 percent of CODESA's shares in these enterprises, in
accordance with the Legislative Assembly's decision. Some private sector
proposals are now under consideration. CATSA's administration has also
been strengthened and it will be sola to the cooperative sector.
2.        In the context of the economic recovery program, the Government
has redefined the functions of CODESA, taking into account the financial
realities of this institution and the need to resolve the serious problems
it is experiencing with its portfolio, as well as the need to strengthen
its ability to promote new projects, especially those oriented towards the
export of non-traditional goods to countries outside Central America, by
bringing together private and public investors and foreign investors.
3.        The principal elements of CODESA's revised policies are given
below.
(a)    To reduce significantly the financial burden which CODESA
represents for the Central Bank. In 1985, this institution will
not have access to new Central Bank credit; its debt will only be
increased in an amount equal to past due interest. As CODESA
sells its enterprises, it will reduce its indebtedness
accordingly with the Central Bank. This policy will continue in
1986. To achieve these results and improve its financial
position, CODESA will: ti) sell all or part of its shares in its
enterprises in accordauce with the Law for the Financial
Equilibrium of the Public Sector; (ii) close enterprises and sell
enterprises and the equipment of operations which are not
profitable; and (iii) take other measures recommended by
tecbnical studies.
(b)    Reorient the institution to the promotion of new investment
projects with one or more of the following characteristics:



-77-          ~ANNEX IV
P&ge 19 of 23
(i) small private sector agro-industrial projects which have a
high social value and which promote rural development,
utilize labor, and generate or save foreign exchange; and
(ii) projects whlch are linked to the export of non-traditional
exports to countries outside Central America.
The private sector, both national and foreign, would provide the
financing required to cover fixed investment and working capital
needs, either from their own or other sources. CODESA would
provide a share of the capital requirements no greater than
30 percent of the total capital needed and would not make loans,
endorsements or guarantees for these projects, with the exception
of those projects referred to in (i) above. In addition, CODESA
will not realize new investments in projects similar to those
that have caused the current economic difficulties and ensure
that projects comply strictly with criteria for economic and
financial viability.
'c)    Reorgau.ze the administration and personnel of CODESA in
accordance with the level of activities of promotion and
development of new projects described above, taking into account
future financial resources. CODESA will not operate those
enterprises in which it has a capital participation as noted in
(b) above.
ad)    Examine carefully other functions of CODESA, such as the transfer
of funds between public entities using CODESA as an intermediary
or guarantor, with the purpose of discontinuing these functions.
(e)    CODESA's Financial Statements and those of its subsidiaries will
be adjusted to reflect the actual status of the portfolio, the
operating losses, the earnings and losses from the sale of
enterprises, and the restructuring or liquidation of the Central
Bank debt with CODESA and its subsidiaries. TO_ decision to
undertake these adjustments was taken in 1984 and will be
implemented in accordance with progress in the sale and/or
financial strengthening of its enterprises.
(f)    The management and administration of those enterprises
remaining under CODESA's control will be analyzed and a program
of action prepared to improve their efficiency.



- 78 -
ANNEX IV
Page 20 of 23
STATEMENT 07 DEVELOPMENT POLICY WITH RESPECT
TO THE INVESTMENT PROGRAM AND ITS FINANCING
1. *The Government has carefully examined the projects which make up
the investment program for 1984-1986. The level of inveatment has been
made compatible with available resources and a thorough review of projects
in execution, as well as new projec'i under consideration, has been carried
out taking into account the following priorities: First, with respect to
new projects, priority has been given to those oriented to increasing
exports, mainly in the agriculture sector in view of its potential for
exports. Development of the industrial sector is considered to be
primarily the responsibility of the private sector with support through
credit and incentives. Second, with respect to projects already under
execution, priority is being given to completing those in energy and
transport. Basically, a high proportion of investment expenditures will be
concentrated in the agricultural, energy, and transport sectors, with a
definite orientation towards projects or support for activities which will
increase production and employment in the immediate future. Annex A
provides a summary of the investment program, by sector, with estimates of
annual disbursements.
2.        With respect to the Generation of savings to finance the
investment program, the Government will take the following actions:
(i)  The Central Government, if necessary, will increase its revenues
in a sound manner during 1985-1986, in order to generate a sur-
plus which will permit it to finance the programmed investments,
mainly in the sectors of agriculture and transport;
(ii) ICE will maintain a surplus compatible with its need for counter-
part funds, which will be obtained through tariff increases as
may be necessary. These actions will be taken in a timely manner
during 1985-86;
(iii) RECOPE will continue to transfer financial resources to the
Government;
(iv) CNP will undertake efforts to reduce its subsidies in order to
reduce its losses on current operations. To do so it will adjust
the prices for the purchase and sale of basic grains in order to
progressively balance the costs of purchases and the value of
sales; each year, from 1984 on, its losses will be reduced by 50
percent in respect to the preceding year;



- 79 -
ANNEX IV
Page 21 of 23
(v) ICAA will Increase its tariffs as needed to generate an adequate
level of current savings needed to finance the resources
necessary for its inveostment program; and
(vi)  IDA will proceed with a program of land purchases compatible with
its financlal capacity.
3.        The Investment Program for 1984-86 reflects the following
sectoral characteristics:
(a) Agriculture. The new projects that are Included are mainly those
of Coto Sur and the Atlantic Zone In view of their export orien-
tation. Other projects could be included which would complement
activities in agriculture, agro-industry and livestock with the
intent of supporting exports (network for cold storage,
warehouses, marketing and forestry, etc.)
(b) Energy. Priority is beirg given to completing Ventanas-Garita
(power plant) and the distribution and interconnection network
already under execution. The additionsl generation expsnsion
program will be kept flexible depending on demand and ICE's
financial situation and will be executed beginning in 1987.
(c) Petroleum. The Govermnent's program will limit investment in
exploration.
Cd) Transport. Efforts will be concentrated on finishing projects
under execution. Priority will also be given to the maintenance
and rehabilitation oW highways and roads.
(e) Telecommunication. Implementation of new projects will depend on
capacity and availability of finance.
(f) Water. Priority will be given to completing the Orosi Project.
New projects will be deferred, if need be, to guarantee the
effective execution of this project.
(g) Education. Priority will be given to completing the projects
already under execution. New projects are not contemplated given
the infrastructure already available.
(h) Railways. The Government does not contemplate new investments in
the sector during 1984-86, except the repair and maintenance of
the rail network and equipment.
(1) Housing. Priority will be given to completing projects already
in execution. New projects will be executed In accordance with
the availability of local counterpart funds and the capacity of
INVU to execute them.



-80-                     ANNEX IV
Page 22 of 23
4.        If new projects are identified which merit a revision of the
Program of Inveatment for 1984-86 as presented in Annex A, especially in
1986, this revision will be based on their feasibility and economic justi-
fication, the availability of finance, the capacity of the country to
borrow, as well as an analysis of the rationale for including them.
5.        The Government has decided to undertake an effort to strengthen
its capacity to evaluate projects and to establish priorities based on the
feasibility of the projects and their economic justification and the con-
straints imposed by the capacity to save and the indebtedness of the public
sector. To do this a program for training and technical assistance is
being prepared to strengthen project evaluation capacity and formulate
investment programs in the Ministry of Planning. For this purpose external
technical assistance is being requested.
6.        At the same time the Government intends to strengthen the capaci-
ty of the Budgetary Authority to evaluate and determine the levels of
borrowing and borrowing terms by institution.



- 81 -
AJUEr IV
Pap 23 of 23
cm Cam HEX UNUDUW IM K U@O-4W AO GM=D NORIE
(in sul     a  earm  m1mn
U WNW   m                            a1                              inflmL  TAW    baitia 1a_t1  01 S l                                    D _td 
_ adbI,.                     4033    1,577. D.93.1         6t2J     2,0123    2,625.1        6.0       1,54U.    2,196.  l ,6Da    5,151.2 6J,30
Tad,yuabatw                    5.2       1.9    137.1       -         1ID    133A                                   -         55.2      215.7     70.9
1,571nA    2,1067  32,67      1,44.     2,96L7   6,16.1         1.42        ,14.0   3,0332    4W.0   6,W9.   I ,I3A
t=Ndmd=                       49.6      6lJ     3.9          4J       261.1     3069          43.0     S5.0       951.        W37A     856A    1,13.J
TO-Pon                       666.2   1,717.1  2,33         967A       966.    1,935.       1,097.2     ,11.UJ  2,262.0    2,730J 32,50J   6..1
Huiag                        44.2      113J     157.5      105.9      267.7     3n.6         155.3      720.0      7.        35       1,103.0   1,401
%r Sl ad S3IJ                 01.3       -      SlJ        541A       462.9   1,0243          67        M7.1 I3507.         1,703A    1,32D.0   3,033.
Muntjm                        71.6     371.1    44L7        57.6      245A      306.0         -           -         -         13.2     693.  MB.7
.tSlfd  ktM                    -         -       _          -           -         -            0.7     1.10.    1.39L5       490.7   I. 105.    1.S6.5
L=                    3,3U      6,055.0  9,417      3,73J      7.310.  I,.16         4.894.1     750.5    12,446    12.7   0924J   32,33.0



16 ~   ~    'N"
.  -    , J  .    . .. 6.....
il   I--                    .                                             lbr.
1.11  - 0                                             4'n A>W1-^;**
|1' *~  **/- if** IffV  a   7 H     n    <    J                           * I
rj ir *vp VF4YNV, W






