Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16766
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
PERNAMBUCO, PIAUI AND MINAS GERAIS PROJECTS
(Loans 2718-BR, 2762-BR and 2861-BR)
June 24, 1997
Natural Resources, Environment and Rural Poverty Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Local Currency Unit: 'Cruzeiro (Cr$)
Rate at Appraisal:    Pernambuco (November 1985)          US$1/Cr$8,891
Piaui (November 1985)                US$1/Cr$8,891
Minas Gerais (December 1986)         US$1/Cz$14.20
Rate at Completion:  Pernambuco (June 30, 1996)           US$1/R$1.0021
Piaui (June 30, 1996)                US$1/R$1.0021
Minas Gerais (December 31, 1996)    US$1/R$1.0381
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
A new currency, the Cruzado (Cz$), was introduced in 1986, followed by another new currency, the Real
(R$), in 1994.
Vice President         Shahid Javed Burki
Director               Gobind T. Nankani
Division Chief         Constance Bernard
Staff Member           Anna Roumani



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APCR               Support for Small Rural Communities
CPATSA             Center for Agricultural Research on the Semi-Arid Tropics
EMATER             Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Agency
EMBRAPA            Brazilian Agricultural Research Company
FAO                Food and Agriculture Organization
FINSOCIAL          Social Investment Fund
FUMAC              Pilot Municipal Community Schemes
GDP                Gross Domestic Product
IERR               Internal Economic Rate of Return
IICA               Inter-American Institute for Agricultural Cooperation
IRD                Integrated Rural Development
MC                 Municipal Council
MINTER             Ministry of the Interior
NGO                Non-Governmental Organization
NRDP               Northeast Rural Development Program
O&M                Operation and Maintenance
OED                Operations Evaluation Department
PAC                State Community Schemes
PAPP               Program of Support for the Small Producer
PCU                Project Coordination Unit
POLONORDESTE  Program for the Development of the Integrated Northeast
PRORURAL           Project Coordinating Unit for State of Pernambuco
RPAP               Rural Poverty Alleviation Program (successor to NRDP)
SAR                Staff Appraisal Report
SEAIN              Federal Secretariat of International Affairs of the Ministry of Planning
SEPLAN             State Planning Secretariat
SETAS              State Secretariat of Labor and Social Action
SSMP               Simplified Project Monitoring System
SUDENE             Superintendency for the Development of the Northeast
SUDENOR            State of Minas Gerais Technical Unit
TA                 Technical Assistance
TOR                Terms of Reference
TU                 Technical Unit
UNDP               United Nations Development Program
UT-PAPP            State of Piaui Technical Unit
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
per-formance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
PERNAMBUCO. PIAUI AND MINAS GERAIS PROJECTS
(Loans 2718-BR, 2762-BR and 2861-BR)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Paee No.
PREFACE .....................................................i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ....................................................... iii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .....................................1
Background .....................................................lI
Project Objectives and Design  under the Original NRDP ......3.....                                   ..... ................3
Reformulation  of the NRDP ......................................................6
Achievement of Project Objectives ......................................................9
The Implementation  Record .....................................................                                           11
Use of Consultants  ...................................................... 18
Project Sustainability  and Future Operations ...... ............................................... 19
Bank Performance ..................................................... 20
Borrower Performance .....................................................                                                 22
Assessment of Outcome .....................................................                                                26
Main Findings and Lessons Learned ..................................................... 28
PART II: STATISTICAL INFORMATION .....................................................                                                   35
Table  1.   Summary of Assessments ................................................                                        35
Table 2.   Related  Bank Loans ................................................                                            41
Table 3.   Project Timetable ................................................ 43
Table 4.   Loan Disbursements:  Cumulative Estimated  and  Actual ..................... 45
Table 5.   Key Indicators for Project Implementation ......................................... 47
Table 6.   Studies Included  in the Project                                ............................................... 59
Table 7.   Project Costs and Financing ................................................                                    60
Table 8.   Status of Legal Covenants ................................................                                      63
Table 9.   Project Costs and Benefits ...............................................                                      72
Table  10. Bank Resources:  Staff Inputs ............................                               .................... 80
Table  11. Bank  Resources:  Missions ................................................                                     83
Table  12. Disbursement Performance of the NRDP  by  State ................                                   .............. 86
Table  13. Number of Municipalities Reached  by NRDP ..................................... 87



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
PaNe No.
Table 14. Average Cost of PAC/FUMAC Subprojects, by Type and State .... 88
Table 15. Number of Subprojects Implemented and Beneficiaries Reached    . 89
APPENDIX I: Borrower Contribution to ICR ....90
MAPS:          IBRD 19578, 19575, 20381



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
PERNAMBUCO, PIAUI AND MINAS GERAIS PROJECTS
(Loans 2718-BR, 2762-BR and 2861-BR)
PREFACE
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for three projects under the
Northeast Rural Development Program (NRDP) in the States of Pernambuco (2718-BR),
Piaui (Ln. 2762-BR) and Minas Gerais (2861-BR). Loans in the amounts of US$92.0
million, US$78.0 million and US$55.0 million, respectively, were approved by the Board
on June 12, 1986 (Pernambuco), October 21, 1986 (Piaui) and June 30, 1987 (Minas
Gerais). The Loans became effective on November 14, 1986 (Pernambuco), November
20, 1987 (Piaui) and October 20, 1987 (Minas Gerais).
2.    The three Loans closed on June 30, 1996 (Pernambuco and Piaui) and December
31, 1996 (Minas Gerais). The original Closing Dates were respectively December 31,
1994, March 31, 1995 and March 31, 1996. Final disbursement took place as follows:
Pernambuco (October 30, 1996), Piaui (January 22, 1997) and Minas Gerais (May 14,
1997). The Pernambuco and Piaui Loans were fully disbursed. Cancellation of an
outstanding Loan balance for Minas Gerais of US$4.7 million was pending at the time of
ICR preparation.
3.    This ICR was prepared by Anna Roumani, Consultant, Natural Resources,
Environment and Rural Poverty Operations Division, Country Department I of the Latin
America and Caribbean Region (LAC). The ICR was reviewed by Constance Bernard,
Chief, LAIER; Luis Coirolo, Brazil Portfolio Manager, LAIER; Tulio Barbosa, Acting
Head, Bank Recife Office, and Orville Grimes, Projects Adviser, Country Department I.
4.    The ICR is based on material in the project file and discussions with Bank staff and
consultants who were involved in the projects. It draws on the Mid-Term evaluation of
the NRDP, including a study by the Operations Evaluation Department of the Bank, and
other recent evaluations by: Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO/UN), jointly with
the World Bank; the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT); the University of
Michigan; the Federal Secretariat of International Affairs (SEAIN) of the Ministry of
Planning; and the Superintendency for the Development of the Northeast (SUDENE) as
the representative of the Federal Government. These, and other internal Bank reports on
rural poverty programs in the Northeast, are on file in the LAC Information Services
Center.






- iii -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
PERNAMBUCO, PLUI AND MINAS GERAIS PROJECTS
(Loans 2718-BR, 2762-BR and 2861-BR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1 .    The Northeastern region of Brazil comprises nine states and the northern, semi-
arid zone of the central state of Minas Gerais, totaling about 1.7 million km2. The
Region's immense concentration of rural poor and persistent under-development result
from geographic, economic and political factors evidenced in the harsh climate and poor
natural resource base, inequitable land tenure and distribution, a traditional and clientilistic
culture, illiteracy and lack of basic infrastructure and se., vices. The Bank has financed
rural development in the Brazilian Northeast since the 1 970s. The Northeast Rural
Development Program (NRDP) -- of which projects in the States of Pernambuco, Piaui
and Minas Gerais are reviewed in this report -- sought to alleviate rural poverty by
improving the productivity and incomes of small farmers. The Program was a component
of a larger package of Federally-funded sectoral programs to improve regional socio-
economic conditions, and was consistent with government's new rural development
strategy for the Northeast initiated in 1982. The NRDP acknowledged that in the
aggregate, the special programs, sectoral projects and Federal irrigation projects in the
Northeast up to that time had reduced rural poverty only minimally.
Project Objectives
2.    Original Objectives. The initial objectives of the NRDP through its component
state projects, as outlined in the Memorandum of the President (MOP), were to: (i)
increase regional agricultural production and productivity; (ii) generate income and
employment opportunities for low-income farm families; (iii) increase the states' capacity
to provide efficient agricultural services to small farmers; and (iv) promote water resource
development and technology generation and diffusion to reduce small farmers'
vulnerability to recurring drought. The Minas Gerais MOP included an additional
objective: to increase community participation in all phases of the development process.
3.    Project Components. To meet these objectives, the original projects had seven
components: (i) water resources development, including irrigation and feasibility studies;
(ii) agricultural research and basic seed production; (iii) agricultural extension for basic
food and commercial crops, small livestock and social forestry; (iv) agricultural credit, for



- iv -
investments in crop and livestock production and on-farm water resource development;
(v) marketing services, including training; (vi) support to small rural communities (known
by its Portuguese acronym as APCR), to promote the mobilization and participation of
small farmers, to finance small rural investments in production, processing and rural
infrastructure, and to create employment; and (vii) project administration.
4.    Hindsight and current practice tend to affect assessments of the NRDP projects at
entry. It should be noted that the Program was developed and its component projects
appraised under a centralized military government in which public agencies controlled
most development activity. Concepts like participation, organization and decentralization
entailed political difficulties in Brazil, had yet to enter the Bank's lexicon, and were largely
experimental in project design (e.g., the Latin American social funds, and the APCR
itself). Nevertheless, there was a conscious attempt to innovate. Greater flexibility,
accountability from below, more narrowly-focused activities, and improved planning and
coordination were ingredients believed likely to improve the outcome of the Program.
5.    On the other hand, project objectives still depended on the synergy between many
complementary activities both within each project and in other Federal Government
programs meant to interact with the NRDP (known collectively as the Projeto Nordeste).
Numerous components and agencies required effective services and coordination.
Administrative, financing and implementing arrangements were complex, multi-layered
and centralized, and left little room for beneficiary involvement. While there were
variations in project design between states, the projects could have done more to calibrate
design to the institutional, political and agronomic environment of each state. Land tenure
improvement depended on progress under a separate operation (the Northeast Region
Land Tenure Improvement Project, Ln. 2593-BR). The focus was on small farmers,
excluding other segments of the rural poor. Measures to address potential counterpart
funding delays and shortfalls were unlikely to be effective, and indeed, certain aspects of
project design had the potential to aggravate those delays. On balance however, appraisal
of the projects was satisfactory given existing constraints, and subject to two caveats:
evident pressures to lend to Brazil in the mid- 1980s; and an apparently uncritical
acceptance of the capacities of implementing agencies, although some federal agencies did
have considerable technical strength.
6.    As with earlier operations, the loans were made to the Federal Government which
coordinated the Program, approved its annual operating plans and budgets, and provided
counterpart funds, monitoring and evaluation. While it is technically true that most
project activities were implemented by state, not federal agencies, the Federal Government
exercised dominant control over these projects both from Brasilia and through the
Superintendency for the Development of the Northeast (SUDENE).
7.    Post-Reformulation Objectives. Delayed, uneven project implementation and
the results of a Mid-Term Review (1991) launched a process culminating in reformulation
of all ten NRDP projects in 1993. The focus changed from rural/agricultural development
emphasizing small farmers and agricultural production, to rural poverty alleviation
emphasizing poor rural communities and investments in their productive, infrastructural
and social priorities. The comparatively successful APCR component, which stressed
community planning and organization, acknowledged community needs and contracted



- v -
out for technical expertise, essentially became the leading edge of the NRDP. While still
evolving and not without problems, its poverty alleviation impact was positive, the cost
per family relatively low, and disbursement and commitment rates far exceeded those of
other components. In contrast, the other components relying mostly on public sector
implementation -- extension, credit, research, water supply and irrigation -- showed
serious delays. A high proportion of their resources financed recurrent costs -- less than
one-third of project funds reached the beneficiaries -- and their poverty impact was slight.
8.    Project objectives were re-framed to: (i) provide basic social and economic
infrastructure, and employment and income-generating opportunities for the rural poor
(not only small farmers); (ii) support rural community groups in identifying, planning and
implementing their own subprojects, and (iii) involve state governments more directly in
decision-making and in financing the Program. Both the Federal Government and the
States agreed with the Bank that a more cost-effective, participatory method for poverty
alleviation was needed, and that the features of the proposed model matched a growing
sentiment in Brazil for decentralization, a rethinking of the role of public agencies in the
development process, transparency, accountability and local empowerment.
9.    The New Mechanism. The new scheme incorporated the following features,
replicated in all ten states: (i) state, as opposed to federal, responsibility for counterpart
funding; (ii) more streamlined flow of funds to the states, eliminating SUDENE from the
chain and reducing its role overall; and (iii) two new programs: State Community
Schemes (PAC), in which rural community associations submitted subproject investment
proposals directly to State Project Technical Units (TUs) which screened, approved and
released funds for subprojects, interacting directly with the beneficiaries; and Pilot
Municipal Community Schemes (FUMAC), in which subprojects identified and
prepared by rural communities were reviewed by specially-created project Municipal
Councils (MC), with members drawn from the community, local government and civil
society. MCs promoted local consensus-building on priority needs through open "town
meetings", screening and submitting subprojects to the State (TU) for approval and
financing. FUMAC's basic difference from and advantage over PAC is its provision for
direct municipal involvement in community mobilization, organization, priority-setting and
decision-making, which fosters participation and transparency.
Implementation Experience and Results
10.   Achievement of Objectives Prior to Reformulation. The three projects in
Pernambuco, Piaui and Minas Gerais, in common with the other Northeast states, were
unable to achieve their original objectives. Public investment and project counterpart
funding were choked off and public agencies severely affected by rising fiscal deficits,
macro-economic distortions and successive reform programs. The NRDP's centralized
"machinery" and delivery of services by public agencies ran counter to the new
Constitution (1988) which decentralized government and foresaw a greater role for the
private sector. Inter-agency coordination was exceptionally difficult, agencies'
implementing skills were limited and excessive loan funds went for their operating costs.
Beneficiary participation was lacking, and thus project "ownership" and maintenance of
investments were negligible. Project benefits (especially research and extension) were
frequently appropriated by larger farmers, while multiple components served different



- vi -
target groups without being mutually reinforcing, scattering resources and impact. Other
issues included institutional, policy and functional problems affecting extension, credit and
the land tenure project, and performance problems with the choice and sustainability of
investments .
11.   The Post-Reformulation Experience. In marked contrast to the initial phase, all
three states reviewed successfully achieved their objectives following reformulation.
First, effective targeting ensured that the projects reached their intended beneficiaries,
including the landless in much greater numbers than estimated at appraisal or
reformulation -- some 440,000 poor rural families in the three states and a total of about
1.8 million families overall. Investment subprojects -- categorized as productive,
infrastructure and social -- are generating employment and economic growth, and
improving the incomes and welfare of significant numbers of rural poor, including women.
Poor communities are demonstrating their willingness to share the cost of investments and
to maintain them, promoting sustainability. Benefits are largely concentrated in the poor
communities, with multiplier effects on local economies and early signs of stemming out-
migration. Project-funded investments hastened communities' recovery from the 1993
drought and promoted more intensive use of land. In the poorest municipalities and
communities, PAC and FUMAC have been the principal, and often the only, source of
funding for basic needs.
12.   Second, these projects fostered community empowerment and specifically through
FUMAC which stresses participation, transparency, and local decision-making. The
FUMAC Municipal Councils are a viable means of giving the rural poor greater control
over planning and investments affecting their well-being, and participation has had
sustainable political effects. The now numerous community associations congregate a
large number of voters, and the political community is aware of their influence. All three
states intensified efforts in the final year to train and mobilize municipalities and
associations, specifically to incorporate them into FUMAC. Evaluations indicate that
FUMAC Municipal Councils are a viable means of giving the rural poor greater control
over planning and investments affecting their well-being and participation has led to
sustainable development.
13.   Third, the projects have earned strong support from state and municipal
governments: as a critical resource for investment in poor communities; as representing
potential, significant cost-savings -- averaging at least 30% -- on the provision of
infrastructure and water supply by public agencies; as generating tax revenue for state and
municipal governments from the sale of productive outputs; and, as having a high
constituent potential. State project units are providing services more rapidly in response
to communities better equipped to demand and choose. State counterpart funding
performance improved greatly over time and disbursements accelerated -- a dramatic
break from past experience. Finally, an increasing number of municipalities are willing to
share the counterpart funding burden, seeking greater accountability and cost-effectiveness
from state governments in return.
14.   Sustainability. Cost-sharing and better choice and prioritization of subprojects
have promoted the sense of ownership and control which builds sustainability.
Commitment to the operation and maintenance of investments is shown by associations



- vii -
signing legally-binding agreements, and in the many associations which have accumulated
substantial reserve funds to cover maintenance. Subproject investments have been of
good or satisfactory quality, favoring sustainability. However, some earlier productive
subprojects may not be sustainable, due to a variety of factors. Corrective measures to
counter such risks were prioritized in the later stages of these projects, and are stressed in
the new Rural Poverty Alleviation Projects in six Northeast states and under preparation in
three more.
15.   Project Costs, Financing and Timetables. Loans totaling US$225.0 million
were made to the States of Pemambuco (US$92.0 million), Piaui (US$78.0 million) and
Minas Gerais (US$55.0 million) to benefit about 176,000 small farm families, about 31%
of the NRDP target population. Partial cancellations of two of the Loans occurred on
December 21, 1994 as follows: US$20.0 million (Pernambuco) and US$25.0 million
(Piaui). Actual project costs were: Pernambuco US$123.7 million, Piaui US$89.7
million, and Minas Gerais US$82.9 million. The reformulation resulted in a markedly
different allocation of project financing relative both to categories and costs than was
estimated at appraisal.
16.   Loan Covenants. The key legal covenants in the pre-reformulation phase
concerned the Borrower's obligation to provide counterpart funds, and to ensure proper
functioning of the rural credit component. Compliance was deficient in both areas, in the
three states reviewed. Post-reformulation, the states assumed legal responsibility for
counterpart funds (through Letters of Amendment) and the credit component was
discontinued. Covenant compliance post-reformulation was satisfactory in the three states
reviewed.
17.   Bank Performance. Preparation and appraisal of the original projects showed a
thoughtful attempt to innovate and counter risk in a difficult environment. However, the
framework, concept and mechanisms retained many of the characteristics which had
prejudiced the outcome of earlier projects in the region, the fiscal and macro-economic
environment merited greater attention, and institutional capacity, especially state, was
over-estimated -- although key federal agencies did have considerable technical capacity.
Realistically, the Bank would have been clairvoyant to foresee the full nature and
implications of the events which came to affect project execution, especially after 1988.
18.   The Bank's choice was essentially to cancel these projects or try to improve their
impact and cost-effectiveness, a protracted design and dialogue process which culminated
in dropping all the traditional integrated rural development (IRD) components focusing
fully on a new mechanism and making it work. Clearly there was no mechanism in the
Bank at the time for coming to quick closure on project reformulation: constitutional
changes were a reality from 1988, counterpart funding shortages were chronic, and project
execution was troubled. Yet, reformulation did not occur until seven years after
effectiveness, a situation which would be unlikely to occur under the Bank's
implementation culture of the 1990s.
19.   The Bank has, through the PAC/FUMAC model, made a major technical
contribution to Brazil, based on its own regional and wider experiences; launched a more
democratic and effective process of rural poverty alleviation; and perhaps more



- viii -
importantly, supported the decentralized allocation of resources and the creation of social
capital in the rural Northeast. Obviously, the dramatic shift did not imply that the rural
poor no longer needed credit, extension and other services or that smallholder agricultural
production had lost currency. Indeed, having gained confidence in the capacity of the
community-based investment mechanism to satisfy a range of basic needs, the Bank is now
addressing several critically important subsectors in the Northeast: market-based land
reform, integrated water management, and rural financial market development.
20.   The removal of public institutions from the development process at reformulation
was undoubtedly a reaction to the high proportion of Loan funds absorbed by
administrative costs pre- 1993, in addition to being a central element of the new model of
participatory, decentralized, demand-driven investments where the communities
themselves directly contract service providers from the public or private sector. However,
it did not signal abandonment by the Bank of its traditional commitment to institution-
building, which in this model of rural development occurs at the local level and covers a
more diverse clientele, including the Municipal Councils, community associations and
NGOs. Moreover, at the time of reformulation, other Bank projects were already
financing institutional development of agencies responsible for agricultural research and
extension.
21.   The World Bank Recife Office (established in 1974), has been fundamental to the
implementation and supervision of the reformulated NRDP. Three resident task
managers are dedicated exclusively to working with the Northeastern states, handling all
supervision activities including procurement reviews and field visits and managing and
updating a global database on individual state projects as a monitoring tool for the Bank
and the state TUs. In this manner, Bank support has been better tailored to the
decentralized structure of the reformulated program.
22.   Borrower Performance. Macro-economic, fiscal and political crises rapidly
eroded the Federal Government's (FG) support for these projects in the first phase of the
NRDP. Post-reformulation, with counterpart funding responsibilities transferred to the
states, the FG periodically delayed the release of loan funds and/or advances of Federal
(Treasury) funds to them, whether for political reasons or to promote financial discipline.
In some instances the states delayed counterpart funding or released funds to the
associations in installments, even though federal Loan funds were available, whether for
political, fiscal or bureaucratic reasons. The overall flow of funds improved, especially in
1995/96. The willingness of Federal and State Governments and increasingly over time,
municipal administrations, to support a radically new approach to rural poverty alleviation
was instrumental in the success of these projects.
23.   SUDENE's performance prior to the reformulation was mixed. Its control over
the use of Federal funds, maintaining a certain equilibrium in the Program, and provision
of TA for training and monitoring, were satisfactory. However, its guidance and
supervision were weak, its operational rigidity curbed the intended flexibility of the
Program, and it lacked sufficient trained staff for its role even though it was grossly over-
staffed. Project-funded TA had little institutional impact on SUDENE. Its role was
reduced to ex-post evaluation following reformulation. Performance improved and it
provided an insightful, timely Completion Report on behalf of the Federal Government.



- ix -
24.   The performance of the state Technical Units was central to the success of these
projects and depended on the availability of qualified staff, good leadership, the equipment
and budget to operate as planned, and the degree of administrative and financial
independence from parent State Secretariats. Pre-reformulation, the TUs, while
administratively and legally strong, lacked the political and fiscal power to influence the
powerful state implementing agencies, and their role was diminished as a result. Post-
reformulation, generic and specific problems variously affected each of the three TUs.
These included overstaffing, political interference, inadequate field presence, supervision,
monitoring and evaluation, and a tendency for TUs to assume responsibility for the
subproject planning and implementation cycle at the expense of the local context and
beneficiary participation. However, the outcome of the latter was at times quite favorable,
depending on the circumstances.
25.   The TUs in Pernambuco and Minas Gerais enjoyed a measure of real autonomy,
while the Piaui TU was hampered by its links to both SEPLAN and the State Governor.
The Minas Gerais unit was generally successful in avoiding political intervention, unlike its
two peers; in Piaui, political manipulation reached a crisis in 1995 requiring decisive Bank
action to stabilize the unit and inject discipline into its management of the project. The
Pernambuco unit had problems in the early period post-reformulation with excessive
concentration of lending on a few types of subprojects, attributed to delayed launching of
a publicity campaign and resulting lack of knowledge of the program on the part of the
communities, leaving them open to manipulation. All three units were decentralized but
the field offices in Piaui were largely inactive, adversely affecting its ability to monitor and
supervise the project. Minas Gerais is notable for its successful collaboration with the
state EMATER for provision of technical assistance to the communities. Technical
assistance provision was problematic in both Piaui and Pernambuco. In all three cases,
performance improved sharply in the final year of the project following reorganization and
restructuring of the units, improved technical and managerial capacity and revitalized
commitment to the projects by new state administrations.
26.   Project Outcome. Staff Appraisal Reports for the original projects contain
internal economic rates of return (IERR) for the three states of 13% (Pernambuco and
Minas Gerais) and 18% (Piaui). It is implicit from the history of these projects and their
radical re-design in 1993 that they were unsatisfactory and their IERRs for the pre-
reformulation period have not been re-calculated. The Mid-Term Review of the original
projects (1991) noted that the impact of the Program on production, income and
employment was difficult to assess due to the lack of concrete information and data, in
spite of considerable effort to institute good monitoring and evaluation.
27.   The reformulated projects fell under the rubric of targeted interventions based on a
demand-driven mechanism for which the costs, benefits and rates of return could not be
determined with any certainty ex ante, and thus IERRs were not calculated, or
accordingly, re-calculated for this report. However, recent evaluations (Bank/FAO 1995,
1996 and 1997) have addressed the poverty alleviation impact, cost-effectiveness and
sustainability of a range of commonly-demanded infrastructure, productive and social
subprojects. The 1995 evaluation examined all ten state projects under the NRDP; in
1996, the main focus was on the States of Rio Grande do Norte, Pernambuco and Piaui;
and the most recent evaluation analyzed Minas Gerais, Paraiba, Maranhao and Alagoas.



- x -
While primarily illustrative, given the newness of most of these subprojects -- and in the
case of the 1995 evaluation, the quest for a satisfactory evaluation methodology for the
new development model -- the results are nevertheless highly promising.
28.   Evaluations of typical productive subprojects in the three states show that: (i)
internal rates of return (IRR) in financial terms ranged from 33-37% (clothes-making
ventures in Piaui and communal tractors in Minas Gerais) to over 50% (including manioc
mills and small-scale irrigation subprojects in Minas Gerais and Pernambuco), and in
economic terms most exceeded 50%; (ii) in terms of the sensitivity of the IERRs to the
distorting effects of publicly-funded grants, which stem from costs associated with raising
these funds (i.e., taxation), using the shadow price of public funds reduced the respective
IERRs, but they remained significantly positive and exceeded 17% in all cases; and (iii) in
all cases, the initial investment per additional job created was low and benefit/cost ratios
were satisfactory (ranging between 1.3 and 2.3).
29.   Analysis of financial sustainability indicated that user fees from beneficiary
associations adequately covered operation and maintenance (O&M) and the costs of
replacing worn equipment. Findings were fairly uniform in Pernambuco and Minas Gerais
(lack of data precluded this exercise for Piaui), in that the net income of beneficiary
associations is sufficient, after deducting all O&M expenses, to cover replacement of the
investments for which calculations were made (communal tractors and manioc mills) in 3-
7 years, compared to their economic useful lives of 10-12 years.
30.   Each of the three projects is rated Satisfactory, reflecting its achievement of
objectives, sustainability and exit ratings in final supervision Forms 590.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Lessons Learned
31.   Main Findings. Despite the effort to innovate and to head off counterpart
funding and other potential problems, the original NRDP projects as designed in the mid-
1980s remained conceptually and operationally traditional. Deteriorating fiscal and
macro-economic conditions had a devastating effect on counterpart funding and the ability
of these projects to make headway. The centralized project design could not function as
envisaged in face of momentous changes in the political economy which demanded a more
decentralized, participatory rural development model. Thus, while the Bank could not
control the larger forces at play in Brazil, project design created its own set of problems.
32.   The reformulated projects successfully reached their objectives because their
design and implementation strategy fit the evolving political, economic and social context.
This legacy resulted from "revolutionary" decisions: (i) by the Bank, to take a poverty
alleviation approach, with all its implications of decentralization, grants, ownership and
participation, instead of a rural/agricultural development approach; and (ii) by the Federal
and State Governments, to relinquish a significant measure of political control by
empowering rural communities and, more importantly, by acknowledging the ability of the
rural poor to establish their own priorities and make decisions. Nevertheless, community-
based development is not a "magic bullet" for poverty reduction in the Northeast, which is
why the Bank, having launched a significant process with measurable impact on



- xi -
beneficiaries, is also now turning its attention to other major constraints in the sector, in
addition to seeking ways of refining that methodology,
33.   Among the project-specific findings were the following. First, FUMAC proved
more effective than PAC. This was demonstrated in greater participation and
transparency; larger numbers of subprojects per municipality; more beneficiaries overall;
and generally lower cost both per subproject and per beneficiary. However, while
FUMAC has proven capable of eroding the traditional "clientelism" of the Northeast, it
cannot alone transform long-standing political, economic and social patterns. Second,
organized communities can influence the allocation and use of municipal financial
resources, and NGOs can provide vital project services and help organized communities to
maximize project benefits. Third, the environmental impact of the generally small-scale
PAC and FUMAC subprojects was insignificant but certain subprojects, e.g., manioc mills,
are likely to have environmental impact needing attention. Modifications designed to
address identified shortcomings have been incorporated into the new RPAP. States and
municipalities have proven willing to make needed corrections.
34.   Future Operations. There was no legal requirement for the three states to
prepare a plan for future operations, and no plans were prepared. The same is true for the
formal monitoring of future operations. Nevertheless, prospects for consolidating and
building on project benefits appear to be good. The States and their Governors are
supporting policies and actions which promote decentralized decision-making and
management. Communities have demonstrated their willingness to operate and maintain
their investments responsibly. Further, given the radical change in approach to rural
poverty alleviation, there is considerable interest in the Bank, in Brazil and elsewhere, to
track the evolution and impact of these projects.
35.   Lessons Learned. The lessons, substantiating Bank-wide experience, are as
follows:
(a)   Most rural development projects will falter under severe macro-economic
and fiscal pressures, and a policy environment unfavorable to
agriculture;
(b)   When a program strategy and project design is overtaken by events which
make it redundant, the Bank should promptly undertake the needed
changes, including complete reformulation if necessary, which will enable
it to succeed in the new circumstances;
(c)   The willingness to experiment benefits projects Bank-wide. The
reformulated projects emerged from a successful pilot experience (APCR),
enriched by drawing on wider experiences, and their successors, the
RPAPs, have continued to pilot increasingly progressive variants of the
core model;
(d)   Grant-based investment is a legitimate and effective tool for jump-
starting capital accumulation by the rural poor, and the matching grant



- xli -
approach has contributed to sustainable local development in the three
states;
(e)    Decentralization of fiscal and investment decision-making to state and
local government and beneficiaries improves project administration and
subproject quality. This process needs clearly-defined operational
incentives and penalties to counter departures from project guidelines;
(f)    Beneficiary participation in subproject selection, implementation,
financing and supervision generates ownership and builds sustainability.
Vigilance and appropriate controls are needed to prevent political
interference in the participatory process;
(g)   Poverty targeting mechanisms should be simple, explicit and
monitorable; be based on objective criteria, foster transparency and
minimize political interference in project resource allocation and subproject
selection. Timely, well-designed information campaigns support
targeting by ensuring transparency and a community knowledge of
program objectives, guidelines and access;
(h)   Sustainability of project investments is enhanced by municipal and
community cost-sharing, beneficiary involvement in local public investment
allocations, and the provision of TA is provided at all key stages of the
subproject cycle;
(i)    Successful community-based investment requires quality technical
assistance throughout the subproject cycle for. improving the genesis
and outcome of productive subprojects; community mobilization,
organization and skills development; and institutional development of the
TU. "On-the-job" training for communities is essential but not risk-free.
Finding TA providers in rural areas needs creativity,
(j)    Supervision is indispensable for subproject and overall project success and
should be strengthened, and involve local entities closest to the
communities, particularly Municipal Councils and NGOs;
(k)   Productive subprojects need rigorous selection, preparation, TA and
supervision to maximize their commercial potential and sustainability.
Their inherent social objectives in a poverty context should not imply
"softer" analysis of their feasibility, cost-effectiveness and rates of return.
Eligibility should hinge on their maximising beneficiaries, strict guidelines
should govern their operations; and user fees should be charged for O&M,
(1)    Related to the above, project design should pay careful attention to
baseline studies as the springboard for well-designed monitoring and
evaluation and for assessments of the economic and financial rates of
return on a range of productive subprojects. Accessible, comprehensive



- xii -
monitoring and evaluation systems improve subproject assessment,
targeting and efficiency and are an essential planning and management tool;
(m)   Standardization of documents, designs and unit costs simplifies
subproject preparation and evaluation, facilitates procurement, prevents
faulty design and reduces processing bottlenecks;
(n)   Dissemination of "best practices"-- such as the FUMAC Councils in
Paraiba, the municipal development plans and indigenous peoples' councils
in Maranhao, the alliance forged with EMATER in Minas Gerais and
Alagoas, and with NGOs in Rio Grande do Norte, as well as experiences in
other states -- through information exchanges among TUs, at training
seminars and workshops -- can hasten learning and reward innovation; and
(o)   Graduation of some communities may be necessary as the aggregate
benefits of several subprojects equip them to leverage funds from other
sources. The pervasiveness of rural poverty in the Northeast indicates the
need for a strategy based on defining monitorable, operational ways of
pinpointing communities on the verge of achieving this status.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS
PERNAMBUCO. PIAUI and MINAS GERAIS
(Loans 2718-BR, 2762-BR and 2861-BR)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Background
I .    The Northeastern region of Brazil comprises nine states' and the northern, semi-
arid zone of the central State of Minas Gerais, totaling about 1.7 million km2. The
Northeast has long been the single largest regional concentration of rural poverty in Latin
America. In the mid-1980s when the ten projects under the Northeast Rural Development
Program were appraised -- projects in the States of Pernambuco, Piaui and Minas Gerais
are assessed in this report -- more than one-third of all Brazilians living in poverty, and
almost two-thirds of the rural poor, were living in the Northeast. The region has absorbed
an immense amount of budget resources over several decades in the quest for solutions to
its persistent poverty and under-development. A combination of geographic, economic
and political factors, reflected in the harsh climate and poor natural resource base,
inequitable land tenure and distribution, a traditional, paternalistic culture, illiteracy, and
the lack of basic infrastructure and services, explains the predicament of the rural poor.
Rural incomes are generally low and highly variable. Periodic or permanent outmigration
of large numbers of the rural poor to bigger centers in the Northeast or the South, is
common.
2.    Profile of the States Reviewed. The State of Pernambuco covers a territory of
98,300 km2 whose long east/west and narrow north/south configuration incorporates a
range of agro-climatic regions and micro-regions which have molded its socio-economic
and productive patterns of development. Some 70% of the state is within the Northeast
semi-arid drought polygon. The population at appraisal (1986) was 6.1 million, of which
well over half lived in rural areas. At the time of appraisal agriculture generated only 12%
of state GDP and some 85% of the agricultural labor force was earning less than the
minimum wage. Living conditions in rural areas were poor, judging by high rates of infant
mortality and poor access to basic services. About three-quarters of all farms were under
The States of Bahia, Ceara, Rio Grande do Norte, Sergipe, Maranhao, Piaui, Paraiba,
Pernambuco and Alagoas



100 ha and occupied only 11 % of the state's area; over half of all small farms were located
in areas with rainfall of only 600-900 mm per year, and prone to frequent drought.
3.     Occupying about 252,000 km2 in the Northeast region of Brazil, the State of Piaui
is the third largest in the region. It has an abundant aquifer but soils are of poor quality
outside the river valleys. The climate varies from semi-humid to semi-arid with irregular
annual rainfall ranging from 1600 mm on the coast to 600 mm in the southeast. Piaui was,
and remains, one of the poorest states in Brazil and the poorest in the Northeast. Prior to
appraisal (1986), about 80% of its 2.3 million inhabitants earned less than one-tenth of the
average per capita GDP in Brazil and 60% of the population living in rural areas generated
only 22% of state GDP. Indices of infant mortality, life expectancy, malnutrition and
access to basic services testified to the precariousness of rural life. Some 90% of farms
were less than 100 ha and accounted for only 20% of state territory. Few small farmers
were landowners. Yields of basic small farm crops -- rice, beans, cassava and maize --
were up to 40% lower than averages for the Northeast.
4.     With a total area of about 587,000 kM2, Minas Gerais is the sixth largest state in
Brazil. At the time of appraisal (1987), its northeastern region, the least developed part of
the state and the focus of the project, covered 42 municipalities and about 21% of total
state area. Some 88% of the rural families in the region earned their living directly from
agriculture. High rates of malnutrition, infant mortality and illiteracy, and per capita
incomes among the lowest in the Northeast, characterized this zone. Poverty-induced
rural outmigration had witnessed an annual 5% growth in the state's urban areas, swelling
the urban poor and creating an insupportable financial obligation to provide social
services, and a 2% per year decline in the rural population over the previous two decades.
Tax and credit incentives had concentrated landholdings under livestock and reforestation
enterprises, increasing the numbers of landless seasonal wage workers, and increasing
social tension.
5.     Bank Support to the Northeast. Rural development of the Brazilian Northeast,
focusing on poor farm families, has been assisted through Bank projects since the mid-
1970s. The strategy and design of these projects have changed over time, building on the
lessons of experience. The Northeast Rural Development Program (NRDP), launched in
the mid- 1980s, had a 15-year horizon and sought to alleviate poverty among the rural
poor (mainly small farmers).2 It was one important element in a larger package of
Federally-funded sectoral programs known as Projeto Nordeste, designed to improve
regional socio-economic conditions through interactive, complementary effects across
sectors.3 The Program was based on a broad regional policy framework, a set of sub-
sectoral guidelines, and multi-year state rural investment plans. It was consistent with the
2
The NRDP and its successor the Rural Poverty Alleviation Program (RPAP) came to be widely
and generically referred to as the PAPP (Programa de Apoio aos Pequenos Produtores).
Projeto Nordeste was never intended to be limited to the agricultural sector or to alleviating rural
poverty. As it turned out however, NRDP was one of the very few programs in Projeto Nordeste
to actually be implemented



- 3 -
new rural development strategy for the Northeast initiated in 1982, and acknowledged that
in aggregate, the special programs, sectoral projects and federal irrigation projects up till
that time, had not significantly reduced rural poverty.
Project Objectives and Design under the Original NRDP
6.    Objectives. Project objectives as stated in the Memorandum of the President
(MOP) were to: (i) increase the states' agricultural production and productivity; (ii)
generate employment opportunities4 for low-income farm families; (iii) increase the states'
capacity to provide efficient agricultural services to small farmers; and (iv) promote water
resource development and technology generation and diffusion to reduce small farmers'
vulnerability to recurring drought. The Minas Gerais project included an additional
objective: to increase community participation in all phases of the development process.
The NRDP also sought to strengthen SUDENE (Superintendency for the Development of
the Northeast) to regionally coordinate, monitor and evaluate the NRDP, and to promote
regional agricultural research appropriate for small farmers (see para. 7).
7.    Components. All ten projects of the NRDP were virtually identical (except for
Sergipe and Bahia). Project objectives would be achieved through seven components: (i)
water resources development, including irrigation and studies; (ii) agricultural research
and basic seed production, (iii) agricultural extension for basic food and commercial crops,
small livestock and social forestry; (iv) agricultural credit, for investments in crop and
livestock production and on-farm water resource development, (v) marketing services,
including training, (vi) support to small rural communities (apojo as pequenas
comunidades rurais - APCR), to promote small farmer mobilization and participation,
finance small rural investments by farmer groups for production, processing and rural
infrastructure, create employment and foster accountability of public agencies; and (vii)
project administration and training. In addition to state-specific components, the Sergipe
project included regional coordination and administration and regional research
components, the former implemented by SUDENE and the latter by the regional
Agricultural Research Center for the Semi-Arid Tropics (CPATSA); and the Bahia project
included a regional research component under the Brazilian Agricultural Research
Company (EMBRAPA).
8.    Design and Strategy. Hindsight and current practice tend to color assessments
of these projects at entry. They were developed and appraised under a centralized military
government in which public agencies controlled most development activity. Concepts like
participation, organization and decentralization entailed political difficulties in the Brazil of
this period, had yet to enter the Bank's lexicon and were largely experimental in project
design, e.g., the Latin American social funds. Even so, there was a conscious attempt to
innovate in order to improve project outcome, through greater flexibility, accountability
from below, more narrowly-focused activities, and improved planning and coordination.
The Minas Gerais MOP includes "income" as well as employment as an objective in (ii).



- 4 -
The pilot APCR component (para. 7) was the practical application of a concept with its
roots in many, often small, experimental actions worldwide.
9.    Achieving project objectives however, still depended on the synergy between many
complementary activities, dependent in turn on efficient systems of service delivery and
effective coordination between numerous agencies and several layers of the Brazilian
government. The weaknesses of such a framework had undermined previous programs.
The preparation file record indicates that concerns were expressed about: the capacity of
state and regional agencies to cope financially and institutionally with ten new integrated
rural development (IRD) projects; the poor record of credit lines under previous projects;
the size of the recurrent costs portion of total project costs;5 agricultural area and
production assumptions which implied substantial changes in small farmers' behavior
without discussion of how this would occur; and whether the beneficiaries could realize
economic benefits within a reasonable timeframe.
10.   The overall design was not sufficiently participatory even though the NRDP was
considered groundbreaking at inception because of features permitting and requiring
beneficiary participation (e.g., APCR, and state-level regional committees with rural union
and NGO participation). In fact, apart from APCR and water supply activities, there was
insufficient room or opportunity for beneficiaries to express their needs and influence the
shape and outcome of project activities.
11.   Despite assertions that NRDP project execution and expected benefits were not
directly dependent on other sub-sectoral projects in the short-term, the SARs are clear that
increased access to land was essential for sustained rural development in the Northeast and
would increase the expected impact and benefits of the three projects. Assurances were
obtained from the states that specified amounts of land would be available for distribution
to project beneficiaries, by target dates, via the complementary Northeast Region Land
Tenure Improvement Project (Loan 2593-BR). Further, the implications of the other
projects and programs under Projeto Nordeste not materializing to provide the desired
interactive effects with the NRDP, was not given adequate attention.
12.   The Bank was satisfied that potential counterpart funding delays and shortfalls
would be reduced through provisions for new channels and procedures, the merging of
special rural programs and the addition of FINSOCIAL (Social Investment Fund)
resources. Further, the Federal government in 1986 had, inter alia, established an ad-hoc
inter-departmental working group in Brasilia to resolve the delays in the flow of Federal
funds to the Northeast project coordination units. The focus on a few key production
constraints to concentrate funds on activities which provided direct benefits, the regional
scope of the NRDP, and broad support for the program among senior government
officials and local leaders, were also expected to reduce the risk.
Memorandum, October 26, 1986. Recurrent costs would be "amply covered by increased tax
revenues arising from the projects' incremental agricultural production."



- 5 -
13.   However, the erratic counterpart funding situation which emerged revealed several
problems: states' total dependence on the effective and timely release by the Federal
Government of both counterpart and loan funds (a design feature for which there was no
alternative at the time of appraisal); the complexity of the bureaucratic machinery for
release of funds; annual budget allocations below appraisal estimates, vulnerable to
inflation and to over-control by SUDENE; and cumbersome accounting systems and
procedures.
14.   The macro-economic and policy context, perhaps the dominant factor affecting
project implementation in all three states (and the entire program), was mentioned only
obliquely in the SARs. The Northeast's abundant supply of cheap labor made it vulnerable
to an over-valued exchange rate, while the inflationary environment was bound to affect
the credit component. Planned increases in agricultural production and productivity were
foiled by policies which penalized agriculture -- exchange rate over-valuation reduced
returns to agricultural exports, tariff protection increased the cost of inputs, and
administered prices for farm produce, below market levels, depressed returns to farmers.6
15.   As documented in the Mid-Term Review of the NRDP (1991), the concept
envisaged various components being implemented simultaneously through different state
agencies, with their impact being the increased production and income of beneficiaries in a
particular area. Not all components would benefit all small farmers; rather, a package of
tailored, complementary actions was targeted at identified groups. Such an approach
assumed relatively sophisticated joint planning and design of "instruments" for a given
group and strong coordination during implementation. However, the state Technical
Units (TU) lacked the political strength to control the often quite powerful executing
agencies, and thus project components devolved to independent sub-programs of the
agencies, which tailored work programs to their own interests, not those of the projects.
16.   The NRDP recognized from the outset that detailed operational planning including
monitorable goals was needed, to prevent dispersion and ensure coordination of activities.
However, while promising results were obtained in some states with a "programming by
objectives" approach, in general, objectives were not translated into specific area and
group targets for desired outputs. While this was intended to provide flexibility over time,
there was no concrete and meaningful way of measuring progress or impact. The
executing agencies and SUDENE clung to the traditional component approach, and
resisted detailed planning and programming for sub-areas and sub-groups.7
17.   The beneficiary population of small farmers targeted was quite heterogeneous in
terms of land size, aspirations, needs and capacities. Program design admitted that
different components would apply to different groups of small farmers. In practice, and in
the absence of detailed operational planning, the concept of differentiated targeting of
6     Dvnanics of Rural Development in Northeast Brazil: New Lessons from Old Projects, OED
1991
7     NRDP, Mid-Term Review, November 1991



- 6 -
beneficiaries and components was unworkable and was ignored.8 Differentiation of
overall project design between states would have been prudent. The Program adopted a
homogeneous approach to the projects, not calibrating them sufficiently to the
institutional, political and agronomic environment in each state, with projects constructed
from a menu of financeable activities.9
18.   The rural credit component encountered difficulties which were to a significant
degree design-based: state government banks could not participate because budget
regulations prevented them from handling non-repayable (subsidy) funds; the credit
component was relatively isolated from the other components and there was little
collaboration between the banks and the TUs on credit activities; and farmers were, not
surprisingly, unwilling to incur debt without knowing what their repayments would be,
since outstanding balances would be adjusted for inflation and they feared the adjustments
would exceed their product price increases in spite of a 30% subsidy. Project personnel
appear not to have understood, and did not tell farmers, that the credit terms remained
fairly attractive even under the circumstances. 10
19.   The Loans. Loans totaling US$225 million (about 27% of the NRDP total) and
financing 50% of project cost net of taxes, were made to the States of Pernambuco, Piaui
and Minas Gerais to benefit some 176,000 small farm families, about 31% of the NRDP
target population (some 575,000 small farm families). The combined estimated total
project cost for the three projects was US$462.2 million. Projects were to be
implemented over a period of about eight years.
20.   While it is technically true that most project activities were implemented by state
agencies, not federal, the Federal Government, both in Brasilia and through its regional
agency SUDENE, exercised dominant control over these projects, coordinating the
program, approving annual operating plans and budgets, providing counterpart funds and
monitoring and evaluation services. Delayed approval of budgets and release of funds by
the Federal Government, in turn, delayed project implementation and reduced project
purchasing power due to the inflation effects.
Reformulation of the NRDP
21.   Despite successful experiences in different States and activities, the original NRDP
encountered many difficulties in all ten states and was unable to achieve its basic
objectives. The fundamental problem was the escalating macro-economic and fiscal crisis
in Brazil and the mismatch between the projects' centralized structure and administrative
arrangements, and the rapidly changing political, economic and social context. This was
Ibid
Dynamics of Rural Development in Northeast Brazil: New Lessons from Old Projects, OED,
December 16, 1991
Ibid



- 7 -
borne out by a comprehensive Mid-Term Review (1991) and an OED study," which
prompted an agreement between the Bank and Borrower to reformulate the Program, a
drawn-out process which lasted until 1993.
22.   The focus of the NRDP changed from rural/agricultural development, with the
emphasis on small farmers and agricultural production, to rural poverty alleviation,
emphasizing poor rural communities and varied productive, infrastructure and social
investments. The comparatively successful APCR community-based investment
component was the starting point for the complete re-design of the Program to reflect the
growing sentiment in Brazil for decentralization, transparency, accountability and local
empowerment. 12
23.   New Objectives. Project objectives were redefined to: (i) provide basic social and
economic infrastructure, and employment and income-generating opportunities for the
rural poor (not only small farmers); (ii) support rural community groups in identifying,
planning and implementing their own subprojects, and (iii) involve state governments more
directly in decision-making and in financing the Program. While maintaining the
fundamental program objectives, albeit in different form, both Bank and Borrower saw the
reformulated NRDP as part of a policy of compensatory actions responding to an
emergency, i.e., the devastating impact on the rural poor of economic and climatic crises
and macro-economic and fiscal adjustment (SUDENE 1996).
24.   The reformulation process had two distinct phases. The first, protracted and
"painful" phase started in June 1990 and culminated in the formal re-design of the Sergipe
project (Ln. 2523-BR) effective in early 1992. Expecting replication of the Sergipe model
in all other nine states, most of the original state-executed project components were
discontinued between June and November 1992 (e.g., water resource development,
agricultural research, seed production, extension, credit, marketing services and the APCR
component). Remaining funds would be allocated to productive'3 investment subprojects
to be executed by beneficiary communities. These were larger-scale investments involving
small farmers from several communities and managed by "apex" beneficiary organizations.
They were largely residual components 14 from the earlier phase of the projects, and
included only subprojects at a relatively advanced stage of preparation or implementation.
25.   From November 1992 onwards, reformulation entered its second phase. The
emphasis shifted markedly towards further decentralization (towards the states,
municipalities and communities), transparency in funds allocation and greater beneficiary
lbid
12    Study of Popular Participation in the Northeast, C Kottak and A Costa, University of Michigan,
February 7, 1994
13    The emphasis was still agricultural production and income generation
The Solidaridad program in Mexico was an important influence. A study tour to Mexico,
sponsored by the Bank, was a critical step in gaining acceptance for the new approach and
fostering Brazilian ownership of the reformulation.



-8 -
control over project identification and implementation. Drawing upon the successful
APCR component and similar schemes elsewhere in Latin America, '5 the NRDP was
converted into a community-based development program, dropping all components
targeting agricultural production, and incorporating new features: (i) State as opposed to
Federal, responsibility for providing counterpart funds; (ii) streamlined flow of funds to
the States by the National Treasury, through the Ministry of Rural Integration, without
having to go through SUDENE, whose role was reduced; and (iii) two new programs:
State Community Schemes (PAC) and Pilot Municipal Community Schemes (FUMAC). 16
26.   The Mechanism. The re-designed projects provided matching grants to rural
community associations to finance small-scale subprojects identified by those groups as
priority investments for community well-being. Grants (with a community contribution of
10-20% depending on the type of subproject, to enhance ownership) were justified as
permitting access of the poorest to resources for needed facilities and services without
their having to repay at high nominal interest rates.
27.   Community subprojects would be screened, approved and implemented through
two different mechanisms: (i) State Community Schemes (PAC) in which rural
communities submitted their subproject investment proposals directly to the State Project
Technical Unit (TU) which, screened, approved and released funds for subprojects,
interacting directly with the beneficiaries; and (ii) Pilot Municipal Community Schemes
(FUMAC), in which subprojects identified and prepared by rural communities were
presented to project Municipal Councils for review. 17 The Councils, composed of
community members, local government representatives and members of civil society,
promoted local consensus-building on priority needs through open "town meetings", and
screened and submitted subprojects to the State (TU) for approval and financing. A
municipality participating in FUMAC could not have PAC, nor was it necessary to have
had PAC in order adopt FUMAC -- in this sense, the system was not graduative. FUMAC
is a more progressive model than PAC and the Bank has always encouraged its expansion.
28.   Decision-making and implementation devolved to the municipalities and
communities, the state governments were more directly involved in financing and
administration, and the responsibilities of public agencies were reduced. An action plan,
translated into a set of monitorable indicators, was agreed with each state. Eligibility for
project benefits included community associations and cooperatives which might comprise
small farmers, artisans and fishermen, living in communities or district centers with less
than 7,500 persons. Subproject cost could not exceed US$40,000 equivalent, including
community contributions. Beneficiaries had (under Brazilian law) to legally register as
associations in order to receive public funds, had to accept full liability through an
Kottak and Costa:, Ibid
16.    Memorandum June 29, 1994.
Project Municipal Councils are a separate entity from the municipal governments arising out of
the regular political process.



- 9 -
agreement with the TU for O&M of the investment, and had to make cash or kind
contributions of at least 10% of subproject cost.
29.    These two programs became the core of the reformulated NRDP. All PAC and
FUMAC subprojects were ultimately approved by the State TU and operated under the
same ground rules. The basic difference was that FUMAC directly involved the
municipality whose role it was to mobilize and organize communities and help them to
define priorities. This evolved over time to the point where the FUMAC Municipal
Councils, not the TUs, approved community subprojects. With certain modifications
(including a new, pilot version of FUMAC further decentralizing resource allocation and
control), this remains the model for projects under the new Rural Poverty Alleviation
Program (RPAP) in the Brazilian Northeast.
30.    The reformulation of all ten NRDP projects was approved by the Board on a no-
objection basis on June 17, 1993,18 became effective on September 28, 1993, and was fully
operational in all ten Northeast states by January 1994. Due to the increased focus on
poverty alleviation (and conforming to a previous amendment to the Sergipe project),
overall funding was increased from 50% to 60% of project cost, net of taxes. At the time
the reformulation became effective, the aggregate loans for Pernambuco, Piaui and Minas
Gerais were, based on the original Loan amounts (and excluding the initial deposit into the
Special Account) about 24% disbursed,'9 leaving a balance of US$136.2 million.
Achievement of Project Objectives
31.'   There is broad agreement that prior to 1993, the projects in Pernambuco, Piaui and
Minas Gerais were not achieving their objectives, in common with the rest of the states
under the NRDP. A major recovery has occurred since the projects were reformulated
and the broad elements of their outcome vis a vis their re-defined objectives, are
summarized below.20
32.    Socio-Economic Benefits for the Rural Poor. During its three years of
implementation, the reformulated NRDP reached around 1.8 million families. In the three
See "Amendment of Loan and Project Agreements", R93-115 of June 7, 1993; and letter of June
18, 1993 signed by Bank and Borrower, setting out amendments to Loan and Project
Agreements.
19     Pernambuco (51%); Piaui (39%); and Minas Gerais (20%).
20     Evaluations of the reformulated NRDP include the following: World Bank/FAO, "The
Reformulated NRDP: Performance and Evaluation, February 1995; World Bank/FAO, "NRDP:
Performance and Evaluation", March 1996; University of Michigan, "Baseline and Popular
Participation Study" initiated in 1993 by Kottak and Costa, followed by a community impact
evaluation in July-October 1994; studies under the "ARIDAS Project on Regional/Municipal
Development in Semi-Arid Areas of the Northeast"; an evaluation of NRDP commissioned in
1994 by the Federal Secretariat of International Affairs (SEAIN), Ministry of Planning; MIT
working draft for the World Bank Brazil Implementation Commission, February 1996; and
Superintendency for the Northeast (SUDENE) Borrower Completion Report on the NRDP, 1996.



- 10-
states reviewed, community-based development reached its intended beneficiaries
including the landless, generating economic growth and better quality of life for about
440,000 poor rural families, vastly exceeding estimates at appraisal or reformulation.
Increased income and employment opportunities for various family members including
women are emerging, raising at times sharply, their living standards. This trend is gaining
momentum as productive subprojects, most of which are fairly recently implemented,
consolidate and mature.21 Capital accumulation has started at both the local and
household levels, fostering, inter alia, the sustainability not provided by previous
development efforts in the Northeast. Beneficiaries saw a high proportion of project funds
(about 93%, compared to about 35% previously) and subproject benefits, in general,
remained with targeted populations. Investments have satisfied community priorities and
are of good or satisfactory quality. Consequently, poor communities are willing to share
the costs of investments, and to operate and maintain them. Multiplier effects on local
economies are evident and early signs indicate that migration has slowed. Communities
with project-funded investments recovered faster from the 1993 drought and used their
land more intensively. In the poorest municipalities in all three states, PAC and FVMAC
were the main, and often the only source of funding for rural infrastructure, productive
and social investments.
33.    Support for Community Empowerment. The three states intensified efforts in
the final year to train and mobilize municipalities and community associations, specifically
to incorporate them into the FUMAC program which stresses participation, transparency,
and local control over decision-making and subproject implementation. Without doubt,
participation in the reformulated projects has had sustainable political effects. The
FUMAC municipal councils are a viable means of empowering the rural poor. The now
numerous community associations congregate many voters - a fact not lost on the political
community. Further, the State Technical Units have developed standard designs for a
broad range of subprojects to simplify preparation, and established technical and cost
standards to foster quality and sustainability.
34.   Involvement of State Governments in the Program. The projects have
attracted strong political support from the States and municipalities. They are valued as a
supplementary resource (and possibly the only assured one) for investment in basic
community needs; as representing potential, significant cost-savings (on average, 30%-
40%) on infrastructure and water supply normally installed exclusively by public agencies;
and, as generating tax revenue for State and Municipal governments from the marketing of
productive outputs.22 Further, they have prompted more rapid and efficient provision of
services by the state project units and participating public enterprises, e.g., electricity and
21     Brazil: Northeast Rural Development Program - Performance and Evaluation, World Bank/FAO,
March 14, 1996 and April 1997 (Draft).
22.    For example, the 47 manioc mill subprojects financed in Pernambuco as of mid-1 996 are
estimated to generate about US$63,000 in tax revenues per year. Similarly, the 282 communal
tractor subprojects financed in Minas Gerais by end-1997 are estimated to generate, through sales
of surplus agricultural product, about US$1.2 million per year.



- 11 -
water (services commonly requested by communities), in response to newly-demanding
and cost-conscious communities. State governments have generally provided counterpart
funds more promptly, accelerating disbursements -- a dramatic break from past
performance -- and municipalities have been willing (and urged) to share the counterpart
funding burden with the States, seeking in return greater accountability and cost-
effectiveness from state governments.23
The Implementation Record
35.   State Performance Prior to Reformulation. Major policy changes and economic
uncertainties prior to 1993 created a climate in which these projects could not be
implemented as originally planned. Several critical factors had an adverse impact on the
projects in all three states. First, rising fiscal deficits and macro-economic distortions
severely limited Federal capacity to invest and to provide counterpart funding for the
projects, and caused the deterioration of public agencies responsible for project investment
and services delivery. Meanwhile, coordination between the numerous public agencies
responsible for implementation, especially with irregular funding, was (as always) difficult
to achieve, and too high a proportion of project funds supported recurrent expenditures.
36.   Second, significant changes in the political economy of Brazil embodied in the new
Federal Constitution of 1988 saw power and fiscal resources shift from the Federal level
to the states and localities, which further impaired the Federal Government's ability (and
willingness) to fund many existing programs. However, the design of project decision-
making, administrative and financing arrangements, which largely pre-dated these changes,
remained centralized at the Federal level, and the provision of services continued to rest
with public agencies when support was shifting towards a greater role for the private
sector. As part of the overall process of change, successive reforms abolished key Federal
agencies, contributing to the uncertainties delaying implementation
37.   Third, liberalization of agricultural marketing and trade policies resulted in record
harvests and the perception that agriculture was resilient to the unfavorable macro-
economic context, causing longer-term sectoral programs such as land reform and rural
development to lose priority in funding decisions. However, policy-makers were forced to
re-examine this stance when continued instability caused a marked decline in the sector
from 1990. Further, the failure of most component programs of Projeto Nordeste to
materialize focused attention on the NRDP as the pivotal poverty alleviation strategy,
creating unrealistic expectations and criticism of its design and implementation.
38.   Beneficiary participation, an innovative feature of NRDP project design and
philosophy, was steadily eroded as executing agencies, confronting increasingly erratic
funding for these projects, were reluctant to engage in participatory planning. Investments
frequently deviated from beneficiary priorities, and thus neither the beneficiaries nor the
states felt much sense of ownership or obligation to maintain them. Multiple components
23    World Bank Policy Research Paper No 1498, August 1995



- 12 -
tended to serve different target groups without being mutually reinforcing, scattering
resources and impact, while measures to foil the access of large farmers to project benefits
were ineffective. 24
39.   The Mid-Term Review of 1991 revealed that the implementation performance
among projects varied less than among project components, i.e., in addition to major
themes affecting all the projects, component-specific problems were important
contributing factors in the delays experienced Program-wide.25 These included: the
states' limited capacity to plan and implement irrigation development ventures;
institutional problems in agricultural extension; and virtual paralysis of the agricultural
credit program in each state. Performance problems relating to the choice of investments
and their sustainability were also experienced in irrigation, water supply and in the APCR
component. Finally, the complementary land tenure improvement program fell short of its
targets in most states, including the three states reviewed because of continuing
institutional and policy struggles, and this hindered rational planning and implementation
under the NRDP projects. Results of individual state project implementation up to
reformulation are contained in Table 5A.
40.   The APCR Component. The APCR component (and its related water supply
component) supporting small community investments based on community planning,
organization and out-sourcing of needed technical expertise, became the leading edge of
the NRDP in each state. Still evolving -- including through the piloting of more
progressive measures -- and by no means trouble-free, the APCR acknowledged the
expressed needs of the communities, its poverty alleviation impact was positive, the cost
per family relatively low, and disbursement and commitment rates far exceeded those of
other components. The project record conveys the relative dynamism of this component
from Program start-up.
41.   Such was not the case with components which relied heavily on public sector
implementation -- extension, credit, research and irrigation schemes. These showed the
worst delays, notwithstanding considerable variation state to state based on local
circumstances. A high proportion of their resources financed recurrent costs, and their
poverty impact was slight. Project administration by the Federal Government and the
states continued, as in previous programs, to absorb about 70% of loan funds relative to
actual investments.
42.   State Performance Since Reformulation. NRDP disbursements accelerated
following reformulation. The release of Loan funds by the Federal Government was
intermittently delayed, but the situation improved markedly from mid-1995 after new state
24    Memorandum, May 28, 1993.
25    Regional activities were controlled by Federal agencies as follows: production-oriented research
(EMBRAPA and CPATSA); overall policy and planning responsibility and regional coordination
of the NRDP (SUDENE); and land-related actions, under a separate, complementary project
(INCRA).



- 13 -
governments addressed the administrative and political constraints responsible. Of the
total municipalities slated for inclusion in each state, Minas Gerais reached 100% (61),
Pernambuco reached 96% (167) and Piaui reached 100% (123). As stated, beneficiary
coverage under the reformulated projects in all three states vastly exceeded targets.
43.   Initial promotional campaigns by the TUs, which varied from state to state in
content and coverage, generated a tremendous response by the communities, presenting a
challenge for the limited cohort of technical agents in each state. Once subproject
proposals were approved, completion averaged about four months. Lags in all three states
between approval and completion derived mainly from TUs not having loan and
counterpart funds immediately available to transfer to the communities, although political
and other considerations in individual states did contribute.
44.   Typically, communities demanded water and electricity investments first,
subsequently choosing productive and other investments (which surged in 1995). The
diversity of subprojects demanded -- about 120 different types whose relative importance
varied state to state - is a graphic reminder of rural deprivation. Certain kinds
predominated: (i) in infrastructure -- rural water supply and electrification (the latter
comprising 48% of all subprojects in Minas Gerais, 40% in Pernambuco, and 18% in
Piaui); (ii) in productive -- tractors for communal use, manioc flour mills, small-scale
irrigation and clothes-making; and (iii) among social subprojects -- health-related house
improvement (quite significant at 9% in Piaui and 8% in Pernambuco), sanitation (4% in
Pernambuco) and local road rehabilitation (a significant type in Piaui, accounting for
11%).
45.   Community demand for specific types of subprojects was influenced in several
ways, depending on the state and the period. In the period immediately following
reformulation and less so as the projects evolved, elected state and municipal officials
acted as intermediaries between the communities and state project units. Many mayors for
example, promoted the creation of associations to present proposals which were
essentially municipal initiatives. In some cases, the resulting subprojects did not reflect
true community priorities and certainly the participatory, organizational element was weak
in these cases. Clearly the acceptance of both the concept and practice of community-
based development is an evolutionary process, not afait accompli from the moment of its
introduction.
46.   Evaluations suggest that communities' inability to influence the process stemmed
from having inadequate information about the process itself and eligible subprojects.
Information campaigns were sometimes less effective than direct communication between
political leaders (who tended to hear about the projects first), and the communities. In
Pernambuco, demand was initially heavily slanted towards a narrow range of subprojects,
-- mainly tractors and housing improvements -- due to inadequate information campaigns
and the intervention of local politicians and commercial intermediaries offering services for
subproject identification and preparation without adequate beneficiary participation. Piaui
encountered similar problems. Bank intervention sought to promote information



- 14 -
campaigns, upgrade TU supervision capacity, and introduce greater rigor into subproject
technical, economic and financial standards, and community cost-sharing and maintenance.
47.    Alternatively, the choice of subprojects might be skewed by state policies favoring
certain investments, e.g., rural electrification subprojects in all three states, as a critical
pre-requisite for economic and social activity and/or because state counterpart funding for
these investments was readily available from the local public supplier. Even in cases
where the influence was clearly political, the participation of mayors and elected officials
could be a positive development and important for the sustainability of decentralized
implementation. The main issue boils down to the need to curb breakdowns in
transparency which can lead to negative political influence.26 Measures were taken during
project implementation to improve information availability and dissemination, and this is
being stressed in the new Rural Poverty Alleviation Projects.27
48.    The average cost of subprojects, both PAC and FUMAC, significantly exceeded
the ten-state average in most commonly-requested subproject types in Pernambuco and
Minas Gerais, and was considerably lower than or matched the regional average in over
half of the types, in Piaui (see Part II, Table 14). There were sharp variations between the
three states in the cost of some similar investments due to differences in design and
technical specifications. In Piaui, a manioc flour mill cost around US$6,000, and in
Pernambuco and Minas Gerais, US$24,000 and US$28,000 respectively; similarly, a
simplified water supply system cost US$17,000 in Piaui, US$29,000 in Pernambuco and
about US$28,000 in Minas Gerais. Costs were about the same in all three states for
tractors (about US$3 1,000), while costs for house improvement in Piaui (US$3 1,000)
exceeded Pernambuco and were somewhat lower than Minas Gerais. Individual state
performance is discussed below.
49.   Pernambuco. The performance of Pernambuco improved substantially after
reformulation despite initial difficulties related to the provision of state counterpart and
federal loan funds, political interference in project implementation, and deficiencies in the
TU's ability to monitor, supervise and control the project in the field. Delayed
dissemination of information about the program through publicity campaigns provided the
opportunity for political and commercial manipulation of community choices, skewing
choice towards certain kinds of investments, e.g. housing improvements and tractors.
Bank missions assisted the project to establish strict technical, economic and financial
parameters for the analysis of community proposals especially for tractors, whose
sustainability had not been attended to in the early rush to acquire them. A new State
administration in 1995, with assistance from the Bank, was able to surmount these
26.    Memorandum, April 9, 1996 and MIT evaluation.
27     Other influences on communities' selections included observing which subprojects in
neighboring communities tended to get approval; and the apparent biases of technicians in the
TU. Such biases might result from perceived lack of sustainability, e.g. earlier tractor
subprojects, or the belief that certain social subprojects might be better served under alternative,
targeted programs, thus conserving opportunities for investments directly related to income
generation.



- 15 -
problems and the project achieved its development objectives. At the time of
reformulation, Pernambuco had disbursed about US$47.0 million of the original loan
amount of US$92.0 million. The Federal Government requested a partial cancellation of
US$20.0 million in December 1994. The annual rate of disbursement after 1994 exceeded
US$9.0 million. Final disbursement amounted to US$72.0 million, and (net of the
cancellation) the Loan was fully-disbursed.
50.   The project financed about 1,240 subprojects of which 1,073 were PAC (86%)
and 164 were FUMAC (14%), benefiting some 135,860 poor rural families (about 24% of
poor rural families state-wide) in 161 municipalities (96% of the total). Beneficiaries
greatly exceeded estimates at both appraisal and reformulation. Of the subprojects
implemented, 55% represented small rural infrastructure, 37% were productive ventures
and social investments accounted for 8%. Investments totaled US$30.0 million and
averaged about US$220.0 per beneficiary family. Beneficiary contributions totaled
US$3.0 million. The combined impact has been a significant, measurable and visible
improvement in quality of life and well-being, income and employment opportunities, as
detailed below.
51.   Subproject Investments. Six types of subprojects accounted for about 70% of
all subprojects chosen by community associations in Pernambuco and delivered important
benefits to a large number of families: (i) the 120 rural water supply investments are
saving time, effort and cost for about 23,000 families, and improving family health by
reducing the incidence of the serious, waterborne diseases endemic to the Northeast; (ii)
rural electrification is seen by both state and local governments and beneficiaries as the
route to economic and social betterment and Pernambuco was no exception; well over
30,000 families benefited from about 480 subprojects; (iii) communal tractors have many
benefits: creating jobs, increasing area cultivated, production and yields, improving farm
income and providing transport. Some 9,400 families benefited from 150 tractor
subprojects which inter alia, created about 3,400 jobs, increased incomes by about
US$320 per family/year and increased farm area cropped by an average of about 3.5 ha
per beneficiary family; (iv) some 47 manioc flour mills (casas defarinha) benefited about
2,400 families, generated incremental incomes of around US$270 per family/year,
additional jobs and increased the farm area cultivated by almost one hectare per family; (v)
demand is rising in Pernambuco and other states for small, communal irrigation schemes
to produce high value fruit and vegetable crops. Income is expected to rise some
US$1,300 per year for the 2,500 families who benefited from the 30 such subprojects
implemented in Pernambuco; and (vi) the health of some 8,800 rural families living in
precarious, unhygienic dwellings is improving as a result of the 85 house improvement
subprojects implemented under NRDP 28
52.   Minas Gerais. The Minas Gerais project, concentrated in the Northern part of the
state, was successfully implemented and achieved its development objectives. Factors
contributing to this outcome included: (i) continuous supervision and monitoring by the
28    Performance Evaluation of the NRDP - Pernambuco (World Bank/FAO, 1996)



- 16 -
project TU, SUDENOR; the provision of organizational and technical assistance to the
project by the exceptionally competent EMATER-MG which has been more supportive
and successful than in most other states (with some exceptions including Alagoas) in
contributing to income-generating productive subprojects; (ii) widespread, favorable
community and municipal acceptance of the project; and (iii) State commitment and
adherence to project objectives, guidelines and procedures. Community associations in
Minas Gerais are generally well organized with many dating back to the mid-1980s, and
support for subproject O&M is strong. In the final year, SUDENOR, collaborating with
IICA Technical Assistance, carried out training, administrative organization and
implementation of 110 pilot projects in areas of extreme rural poverty in the Northeastern
part of the state. These regions -- the Jequitinhonha, Mucufi and Rio Doce valleys --, not
included at the time of reformulation, were incorporated into the project area in the final
year. The state is proposing their inclusion as well in new lending under the RPAP.
53.   FUMAC in Minas Gerais. The state's experience with FUMAC was
unremarkable. Some 18 FUMAC Councils were established, most of which functioned
normally. The only deficits related to councils not providing adequate technical assistance
to the associations for subproject monitoring and execution, and the need for greater
information dissemination in the municipalities on the FUMAC strategy. These issues
were resolved satisfactorily.
54.   At reformulation, the project had disbursed only US$11.2 million of the original
NRDP loan amount of US$55.0 million, (Part II, Table 12). Starting tentatively in 1994
(in part due to the disruptive effects of elections and their aftermath), disbursements
iticreased sharply in 1995 and 1996, with final disbursement amounting to US$50.3
million. Cancellation of US$4.7 million was pending at the time of ICR preparation.
55.   The project financed 1,840 subprojects -- about 740 above the reformulation target
-- of which some 1,220 were PAC and the balance FUMAC (34% of all approvals),
benefiting 114,225 poor rural families in 79 municipalities (about 40% of poor rural
families in the north of the state) and greatly exceeding targets established at appraisal and
reformulation. Of these subprojects, 68% were for infrastructure, 24% for productive
investments and 8% for social priorities. Investments totaled US$56.6 million, or around
US$496 per beneficiary family. Beneficiary contributions in labor, cash or materials
amounted to almost US$6.0 million. Family income, employment and general well-being
improved significantly.
56.    Subproject Investments. Seven types of investments accounted for over 80% of
subprojects selected by communities and financed, in Minas Gerais: (i) given the high
proportion of families in the Northern region not connected to main power lines, and the
availability of counterpart funding from CEMIG, the state electricity company, the
demand for and approval of rural electrification investments was tremendous.29 Some
878 subprojects benefited houses, schools, commercial activity and the continuous
29.    But, due to the geographical dispersion of rural communities in the project area, the cost of this
type of investment, averaging US$32,000 per subproject, was higher than in other states.



- 17 -
pumping of water for over 27,000 families, which are charged a minimum fee averaging
US$3.50 per month; (ii) the 12,500 beneficiary families in Minas Gerais view their 225
rural water supply investments as reducing outmigration and improving rural health, in
addition to saving the time and labor expended, usually by women, on carrying water over
considerable distances; (iii) the 282 communal tractor investments have boosted annual
family incomes by an estimated US$340 by creating some 5,500 jobs (including increased
farm labor) and augmenting the cultivated area by almost 30,000 ha (averaging 1.6 ha per
family); (iv) some 29 new manioc mills (additional to the many financed under the APCR)
are benefiting 1,440 families with incremental income of US$350 per year, about 860 new
jobs including on-farm, and total incremental crop area of 345 ha.; (v) some 45 small-
scale irrigation subprojects for subsistence and high-value cropping are benefiting about
1,300 farm families; evidence suggests that greater technical input and marketing
intelligence would permit small farmers to maximize benefits from these investments, (vi)
improved living conditions and family health have resulted from the 70 house
improvement subprojects, benefiting over 2,400 families; and (vii) rural school
rehabilitation (basic infrastructure, school materials and a one-time contribution to
teachers' salaries) is an especially successful investment in Minas Gerais, resulting in
sharply increased attainment, reduced drop-out rates and school transfers. About 2,500
families benefited from 17 subprojects at the low cost of about US$160 per family.
57.   Piaui. The second phase of project implementation showed major improvement
over the initial pre-1993 phase which encountered most of the same problems affecting the
entire NRDP. However, following reformulation, the project suffered up to its final year
from inadequate beneficiary participation and lack of transparency, much of which
stemmed from the performance of the TU, including faulty information dissemination
about program content and guidelines. Serious flaws in NRDP performance were
detected by the Bank and FAO during its evaluation of state performance in late 1995: (i)
institutional problems, compounded by personal conflicts between the TU and SEPLAN-
PI; (ii) local political interference and poor beneficiary participation -- (although ironically,
political abuses tended to stem from municipalities which contributed heavily to
counterpart funds in the absence of state resources); (iii) insufficient technical assistance
and lack of field supervision -- problems quite common to all ten state projects; and (iv)
instances of subproject over-design and mistargeting. The Bank responded by
recommending to the State Government an Emergency Work Plan, which was successfully
undertaken and demonstrated significant impact within several months through better
technical assistance, rigorous subproject appraisal and monitoring, and judicial action in
the cases of abuse. The state is currently finalizing requirements for the effectiveness of a
new project under the RPAP, approved by the Board in December 1996. To increase
transparency in the implementation of the new RPAP, all subproject proposals are
ultimately approved by a State Council.
58.   At the time of reformulation, Piaui had disbursed US$30.5 million of its original
Loan of US$78.0 million. The Federal Government requested a partial cancellation of
US$25.0 million in December 1994. The annual rate of disbursement thereafter exceeded
US$10.0 million. Final disbursement amounted to US$53.0 million and (net of



- 18 -
cancellation) the Loan was fully-disbursed.
59.   About 1,650 subprojects were financed by the project (450 above the
reformulation target) of which 1,480 were PAC (90%) and 170 (10%) were FUMAC,
benefiting some 196,000 families in 1,233 communities (about half of all poor rural
families in the state). Of the investments executed, infrastructure absorbed 68%,
productive were 20% and social priorities took up 12%, the highest share for social
subprojects in the NRDP. Investments totaled US$27.4 million or US$146 per beneficiary
family.
60.   Subproject Investments. Three main types of infrastructure subprojects (water
supply, rural electrification and local road rehabilitation) accounted for two-thirds of
subprojects executed in Piaui. Productive subprojects were relatively few and at the time
of their evaluation by the Bank/FAO team, had been operational for too little time to
produce measurable impact. Based on available information, impact was assessed as
follows: (i) water supply subprojects mostly involved the digging of wells to take
advantage of Piaui's extensive, good quality groundwater reserves. An estimated 34,700
families benefited from the 509 subprojects of this type; (ii) some 24,700 families
improved living standards and economic opportunities through 343 rural electrification
investments; (iii) shortage of public funds for infrastructure works in Piaui including rural
road rehabilitation accounted for the strong demand for this type of investment.
Communities contributed with labor, usually complemented by some financial contribution
from the mayors. About 30,000 rural families benefited form 164 road subprojects; (iv)
clothes-making ventures with mostly female participation, benefited about 780 families
through the creation of 750 jobs which are estimated to generate additional annual income
of US$100 per beneficiary; (v) improved living conditions and health status for 5,600
families have resulted from the 70 house improvement subprojects. Some abuses of
these investments (unjustified inclusion of certain houses in the rehabilitation group) came
to light but appropriate measures were taken; and (vi) while relatively unusual among
other states, rural health posts were frequently requested in Piaui. Financing of the civil
works by the NRDP was complemented by the municipalities providing for medicines,
supplies and health post operations. An estimated 940 families benefited from eight such
investments.
Use of Consultants
61.   All three states depended at different times and for varying purposes, on consultant
services. In the initial years, UNDP was contracted by SUDENE to provide TA to the
states for training and planning, through a core group of consultants stationed within that
agency. These contracts ended in 1990 and were not renewed. While the quality of
service provided was satisfactory, it did not equip SUDENE institutionally to deliver the
same services without UNDP assistance. Although contracted personnel were capable,
they did not leave behind a body of trained permanent staff. The follow-up contract with



- 19 -
IICA, again signed with SUDENE, stationed the consultants in each participating state.30
Prior to the reformulation, almost all of these consultancies were associated with the
Water Resources component in which consultant expertise was a key factor; few, if any,
worked on community organization, mobilization or other activities. The quality of
consultant services in this second phase was good or satisfactory.
62.   At reformulation, the umbrella IICA contract was replaced by individual
IICA/state contracts. The new project design required a dramatic change in the content of
technical assistance, away from water resources toward demand-driven, highly-
decentralized projects. This transition occurred in all three states with some variations in
pace and in the sourcing of expertise. Among the three states, SUDENOR (the Minas
Gerais TU) made little use of IICA until the final year, contracting almost exclusively with
EMATER-MG. Piaui employed their services intensively. Foreign-sourced IICA
consultants were highly effective in training personnel including community leaders, in
mobilizing and training community associations, carrying out studies, establishing
information systems and bolstering the TU. In Pernambuco, the TU maintained a quasi-
permanent IICA advisor, as well as nationally-sourced consultants.
Project Sustainability and Future Operations
63.   Sustainability. Final supervision missions worked with each state to ensure that
decentralization and participation were deepened and expanded. State campaigns sought
to mobilize communities, disseminate information on the program, promote the formation
of project Municipal Councils and expand FUMAC (including paving the way for the
FUMAC-P approach) and to prepare standard subproject designs. Bank/FAO evaluations
found that beneficiary communities had a strong proprietary interest in their investments
from having selected and implemented them, and contributed to their cost. Their potential
sustainability appears good. In the three states reviewed, and in other states under the
Program, many water supply subprojects initiated under the APCR are still well-
maintained with secure communal arrangements for cost-recovery. Beneficiaries readily
commit to the operation and maintenance of their investments through up-front signature
of legally-binding agreements, while many associations have accumulated substantial
reserve funds to cover maintenance costs.31
64.   Nevertheless, the sustainability of some productive subprojects executed
immediately following reformulation is uncertain (e.g., clothes-making, bakeries, fruit
processing). Contributing factors included inadequate technical and managerial know-
how, competition from large firms, the lack of organizational skills to market production
and the limited commercial potential of some products such as manioc. Lack of
beneficiary participation and inadequate supervision and TA were also factors.
30    Sergipe was the exception among the 10 states, contracting with FAO.
31    Brazil: Northeast Rural Development Program - Performance and Evaluation, World Bank/FAO,
March 14, 1996 and April 1997 (Draft).



- 20 -
Corrections were introduced including technical assistance throughout the subproject
cycle, and the new RPAP includes specific remedies for these deficiencies.
65.   Plans for Future Operations. The three states were not legally required to
prepare plans for future operations and no formal plans were prepared. The same is true
for monitoring future operations of the projects. Nevertheless, prospects for maximizing
project benefits appear good. The States and their Governors are supporting policies and
actions which stress decentralized decision-making and management. Communities are
signing O&M agreements and are setting up reserve funds, evidence of intent to honor
these arrangements. Further, ex-post evaluation studies such as those already done in
1995, 1996 and 1997 are an important tool for monitoring the operational phase of
subprojects and for determining whether things were done well.
Bank Performance
66.   The Bank has sought for several decades to improve the outcome and impact of
rural poverty programs in the Northeast. Until 1993 however, many design and
administrative problems and the macro-economic and fiscal context limited their potential.
Preparation and appraisal of the original projects showed a thoughtful attempt to innovate
and counter risk, but the framework, concept and mechanisms remained fairly traditional,
the macro-economic and policy context was not given enough attention, and undue faith
was placed in the Federal Government's commitment to the Program and willingness to
find the funds, regardless of the economic circumstances. Chronic shortages of
counterpart funds are usually indicative of deficient commitment to project objectives or
that the project exceeds fiscal capacity. Realistically, however, the Bank would have been
clairvoyant to foresee the nature of certain pivotal events which had such a powerful
impact on these projects, especially after 1988. Appraisal, on balance, was satisfactory,
subject to certain caveats: lending pressures in the mid-i 980s played a role; and evidence
suggests the Bank accepted somewhat uncritically the capacities of institutions to carry
out the projects, although it is also true that key federal agencies possessed considerable
technical capacity.
67.   The Bank's choice following the Mid-Term assessment was essentially to cancel
these projects or try to improve their impact and cost-effectiveness, a protracted dialogue
and design process which culminated in stripping away the IRD components, to focus fully
on a new mechanism and make it work. The period which elapsed prior to definitive
reformulation - seven years from effectiveness, is problematic. There was no mechanism
in the Bank for coming to quick closure on reformulation and no indications that either the
Bank or Borrower sensed any great urgency or had established a time frame for action.
This would be unlikely to occur in the "implementation culture" of today's Bank.
68.   There are indications that supervision timing was irregular, and the supervision
record itself, both in the Bank and in Recife, is inconsistent. The main reason is that from
1989 onwards, these projects entered their period of poorest performance marked by an
acute lack of counterpart funds and institutional disarray. Increasing amounts of time
were spent by Bank and especially the Recife Office staff visiting all ten northeast states to



- 21 -
devise an acceptable reformulation package, as opposed to carrying out formal
supervision. This process was attenuated by the undertaking of a second phase of
reformulation. Throughout this period, frequent informal contact was maintained with all
ten states and particularly their TUs, largely substituting for formal supervision.
69.   There is no doubt that timeliness -- the meshing of project design with the
changing political economy and national sentiment-- was a central factor in the successful
outcome of the reformulated projects, and this is a key lesson. Through the community-
based development model, the Bank made a major technical contribution to Brazil based
on its own experience; launched a more democratic process of rural poverty alleviation.
Perhaps more important, however, as stated in the Bank/FAO evaluations, the main
achievement of the reformulated projects has been to support the decentralized allocation
of resources and the creation of social capital in the rural Northeast. Obviously, the
dramatic shift did not imply that the rural poor no longer needed credit, extension and
other services or that smallholder agricultural production had lost currency. Indeed,
having gained confidence in the capacity of the community-based investment mechanism
to satisfy a range of basic needs, the Bank is now addressing several critically important
subsectors in the Northeast: market-based land reform, integrated water management, and
rural financial market development.
70.   Nor did the shift away from the traditional multi-component project implemented
by different public institutions mean that the Bank was inter alia, abandoning its
traditional commitment to upgrade those agencies. While an objective of the new model
certainly was to ensure that the bulk of project funds reached beneficiaries instead of being
absorbed by institutional overheads, as occurred pre-reformulation, separate projects were
already addressing the institutional needs of the state extension agencies (EMATER) and
the federal research agency EMBRAPA.32 Of central importance, decentralization of
development activity to the local level and the direct involvement of beneficiaries has
changed the traditional order -- it is now the municipalities and associations themselves
who contract suppliers of services, which might be public or private entities depending on
cost and other considerations, to assist them throughout the subproject cycle.
71.   The World Bank Recife Office has been fundamental to the implementation and
supervision of the reformulated NRDP projects. The Recife Office, established in 1974,
has three task managers dedicated exclusively to working with the Northeastern states,
handling all supervision activities including procurement reviews and field visits. In this
manner, Bank support has been better tailored to the decentralized structure of the
reformulated Program. The Recife Office also updates and manages a global database, the
Simplified Project Monitoring System (SSMIP), which provides detailed information on
these projects and serves as a monitoring tool both for the Bank and for the individual
state TUs.
32    Agricultural Extension 11 Project and the Third Agricultural Research Project.



- 22 -
Borrower Performance
72.   Economic, fiscal and political factors which boiled over in the latter part of the
1 980s steadily sapped the commitment of the Federal Government (as Borrower) to these
projects, reflected in the erratic and disruptive counterpart funding situation. In the post-
reformulation phase, with counterpart funding responsibilities transferred to the states, the
Federal government periodically delayed the release of loan funds and/or advances of
Federal (Treasury) funds to them, sometimes for political reasons, more often to promote
financial discipline in state performance including submission by the states of adequate
financial and technical documentation to support federal releases. In some instances and
especially in the period after reformulation when political interference associated with
general elections played a role, the states delayed counterpart funding or released funds in
installments even though federal Loan funds were available, e.g., in Minas Gerais and
Pernambuco. Bureaucratic hurdles and the weakening fiscal situation of the states were
also factors. Increased municipal and/or parastatal involvement in sharing counterpart
funding responsibility (especially the state electricity companies -- CEMIG in Minas Gerais
and CELPE in Pernambuco) resolved or improved this situation. Overall and especially
after 1994, the willingness of Federal, State and Municipal Governments to support a
radically new approach to rural poverty alleviation was instrumental in the success of the
reformulated projects.
73.   SUDENE performed well in several key areas: control over the use of Federal
funds; maintaining steadiness and regional uniformity in program strategy and objectives;
technical assistance (TA) for training; the provision of specialist consultants; and
continuous state and regional monitoring. However, SUDENE's overall ability to guide
and supervise was weak and its operational rigidity, stemming from excessively
bureaucratic systems and regulations, curbed the intended flexibility of the Program.
While TA had some successes in individual states, SUDENE itself absorbed little benefit
institutionally. SUDENE was overstaffed, but lacked sufficient trained personnel for its
role, which was sharply reduced under the reformulation as many of its responsibilities
devolved to the states. SUDENE's performance post-reformulation was satisfactory, and
it produced an insightful, timely Completion Report on behalf of the Federal Government.
74.   Technical Units. The role of the Technical Units was central to the success of
these projects. Pre-reformulation, in line with the large number of project components
and executing agencies, the TUs retained on average about 60-90 professionals and a large
contingent of support staff. The relative efficiency of the TUs depended on the availability
of qualified people, the material and financial deficiencies affecting their operations, and
the degree of administrative and financial independence from their parent State
Secretariats. All three TUs received TA for institutional development, contracted mostly
from international organizations. While legally and administratively strong, the units
lacked the political and fiscal power to influence the state implementing agencies,
particularly when fiscal circumstances prevented them from honoring their funding
commitments to these agencies. Their role often devolved to drafting annual operating
plans, channeling funds to the agencies, and tracking expenditures and physical
implementation.



- 23 -
75.   In the immediate post-reformulation phase, while their numbers were reduced to
average about 40-50 experienced professionals, their inadequate field presence and
tendency (with some exceptions) to be concentrated in the state capital taxed their ability
to process a large number of subproject proposals, and provide TA and supervision. The
role of the state EMATERs in bolstering the technical capacity of the TUs was, with the
exception of Minas Gerais, quite weak and often limited to individual extensionists willing
to assist associations at the local level. EMATER involvement evaporated in most states
after reformulation, in part because the project no longer funded salaries and expenses
related to extension services and the EMATERs felt little obligation to continue
supporting the projects. However, in the final year, the EMATERs in Pernambuco and
Piaui established firmer contacts with the TUs in order to boost assistance.
76.   In the immediate post-reformulation period, there was a tendency for TUs to
assume responsibility for important steps of the subproject planning and implementation
cycle. This tended to inhibit community participation, but it could also be a valuable
means of launching the subproject identification, selection and approval process in the
absence of community leaders or NGOs;3 of enhancing work content; and of substituting
for non-performing agencies. The results of this intervention were in some instances,
quite successful. An assessment of the Technical Unit in each state, follows.
77.   Pernambuco. The project TU (PRORURAL) was attached to SEPLAN-PE and
had four regional, relatively efficient field offices. However, in the early period following
reformulation some 60% of the TU's portfolio of subprojects was found to comprise only
3 types of subprojects (housing improvement, farm tractors and electricity), a fact
attributed to the TU's delayed execution of the required publicity campaign which limited
or skewed communities' understanding of the project and permitted the intermediation of
private firms in community decision-making. Deficient field supervision and control
capacity also contributed. The TU also tended to release funds to the associations for
approved subprojects in installments, in part because the State's release of resources to the
TU itself was erratic. The TU was not entirely successful in avoiding political interference
in the project during the election season of 1994 and its relationship with its parent
SEPLAN-PE was unsatisfactory. The new TU which assumed office in 1995 was
hampered by auditing, administrative and technical problems left over by the outgoing
unit, but succeeded in greatly improving the pace of subproject approval and
implementation and in overcoming field supervision and technical assistance problems to
achieve a satisfactory outcome for the project.
78.   Piaui. The Piaui TU was quite small, with only 56 technicians and support staff
working at headquarters and in the field. Its close links to both the Secretary of Planning
and the Governor hampered its operations, unlike its two counterparts which reported
only to SEPLAN and had a measure of real autonomy. The unit was physically
decentralized but in practice its regional offices were largely inactive, which affected its
ability to monitor and supervise the project. The provision of TA and training to
33    Comments on draft ICR by Sergipe State Technical Unit, PRONESE, October 2, 1996.



- 24 -
beneficiary communities was deficient in many respects because its field presence was
minimal and it had not accredited other TA providers. Performance by the state
EMATER in supplementing the TU's efforts was poor because of inadequate
understanding of the project mechanism, or of the unit's own technical responsibilities in
the field, and lack of funding by the state. The TU encountered serious institutional
problems and excessive political interference between mid-1995 and -1996, which
required decisive Bank intervention to stabilize and improve its management of the
project, adherence to project guidelines and control over field activities, including through
restructuring of the TU and replacement of its Coordinator. The technical and managerial
standard of the TU was raised substantially, performance improved and the Loan
disbursed fully.
79.   Minas Gerais. Project coordination by the TU (SUDENOR) was initially
constrained by the distance between its headquarters in the capital (Belo Horizonte) and
the project area in the northern zone where it now maintains a regional office (Montes
Claros) and three small field offices. Nevertheless, the project was able to maintain a
vigorous pace of subproject processing and execution. The unit also established monetary
incentives for TU teams to promote quality and quantity in subproject proposals prepared
and implemented. Political interference in SUDENOR was negligible. Politicians sought
contact with the TU in order to assist their communities, gathering information on their
behalf or trying to speed up subproject processing, but virtually always adhering to project
guidelines and principles. The TU professionals displayed a good knowledge of local
communities, complemented by a highly effective contractual arrangement with the state
EMATER for the provision of technical assistance (unremunerated) to those communities.
Municipal contributions of budget resources to maintain EMATER offices in their
localities made this possible. Further, EMATER management understood that the project
emanated from the State Government and that it was their obligation to participate.
SUDENOR also collaborated effectively with other state agencies involved in subproject
execution: CEMIG (electricity); COPASA (water); [NCRA (agrarian reform settlements
in the project area); and COHAB (housing). Only in the final year did SUDENOR turn to
other sources of TA, especially IICA. Experiencing problems in the field as a result of
inadequate salaries, per diems and vehicles, SUDENOR successfully secured greater
support from the State Government. It also effectively restructured its operations, trained
its personnel and established several more field offices in new areas incorporated in the
project area in the final year of the NRDP and proposed for inclusion in a follow-on
project. However, the TU might have done more to reduce the costs of frequently-
demanded subprojects -- costs were higher for many types of subprojects in Minas Gerais,
relative to other states.
80.   State Secretariats of Agriculture (SSA) controlled the NRDP up to reformulation.
The original NRDP was a secure and timely source of funding for their extension,
research, marketing services and irrigation agencies, but this disappeared in 1993. The re-
designed NRDP left no room for their direct participation, and in any case assisted poor
rural communities, not only small farmers. It also transferred to communities the choice
and implementation of their own subprojects, including contracting TA, which in the case
of several states is provided by EMATER -- an agency of SSA -- but contracted locally by



- 25 -
the communities. There was (and remains) no objective reason for SSA involvement in
the program.
81.   Procurement. Pre-reformulation procurement progressed smoothly in Minas
Gerais and Pernambuco. Activities requiring bidding were largely restricted to studies for
and implementation of irrigation subprojects, which were fairly minimal in both states. In
Piaui, bidding was required for construction of the Piracuruca dam. The process was
straightforward, but during implementation costs escalated, requiring additions to the
original contract but final construction, supervised by group of consultants, was trouble-
free, including the resettlement of families moved due to inundation of lands. Also in
Piaui, seven small irrigation subprojects encountered bidding problems and one contract
was canceled at the request of the Bank.
82.   Post-reformulation procurement, in which small-scale contracts predominated,
progressed smoothly in all three states. Community associations proved adept, with little
or no assistance, at obtaining the best deal for project funds. Supervision missions did not
encounter any significant problems or anomalous situations involving procurement.
Neither the Technical Units nor the beneficiary associations had significant problems
interpreting Bank procurement guidelines. Small-scale, direct shopping and contracting
for goods and services by beneficiaries proved to be efficient - because associations
obtained their needs more cheaply for the same quality, than those procured by public
entities (federal, state and municipal) - and monitorable.
83.   Acquisitions were generally made directly by the associations. An agreement was
signed between the state (TU) and the association through which funds were transferred
to the association, which proceeded to acquire needed goods and services. The option
existed in a few cases, however, of tripartite agreements between the TU, association and
municipal government (MG): approval of a community subproject was followed by
signature of a tripartite agreement under which the association asked the MG to acquire
goods and services on its behalf; the TU released the funds to the municipality, which
purchased the goods and/or services and transferred them to the association. Associations
using this method -- mostly in Minas Gerais and Piaui, and only when the Mayors shared
the state counterpart obligation (excluding the association contribution) -- lost the
opportunity to be more deeply involved in their own subprojects, to learn how to handle
procurement themselves, and to capture the cost savings from purchasing on their own
account at lower prices.
84.   Audits. In the cases of Pernambuco, Piaui and Minas Gerais, auditing of project
accounts was carried out by the Federal Government (Secretaria Federal de Controle) for
the greater part of the project. The Federal Government and the states tended to be late in
submitting audits prior to reformulation. Thereafter, the states became relatively good
audit performers, being criticized mainly for lack of precision in certain aspects of financial
reporting. The quality of project auditing improved steadily over time, reflected,
ironically, in the number of qualified statements. All three states had a good record of
satisfactorily resolving problems raised in audit reports.



- 26 -
85.    Covenant Compliance. The key legal covenants pre-reformulation concerned the
Borrower's obligation to provide counterpart funds, and to ensure proper functioning of
the rural credit component. The Borrower's performance was deficient in both cases. A
joint Aide Memoire of March 8, 1993 transferred counterpart funding responsibility to the
States, whose performance in all three cases has since been both superior to the pre-
reformulation phase and generally satisfactory.34 The credit component was discontinued.
Assessment of Outcome
86.    Staff Appraisal Reports for the original projects contain internal economic rates of
return (IERR) for the three states of 13% (Pemambuco and Minas Gerais) and 18%
(Piaui). It is implicit from the history of these projects pre-reformulation and their
complete re-design in 1993 that they were unsatisfactory, and their IERRs have not been
re-calculated. The Mid-Term Review (1991) of the original projects noted that their
impact on production, income and employment was difficult to assess due to the lack of
concrete evaluation results, in spite of considerable effort to institute good monitoring and
evaluation. Statistical data on inputs and beneficiaries in each state were considered
unreliable due to double-counting and overlap among years and components, but tended
to confirm the general shortfall in achievements. Information recently provided by the
States shows that this situation persisted up to the effective reformulation in September
1993, with variations between states.
87.    The reformulated projects fell under the rubric of targeted interventions based on a
demand-driven mechanism for which the costs, benefits and rates of return could not be
determined with any certainty ex ante, and thus no IERRs were calculated (or accordingly,
re-calculated). While this report is technically exempt from re-estimating an IERR, the
results of three Bank/FAO evaluations of the Program are relevant and interesting.35
These evaluations calculated the socio-economic benefits and cost effectiveness of
PAC/FUMAC subprojects based on a range of the more commonly demanded
infrastructure, productive and social investments. As agreed with Government prior to
preparation of the initial package of new loans, the 1995 analysis examined all ten state
NRDP projects; the 1995/96 evaluation focused on the States of Rio Grande do Norte,
Pernambuco and Piaui, while the most recent study undertaken in early 1997 looked at the
The Aide Memoire was jointly signed by all state governors, representatives of the Federal
Government and the Bank, during negotiations of the reformulation, and before the Amendment
letters were approved by the Bank (June 1993).
All three evaluations were undertaken as part of project preparation for new loan packages under
the Rural Poverty Alleviation Program. The ranges provided are indicative only, given the
sampling nature of the analysis, the variations which exist between subprojects in terms of cost
and performance and, in the case of the 1995 evaluation, the relatively short time between
reformulation and evaluation. The sampling methodology used for the 1996 and 1997
evaluations can be found in Brazil: Northeast Rural Development Program-Performance and
Evaluation, World Bank/FAO, March 14, 1996.



- 27 -
experiences of Paraiba, Maranhao, Alagoas and Minas Gerais.36 While primarily
illustrative given the newness of most of these subprojects - and in the case of the 1995
evaluation, the quest for a satisfactory methodology for evaluating this new development
model - the results are nevertheless promising.
88.    In general, the analysis of sample subprojects surveyed indicates that the NRDP
has had positive effects on the quality of life and in the case of productive subprojects, on
employment and incomes. Evaluations for the three states reviewed in this report show
that: (a) IRRs in financial terms for productive subprojects ranged from 33-37% (clothes-
making ventures in Piaui and communal tractors in Minas Gerais) to over 50% (manioc
mills and small-scale irrigation subprojects in Minas Gerais and in Pernambuco), and in
economic terms most exceeded 50%; (ii) in terms of the sensitivity of the IERRs to the
distorting effects of publicly-funded grants, which stem from costs associated with raising
these funds (i.e., taxation), using the shadow price of public funds reduced the respective
IERRs but they remained significantly positive and exceeded 17% in all cases;37 and (iii)
the initial investment per additional job created was low and benefit/cost ratios were
satisfactory (ranging between 1.3 and 2.3) 38 All three evaluations assumed constant
benefits over an eight-year project life. While the economic cost of labor -- the most
important input in smallholder agriculture -- was very low due to severe unemployment,
economic prices of outputs which are produced in small quantities and with some
exceptions, all traded internally, are virtually the same as their financial prices.39
89.    The 1996 and 1997 analyses of financial sustainability indicated that user fees from
beneficiary associations adequately covered O&M and replacement of wom equipment.
Findings have been fairly uniform across states, in that the net income of beneficiary
associations is sufficient, after deducting all O&M expenses, to cover replacement of a
36     The analyses for Pernambuco and Minas Gerais reviewed under infrastructure, rural water supply
and electrification; under productive, communal tractors, manioc flour mills and small-scale
irrigation; and under social, house improvement and rural school rehabilitation. For Piaui, the
analysis also covered rural road rehabilitation, clothes-making subprojects and rural health posts.
This exercise was not done for Piaui owing to lack of data.
38     The methodology for determining cost-effectiveness involved estimating, where appropriate, the
total investment cost per additional job created by the various types of subprojects, and social
benefit/ cost ratios.
The IERRs were calculated not for all subprojects among the selected productive types, but for
sample subprojects visited either by State Technical Units or BanktFAO researchers, during
which beneficiaries and other local stakeholders were interviewed. There was no systematic
recording of poorly-performing subprojects in each state and thus the relative percentages of such
are guesses at best. Productive subprojects which performed well in one state might have a
poor record in another. The IERR of one subproject versus another may not be the best indicator
of performance, especially if subproject size differs. Similarly, subprojects showing very high
IERRs may have only a small impact on family net income.



- 28 -
tractor in 3-5 years, compared to its economic useful life of 10 years.40 Manioc mills were
similarly found to be sustainable, with associations retaining sufficient funds to amortize
the mill complex in 4-7 years compared to its useful life of 12 years.41
90.   Both the original and reformulated projects were problematic, to varying degrees
and for different reasons, in regard to economic assessment, highlighting the need for
greater attention during project design, to baseline studies, and to monitoring and
evaluation methodologies. In particular, Borrowers' commitment and capacity to
undertake evaluation (a continuing weakness of many Bank-financed projects) throughout
the project cycle, should be high on the checklist for project supervision.
91.   Each of the three reformulated projects reviewed is rated Satisfactory, reflecting
their achievement of objectivesas redefined at reformulation, project sustainability and exit
ratings in final supervision Forms 590.
Main Findings and Lessons Learned
92.    Main Findings. This was a longer-term program, planned and implemented in a
complex and dynamic environment. Despite the effort to innovate and to head off
counterpart funding and other problems, the original projects were too cumbersome and
complex for the deteriorating fiscal, macro-economic and institutional conditions and were
not compatible with the momentous changes after 1988 in the national political economy,
which demanded a more decentralized, participatory project design. Thus, while the Bank
could not control the larger forces at play in Brazil, the design of the original projects also
created its own set of problems.
93.    The reformulated projects in these three states successfully achieved their
objectives because their design and implementation strategy fit the evolving political,
economic and social context. This legacy resulted from "revolutionary" decisions: (i) by
the Bank, to take a poverty alleviation approach, with all its implications of
decentralization, grants, ownership and participation, instead of a rural/agricultural
development approach; and (ii) by the Federal and State Governments, to relinquish a
significant measure of political control by empowering rural communities and, more
importantly, by acknowledging the right and ability of the rural poor to establish their own
priorities and make decisions.
94.    Community-based development is not a "magic bullet" for poverty reduction in the
Northeast, which is why the Bank, having launched a significant process with measurable
40.    Insufficient data prevented this exercise for Piaui. However, O&M of subprojects visited was
satisfactory with user fees being collected and reserve funds being started.
The SUDENE report steers away from estimating income, production and job generation, citing
methodological difficulties and relies on interviews with association/community members
concerning subproject benefits: of the most-frequently-cited, employment and income generation
is ranked first, followed by better family nutrition, increased family production and the
transportation of production and people (prominently-ranked as a benefit of communal tractors).



- 29 -
impact on beneficiaries, is now turning its attention to other major constraints in the
sector. But the beneficiaries themselves feel that the projects are generally delivering the
benefits they promised, unlike earlier efforts, and community demand to participate in the
program is strong. Modifications designed to address identified shortcomings have been
incorporated in the new generation of Rural Poverty Alleviation Projects. States and
municipalities have proven willing to make needed corrections. Selected, more specific
findings are set out below.
95.   Grants. Grant-based investment in productive subprojects is a legitimate
mechanism for jump-starting capital accumulation by the rural poor, a process usually
limited by their inability to generate savings and gain access to the formal credit system.
Grants have made an important contribution to sustainable local development in the states
reviewed. Concerns about potentially inefficient investments and producers, are being
addressed. New projects in six states (Bahia, Sergipe, Ceara, Pemnambuco, Rio Grande do
Norte and Piaui) contain design improvements to rationalize the use of grants, including
additional eligibility criteria and regulamentos de uso for different types of productive
subprojects, that would assist the Municipal Councils (FUMAC and FUMAC-P) and the
TUs in their appraisal of such subprojects.
96.   PAC and FUMAC. FUMAC is more effective than PAC in important ways,
demonstrating a larger number of subprojects per municipality and beneficiaries per
subproject; greater community participation and transparency; improved community
capacity to identify, select and implement priority investments; and lower cost per
beneficiary. The stronger institutional element, the Municipal Councils, has fostered
community organization and ensured a more rigorous subproject selection process and
thus better-quality investments overall. It would be an exaggeration to claim that the
FUMAC Municipal Councils have changed the balance of power in the Northeast, but
they have already contributed in significant ways to effecting such change over the longer-
term.
97.   Graduation. It may be necessary to progressively graduate some communities
and municipalities as the aggregate benefits of several subprojects (and benefits from other
programs) equip them to leverage funds from other sources. However, the pervasiveness
of rural poverty in the Northeast indicates the need for a strategy based on practical,
operational ways of identif-ying communities which are on the verge of achieving this
status. Monitorable indicators might track: communities' access to credit and capacity to
save; adequacy of social and economic infrastructure; access to social and other services;
community organization and local capacity to manage funds; incomes and
nutritional/health status. Communities with superior ratings might progressively
contribute a higher percentage to, and eventually cease to be eligible for, project matching
grants.
98.   Environment. The environmental impact of the generally small-scale PAC and
FUMAC subprojects was small, but certain kinds of subprojects are more likely to have
environmental side-effects, e.g., the sludge from manioc processing, a situation which is



- 30 -
well-known and for which counter-measures have been in place, even since the APCR
component.
99.   Participation. While providing a forum for local decision-making, the FUMAC
municipal councils remain sensitive to political interference from local power groups,
especially the mayors, (but the PACs are even more vulnerable). While vigilance is needed
to combat such political tampering, many mayors in the three states are working closely
with MCs for legitimate community ends. There are benefits from local political
involvement, including sustaining the projects' decentralized implementation (MIT 1996).
Local governments are committing financial and institutional resources to approved
community subprojects, even though neither PAC nor FUMAC legally requires this, and
even adopting the FUMAC approach to decision-making for other municipal investments.
PAC's primary justification at this point is to allow associations in communities where the
political leadership opposes FUMAC, to bypass the municipal authorities and work
directly with the state TUs, but there are limitations on its use, which is seen as residual.
100.  Technical Assistance. Project funding for TA does not ensure its availability in
rural areas. Resourcefulness is needed to obtain TA for the many aspects of the
subproject cycle which require it. Making greater use of state extension agencies
(EMATER) as was successfully tested in Minas Gerais and Alagoas is one solution; 42
replication of the successful alliances between the TU and NGOs in Rio Grande do Norte
is another; and subcontracting to private providers as was done successfully in Bahia, is a
further option.43 The over-design of subprojects and insufficient TA have led to marked
divergence in the size, cost, quality and sustainability of similar investments. Over-design
and poor quality design can be mitigated by developing standard designs and technical
standards. The TUs stressed this activity in the three states in the final year, in preparation
for new projects under the RPAP. Finally, under the reformulated projects, TA funding
was tied to subproject approval. Non-approval meant associations still had to pay out of
their own pockets for the TA used in preparation of the proposal, a potent source of
frustration for poor communities, and one which has been resolved under the new RPAP.
101.  Productive Subprojects. Productive subprojects destined for communal use,
such as manioc mills, corn processing and rice crushing facilities, demonstrate good
sustainability perhaps because they provide a service to subproject beneficiaries themselves
and do not get involved in formal "production" per se. Their maintenance through the
payment of modest dues, is quite straightforward. However, other types, such as
community bakeries, clothes-making enterprises and poultry-raising, have experienced
sustainability problems after a certain period of operation, apparently related to the
inherent difficulties for rural community associations in managing investments requiring
42.    The EMATERs in Minas Gerais and Alagoas provided high quality TA to communities but
across the Northeast, service quality has many problems.
43    See Implementation Completion Report No. 16191 of December 20, 1996. Further, other
innovative practices meriting replication where appropriate were developed under the Maranhgo
and Paraiba projects.



- 31 -
more "formal" entrepreneurial skills, not commonly found among such groups. In general,
association leaders are more adept at social activities which foster solidarity, rather than at
commercial business activities requiring purchasing, processing and marketing skills, and
an understanding of management, profitability and market conditions. Approval of such
subprojects - which often benefit a small group within the community -- requires
considerable caution and should entail a measure of cost recovery for the sponsoring
association.
102.  Organization. Well-organized rural communities can influence the allocation and
use of municipal funds. Experience in Pernambuco, Piaui, Minas Gerais and other states
shows that about 10% of all associations, especially those with an organizational history
and well-established distribution of responsibilities and benefits, fared better in getting first
access to subprojects and obtaining more than one subproject (SUDENE 1996). The
cumulative benefits (and multiplier effects) have accelerated local development and raised
the issue of graduation from the program. Concentration of investments or logistical
limitations of the TUs meant many communities were not reached. Conversely, many
associations were rapidly and legally/bureaucratically organized in 1993/94 to access
project funds, but lacked the "glue" of having evolved consensually over time. But it is
not clear that permanence should be a paradigm. The demands of subproject
identification, execution and maintenance are considerable and risks are attached to the
on-the-job stage, i.e., when "organized" communities must operate and maintain an
investment on their own and it is shared objectives which bind them together. Sequential
mobilization, organization and training of communities as a prerequisite for receiving
project funds cannot guarantee that an association will perform well and/or stay together.
103.  Integration. These projects did not attempt to integrate small farmers (pre-
reformulation) and the rural poor (post-reformulation) into the more dynamic economy of
the region, or to restructure semi-arid agriculture, nor did they seek integration with other
Northeast rural poverty programs.4  Raising small farmers' productivity by financing
inputs including water was an initial, basic step, but the projects did not target specific
crops, and anticipated fairly traditional cropping patterns.45 In any case, many small
farmers chose to stay with their subsistence crops rather than access project-financed
credit lines in an inflationary economy. The reformulated projects funded collective
investments in agro-processing rather than production, and there are few cases of major
transformation of formerly subsistence crops into something with strong commercial
potential (e.g., cashew nut in Rio Grande do Norte). Nevertheless, the provision of start-
up capital, water, electricity and other inputs including TA, has opened the door to future
economic integration.
44     A recent, highly promising linkage is through the pilot market-based Land Reform Project in the
State of Ceara (approved by the Board in May 1997), which uses RPAP-Ceara investment funds
to support infrastructure development on newly-acquired lands.
45     They did, however, assume quite dramatic production increases in some crops on the basis of
pasture conversion and greater area, combined with project inputs.



- 32 -
104.  Lessons Learned. The lessons, substantiating Bank-wide experience in many
cases, are as follows:
(a)   Most RD projects will falter under severe macro-economic and fiscal
pressures, and a policy environment unfavorable to agriculture;
(b)   When a program strategy and project design is overtaken by events which
make it redundant, the Bank must promptly undertake the needed
changes, including complete reformulation if necessary, which will enable
it to succeed in the new circumstances;
(c)   The willingness to experiment benefits projects Bank-wide. The
reformulated projects emerged from a successful pilot experience
(APCR), enriched by drawing on wider experiences, and their successor
the RPAP has continued to pilot increasingly progressive variants of the
core model;
(d)   Grant-based investment is a legitimate and effective tool for jump-
starting capital accumulation by the rural poor, and the matching grant
approach contributed to sustainable local development in the three states;
(e)   Decentralization of fiscal and investment decision-making from Federal to
state and local government and beneficiaries improves project
administration and subproject quality. Clearly-defined operational
incentives and penalties are needed to counter departures from project
guidelines. A key component of decentralization, beneficiary
participation in subproject selection, implementation, financing and
supervision generates ownership and builds sustainability. Vigilance and
appropriate controls are needed to prevent political interference in the
participatory process,
(f)   Poverty targeting mechanisms should be simple, explicit and
monitorable; be based on objective criteria; foster transparency and
minimize political interference in project resource allocation and subproject
selection; and ensure that project resources reach the poorest communities.
Timely, well-designed information campaigns support targeting by
ensuring transparency and community knowledge of program objectives,
guidelines and access;
(g)   Sustainability of project investments is enhanced by municipal and
community cost-sharing, beneficiary involvement in local public investment
allocations, and when TA is provided at all key stages of the subproject
cycle including the operational phase,
(h)   Successful community-based development requires quality technical
assistance throughout the subproject cycle for: improving the design and



- 33 -
outcome of productive subprojects; community mobilization, organization
and skills development; and institutional development of the TU. "On the
job" training for communities is essential but not risk-free. Finding TA in
rural areas needs creativity;
(i)    Supervision is indispensable for subproject and overall project success and
should be strengthened, and involve local entities closest to the
communities, particularly Municipal Councils and NGOs;
(j)    Productive subprojects need rigorous selection, preparation, TA and
supervision to maximize their commercial potential and sustainability.
Their inherent social objectives and communal O&M in a poverty context
should not imply "softer" analysis of their rates of return, cost-effectiveness
and feasibility. Eligible productive investments should provide services for
the many (not the few), be subject to strict operational guidelines, and
ensure the collection of user fees for O&M;
(k)   Related to the above, project design should pay careful attention to
baseline studies as the springboard for well-designed monitoring and
evaluation and for ex post assessments of the economic and financial
rates of return of a range of productive subprojects. Accessible,
comprehensive monitoring and evaluation improves subproject
assessment, targeting and efficiency and is an essential planning and
management tool;
(I)    Standardization of documents, designs and unit costs simplifies
subproject preparation and evaluation, facilitates procurement, encourages
community participation, prevents faulty design and reduces processing
bottlenecks;
(m)   Dissemination of "best practices", such as the collaboration with
EMATERs in Minas Gerais and Alagoas,46 and with NGOs in Rio Grande
do Norte, through exchanges of information among Technical Units, at
training seminars and workshops, can hasten learning and reward
innovation; and
Other examples of successful actions include: the State/TU collaboration with NGOs in Rio
Grande do Norte; FUMAC councils in Paraiba; and the successful indigenous peoples' FUMAC
in Maranhao. Other states have adopted technical parameters or developed training materials
which have had positive results meriting dissemination.



- 34 -
(n)   Graduation of some communities might be necessary as the aggregate
benefits of several subprojects equip them to leverage funds from other
sources. The pervasiveness of rural poverty in the Northeast indicates the
need to find practical, operational ways of identifying and monitoring
communities which are close to achieving this status.



- 35 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
PART H: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
TABLE 1. SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
PERNAMBUCO PROJECT (Ln. 2718-BR)
Pre-Reformulation                             Post-Reformulation and Summary Assessment
A.  Achievement of Obiectives                                                        Not                                                        Not
Substantial    Partial    Negligible   applicable          Substantial   Partial    Negligible   applicable
(_13       0(e                                             01)  (0 (     /))                     (V)
Macro Policies                           [7i          L           E            El                    Z           [            E 
Sector Policies                             l            I           l         El                      l            l            l        [1
Financial Objectives 2                    0i          C3                          Z 0l                           L  0          00
Institutional Development 3               0              l           ]         L0                   E             0            0          [
Physical Objectives                      [3            07 0                     0                    E            E           E 
Poverty Reduction 4                                   E              l          E l                 El            E              l         E
Gender Issues                            E            E           E            El                   E            E            E           E
Other Social Objectives                     l         E            E            E                    El           E           E            E
Environmental Objectives                  E           E            E           El                    E            E           E           []
Public Sector Management                 LEl                                                        E7           E            LI          Li]
Private Sector Developinent               Ell                                                        El           El          El           El
Post-reformulation ratings equate to summary assessments.
2 Credit Component
3 Strengthening of technical unit.
4 Mailly throduh the APCR component, up to 1993.



- 36 -
TABLE 1. SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
PERNAMBUCO PROJECT (Ln. 2718-BR) - Continued
Pre-Reformulation                            Post-Reformulation and Summary Assessments
B.  Project Sustainability                Likely         Unlikely        Uncertain                   Likely         Unlikely       Uncertain
C.  Bank Performance                      Highly                                                     Highly
Satisfactory    Satisfactory     Deficient                Satisfactory    Satisfactory     Deficient
(e')                           (                          (V)             ()
Appraisal                                                                                                        E               EC
Supervision                              F]                            IZ                                          m               z
Implementation (NA)                                   L                E                             ]           E               E
D.  Borrower Performance                  Highly                                                     Highly
Satisfactory    Satisfactory     Deficient                Satisfactory    Satisfactory      Deficient
(e         (N~~0            (e/                       (e               e              (
Preparation                                           E               En                         [ C}                            E]
Implementation                        E               E               En                         E                   ]           E
Covenant Compliance                       ]           E               [                          E               L               [
E.  Assessment of Outcome      Highly                                      Highly             Highly                                      Highly
Satisfactory   Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory  Unsatisfactory   Satisfactory   Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory  Unsatisfactory
Post-reformulation ratings equate to sumnnay assessments of the entire project.



- 37-
TABLE 1. SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
PIAUI PROJECT (Ln. 2762-BR)
Pre-Reformulation                              Post-Reformulation and Summary Assessments
A.  Achievement of Obiectives                                                          Not                                                          Not
Substantial    Partial    Negligible   applicable            Substantial    Partial    Negligible   applicable
Macro Policies                                                     EL                                    Li 0i                   Li           Li
Sector Policies                           L            L            L            L                     L            L            L [
Financial Objectives2 2                                 L            L            L                     L            L            L            L
Institutional Development3                 L            Li           L                                 Li           L            L            L
Physical Objectives                        L            L            L            L                     Z            L            L            L
Poverty Reduction4                          0           C3           L            L                     L            L            L            L
Gender Issues                             L            L            L             C3                   L            L            L            L
Other Social Objectives                    L            Li           L            L                     Li           L            L            L
Environmental Objectives                   L            L            L                                  Li
Public Sector Management                     i            i            i            i                     i          L              i          L
Private Sector Development                 L            L            L            L                     Li           L            L            L
I Post-reformulation ratings equate to summary assessments.
2 Credit Component
3 Strengthening of technical unit.
4 Mainly through the APCR component, up to 1993.



- 38 -
TABLE 1. SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
PIAUI PROJECT (Ln. 2762-BR) - Continued
Pre-Reformulation                           Post-Reformulation and Summary Assessments
B.  Proiect Sustainability                Likely         Unlikely       Uncertain                   Likely         Unlikely       Uncertain
(e         (e              (/)                       (e)              (e             (e
C.  Bank Performance                      Highly                                                    Highly
Satisfactory   Satisfactory     Deficient                Satisfactory    Satisfactory     Deficient
(e      (e             (e                         (e              (e~V)  V       (e1
Appraisal                               FIL                          [I                        LI                W             L
Supervision                              F]mI                                                                  F a             [mz
Implementation (NA)                                  [Z                                         LIII
D.  Borrower Performance                  Highly                                                    Highly
Satisfactory   Satisfactory     Deficient                 Satisfactory   Satisfactory     Deficient
Preparation                                            W             L]                                          W z     
Implementation                        LI]            []               W                                                           I
Covenant Compliance                      F]L 1                                                  LI              LIm
E.  Assessment of Outcome      Highly                                      Highly            Highly                                     Highly
Satisfactory   Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory  Unsatisfactory  Satisfactory   Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory  Unsatisfactory
(Pl g) s ss     )  (of) the et) ie p
Post-reformulation ratings equate to sunimary assessments of the entire project,



- 39 -
TABLE 1. SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
MINAS GERAIS PROJECT (Ln. 2861-BR)
Pre-Reformulation                             Post-Reformulation and Summary Assessments 1
A.  Achievement of Obiectives                                                          Not                                                          Not
Substantial    Partial    Negligible   applicable            Substantial    Partial    Negligible   applicable
Macro Policies                              Fl             ]        Z]           [                        l         [            E  
Sector Policies                                        LIl                                             El           [I           E            [2]
Financial Objectives2                                     ] 0l                      l                  El           [I           E            L]
Institutional Development3                 0                                                                        L7]           E           I i]
Physical Objectives                           1        [               l         El                                    l         El 
Poverty Reduction4                           l         [            El                                 El              l         El 
Gender Issues                                          El           El           El                       l         E               l 
Other Social Objectives                    El          E               l            l                     l          El           E 
Environmental Objectives                   E            E            E            E                     E            E            E           El
Public Sector Management                   EEEE                                                         El           El           El           El
Private Sector Development                 E              l          E           El                     El           E              l          E
I Post-reformulation ratings equate to summary assessments.
2 Credit Component
3 Regional Agricultural Research component to strengthen production oriented research in the Northeast, including inter-agency coordination; and institutional development of
the Brazilian Food Company (COBAL) and State Food Company (EBAL).
4 Mainly through the APCR component, up to 1993.



- 40 -
TABLE 1. SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
MINAS GERAIS PROJECT (Ln. 2861-BR) - Continued
Pre-Reformulation                           Post-Reformulation and Summary Assessments 1
B.  Project Sustainability                Likely         Unlikely       Uncertain                   Likely         Unlikely       Uncertain
C.  Bank Performance                      Highly                                                    Highly
Satisfactory   Satisfactory     Deficient                 Satisfactory   Satisfactory     Deficient
Appraisal                                                   |                                                     I            [lll
Supervision                           [II              W                                        [I               W7
Implementation (NA)                     mII]                                       []                                          L
D.  Borrower Performance                  Highly                                                    Highly
Satisfactory   Satisfactory      Deficient                Satisfactory   Satisfactory      Deficient
(/)        ~~~(v)     ()                             (1/)            (1/)            (V")
Preparation                           L i                              II                       L                W             [I
Implementation                        [IIF I]                                                                   [Ii]
Covenant Compliance                                   []             []                                         F               LII]
E.  Assessment of Outcome      Highly                                      Highly            Highly                                      Highly
Satisfactory   Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory  Unsatisfactory  Satisfactory   Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory  Unsatisfactory
-0 (oo                  project.
Post-reformulation ratings equate to summary assessments of the entire project.



- 41 -
TABLE 2. RELATED BANK LOANS
PERNAMBUCO PROJECT (Ln. 2718-BR)
Project Title/                 Purpose              Year         Status
Loan No.                                        Approved
1. Northeast Region Land Tenure   To improve land tenure and  1986    Cancelled due
Improvement Project (Ln. 2593-  the legal and institutional         to institutional
BR)                          basis of land markets in the           and policy
Northeast.                            obstacles.
2. Pernambuco Rural Development  To increase production and  1979      Closed 1986
Project (Ln. 1728-BR)        productivity of 15,540 small
farms and 2,700 small non-
farm enterprises, to increase
rural employment
opportunities, and to
improve social and physical
infrastructure in the poorest
rural areas of the State.
PIAUI PROJECT (Ln. 2762-BR)
Project Title/                  Purpose              Year           Status
Loan No.                                         Approved
1. Northeast Region Land Tenure   To improve land tenure and  1986      Cancelled due to
Improvement Project (Ln. 2593-  the legal and institutional          institutional and
BR)                          basis of land markets in the            policy obstacles.
Northeast.
2. Piaui Rural Development      To expand farm and fishery    1981      Closed 1986
Project (Ln. 2015-BR)        production and increase
incomes and employment
opportunities of about
11,300 poor families in rural
and coastal areas of the
State.



- 42 -
TABLE 2. RELATED BANK LOANS
MINAS GERAIS PROJECT (Ln. 2861-BR)
Project Title/                 Purpose             Year          Status
Loan No.                                       Approved
1. Northeast Region Land Tenure   To improve land tenure    1986     Cancelled due
Improvement Project (Ln. 2593-  and the legal and                 to institutional
BR)                          institutional basis of land           and policy
markets in the Northeast.            obstacles.
2. Second Minas Gerais Rural    To increase the production  1980      Closed 1987
Development Project (Ln. 1877-  and productivity of 30,000
BR)                          small farms and 1,100 non-
farm enterprises, to
increase rural employment
opportunities and to
improve social and
physical infrastructure for
the poorest rural areas of
the State.
3. Minas Gerais Integrated Rural   To improve living         1977     Closed 1984
Development Project (Ln. 1362-  standards and incomes of
BR)                          small farmers in the
poorest rural areas of the
State by expanding farn
productivity and expanding
and improving social
services to farmers and to
the general rural
population.



- 43 -
TABLE 3. PROJECT TIMETABLE
PERNAMBUCO PROJECT (Ln. 2718-BR)
Date Actual/
Steps in Project Cycle             Date Planned         Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)       --            1982
Preparation                                       --           1982-1985
Appraisal                                         --           November 1985
Negotiations                                      --           May 9, 1986
Board Presentation                               --            June 12, 1986
Loan Signing                                      --           July 15, 1986
Loan Effectiveness                      September 1986         November 14, 1986
Loan Closing                            December 31, 1994      June 30, 1996
Project Completion                      July 31, 1994          June 30, 1996
PIAUI PROJECT (Ln. 2762-BR)
Date Actual/
Steps in Project Cycle             Date Planned         Latest Estimate
Identification                                   --            1982
Preparation                                       --           1982-1985
Appraisal                                         --           October 1985
Negotiations                                      --           May 9, 1986
Board Presentation                               --            October 21, 1986
Loan Signing                                     --            July 20, 1987
Loan Effectiveness                      September 1986         November 20, 1987
Loan Closing                            March 31, 1995         June 30, 1996
Project Completion                      September 30, 1994     June 30, 1996



- 44 -
TABLE 3. PRoJEcr TIMETABLE
MINAS GERAIS PROJECT (Ln. 2861-BR)
Date Actual/
Steps in Project Cycle              Date Planned          Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)         --            1983
Preparation                                        --            1983-1986
Appraisal                                          --            December 1986
Negotiations                                       --            May 13, 1987
Board Presentation                                --            June 30, 1987
Loan Signing                                       --           July 20, 1987
Loan Effectiveness                       October 1987            October 20, 1987
Loan Closing                             March 31, 1996         December 31, 1996
Project Completion                       September 30, 1995      December 31, 1996



- 45 -
TABLE 4. LOAN DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
(US$ Million)
PERNAMBUCO PROJECT (Ln. 2718-BR)
Fiscal Year         Appraisal Estimate            Actual           Actual as % of
Estimate
1987                     9.00                   5.52                 61
1988                    21.00                   14.27                68
1989                    35.80                  21.03                 59
1990                    52.20                  37.42                 72
1991                    68.40                  47.13                 69
1992                    80.80                  48.53                 60
1993                    88.60                  51.69                 58
1994                    91.10                  55.52                 61
1995                    92.00                  55.96                 61
1996                     --                    71,25                 77
1997                     --                    7200                  78
Final Disbursement:    October 30, 1996
US$20 million cancelled, December 1994
PIAUI PROJECT (Ln. 2762-BR)
Fiscal Year         Appraisal Estimate            Actual           Actual as % of
Estimate
1987                     7.10                    0.00                 0
1988                    17.70                   8.05                 45
1989                    28.60                   10.88                38
1990                    40.30                   15.26                38
1991                    52.70                  20.64                 39
1992                    64.20                  29.44                 46
1993                    71.80                  33.82                 47
1994                    76.30                  38.76                 51
1995                    78.00                  42.56                 55
1996                     --                    51.71                 66
1997                     --                    53.00                 68
Final Disbursement:   January 22, 1997
' US$25 million cancelled, December 1994



- 46 -
TABLE 4. LoAN DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
(US$ Million)
MINAS GERAIS PROJECT (Ln. 2861-BR)
Fiscal Year         Appraisal Estimate             Actual           Actual as % of
Estimate
1988                      4.00                    3.86                97
1989                      8.80                    6.37                72
1990                     16.50                    9.71                59
1991                     24.50                   13.08                53
1992                     34.00                   13.29                39
1993                     42.40                   13.99                33
1994                     48.00                   14.88                31
1995                     52.80                   19.09                36
1996                     55.00                   29.68                54
1997                      --                     43.92                80
Final Disbursement:    May 14, 1997
US$6.8 million committed; cancellation of US$4.3 million still pending.



- 47 -
TABLE 5. KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
PERNAMBUCO PROJECT (Ln. 2718-BR)
A. Pre-Reformulation I
Disbursements at reformulation were about 58% of the loan, the best performance
2
of the three states. Achievements under the main components were (with percentage of
appraisal target shown in parentheses): (i) Water Resources: feasibility studies on the
irrigation potential of areas covering 1,340 ha (134%); construction of 3 small irrigation
schemes providing 156 ha with irrigation (10%), construction of 382 simple water supply
systems (273%) and the rehabilitation of 254 such systems (348%) in communities with
less than 500 inhabitants; and the stocking of 275 state lakes (1,964%) with local fish
species; (ii) Agricultural Research and Basic Seed Production: completion of 5 agro-
ecological and natural resource studies (125%); 250 short- and medium-term applied
research trials (34%) to improve crop production technology; establishment of 440 farm-
level observation units (3,667%) to test and adapt integrated production systems; the
production of seeds on 247 ha per year (247%), including maize, castor beans, cotton,
sorghum and rice; and the production and distribution of about 178 improved dairy cattle
(148%); (iii) Agricultural Extension: technical assistance was delivered to 40,000 project
beneficiaries (55%); 987 demonstration plots were established (210%); and 1.2 million
tree seedlings were produced (12%) to implement a small-scale forestry project; (iv) Rural
Credit: medium- and long-term subloans were granted for 1,004 project beneficiaries to
finance on-farm investments (4%); and (v) Marketing Services: establishment of a food
wholesale service for private retailers, including the expansion of 15 rural services centers
(500%) and construction of 2 warehouses for storage of agricultural products (67%).
State provided pre-reformulation data/achievements in the form shown, which was not directly
comparable with original indicator list.
2 Effective date of the reformulation was September 28, 1993.



- 48 -
TABLE 5. KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
PERNAMBUCO PROJECT (Ln. 2718-BR)
B. Post-Reformulation
INDICATOR               OPERATIONAL CRITERIA                         COMMENTS
INPUTS       PAC/FUMAC ['  State Technical Units      Training seminars for TUs and for NGOs have   Done.
(TUs) and Non-          been held in the state by July 31, 1993, and
Governmental            updating workshops held by each July 31
Organizations (NGOs)    thereafter, under TOR agreed with the Bank.
trained in rules and
procedures.
PAC/FUMAC       Technical                Prepared by June 30, 1993 in agreement with the   Done.
Implementation Manual.  Bank on the basis of the March 12, 1993
"Diretrizes e Crit&rios Basicos para a
ImplementacAo do Programa Reformulado de
Apoio ao Pequeno Produtor Rural (PAPP)".
PAC/FUMAC       Publicity.               Publicity campaign proposal submitted to Bank    Done.
by June 30, 1993, and campaign initiated in the
state by Sept. 1, 1993 and thereafter implemented
as agreed with the Bank.
PAC/FUMAC        Current situation of    Baseline study of sample communities regionally   Done.
target communities and    distributed in the state and pilot municipalities
pilot municipalities,   completed by Sept. 30, 1993.
PAC/FUMAC       Mobilizations            List of NGOs and other agencies to assist    Done.
assistance.             communities in mobilization and organization is
available in the state by June 15, 1993 and
updated annually thereafter.
PAC/FUMAC       Technical assistance.    List of suitable individuals, firms, agencies and    Done.
NGOs to assist communities in technical aspects
is available in the state by June 15, 1993 and
updated annually thereafter.
FUMAC ONLY   A municipal council         Documentation certifying existence and       Done.
with appropriate        functioning of municipal council available from
representation has been    each pilot municipality is available and verified
established and is      by TUs, by Sept. 30, 1993.
functioning each pilot
municipality.
PAC/FUMAC       State and Loan Funds     At beginning of each month, sufficient funds  Partially done.
for approved projects are  from state budget and from Loan state project
available in a timely   account to cover new approved subprojects, and
manner to communities.   available to communities in a timely manner, as
reported monthly to the Bank and SUDENE.
PAC/FUMAC       Community counterpart   Signed agreements with executing              Done.
funds or resources for  community/association explicit including
approved projects.      community's contribution to subproject cost.
1/ PAC: Programa de Apoio Comunitario (Support to Small Rural Communities Program)
FUMAC: Fundo Municipal de Apoio Comunitario (Pilot Municipal Fund Program for Support to Small Rural Communities).



- 49 -
TABLE 5. KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
PERNAMBUCO PROJECT (Ln. 2718-BR)
B. Post-Reformulation
(Continued)
INDICATOR               OPERATIONAL CRITERIA                         COMMENTS
INPUTS       PAC/FUMAC        Supervision.             At least 10% of approved subprojects have been    Partially.
(Continued)                                            inspected in the field by TU at any point in time.
PAC/FUMAC       Administration.          TUs are adequately staffed, both at state    Done.
headquarters and in field offices, with capacity to
receive, appraise, approve and supervise
subprojects, and to facilitate private and public
assistance to communities, by July 31; staffing
increased as necessary to expanding work
requirements.
RESULTS    PAC/FUMAC          Communities aware of    Subproject proposals are being presented by   Done.
and informed about      communities in at least 70% of eligible
prograrn, rules and     municipalities (PAC and FUMAC) by Dec. 31,
procedures.             1993, and 90% by Dec. 31, 1994.
FUMAC ONLY   Open municipal council   TUs and/or supervision missions witness or are    Done.
meetings to discuss and   reliably informed about such meetings being
agree on municipal list    held, in all pilot municipalities.
of priority subprojects
have been held.
FUMAC ONLY   Municipal investment        At least 90% of pilot municipalities have    Done.
proposals are received,    submitted such proposals by Dec. 31, 1993.
based on community
priorities and approved
l_____________  by municipal councils.
PAC ONLY        Subproject proposals are   At least 150 of such subproject proposals  Done.
received and approved   approved by Dec. 31, 1993; and cumulatively
based on community      300 by June 30, 1994; and 700 by June 30, 1995
requests.
PAC/FUMAC       Number of families       At least 3,700 families benefited with approved    Done.
directly benefited.     projects by Dec. 31, 1993; 7,500 by June 30,
1994; and 17,500 by June 30, 1995.
PAC/FUMAC        Subprojects approved by   At least 85% of subprojects visited by Bank and    Partially done.
TU are eligible,        SUDENE of those listed in monthly reports
technically and         comply with cnteria.
economically sound, and
from eligible
communities.
PAC/FUMAC       Subprojects are          Adherence to specifications, cost and time in  Done.
implemented as          85% of cases in a random sample of 50
approved, with cost and   subprojects in the state to be completed by June
time.                   30 of each year starting in 1994.



- 50 -
TABLE 5. KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IPLEMENTATION
PERNAMBUCO PROJECT (Ln. 2718-BR)
B. Post-Reformulation
(Continued)
INDICATOR               OPERATIONAL CRITERIA                         COMMENTS
RESULTS    PAC/FUMAC          Funds used only for      No evidence of misuse of funds in at least 95%  Done.
(Continued)                   approved subprojects.    of cases, in a random sample of 50 subprojects,
subjected to audit by June 30 of each year
starting in 1994.
IMPACT       PAC/FUMAC        Expressed community      Two-thirds of beneficiaries in sample        Partially done.
(Objectives)                  need are satisfied.      communities are satisfied with the subproject
implemented, its design and their own role
(identification, design, implementation, control)
in the process.
PAC/FUMAC       Projected employment    Employment targets in 80% of sample productive   Done.
generated (productive   subprojects have been reached one year after
subprojects only)       establishment.
PAC/FUMAC       Projected incremental    In 80% of sample productive subprojects the  Partially done.
income realized by      projected incremental income has been realized,
beneficiaries.          or an absolute income level of at least 2.5
minimum salaries has been reached, one and a
half years after establishment.
PACIFUMAC        Subprojects sustained by   80% of subprojects are being operated and/or  At least 60%
community and/or        maintained, one and a half year after        of subprojects
municipality over time.   establishment,                             have complied
with.
FUMAC            Transparent and         A majority a random sample of the target     Done.
ONLY            participatory municipal    population in participating municipalities
decision-making process  expresses to be satisfied with the municipal
for investments is      decision-making process, in at least 75% of those
adopted.                municipalities.
PAC/FUMAC       Organized community      At least 50% of the participating communities in   Done.
pursuing further        pilot municipalities remain organized and are
communal development   engaged in further communal pursuits, of any
interests.              kind.



- 51 -
TABLE 5. KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
PIAUI PROJECT (Ln. 2762-BR)
A. Pre-Reformulation I
Disbursements at reformulation were about 47% of the loan. 2 Delays resulted
mainly from shortfalls and irregularities in the provision of counterpart funds.
Achievements under the main components were (with percentage of appraisal target
shown in parentheses): (i) Water Resources: feasibility studies on the irrigation potential
of areas covering 2,935 ha (294%); construction of 2 public irrigation schemes and
consolidation of 7 small contiguous irrigation schemes providing 998 ha with irrigation
(28%); construction of 426 simple water supply systems (142%) and repairs of 105 such
systems (11%) in communities with less than 500 inhabitants; and construction of fish
hatcheries yielding an annual production of 5.0 million fingerlings (56%); (ii) Agricultural
Research and Basic Seed Production: completion of 4 agro-ecological and natural
resource studies (100%); 111 short- and medium-term applied research trials (32%) to
improve crop production technology; establishment of 188 farm-level observation units
(448%) to test and adapt integrated production systems; the production of seeds on 75 ha
per year (100%), including maize, castor beans, cotton, sorghum and rice; and the
production and distribution of about 294 improved breeding goats (37%); (iii) Agricultural
Extension: technical assistance was delivered to 20,000 project beneficiaries (31%); and
540 demonstration plots were established (30%); (iv) Rural Credit: medium- and long-
term subloans were granted for 810 project beneficiaries to finance on-farm investments
(4%); and (v) Marketing Services: establishment of a food wholesale service for private
retailers, including the expansion of 2 rural services centers (100%).
State provided pre-reformulation data/achievements in the form shown, which was not directly
comparable with original indicator list.
2 Effective date of the reformulation was September 28, 1993.



- 52 -
TABLE 5. KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
PIAUI PROJECT (Ln. 2762-BR)
B. Post-Reformulation
INDICATOR                 OPERATIONAL CRITERIA                    COMMENTS
INPUTS       PAC/FUMAC"    State Technical Unit (TUs)  Training seminars for TUs and for NGOs    Done
and Non-Governmental      to be held in the state by July 31, 1993, and
Organizations (NGOs)      updating workshops held by each July 31
trained in rules and      thereafter, under TOR agreed with the
l___________  procedures                     Bank
PAC/FUMAC         Technical Implementation   Prepared by June 30, 1993 in agreement  Done
Manual                    with the Bank on the basis of the March
12, 1993 "Diretrizes e Cnterios Basicos
para a Inplementa,Ao do Programa
Reformulado de Apoio ao Pequeno
Produtor Rural (PAPP)"
PAC/FUMAC         Publicity                 Publicity campaign proposal submitted to    Done
Bank by June 30, 1993, and campaign
initiated in the state by Sept. 1, 1993 and
thereafter implemented as agreed with the
Bank
PAC/FUMAC         Current situation of target   Baseline study of sample communities  Done
communities and pilot     regionally distributed in the state and pilot
municipalities            municipalities completed by Sept. 30, 1993
PAC/FUMAC         Mobilizations assistance  List of NGOs and other agencies to assist    Done
communities in mobilization and
organization is available in the state by
June 15, 1993 and updated annually
thereafter
PAC/FUMAC         Technical assistance      List of suitable individuals, firms, agencies   Done
and NGOs to assist communities in
technical aspects is available in the state by
June 15, 1993 and updated annually
thereafter
FUMAC ONLY    A municipal council with    Documentation certifying existence and    Done
appropriate representation   functioning of municipal council available
has been established and is  from each pilot municipality is available
functioning each pilot    and verified by TUs, by Sept. 30, 1993
municipality                                                                         l
PAC/FUMAC         State and Loan Funds for    At beginning of each month, sufficient  Complied with.
approved projects are     funds from state budget and from Loan   Municipalities
available in a timely     state project account to cover new approved  providing part of
manner to communities     subprojects, and available to communities    State counterpart
in a timely manner, as reported monthly to   funds.
the Bank and SUDENE
PAC/FUMAC         Community counterpart     Signed agreements with executing        Complied with
funds or resources for    community association explicitly including
approved projects         community's contribution to subproject cost
1/ PAC: Programa de Apoio ComunitArio (Support to Small Rural Communities Program)
FUMAC: Fundo Municipal de Apoio Comunit6rio (Pilot Municipal Fund Program for Support to Small Rural Communities).



- 53 -
TABLE 5. KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
PIAUI PROJECT (Ln. 2762-BR)
B. Post-Reformulation
(Continued)
INDICATOR                 OPERATONAL CRITERIA                     COMMENTS
INPUTS       PAC/FUMAC         Supervision                At least 10% of approved subprojects have   Done
(Continued)                                               been inspected in the field by TU at any
point in time
PAC/FUMAC         Administration            TUs are adequately staffed, both at state    Improvement has
headquarters and in field offices, with  been noted under the
capacity to receive, appraise, approve and    new administration.
supervise subprojects, and to facilitate
private and public assistance to
communities, by July 31, 1993; staffing
increased as necessary to expanding work
requirements
RESULTS    PAC/FUMAC            Communities aware of and   Subproject proposals are being presented  Complied with
inforned about program,    by communities in at least 70% of eligible
rules and procedures      municipalities (PAC and FUMAC by Dec.
31, 1993, and 90%byDec. 31, 1994
FUMAC ONLY    Open municipal council        TUs and/or supervision missions witness or  Done
meetings to discuss and   are reliably informed about such meetings
agree on municipal list of   being held, in all pilot municipalities
priority subprojects have
been held
FUMAC ONLY    Municipal investment          At least 90% of pilot municipalities have  Complied with
proposals are received,   submitted such proposals by Dec. 31, 1993
based on community
priorities and approved by
municipal councils
PAC ONLY          Subproject proposals are  At least 200 of such subproject proposals    Complied with
received and approved     approved by Dec. 31, 1993; and
based on community        cumulatively 600 by June 30, 1994; and
requests                  1,200 by June 30, 1995
PAC/FUMAC         Number of families        At least 5,000 families benefited with  Complied with
directly benefited        approved projects by Dec. 31, 1993; 15,000
by June 30, 1994; and 30,000 by June 30,
1995
PAC/FUMAC         Subprojects approved by   At least 85% of subprojects visited by  Complied with
TU are eligible,          Bank and SUDENE, of those listed in
technically and           monthly reports, comply with criteria
economically sound, and
from eligible communities
PAC/FUMAC         Subprojects are           Adherence to specifications, cost and time    Complied with
implemented as approved,   in 85% of cases in a random sample of 50
with cost and time        subprojects in the state to be completed by
June 30 of each year starting in 1994



- 54 -
TABLE 5. KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
PIAUI PROJECT (Ln. 2762-BR)
B. Post-Reformulation
(Continued)
INDICATOR               1 OPERATIONAI CRITERIA                    COMMENTS
RESULTS      PAC/FUMAC          Funds used only for       No evidence of misuse of funds in at least    Complied with
(Continued)                     approved subprojects       95% of cases, in a random sample of 50
subprojects, subjected to audit by June 30
of each year starting in 1994
IMPACT        PAC/FU1MAC        Expressed community        Two-thirds of beneficiaries in sample    Complied with
(Objectives)                    needs are satisfied.       communities are satisfied with the
subproject implemented, its design and
their own role (identification, design,
implementation, control) in the process.
PAC/FUMAC         Projected employment       Employment targets in 80% of sample      Partially complied
generated (productive     productive subprojects have been reached    with. At least 60%.
subprojects only)         one year after establishment.
PAC/FUMAC         Projected incremental     In 80% of sample productive subprojects   Partially complied
income realized by        the projected incremental income has been   with. At least 60%.
beneficiaries.            realized, or an absolute income level of at
least 2.5 minimum salaries has been
reached, one and a half years after
establishment.
PAC/FUMAC         Subprojects sustained by   80% of subprojects are being operated    Partially done.
community and/or          and/or maintained, one and a half years
municipality over time.   after establishment.
FUMAC             Transparent and            A majority of a random sample of the     Complied with.
ONLY              participatory municipal   target population in participating
decision-making process   municipalities expresses satisfaction with
for investments is adopted.  the municipal decision-making process, in
at least 75% of those municipalities.
PAC/FUMAC         Organized community        At least 50% of the participating        Done.
pursuing further communal  communities in pilot municipalities remain
development interests.    organized and are engaged in further
communal pursuits, of any kind.



- 55 -
TABLE 5. KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMLEMENTATION
MINAS GERAIS PROJECT (Ln. 2861-BR)
A. Pre-Reformulation I
Some 33% of estimated expenditures had been made prior to reformulation, due to
the same factors experienced in the other states. 2Achievements under the main
components were (with percentage of appraisal target shown in parentheses): (i) Water
Resources: feasibility studies on the irrigation potential of areas covering 2,300 ha (26%)
and detailed engineering designs covering 970 ha (32%); construction of 2 public
irrigation schemes providing 130 ha with irrigation (4%); and construction of 277 simple
water supply systems (308%) and repairs of 92 such systems (115%) in communities with
less than 500 inhabitants; (ii) Agricultural Research and Basic Seed Production:
completion of 13 agro-ecological and natural resource studies (100%); 120 short- and
medium-term applied research trials (75%) to improve crop production technology;
establishment of 142 farm-level observation units (89%) and monitoring of 16 observation
farms (100%) to test and adapt integrated production systems; and the production of 60
tons of basic seeds for multiplication (133%), including maize, castor beans, cotton,
sorghum and rice; (iii) Agricultural Extension: technical assistance was delivered to
35,000 project beneficiaries (92%); 340 demonstration plots were established (100%); and
4,000 tree seedlings were produced (1%) to implement a small-scale forestry program;
(iv) Rural Credit: medium- and long-term subloans were granted for 80 project
beneficiaries to finance on-farm investments (1%); and (v) Marketing Services: market
information and commercial orientation services were established but the record does not
report on their quality or substainability.
State provided pre-reformulation data/achievements in the form shown, which was not directly
comparable with original indicator list.
2 Effective date of the reformulation was September 28, 1993.



- 56 -
TABLE 5. KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
MINAS GERAIS PROJECT (Ln. 2861-BR)
B. Post-Reformulation
INDICATOR        [        OPERATIONAL CR1TERIA                   COMMENTS
INPUTS         PAC/FUMAC"    State Technical Unit    Training seminars for TUs and for NGOs have   Done.
(TUs) and Non-         been held in the state by July 31, 1993, and
Governmental           updating workshops held by each July 31
Organizations (NGOs)  thereafter, under TOR agreed with the Bank.
trained in rules and
procedures.
PAC/FUMAC        Technical              Prepared by June 30, 1993 in agreement with    Done.
Implementation         the Bank on the basis of the March 12, 1993
Manual.                "Diretrizes e Criterios Basicos para a
Irnplementa,co do Programa Reformulado de
Apoio ao Pequeno Produtor Rural (PAPP)".
PAC/FUMAC        Publicity.             Publicity campaign proposal submitted to   Done.
Bank by June 30, 1993, and campaign
initiated in the state by Sept. 1, 1993 and
thereafter implemented as agreed with the
Bank.
PAC/FUMAC        Current situation of   Baseline study of sample communities       Complied with.
target communities and  regionally distributed in the state and pilot
pilot municipalities.  municipalities completed by Sept. 30, 1993.
PAC/FUMAC        Mobilization           List of NGOs and other agencies to assist  Done.
assistance.            communities in mobilization and organization
is available in the state by June 15, 1993 and
updated annually thereafter.
PAC/FUMAC        Technical assistance.    List of suitable individuals, firms, agencies  Done.
and NGOs to assist communities in technical
aspects is available in the state by June 15,
1993 and updated annually thereafter.
FUMAC ONLY    A municipal council    D)ocumentation certifying existence and       Done
with appropriate       functioning of municipal council available
representation has    from each pilot municipality is available and
been established and is  verified by TUs, by Sept. 30, 1993
functioning in each
pilot municipality
PAC/FUMAC        State and Loan Funds    At beginning of each month, sufficient funds    Complied with. Loan
for approved          from state budget and from Loan state project   funds were delayed
subprojects are       account to cover new approved subprojects,  until May 1995 and
available in a timely  and available to communities in a timely   have since
manner to              manner, as reported monthly to the Bank and    normalized.
communities.           SUDENE.
PACIFUMAC        Community              Signed agreements with executing           Done.
counterpart funds or   community/association with explicit
resources for approved   information including community's
projects.              contribution to subproject cost.
1/ PAC: Programa de Apoio Comunitario (Support to Small Rural Communities Program)
FUMAC: Fundo Municipal de Apoio Comunitario (Pilot Municipal Fund Programn for Support to Small Rural Communities).



- 57 -
TABLE 5. KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
MINAS GERAIS PROJECT (Ln. 2861-BR)
B. Post-Reformulation
(Continued)
INDICATOR                 OPERATIONAL CRITERIA                   COMMENTS
INPUTS         PAC/FUMAC        Supervision.           At least 10% of approved subprojects have  Complied with.
(Continued)                                            been inspected in the field by TU at any point
in time.
PAC/FUMAC        Administration.        TUs are adequately staffed, both at state  Complied with.
headquarters and in field offices, with capacity
to receive, appraise, approve and supervise
subprojects, and to facilitate private and
public assistance to communities, by July 31;
staffing increased as necessary to expanding
work requirements.
RESULTS        PAC/FUMAC        Communities aware of   Subproject proposals are being presented by  Complied with.
and informed about     communities in at least 70% of eligible
program, rules and    municipalities (PAC and FUMAC) by Dec.31,
_ ___________  procedures.        1993, and 90% by Dec. 31, 1994.
FUMAC ONLY    Open municipal            TUs and/or supervision missions witness or  Done.
council meetings to    are reliably informed about such meetings
discuss and agree on   being held, in all pilot municipalities.
municipal list of
priority subprojects,
have been held.
FUMAC ONLY    Municipal investment   At least 90% of pilot municipalities have     Complied with.
proposals are received,  submitted such proposals by Dec. 31, 1993.
based on community
priorities and approved
by municipal councils.
PAC ONLY         Subproject proposals    At least 200 of such subproject proposals  Complied with.
are received and       approved by Dec. 31, 1993; and cumulatively
approved based on      500 by June 30, 1994; 900 by June 30, 1995
community requests.    and 1,100 by project completion.
PAC/FUMAC        Number of families     At least 5,000 families benefitted with    Complied with.
directly benefitted.  approved projects by Dec. 31, 1993; 12,500 by
June 30, 1994; 22,500 by June 30, 1995 and
27,500 by project completion.
PAC/FUMAC        Subprojects approved    At least 85% of subprojects visited by Bank  Complied with.
by TU are eligible,    and SUDENE, of those listed in monthly
technically and       reports, comply with criteria.
economically sound,
and from eligible
communities,



- 58 -
TABLE 5. KEY NDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
MINAS GERAIS PROJECT (Ln. 2861-BR)
B. Post-Reformulation
(Continued)
INDICATOR                 OPERATIONAL CRITERIA                   COMMENTS
RESULTS        PAC/FUMAC        Subprojects are        Adherence to specifications, cost and time in    Complied with.
(Continued)                     implemented as         85% of cases in a random sample of 50
approved, with cost    subprojects in the state, to be completed by
and time               June 30 of each year starting in 1994.
specifications.      _
PAC/FUMAC        Funds used only for    No evidence of misuse of funds in at least  Complied with.
approved subprojects.   95% of cases, in a random sample of 50
subprojects, subjected to audit by June 30 of
each year starting in 1994.
IMPACT         PAC/FUMAC        Expressed community    Two-thirds of beneficiaries in sample      Done.
(Objectives)                    needs are satisfied,   communities are satisfied with the subproject
implemented, its design and their own role
(identification, design, implementation,
control) in the process.
PAC/FUMAC        Projected employment   Employment targets in 80% of sample        Done.
generated (productive    productive subprojects have been reached one
.______________  subprojects only)       year after establishment.
PAC/FUMAC        Projected incremental   In 80% of sample productive subprojects the    Partially done. At
income realized by     projected incremental income has been      least 1.5 minimum
beneficiaries.        realized, or an absolute income level of at  salaries.
least 2.5 minimum salaries has been reached,
one and a half years after establishment.
PAC/FUMAC        Subprojects sustained    80% of subprojects are being operated and/or   Done
by community and/or    maintained, one and a half years after
municipality over time.  establishment.
FUMAC            Transparent and        A majority of a random sample of the target  Done
ONLY             participatory municipal  population in participating municipalities
decision-making        expresses satisfaction with the municipal
process for investments  decision-making process, in at least 75% of
is adopted.            those municipalities.
PAC/FUMAC        Organized community    At least 50% of the participating communities   Done
pursuing further       in pilot municipalities remain organized and
communal               are engaged in further communal pursuits, of
development interests.   any kind.



- 59 -
TABLE 6. STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
PERNAMBUCO PROJECT (Ln. 2718-BR)
Study           Purpose as Defined at        Status         Impact of Study
Appraisal/Redefined
Feasibility studies    To determine areas with        Done           Various schemes
irrigation potential                           implemented.
PIAUI PROJECT (Ln. 2762-BR)
Study           Purpose as Defined at        Status         Impact of Study
Appraisal/Redefined
Feasibility Studies    To determine areas with        Done           Various schemes
irrigation potential                           implemented.
MINAS GERAIS PROJECT (Ln. 2861-BR)
Study           Purpose as Defined at        Status         Impact of Study
Appraisal/Redefined
Feasibility studies    To determine areas with        Done           Various schemes
irrigation potential                           implemented.



- 60 -
TABLE 7. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
PERNAMBUCO PROJECT (Ln. 2718-BR)
A. Project Costs
(US$ million)
Item                    Appraisal Estimate                Actual/Latest Estimate 2
Local    Foreign                 Local    Foreign
Costs     Costs       Total      Costs       Costs       Total
A. Water Resource Development     14.7       3.0        17.7       13.0         2.6       15.6
B. Agricultural Research and       7.2       0.1         7.3        3.3         0.1        3.4
Basic Seed Production
C. Rural Extension Services       36.5       0.9        37.4       15.3         0.4       15.7
D. Agricultural Credit            42.2        7.4       49.6        2.8         0.5        3.3
E. Marketing Services              4.4       0.8         5.2         1.4        0.3        1.7
F. Support to Small Rural
Communities
(i)  APCR                      23.3        3.3       26.6       29.6         4.2       33.8
(ii)  PAC                       --                              19.7         6.3       26.0
(iii) FUMAC                     --        --          --         2.8         0.9        3.7
G. Project Management and         16.1       0.8        16.9       19.4         1.0       20.4
Institutional Strengthening
Total Baseline Cost              144.4      16.3       160.7      107.4        16.3      123.7
Physical Contingencies          1.3        0.4        1.7         --          --        --
Price Contingencies            25.0        1.0       26.0         --          --        --
Total Project Cost               170.7      17.7       188.4      107.4        16.3      123.7
1.  Original project, pre-reforTnulaiton.
2.  Post-reformulation project.
B. Project Financing
(US$ million)
Source                    Appraisal Estimate 1            Actual/Latest Estimate 2
Local    Foreign                Local    Foreign
Costs     Costs      Total      Costs      Costs      Total
IBRD                                 74.3       17.7      92.0        55.7       16.3      72.0 3
Federal Government                   96.4       --        96.4        30.0       --        30.0
State Government of Pernambuco       --         --         --         18.7      --         18.7
Beneficiaries                         --        --         --          3.0       --         3.0
Total                               170.7       17.7     188.4       107.4       16.3    123.7
1.  Fedral Government, pre-reformulation.
2.  State Goverunent, post-reformulation.
3. USS20 million cancelled, December 1994.



- 61 -
TABLE 7. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
PIAUI PROJECT (Ln. 2762-BR)
A. Project Costs
(US$ million)
Item                    Appraisal Estimate                Actual/Latest Estimate 2
Local    Foreign                 Local    Foreign
Costs     Costs       Total      Costs       Costs       Total
A. Water Resource Development     15.8        2.8       18.6       20.6         3.6       24.2
B. AgriculturalResearchand         7.4        0.3        7.7         1.0        0.0         1.0
Basic Seed Production
C. Rural Extension Services       34.0        1.2       35.2         9.4       0.3         9.7
D. Agricultural Credit            35.0        6.2       41.2         0.6       0.1         0.7
E. Marketing Services              1.5        0.1        1.6         1.5        0.1         1.6
F. Support to Small Rural
Communities
(i)  APCR                      18.8        3.0       21.8         5.0       0.8         5.8
(ii)  PAC                       --        --          --         20.2        6.6       26.8
(iii) FUMAC                     --        --          --          2.0        0.6        2.6
G. Project Management and          9.7       0.2         9.9        16.9       0.4        17.3
Institutional Strengthening
Total Baseline Cost              122.2      13.8       136.0        77.2      12.5        89.7
Physical Contingencies          1.5        0.5        2.0        --          --         --
Price Contingencies            21.3       0.5        22.3        --          --         --
Total Project Cost               145.0      15.3       160.3        77.2      12.5        89.7
1.  Original project, pre-reformulaiton.
2.  Post-reformulation project.
B. Project Financing
(US$ million)
Source                    Appraisal Estimate 1            Actual/Latest Estimate 2
Local    Foreign                Local    Foreign
Costs     Costs      Total      Costs      Costs      Total
IBRD                                 62.7       15.3      78.0       40.5       12.5       53.0 3
Federal Govermnent                   82.3       --         82.3       28.4       --        28.4
State Government of Piaui             --                   --         6.3        --         6.3
Beneficiaries                         --        --         --          2.0       --         2.0
Total                               145.0       15.3     160.3        77.2      12.5       89.7
1. Federal Government, pre-reformulation.
2.  State Governent, post-reformulation.
3. USS25 million cancelled, December 1994.



- 62 -
TABLE 7. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
MINAS GERAIS PROJECT (Ln. 2861-BR)
A. Project Costs
(US$ million)
Item                    Appraisal Estimate'                Actual/Latest Estimate 2
Local    Foreign                  Local      Foreign
Costs      Costs       Total      Costs       Costs       Total
A. Water Resource Development      14.9        5.0        19.9         2.5        0.8         3.3
B. AgriculturalResearchand          4.6        0.6         5.2         1.1        0.1         1.2
Basic Seed Production
C. Rural Extension Services        22.3        1.6       23.9         4.2         0.3         4.5
D. Agricultural Credit             28.0        4.9        32.9         0.1        0.0         0.1
E. Marketing Services               0.7        0.3         1.0        --          --         --
F. Support to Small Rural
Communities
(i)  APCR                       15.7        2.4       18.1         5.5         0.8         6.3
(ii)  PAC                        --        --          --         36.8         5.7        42.5
(iii) FUMAC                      --        --          --         14.6         4.8        19.4
G. Project Management and           5.3        0.4        5.7         5.2         0.4         5.6
Institutional Strengthening
Total Baseline Cost                91.5       15.2      106.7        70.0        12.9        82.9
Physical Contingencies           1.3        0.5         1.8        --         --          --
Price Contingencies              4.5        0.5         5.0        --         --          --
Total Project Cost                 97.3       16.2      113.5        70.0        12.9        82.9
1.  Original project, pre-reformulaiton.
2.  Post-reformulation project.
B. Project Financing
(US$ million)
Source                    Appraisal Estimate'              Actual/Latest Estimate 2
Local    Foreign                 Local    Foreign
Costs      Costs      Total      Costs      Costs      Total
IBRD                                  38.8       16.2       55.0       37.4        12.9       50.33
Federal Government                    58.5       --         58.5         9.8       --          9.8
State Government of Minas Gerais      --         --         --         16.7        --         16.7
Beneficiaries                         --         --          --         6.1        --          6.1
Total                                 97.3       16.2      113.5       70.0        12.9      82.9
1. Federal Govemrnment, pre-reformulation.
2. State Government, post-reformulation.
3. Pending cancellation of US$4.7 million.



- 63 -
BRAZIL
PERNAMBUCO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2718-BR)
TABLE 8. STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Original          Revised                 Description
Covenant         Present       Fulfillment       Fulfillment                    of
Agreement        Section                  Type            Status          Date               Date                    Covenant                       Comments
Loan             2.08                       5                C                                           Secretary of Treasury designated    Complied with.
as Borrower's representative
3.01 (a)                   5               C                                           Federal comnmitment to carry out   Rural credit component
rural credit component             discontinued with Project
reformulation.
Amendment Letter becamne
effective September 27,
1993.
3.01 (c)                  10               C                                            Refers to settlement targets as    Settlement component
defined in Project Agreement       discontinued with Project
(Sec. 3.03)                        reformulation.
3.01 (d)                   4               C                                            Federal counterpart funding        Counterpart funds have
been provided by the State
instead of the Federal
Government with Project
reformulation.
3.01 (e)                   3               C                                            Efficient Federal mechanism for    Regular flow of funds
passing funds to states            resumed.
3.01 (f)                   5               C                                            Federal commitment on              Rural credit component
mechanism to carry out rural       discontinued after Project
credit component                   reformulation.
Covenant Type:  I Accounts/audit; 2 Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries; 3 Flow and utilization of Project funds; 4 Counterpart funding; 5 Management aspects ofthe Project
or of its executing agency; 6 Environmental covenants; 7 Involuntary resetlement; S Indigenous people; 9 Monitoring, review and reporting; 10 Implementation; 11 Sectoral or
cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation; 12 Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action; 13 Other
Status:          C         = covenant complied with                              NC       = not complied with
CD        = complied with after delay                           NYD      = not yet due
CP        = complied with partially                             SOON    = compliance expected in reasonably short time



- 64 -
BRAZIL
PERNAMBUCO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2718-BR)
TABLE 8. STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS (CONTINUED)
Original          Revised                 Description
Covenant         Present       Fulfillment       Fulfillment                    of
Agreement        Section                  Type            Status          Date               Date                    Covenant                       Comments
Loan             3.01 (g) (h)               3                C                                         Participating bank obligation to    Since rural credit was
(Continued)                                                                                            provide adequate working          discontinued, there was no
capital.                          need for participating banks.
3.01 (i)                   5               C                                         Participating bank obligation to    Same as 3.10(g) (h)
provide monthly information.
4.01                       1               C                                         Audit of Special Accounts         Complied with,
4.02 and 4.03              1               C                                         Accounts and audit of Central     Complied with.
Bank.
Project          2.01 (a) (b)               10               C                                         State comrnitment to execute      Complied with,
Project with due diligence and in
accordance with Plan of Action.
2.01 (c)                  10               C                                         Quarterly reporting by TU         With Project reformulation,
State has submitted to the
Bank and to SUDENE reports
based on the newly created
SSMP.
Covenant Type:  I Accouns/audit; 2 Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries; 3 Flow and utilization of Project funds; 4 Counterpart funding; 5 Management aspects ofthe Project
or of its executing agency; 6 Environmental covenants; 7 Involuntary resettlement; S Indigenous people; 9 Monitoring, review and reporting; 10 Implementation; 11 Sectoral or
cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation; 12 Sectoral or cross-secaoral regulatory/institutional action; 13 Other
Sttus:           C         = covena  conplied with                               NC        = not corplied with
CD        = complied with after delay                           NYD      = not yet due
CP        = complied with partially                             SOON    = compliance expected in reasonably sot time



- 65 -
BRAZIL
PERNAMBUCO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2718-BR)
TABLE 8. STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS (CONTINUED)
Original         Revised                 Description
Covenant         Present      Fulfillment      Fulrillment                   of
Agreement        Section                 Type            Status         Date              Date                   Covenant                      Comments
Project         2.01 (d)                   3               C                                        Mutual obligations of State and    With Project reformulation, it
(Continued)                                                                                         Sl)DENE in preparation of the    became the State's
Annual Plan and budget           responsibility to prepare and
present to the Bank a proposal
for the Annual Plan. In
compliance.
2.02                      3               C                                        State to respect procurement     Complied with.
regulations
2.06                     10               C                                        Carrying out Part F of the       In general terms, the State
reformulated Project in          carried out Part F in a
accordance with the Operational   satisfactory manner. Some
Manual                           operational corrections were
required by the last
supervision mission and
registered in the Aide
Memoire.
2.08                     10               C                                        Canrying out of a publicity      Complied with.
campaign
Covenant Tm.:  I Accounts/audit; 2 Financial performance/generate revenue frormbeneficiaries; 3 Flow and utilization of Project funds; 4 Counterpart funding; 5 Management aspects ofthe Projed
or of its executing agancy; 6 Environmnwtal covenants; 7 Involuntary resetlernent; S ndigenous people; 9 Monitoring, review and reporting, IO Implementation; II Sectoral or
cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation; 12 Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action; 13 Other
Statas:         C         = covenant complied with                             NC       = not complied with
CD       = coniplied with after delay                         NYD    = not yd due
CP        = comnplied with partially                          SOON   = compliace expected in reasonably short tuie



- 66 -
BRAZIL
PIAUI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2762-BR)
TABLE 8. STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Original         Revised                  Description
Covenant       Present      Fulfillment      Fulfillment                    of
Agreement        Section               Type          Status         Date             Date                     Covenant                        Comments
Loan            2.08                     5             C                                         Secretary of Treasury designated as    Complied with.
Borrower's representative
3.01 (a)                5             C                                         Federal commitment to carry out      Rural credit component
rural credit component              discontinued with Project
reformulation. Amendment
Letter became effective
September27, 1993.
3.01 (b)               10             C                                         Federal commitment to cause state    Complied with.
to perform according to Project
Agreement
3.01 (c)                10            C                                         Refers to settlement targets as      Settlement component
defined in Project Agreement        discontinued with Project
(Section 3.03, see below)           reformulation.
3.01 (d)                4             C                                         Federal counterpart funding          Counterpart funds have been
provided by the State instead
of the Federal Government
with Project reformulation.
3.01 (e)                3             C                                         Efficient Federal mechanism for      Regular flow of funds
passing funds to states             resumed.
Covenant Type:  I Accounts/audit; 2 Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries; 3 Flow and utilization of Project funds; 4 Counterpart funding, 5 Management aspects of the Project
or of its executing agency, 6 EnvironenWal covenants; 7 Involuntary resetlemnent; S Indigenous people; 9 Monitoring, review and reporting; 1o Implementation; 11 Sectoral or
cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation; 12 Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action; 13 Other
Status:         C         = covenant complied with                             NC       = not complied with
CD        = complied with aflter delay                        NYD    = not yet due
CP        = complied with partially                           SOON   = compliance expected in reasonably short time



- 67 -
BRAZIL
PIAUI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2762-BR)
TABLE 8. STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS (CONTINUED)
Original        Revised                 Description
Covenant      Present      Fulfillment     Fulfillment                    of
Agreement       Section               Type          Status        Date             Date                    Covenant                       Comments
Loan            3.01 (f) (i) (a)        10            C                                        On lending terms and conditions for  Rural credit component
(Continued)                                                                                   rural credit component              discontinued with Project
reformulation.
3.01 (f) (i) (b)       3             C                                        Participating bank obligation to   Since rural credit was
provide adequate working capital.    discontinued, there was no
need for participating banks.
3.01 (f) (i) (c)       5             C                                        Participating bank obligation to   Same as 3.01 (f) (i) (b)
provide monthly information.
3.02                   3             C                                        SUDENE's obligation to provide     Complied with. With Project
the Bank with advance Annual Plan,  reformulation, it became the
final budgets and changes in       State's responsibility to
planning procedures, all in timely  prepare and present to the
fashion for comment.               Bank a proposal for the
Annual Plan.
4.01                    1            C                                        Audit of Special Accounts          Complied with.
4.02 and 4.03           1            C                                        Accounts and audit of Central Bank.  Complied with.
Project         2.01 (a) (b)            5             C                                        State commitment to execute Project  Complied with.
with due diligence and in
accordance with Plan of Action.
Covenant TyVe: I Accounts/audit; 2 Financial perfornance/generate revenue from beneficianes; 3 Flow and utilization of Project funds; 4 Counterpait funding; 5 Management aspects of the Project
or of its executing agency-, 6 Environmental covenants; 7 Involuntary resettlement; S Indigenous people; 9 Monitorig; review  and repedig, 10 Inqipenatation; 11 Sectral or
cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation; 12 Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action; 13 Other
Stats:          C         = covenant complied with                           NC      = not complied with
CD       = conplied with aftr delay                         NYD    = not yet due
CP       = co-plied with partially                          SOON   = compliance exected in reasonably short tim



- 68 -
BRAZIL
PIAUI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2762-BR)
TABLE 8. STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS (CONTINUED)
Original         Revised                  Description
Covenant       Present      Fulfillment      Fulfillment                    of
Agreement        Section               Type          Status         Date             Date                     Covenant                        Comments
Project          2.01 (c)                5             C                                         Mutual obligations of State and     With Project reformulation,
(Continued)                                                                                      executing agency, defined by        State line agencies were no
contract                            longer expected to participate
in the Project, except on a
voluntary basis (accredited
agents).
2.01 (d)                5             C                                         Quarterly reporting by TU           With Project reformulation,
State has submitted to the
Bank and to SUDENE reports
based on the newly created
SSMP.
2.01 (e)                5             C                                         Reorganize TU, provide qualified    Done.
staff
2.01 (f)                5             C                                         TU obligation for Annual Plan        Done.
2.02                    3             C                                         State to respect procurement         Recife Office kept
regulations                         procurement process under
control and Executing Agency
complied with all requests.
2.06                    5             C                                         Canying out of Part F of the        Complied with.
reformulated Project in accordance
with the Operational Manual
2.08                    10            C                                         Carrying out of a publicity campaign  Complied with.
Covenant Tvne:  I Accounts/audit; 2 Finanial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries; 3 Flow and utilization of Project funds; 4 Counterpart funding; 5 Management aspects ofthe Project
or of its executing agency, 6 Environmental covenants; 7 Involuntary resettlement; 8 Indigenous people; 9 Monitoring, review and reporting, 10 Implementation; 11 Sectoral or
cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation; 12 Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action; 13 Other
Status:          C         = covenant complied with                            NC       = not complied with
CD        = coniplied with afler delay                        NYD    = not yet due
CP        = complied with partially                           SOON   = cornpliance expected in reasonably short time



- 69 -
BRAZIL
MINAS GERAIS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2861-BR)
TABLE 8. STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Original       Revised                    Description
Covenant  Present   Fulfillment   Fulfillment                          of
Agreement   Section                Type       Status       Date           Date                       Covenant                               Comments
Loan          2.08                   5          C                                     Secretary of Treasury designated as        Complied with.
Borrower's representative
3.01 (a)              5          C                                     Federal commitment to carTy out rural      Rural credit component
credit component                           discontinued with Project
reformulation. Amendment Letter
became effective September 28,
1993.
3.01 (c)              10         C                                     Refers to settlement targets as defined in  Settlement component
Project Agreemnent (Section 3.03, see      discontinued with Project
below)                                     reformulation.
3.01 (d)              4          C                                     Federal counterpart funding                Counterpart funds have been
provided by the State instead of
the Federal Governmuent with
Project reformulation.
3.01 (e)              3          C                                     Efficient Federal mechanism for passing    Federal (loan) funds transferred
funds to states                            expeditiously by STN to MIR.
MIR, however, delayed release of
loan funds to the State after change
in Ministry's administration.
3.01 (f) (i) (a)      10         C                                     Federal commitment to mechanism to carry   Rural credit component
out rural credit component                discontinued with Project
reformulation.
Covenant TyDe: I Accounts/audit; 2 Financial performance/generate revenue firom beneficiaries; 3 Flow and utilization of Project fiunds; 4 Counterpart funding; 5 Management aspects of the Project
or ofits executing agency, 6 Environmental covenants; 7 Involuntary resettlement; 8 Indigenous people; 9 Monitoring, review and reporting; 10 hIplenentation; 11 Sectoral or
cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation; 12 Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action; 13 Other
Status:         c         = covenant comfplied with                            NC       = not complied with
CD        = complied with after delay                         NYD    =not yet due
CP        = complied with partially                           SOON   = compliance expected in reasonably short time



- 70 -
BRAZIL
MINAS GERAIS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2861-BR)
TABLE 8. STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS (CONTINUED)
Original       Revised                    Description
Covenant  Present   Fulfillment    Fulfillment                         of
Agreement   Section                Type       Status       Date           Date                       Covenant                              Comments
Loan          3.01 (f) (i) (b)       3          C                                    Participating bank obligation to provide   Since rural credit was discontinued,
(Continued)                                                                          adequate working capital                   there was no need for participating
banks.
3.01 (f) (i) (c)      5          C                                     Participating bank obligation to provide  Same as 3.01 (f) (i) (b)
monthly information
3.01 (h)              8          C                                     Ensure action on Amerindian problem       See comments on Project
Agreement, 2.01 (h)
3.02                  3          C                                     SUDENE's obligation to provide the Bank   Complied with. With Project
with advance Annual Plan, final budgets    reformulation, it became the State's
and changes in planning procedures, all in   responsibility to prepare and
timely fashion, for comment.              present to the Bank a proposal for
the Annual Plan.
4.01                  1          C                                     Audit of Special Accounts                 Complied with.
4.02 and 4.03         1          C                                     Accounts and audit of Central Bank.       Complied with.
Project       2.01 (a) (b)           5          C                                    State commitment to execute Project with   Complied with.
due diligence and in accordance with Plan
of Action.
Covenant Type: I Accounts/audit; 2 Financial perfornance/generate revenue fromn beneficiaries; 3 Flow and utilization of Project funds; 4 Counterpart funding; 5 Management aspects of the Project
or of its executing agency; 6 Environmental covenants; 7 Involuntary resettlement; 8 Indigenous people; 9 Monitoring, review and reporting; 10 Implementation; 11 Sectoral or
cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation; 12 Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action; 13 Other
Status.          C         = covenant complied with                            NC       = not complied with
CD        = complied with after delay                         NYD    = not yet due
CP        = complied with partially                           SOON   = compliance expected in reasonably short time



- 71 -
BRAZIL
MINAS GERAIS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2861-BR)
TABLE 8. STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS (CONTINUED)
Original       Revised                    Description
Covenant  Present   Fulfillment   Fulfillment                          of
Agreement   Section                Type       Status       Date           Date                       Covenant                               Comments
Project       2.01 (c)               5          C                                    Mutual obligations of State and executing    With Project reformulation, State
(Continued)                                                                          agency, defined by contract                line agencies were no longer
expected to participate in the
Project, except on a voluntary basis
(accredited agents).
2.01 (d)              5          C                                     Quarterly reporting by TU                 With Project reformulation, State
has submitted to the Bank and to
SUDENE reports based on the
newly created SSMP.
2.01 (e)              5         NYD                                    Reorganize reporting by TU                 Same as above.
2.01 (g)              5          C                                     TU obligation for Annual Plan             Done for FY94.
2.01 (h)              8          C                                     Resettlement of non-Amerindians           The problemn of Xahriabo was
reasonably well-handled.
2.02                  3          C                                     State to respect procuremnent regulations  Reasonable response.
2.06                  5          C                                     Carrying out of Part F of the reformulated    Complied with.
Project in accordance with the Operational
Manual
2.08                  10         C                                     Carrying out of a publicity campaign      Reinforcement in some areas still
required.
Covenant TVDe:  1 Accounts/audit; 2 Financial perfonnance/generate revenue from beneficiaries; 3 Flow and utilization of Project funds; 4 Counterpart funding; 5 Management aspects of the Project
or of its executing agency; 6 Environmental covenants; 7 Involuntary resettlement; S Indigenous people; 9 Monitoring, review and reporting, 10 Irnplementation; II Sectoral or
cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation; 12 Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action; 13 Other
Status:         C         = covenant complied with                             NC       = not complied with
CD        = complied with aflter delay                        NYD    = not yet due
CP        = complied with partially                           SOON   = compliance expected in reasonably short time



- 72 -
TABLE 9. ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
Introduction:
1.    The Internal Economic Rate of Return (IERR) was not re-calculated for the original
projects (pre-reformulation) for the reasons stated in Part 1, para. 86. The reformulated projects
were part of a program of targeted interventions based on a demand-driven mechanism of which
the costs, benefits and rates of return could not be determined ex ante. IERRs were not
calculated for the reformulated projects and thus there is no "re-calculation" of the IERRs for this
ICR. For a discussion of the results of recent FAO/World Bank analyses (1995, 1996 and 1997)
of socio-economic benefits and cost-effectiveness of sample productive subprojects under the
NRDP, see Part 1, paras. 86-89 and Tables 9A-9G below. Tables 9A and 9B are based on sample
data from all ten states in the NRDP (the 1995 analysis); Tables 9C-9G are based on state-specific
data for Pernambuco and Piaui from the 1996 analysis; and Minas Gerais is derived from the 1997
analysis.



- 73 -
TABLE 9A. SOCIO-ECONOMIc BENEFITS OF PAC/FUMAC SUBPROJECTS BY MAIN SUBPROJECT TYPE 1'
(All Northeast States, 1995)
Subproject   Total No. of    Total No. of     Cost per    Total No.   Total Net    Total Net        Total      Internal     Cost Effectiveness
Type        Approved      Beneficiaries   Beneficiary    of Jobs   Incremental  Incremental  Incremental    Econ.         Total       Social
Subprojects                      (US$)       Created    Income per   Income per   Crop Area    Rate of   Investment   Benefit-
Year      Beneficiary      (ha)       Return      per Job       Cost
(US$ '000)    per Year                              Created      Ratio'u
(US$)                                (us$)
Infrastructure
- Rural water          976         138,592           142          --            -             --           --         --          --          --
supply
- Rural                758          36,384           400          --            -             -            --         --          --          --
electrification
Productive
- Manioc mills         380          39,520           297      11,460        14,890          377         7,900       > 50       1,273       > 3.0
- Tractors for         198          15,048           438       9,900        11,587          770        36,080       > 50        816        > 3.0
communal use
- Rice mills            62           2,932           234        398           968           330         1,220       > 50      2,895        > 3.0
- Clothes               88           7,360           109       1,583         1,400          190            --       > 50        925        > 3.0
making
Social
- Health-related       116           8,236           461
house
improvement
- Daycare               29           2,639           290                      605           229            --       > 50         --        > 3.0
centers
1/ Based on data from sample subprojects in all ten NDRP states.
2/ Real discount rate is 10%.
Source: Bank/FAO Evaluation, 1995



- 74 -
TABLE 9B. FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY ANALYSIS OF PRODUCTIVE SUBPROJECTS1
(All Northeast States, 1995)
Item/Subproject               Manioc Mills          Rice Mills       Farm Tractors
Number of associations                              380                  62                 198
Average net income per association                3,737              2,131               6,631
(US$) 2'
Average cost of subproject (US$)                20,000              11,000              33,300
Average number of years:
Of useful economic life (years)                      12                  12                  10
To build replacement fund (years) 3'                  5                   5                   5
1/ Based on data from sample subprojects in all ten NRDP states.
2/ Total income from association fees and cost recovery net of all O&M and other recurrent costs.
3/ Number of years after which the association has accumulated enough flunds to replace the original investment,
which is considerably less than the useful economic life of the investment. The real interest rate is assumed to
be 10%.
Source: Bank/FAO Evaluation, 1995



- 75 -
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PERNAMBUCO
(Loan 2718-BR)
TABLE 9C. SOCIO-ECONOMIC BENEFITS OF PAC/FUMAC SUBPROJECTS BY MAIN SUBPROJECT TYPE1'
Subproject    Total No. of    Total No. of    Cost per      Total      Total Net      Total Net       Total        Internal Rate of         Cost Effectiveness
Type         Approved      Beneficiaries   Beneficiary    No. of   Incremental  Incremental  Incremental            Return              Total         Social
Subprojects     (Families)       Family       Jobs     Income per   Income per   Crop Area   Financial  Economic  Investment    Benefit-
(USS)      Created       Year        Beneficiary      (ha)        (%)         (%)        per Job         Cost
(US$        per Year                     M)          ()        Created        Ratio ~
'000)         (USS)                                              (USS)
Infrastructure
- Rural                  482         30,107           445         _              _             _             _                      _             _              _
electrification
(39%) v'
- Ruralwatersupply       121         22,806           159         -              -             _             _           _          _             _              _
(10%) y
Productive
- Tractors for           151          9,362           409      3,443          2,979           318        32,918       >50         >50         1,095            1.3
communal use
(12%) y'
-(Manioc mills            47          2,350           168       483             634          270          1,786       >50         >50         1,535            1.3
(4%) 3'
- Small-scale             30          2,457           362      1,145          3,290         1,339          840        >50         >50           457            2.3
irrigation (2%) 3 _
Social
- Health-related          85          8,840           228         -              -             -
house
improvements
(7%) l'
1 /  Total no. of subprojects implemented, total no. of beneficiaries and cost per beneficiary obtained from State database (SSMP). Jobs created, net incremental income, incremental
crop area, IRRs and cost-effectiveness estimated based on sample subprojects surveyed in that category.
2/  Real discount rate is 10%.
3/  Percentage of all subprojects approved in the State.
4/  Only one subproject could be surveyed in this category.
Source: Bank/FAO Evaluation, 1996



- 76 -
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PERNAMBUCO
(Loan 2718-BR)
TABLE 9D. FiNANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY ANALYSIS OF PRODUCTIVE SUBPROJECTS
Item/Project                  Manioc Mill            Farm Tractor
Number of associations                                   47                   151
Average net income per association                    2,227                 4,685
(US$) I/
Average cost of subproject (US$)                    21,195                 31,124
Averane number of years:
Of useful economic life (years)                          12                     10
To build replacement fund (years) 2                       7                      5
1/ Total income from association fees and cost recovery net of all O&M and other recurrent costs.
2/ Number of years after which the association has accumulated enough funds to replace the
original investment, which is considerably less than the useful economic life of the investment.
The real interest rate is assumed to be 10%.
Source: Bank/FA0 Evaluation, 1996



- 77 -
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PIAUI
(Loan 2762-BR)
TABLE 9E. SocIo-EcoNoMIc BENEFITS OF PAC/FUMAC SUBPROJECTS BY MAIN SUBPROJECT TYPE-
Subproject    Total No. of    Total No. of    Cost per      Total      Total Net      Total Net       Total        Internal Rate of         Cost Effectiveness
Type         Approved      Beneficiaries   Beneficiary    No. of    Incremental  Incremental  Incremental           Return              Total         Social
Subprojects     (Families)      Family        Jobs     Income per   Income per   Crop Area   Financial  Economic  Investment    Benefit-
(US$)      Created       Year        Beneficiary      (ha)        (%           /        per Job         Cost
(US  '000)     per Year                    ()                    Created        Ratio 2
(US$)                                             (US$)
Infrastructure
- Rural water supply     509         34,701           163         _              _             _                                    _             _              _
(32%) y
- Rural                  343         24,696           396
electrification
(22%) y
-Ruralroad               164         29,848           166
rehabilitation
(11%) '
Productive
- Clothes making          26            780           551        754            456           100           n/a         33        n/a           570             1.4
(2%)
Social
- Health-related          70          5,600           412         -               --            -                             -                   -              -
house
improvement
(5%)
- Rehabilitation of        8            936           257
rural health posts
(1%) '
1/  Total no. of subprojects implemented, total no. of beneficiaries and cost per beneficiary obtained from State database (SSMP). Jobs created, net incremental income, incremental
crop area, IRRs and cost-effectiveness estimated based on sample subprojects surveyed in that category.
_/ Real discount rate is 10%.
3/ Percentage of all subprojects approved in the State.
Note: There was insufficient data to perform a financial sustainability analysis for Piaui.
Source: Bank/FA0 Evaluation, 1996



- 78 -
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - MINAS GERAIS
(Loan 2861-BR)
TABLE 9F. SOCIO-ECONOMIC BENEFITS OF PAC/FUMAC SUBPROJECTS BY MAIN SUBPROJECT TYPE,
Subproject     Total No. of     Total No. of     Cost per    Total No.    Total Net      Total Net       Total       Internal Rate of      Cost Effectiveness
Type         Approved       Beneficiaries    Beneficiary    of Jobs    Incremental  Incremental  Incremental          Return             Total       Social
Subprojects      (Families)       (USS)       Created    Income per   Income per   Crop Area   Finan.  Economic   Investment   Benefit-
Year       Beneficiary      (ha)                              per Job       Cost
(USS -000        U per Year                            (%)    Created        Ratio 2
(US$)                                           (U5$)
Infrastructure
- Rural electrification   878            27,189         1,030
(48%) 3
- Rural water supply      225             12,540         512           _                                _                                 _             _
(12%) 3'
Productive
- Tractors for            282            20,634          437        6,000      3,646          177          35,250          37     >50 $      1,539          1.2
communal use
(15%) y
- Manioc mills (2%)3'      29              1,443          534        863        374           259             435         >50     >50 4'      766           1.8
Social
- Health-related house     70             2,442           939          _  _              _              _             _         _         _
improvement (4%) 3'
- Community schools        17             2,501           158
rehabilitation (1%) 3'
I/  Total no. of subprojects implemented, total no. of beneficiaries and cost per beneficiary obtained from State database (SSMP). Jobs created, net incremental income, incremental
crop area, IRRs and cost-effectiveness estimated based on sample subprojects surveyed in that category.
2/  Real discount rate is 10%.
3/  Percentage of all subprojects approved in the State.
4/  28% and 33%, respectively, when shadowing public funds.
Source: Bank/FAO Evaluation (draft), 1997



- 79 -
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - MINAS GERAIS
(Loan 2861-BR)
TABLE 9G. FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY ANALYSIS OF PRODUCTIVE SUBPROJECTS
Item/Project                   Manioc Mill            Farm Tractor
Number of associations                                    29                    282
Average net income per association                    23,181                 17,994
(US$) l'
Average cost of subproject (US$)                      22,800                 32,753
Average number of years:
Of useful economic life (years)                           12                      10
To build replacement fund (years) 2'                       4                       3
1/ Total income from association fees and cost recovery net of all O&M and other recurrent costs.
2/ Number of years after which the association has accumulated enough funds to replace the
original investment, which is considerably less than the useful economic life of the investment.
The real interest rate is assumed to be 10%.
Source: Bank/FAO Evaluation (Draft), 1997



- 80 -
TABLE 10. BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
PERNAMBUCO PROJECT (Ln. 2718-BR)
STAGE OF PROJECT CYCLE
FISCAL                                       Negotiations                                     TOTAL
YEAR                                       through Board
Preparation      Appraisal        Approval        Supervision    Completion
STAFF WEEKS
1986                          34.3             3.4                0.1                           37.8
1987                                                             32.1                          32.1
1988                                                             34.8                           34.8
1989                                                              9.3                            9.3
1990                                                              7.3                            7.3
1991                                                             17.3                           17.3
1992                                                              7.6                            7.6
1993                                                             11.3                           11.3
1994                                                              8.4                            8.4
1995                                                              6.8                            6.8
1996                                                              3.3                            3.3
1997                                                              2.0            3.5             5.5
Total          --              34.3             3.4             140.3             3.5          181.5
US$'(00
1986                          52.1             6.6                0.1                           58.8
1987                                                             18.3                           18.3
1988                                                             28.2                          28.2
1989                                                             16.6                           16.6
1990                                                             17.4                           17.4
1991                                                             28.7                          28.7
1992                                                             17.3                           17.3
1993                                                             24.0                          24.0
1994                                                             15.2                           15.2
1995                                                              8.2                            8.2
1996                                                              5.3                            5.3
1997                                                              3.2            7.2            10.4
Total          --              52.1             6.6             182.5             7.2          248.4
I .Total costs (labor only) for period 1986 to 1997. Informnation prior to FYI 986 is not available.
Source; COS



- 81 -
TABLE 10. BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTSI
PIAUI PROJECT (Ln. 2762-BR)
STAGE OF PROJECT CYCLE
FISCAL                                      Negotiations                                     TOTAL
YEAR                                      through Board
Preparation      Appraisal        Approval        Supervision    Completion
STAFF WEEKS
1985           7.2                                                                             7.2
1986          26.2            48.4             5.5                                             0. 1
1987                                           6.7               7.9                           14.6
1988                                                            17.4                           17.4
1989                                                            13.5                           13.5
1990                                                            14.1                           14.1
1991                                                            1 1.8                          11.8
1992                                                            15.1                           15.1
1993                                                            15.7                           15.7
1994                                                            12.2                           12.2
1995                                                             9.4                            9.4
1996                                                            16.4                           16 4
1997                                                             6.2            3.3            9.5
Total         33.4            48.4            12.2              139.7            3.3          237.0
US$'000
1985          13.9                                                                             13.9
1986          52.3            74.4            11.(                                           137 7
1987                                          12.5              14.2                          26.7
1988                                                            35.4                          354
1989                                                            29.4                          29.4
1990                                                            32.6                          32.6
1991                                                            21.0                          21.0
1992                                                            24.1                          24.1
1993                                                            29.7                          29.7
1994                                                            21.1                          21.1
1995                                                            13.7                           13.7
1996                                                            23.2                          23.2
1997                                                             8.6            6.0            14.6
Total         66.2             74.4           23.5              253.0            6.0          423.1
T. T otal costs (labor only) for period 1985 to 1997. lnfbrmatiotn prior to FY 1985 is not available
Source: COS



- 82 -
TABLE 1 0. BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS'
MINAS GERAIS PROJECT (Ln. 2861-BR)
STAGE OF PROJECT CYCLE
FISCAL                                       Negotiations                                     TOTAL
YEAR                                       through Board
Preparation      Appraisal        Approval        Supervision    Completion
STAFF WEEKS
1986          16.3                                                                              16.3
1987          32.2             13.9             1.6                                             47.7
1988                                                              8.4                            8.4
1989                                                              6.3                            6.3
1990                                                             10.3                           10.3
1991                                                              9.6                            9.6
1992                                                             10.7                           10.7
1993                                                             14.1                           14.1
1994                                                              9.4                            9.4
1995                                                              6.1                            6.1
1996                                                              8.2                            8.2
1997                                                              3.2            2.3             5.5
Total          48.5            13.9             1.6              86.3             2.3          152.6
USS'ooo
1986          32.6                                                                              32.6
1987          56.8            24.4              3.5                                             84.7
1988                                                             17.5                           17.5
1989                                                             13.6                           13.6
1990                                                             21.7                          21.7
1991                                                             13.8                           13.8
1992                                                             18.5                           18.5
1993                                                             22.5                           22.5
1994                                                             16.5                           16.5
1995                                                             11.7                           11.7
1996                                                             11.8                           11.8
1997                                                              4.7            4.7             9.4
Total          89.4            24.4             3.5             152.3             4.7          274.3
I  Total costs (labor only) for period 1986 to 1997. Information prior to FYI 986 is not availablc.
Source: COS



- 83 -
TABLE 11. BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
PERNAMBUCO PROJECT (Ln. 2718-BR)
Days    Specialized      Performance Rating
Stage of        Month/   No. of    in        staff skills    Impl.      Develop.      Types of
Project Cycle    Year   persons  field    represented        Status    Objectives     problems
Through          7/85       2        20      Ag, AgEc         n/a         n/a            n/a
Appraisal
Appraisal        11/85      6        30    Ag, AgEc, Ec.      n/a         n/a            n/a
through Board                                 IrrEng
Approval
Supervision      11/86      3        10      Ag. AgEc          2           2          Fin, Man
7/87       2       9         AgEc            2           2           Fin, Inst
3/88       5       11    Ag, AgEc, Ec.       2           2          Fin, Man
Eng, IrrEng
5/89       1       11         Ec             2           2          Fin, Man
11/89      1       19          Ec             2           2            Man
5/90       2       11      Ec, IrrEng        2           2             Fin
10/90      2        3     AgEc, IrrEng        2           2            Man
6/91             Updated 590                 3            2         Fin, Man
6/92             Updated 590                 2            1         Fin, Man
6/93             Updated 590                 2           2          Fin, Man
5/94       1       5         AgEc            S           S          Fin, Man
9/95       1       4          Ag             S           S            Tech



- 84 -
TABLE 11. BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
PIAUI PROJECT (Ln. 2762-BR)
Days    Specialized     Performance Rating
Stage of         Month/   No. of    in       staff skills   Impl.     Develop.      Types of
Project Cycle     Year   persons  field   represented       Status    Objectives    problems
Through           7/85       2       21      Ag, AgEc        n/a         n/a           n/a
Appraisal
Appraisal         11/85      6       31    Ag, AgEc, Ec      n/a         n/a           n/a
through Board
Approval
Board Approval    4/87       2       5       Ag, AgEc        n/a         n/a           n/a
through
Effectiveness
6/87       1       12         Ag            4          4       Fin, Inst, Man
Supervision       5/88       1       3        FinAn           2           2            Fin
9/X8       4       12    Ag, AgEc, Ec       2          2         Fin, Tech
4/89       1       12         Ec            3           2         Fin, Man
1(/89      1       2          Ec            3           3       Fin, Inst, Man
12/89      2       2        Ag, Ec          3           2         Fin, Man
6/90       3       13       Ag, Ec,         3           3      Fin, Inst, Man
IrrEng
9/90       1       5        AgEc            3           3      Fin, Inst, Man,
Tech
7/91       1      n/a       AgEc            3          2          Fin, Man
10/91 al    1       4        IrrEng         n/a         n/a          n/a
6/92        1       3        IrrEng         n/a        n/a           n/a
6/92             Updated 590                2           1           Man
4/93       1      n/a       AgEc            2           1           Man
10/93      1       6         AgEc           2           1           Man
3/94       1       10       AgEc            S          S            n/a
5/95             Updated 590                S          S            n/a
10/95      7       4       Ag, AgEc,        U           U      Fin, Inst, Man,
Anth, Ec,                               Tech
RurDev
6/96             Updated 590                S          S            n/a
Completion        12/96      1       4         AgEc           S           S            n/a
a/ Mission to supervise irrigation component.



- 85 -
TABLE 11. BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
MINAS GERAIS PROJECT (Ln. 2861-BR)
Days    Specialized     Performance Rating
Stage of        Month/   No. of    in       staff skills    Impl.     Develop.      Types of
Project Cycle     Year   persons  field   represented       Status    Objectives    problems
Through           3/86       1       3         AgEc          n/a         n/a           n/a
Appraisal
5/86      3        9      Ag, IrrEng       n/a         n/a          n/a
Appraisal        12/86       5       10     Ec, lnstDev.     n/a         n/a           n/a
through Board                                 IrrEng
Approval
Supervision      12/87       1       11       FinAn           2           2       Fin, Inst, Man
5/88       1       9        FinAn           2          2       Fin, Inst, Man
5/89      2       22      Ec, IrrEng        2          2       Fin. Inst, Man
12/89      1       3          Ec            2           2         Fin. Inst
5/90      2        10     Ec, IrrEng        3           3         Fin, Man
10/90      2       5    AgEc, IrrEng        3           2         Fin. Man
5/91 a      1 I    n/a       AgEc            3          2            n/a
3/92 br     1      19        IrrEng         n/a         n/a          n/a
9/92       1       9        AgEc            2           1           Man
6/93 a      I      n/a       AgEc            2           1           n/a
12/93      1       5         AgEc           2           2            Fin
5/94       1       8        AgEc            U          S            Fin
5/95             Updated 590                S          S            n/a
8/95       1       6        AgEc            S          S            n/a
6/96             Updated 590                S           S           n/a
11/96      1       5         AgEc           S           S            n/a
Completion        2/97             Updated 590                S           S            n/a
a/ No Aide Memoire or Back-to-Office Report on file.
b/ Mission to supervise irrigation component and reformulate project.



- 86 -
TABLE 12. DISBURSEMENT PERFORMANCE OF THE NRDP BY STATE
(US$ million)
State            Original Loan      Disbursement at       Cancellations 2/         Actual            Outstanding
Amount           Reformulation 1'                           Disbursement           Balance
after
Reformulation
Pernambuco                    92.0                  47.1                 20.0                 24.9                  0.0
Piaui                         78.0                  30.5                 25.0                 22.5                  0.0
MinasGerais                   55.0                  11.2                  0.0                 39.1                  4.7
Total                        225.0                 88.8                 45.0                  86.5                  4.7
1/ Reformulation became effective on September 28, 1993.
2/ Cancellation became effective on December 21, 1994.
Source BanklFAO Evaluation, 1997



- 87 -
TABLE 13. NUMBER OF MUNICIPALITIES REACHED BY NRDP
(as of December 31, 1996)l
State                               Number of Municipalities 2/                           Implemented/completed projects per
municipality
In the        In the      With implemented/completed projects
State     Project Area
Total         PAC        FUMAC            Total         PAC         FUMAC
Pemambuco                     174           167           161           145            16             7.7          7.4            10.3
Piaui                        148            123           117           107            10            13.4         13.2            15.2
Minas Gerais                  79 3           79 3/         79            61            18            22.5         21.2           26.4
Total                        401           369            357           313            44            13.0         12.1            18.7
I f' Does not include municipalities reached in final stage of projects
2, The Crim of the PAC and F1UMY'LAC 1UnHicipalities max exceed thc total number of municipalities in the project arca because some original PAC
municipalities later became FUMAC.
3/ Including 29 municipalities of Jequitinhonha Valley that werc incorporated into the Project in 1996.
Source: Bank/FAG Evaluation. 1997



- 88 -
TABLE 14. AVERAGE COST OF PAC/FUMAC SUBPROJECTS, BY TYPE AND BY STATE
STATE                                                          Average Cost by Type 2
(USS)
Manioc    Farm    Water supply    Water        Small    Rural       Rice        House        Small-     Bridge    Clothes
flour    tractor    (simplified    supply (all   dam    electrif-  processing  improvement    scale              making
mill               system) 3/     types)              ication                             irrigation
Pernambuco          24,000    31,000        29,000       30,000   29P000    28,000     30,000         28,000      29,000     28.000    25,000
Piaui                5,843    30,825        16,800        8,722   22,343    26,383      8,859         30,897      17.701    27,969    18,428
Minas Gerais        26,591    31,998        28,517       27,400   24,157    31,911         --         32,745      18,351    31,444       19,8
19,839
Alagoas             12,425    18,735        16,050       23,625    9,615    27,202         --             --    27,970      28,850         --
Bahia                7,416    19,918        14,544       14,500   13,154    20,514      10,897         18,870     18,970    20,391    22,727
Ceara               18,526    37,676            --       21,840   27,324    22,650     24,273         25,298     29,616     28,114    26,910
Maranhao             8,364    25,117        21,358       24,305   15,859    28,539      10,618        30,593      24,316     21,264    21,964
Paraiba             15,015    38,439        18,288       16,844   19,139    24,957      7,693              --    13.572         --    13,172
Rio Grandc do       18,692    33,700        17.200       22.172   28.603    19,407         --             --    25,020      18,337    20,796
Norte
Scrgipe             11.300    29,035        30,500       29,601       --   23.692          --         24,437         --    25,935          --
Total               14,817    29,644        21,362       21,901   21,022    25,326     15,390         27,263      22,724    25,589    21,105
1/ Costs include bcneficiary contributions.
2/ Nature and technical specification for the same type of projcct vary within and among states.
3/ .Sistema simplificado de abastecimento de cigua: water supply system usually comprising a high tank used to store water originating from different sources (surface
or pumped groundwater) and a simple gravity distribution network.
Source: Bank/FAO Evaluation (Draft), 1997



- 89 -
TABLE 15. NUMBER OF SUBPROJECTS IMPLEMENTED AND BENEFICIARIES REACHED
State           Original         Target at Reformulation            Achievement after
Target                                              Reformulation
Beneficiaries'    Subprojects   Beneficiaries2    Subprojects    BeneficiariCs2
Implemented                    Implemented
Pemambuco                   73,000             700           17,500         1,237         136,855
Piaui                       65,000           1,200           30,000         1.569         187.39()
Minas Gerais                38.000           1,100           27.500         1,844         114,225
Alagoas                     32,400             750           18,700           742          81,873
Bahia                       80.000           3,000           75,000         2,701         418,175
Ceara                      122.800           2,000           50.000         3,025         208,83()
Maranhao                    73,000           1.600           32.000         3,065         324,890
Paraiba                     37,800             920           23.000         2.308         149,633
Rio Grande do Norte         35,00()            700           17,500           769          71,300
Sergipe                     17,500             650           16,200          600           86,182
Total                      574,500          12,620         307,400         17,753       1,779,320
l  Number of families benefiting from the project at full development.
2  Number of families benefitting from PAC/FUMAC subprojects implemcnted.



- 90 -                Appendix
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
PERNAMBUCO, PIAUI AND MINAS GERAIS PROJECTS
(Loans 2718-BR, 2762-BR and 2861-BR)
BORROWER CONTRIBUTION



APPEND LX
PRORURAL
Government of the State of Pernambuco
Secretariat of Planning
Rua Benfica, 1006 Madalena
Recife-PE - CEP 60720-001
Telephone: (081) 445-1566
Fax: (081) 445-2885 Telex: (081) 2108)
GAB. SUP. No 93/97                     Recife, June 6, 1997
Dr. Gustavo Rodrigues
Secretariat of International Affairs
Ministry of Planning and Budget
Brasilia, DF
Dear Sir:
We wish to acknowledge receipt of the draft "Implementation Completion Report"
regarding the Northeast Rural Development Program for the States of Pernambuco, Piaui
and Minas Gerais, Loans 2718-BR, 2762-BR and 2861-BR, respectively, signed by the
Federative Republic of Brazil and the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development -IBRD.
We have finished reading the report, particularly with respect to the State of Pemambuco,
and its content unmistakably expresses the reality of the facts that occurred during the
implementation of the Program, and faithfully depicts the difficulties, lessons and progress
that were provided by this important initiative.
Thus, we have no objection to the content of this report, and wish to add that the lessons
learned in its implementation were very important for an entire generation of technicians,
producers and institutions and especially for the generation of subsidies for a new
generation of development projects in the Northeast
Sincerely,
(signed)
WALMAR ISACKSSON JIUCA
Superintendent
cc: Dr. Tulio Barbosa, World Bank



APP EPI IX
GOVERNMENT OF THE STATE OF PIAUI
SECRETARIAT OF PLANNING
PCPR TECHNICAL UNIT
Dr. Tulio Barbosa
Head, Recife Office - IBRD
Recife, PE
Dear Sir
I refer to the document titled "Implementation Completion Report - Brazil -
Northeast Rural Development Program - Pernambuco, Piaui, and Minas Gerais (May 22,
1997)" to express the State's complete agreement with the terms of the report whose
description and evaluation duly reflect the process developed in the Piaui PAPP, and serve
as an instrument of reference and support for the future activities of the new Rural Poverty
Alleviation Project to be implemented in this State with the IBRD's support.
Sincerely,
(signed)
Gil Borges dos Santos
Executive Director of the TU-PCPR
cc: Dr. Marcelo Vieira Siqueira - SEAIN



APi' P L I) X
FACSIMILE TRANSMIISSION
State Secretariat of Planning and General Coordination
RuaBernardo Guimaraes, 2371 Tel.: (031) 339-3333
Telex: 318211
3014-082 Belo Horizonte/MG-BRAZIL
CGC 18.787.903/0001-20           State Registration Exempt
Our Ref N         Date: 06/06/97      Origin Fax (03 1) 226-9007
To:   WORLD BANK
Attn: DR. TULIO BARBOSA
City:  BRASILIA, DF              Country: BRAZIL.   Fax: (061) 329-1010
From: RUBIO DE ANDRADE/DIRECTOR OF SUDENOR/MG
Total number of pages, including this cover sheet:
Authorization:            Operator initials/time:
Notes:
Dear Sir:
I refer to the document entitled IMPLEMIENTATION COiMPLETION REPORT -
BRAZIL - NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM - PERNAMBUCO,
PIAUI AND MINAS GERAIS PROJECTS (May 22, 1997) to express total agreement
with its content. The State of Minas Gerais is not in disagreement with the description
and evaluation of the Northeast Rural Development Prcgram in the State, contained
therein.
Sincerely,
(signed)
RUB10 DE ANDRADE
Director of the Development Bureau for Northern lMinas Gerais (SUDENOR)
cc: Dr. Marcelo Vieira Siqueira - SEAIN






IBRD 19578
4'1-       t_                            40                                      39-                                        38                      ..   RIO GRANDE DO NORTE                                                                          3s
-  ..                                                                                                                                                                                                                   JOAOC  E  A  R  A  A0 PESSOA0/
/                                                                        ?                                P    A    R    A                   I    B    A
P    I  A    U   I         (                                                                          ',                                                   P     -
j600                                                                           ,-1200
to ~~~~~~~~~~.  ..                                          I           ~~S .-1                                                                                                                              10 10
'0                                                       oo 4  w
Ar~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
REIF
5.. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~       ~        ~       ~        ~       ~        ~       ~       ~       ~      ~       %A
NORT400 R A  D O                                                                                                                                                              S200      r LGA SC.
-I                                                                                               400 Agricu      l      turalPtentia l Defined by Dependable Rainfall \ 36- 3s
600- Iso0ysts In mm   xs)                    ot ,:                                                ,
(Hargreaves~~~~~~~~4                                                                                                                                                                      1800SSadCpla   o~S  A uhu 
AT L A C I   TI C 
?ESEP,~~~OiR                                     B8R A  Z  I L
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM                                                                                   A  L  A  G  0  A  S                                                                            C E AN
Northeast Rural Development V Project (Pernamb co)                                                       \                                                                                      M-,EIO
Agricultural Potential Defined by Dependable Rainfall                                        r
600-      so        in m-y mr mn 
Ha,gr,aoaS. i9?Oi  ~   ~           a    State CopiQlN'' lcc .V15,'/ao,
Cia.s,f,c.toii    VntoTipiiOii          o    Towns (Mmncipal Capitai)        *
TN. o 0.~~~~~~~ osseo.n.o or ~~~~~~~Municipal B-udarie,Aar,
otrCfbr  ~ ~ ~~~~ VtO ard.                     O  suie o 1.1.40 Ot,iits r                    Sel Gte  Roads1\                                                                                                                  7,>            Istn9   0   r   Y
ilo iai           ;oulOOo,OOOTt3tsu,aj                                                                          S       E    R   G   I  P   E                                       -m7u                                        0- oea
Cono.~'Tn 0.,t.0n      0.1Or         iOWii9  900105iO-i moi-sture                                                                                                                                                                                      1
4111  mo,                                10                                      39'                                     3 33'                                    37'                                               \   *      tMA
Li..o. so   .to                                                                                                                                                                                                                 tI,E
iS00 ~  ~      ~     .AC.J






46                                                   4                                                      42-
I.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
A  I L  Al Nr I         ,, C   A NA
B R A Z I L                                                    /|>    
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM    ' ( >,   '\J                                                                             \
Northeast Rural Development IV Project (Piaui)                                            s
PRIORITY AREAS
A     Research Centers
*     Research Field Stations
L_,   R Priority Areas
Rivers                                                                                                      \
3. State Capital
o    Towns (Municipal Capitals)
Selected Roads(                                             a                  . d/ 
Municipal BoundariesS:                               ( v      . fo4 o            \/
State Boundaries
International Boundaries
a  ,          . ..                            2Da                                               *         R              (*d 
,'RsDazg  ~~~~~t                    \p               >          \' dO ,au,            (         Slmo* SV~~~~Nt 
d   //SERV   '4. R                       I                                Si   u H                          d
X      P^lmelli - /                               (         /                           X<: ~~~~~~~~~PERNAMBUCO
acosslznoc*'lo~~~                                 R      ZI 
ji }                            tJ  aLu tv;                              \gzo/RaImundo NmmPlo~L.
G                                      u  eu>
\jlaols Fllome:&  /      '                     szo de ADIen \                      , ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ F .111
t                 /                          Caracol<>_              G  c +                                            ,       _~~~~~~~~~~~" .  E
? t Guloumm ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0, o_
\   nIe/AIWre dO PEub   \                   '                                              MVENF eLv $  ZF(BANA             Al#4l F4!






I8RD 20381
\                                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B R A  Z I L
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - MINAS GERAIS
GOI~~~~~S                                                       BAHIA                                                     g1-PROJECT AREA
GOIAS                                                        -1 ,> gis :6gw1  r                                                                                       NORTHEAST REGION OF MiNAS GERAIS
GOIAS                              BAHJA 'A
MIN2AS        O~EIAIS    ~A~
BElA
5SO PAULO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    " JE,
sp(PR(rO
t-,_!.'  : _.A'.  t  \   duntlzeA  9      /     Dumont      _Le                         r                                                                                          ) SANTO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~) SNT
COLOMdlA e>t<, 6 . etGUIANA < 40 Z 1 JA H R E ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ iEN51iEE  AC- A E7EN1 'AC'ON
\_. ) . N o.EcAUE, \       \ 5A   /  f ,AAEA                                                                 -i                                                                            RAERA NEENSIE ACT ON,
CO1OSIE,A K    Y ii W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RIEL O''DS
,_-9  /                                       ., MAd. {       \   <             \              /            \       /                     *   3EG o3L OFF CE5 ' SETa5 MG                                  50hYET5 IN MlLLFFLrER5  <~~A 'E, 'I OllCES  ~ SE15 ~
d  R A Z I L                                                                                                                                                                                                             2 Northest    ~    9  ~  wnX  /   v  L    UA  z ONAL OEF C-5 OF 5UDENOR  vEAECTTL ROATLS
PFRU~ ~ ~~        RS  A Z I         s L                                                                                                                                                   REG J- 0     S: FFCE5   C' E-3TER MG                       ST 5ATE CAPITAL
C)                                                                                                                                                                                     AMANCEAL   CAPITALS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NAI   L   AII
ME                  (AI.T A eoC < F E - rAE ONS OF E-A,IG
~ .    f  EOL V A  M44  \RAb; vLC;>                              ~                                  I             Y @st st:  t'\\  AMI'C. AN A                                                   E5REAT.ON                                       'UNIC PAL dOUNDARIES
-* 4,,      _-.    F-- ,TATELIC RRIISATON 5ChEME5S
"El STORAGE PROCESSING UNITS                               REG ON EO-NO'R'
RN                                                                                     0A                                                                           U aAet)   '   ____  //oF  3i7   'J    'M5  SS  75  IL  *   C02'1TIVE CENTEtS  -' . INTERNATIONAL 30-NDARES
/                                                                                                                                                                                 0    50. I IAT C   CONSEG. TION CEMONSTRATION UNITS
-~~~~~~~~~~~  /'                                                                                     A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.CwD ~G.GN aOU,NAA4IES
/  AROENT,NA  ~          QLE1        :-_-.-- = -Z
_                       .OCEAh             -4 JC,  S 









IMAGING
Report No.:          16766
Type:     ICR



